THE LIFE OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

' "'5';;
l
i
\
I
.
.
E
I

mg?"

g?

" A terrible great lion."

 

I'D'onlz'spz'ccc.1.5%" a; I. o N D o N: {33-415
" 3?. soon-21v FOR PROMOTING CHRISTIAN 1?"? '

\ KNOWLEDGE. M"SOCIETY FOR PROMOTING CHRISTIAN KNOWLEDGE; 1

'_-_M_____,., ----'--deg'WSS I
i

THE
L I F E

St I RPRISING ADVENTURES

(IF

mIfiimmm mummy

Of York, Mariner.

 

WITH AN ACCOUNT OF HIS

TRAVELS ROUND THREE PARTS OF THE GLOBE.

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

NEW EDITION,

REVISED AND CORRECTED BY THE LATE JAMES PLUMPTRE, B.D.
Formerly Vicar o/'Great Granadm, Hun".

<<xv-AAA,>> A an. ,

PUBLISHED UNDER THE DIRECTION OF
THE COMMITTEE OF GENERAL LITERATURE AND EDUCATION. .
AEP'OINTED BY THE SOCIETY FOR PROMOTING
V CHRISTIAN KSOWLEDGK

LONDON:

 

SOLD AT THE DEPOSITORIPS.

77, GREAT QUEEN STREET, mucom's INN mews; i
4, ROYAL EXCHANGE; 48, PICCADILLY; ,
I

' AND BY ALL BOOKSELLERS E 5
6INTRODUCTION. -

Tm: numerous editions through which the Life and Surprising
Adventures of Robinson Crusoe has prised, the number of
abridgments, the manner in which it has been embellished,
and the number of imitations, all declare its popularity and
power of interesting.

Dr. Johnson, speaking of the works of Defoe, and his merit
as a writer, says, "Indeed his 'Robinson Crusoe' is enough of
itself to establish his reputation." (Boswell's Ltfe of Johnson,
4th edit. Vol. III. p. 289.)

Dr. Percival, in his Father's Instructions, says, that " The
History of Robinson Crusoe" is "the best and most enter-

taining moral romance now extant. It displays, in a most -

striking manner, the advantage of being mured to manual
exertions; the value of skill in the mechanic arts; the num-
berless benefits we derive from the division of labour; and,
above all, it enables us to perceive, in their full extent, the
intellectual, moral, and religious aids we derive from society."
(9th edit. p. 244.)

Dr. Blair, in his lectures on the Belles Lettres, (4th edit.
Vol. III. p. 82,) speaking of Fictitious History, says, "In
this kind of writing, we are, it must he confessed, in Great
Britain inferior to the French. We neither relate so agreeably,
nor draw characters with so much delicacy; yet we are not
without some performances which discover the strength of
the British genius. No fiction, in any language, was ever
better supported than the Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.
While it is carried on with that appearance of truth and sim-
plicity which takes a strong hol of the imagination of all
Readers, it suggests, at the same time, very useful instruction ;
by showing how much the native powers of man may be
exerted for,+surmounting the difiiculties of any external situ--
ation."

Mrs. Trimmer, in her Guardian of Education, (Vol. III.
p. 297,) reviewing this work, says, "In respect to its general
merits, we believe it to be the universal o inion, that it is one

of the most interesting and entertaining ks that gas ever
Aget

iv INTRODUCTION.

written; nor is it destitute of important instruction; for it
exhibits in a most striking light the power with which the
human mind is endued, to relieve the wants of the body; and
to sustain the evils of life with fortitude and resignation under
the most distressing circumstances. Onthese accounts the Life
of Robinson Crusoe has been employedin the education of boys,
for the purpose of showing what ingenuity and industry can
effect, under the divine blessing."

The work, however, has been thought not to be without its
faults and dan rous tendency. The same excellent lady goes
on to say, " at a uestiou has arisen, whether this book
should be put into the (is of allboys without discrimination.
Our opinion is that it ought not; for children of very lively
imaginations, and accustomed to indulge their fancy without
control in their infantine amusements, may undoubtedl be led
by it into an early taste for aramblin life, and a wire of
g'dvenhtureszbzn instance of this we; m; tfh usHas a fact?

we 'tte yainco uenceo ' e iatoryo
Robinson Crusoe, set ofi'mteosgether from their parents" houses,
in order to embark in some ship, with the hope of being cast
on an uninhabited island: and though they certamly did not
succeed in their project, it was productive of fatal effects; for
the mother of one of them, define the time they were missing,
was, in consequence of anxiety oiP mind, seized with an illness,
which shortly put a period to her days. Caution, therefore, in
respect to the temper and disposition of a child ought to be
used, before a work of so fascinating a nature is put into his
hands; but where the mind and temper have been pro rly
regulated, it may be safely used as a stimulus to men and
bodily exertion, and tient perseverance."

The Editor of the 'ferary Miscellany, in the List of Books,
in the volume on Education, says that " Voyages and Travels,
such as Robinson Crusoe, the three Russian Sailors, and
Siubad, should not be chosen for boys of an enterprising
tam, unless they be intended for a seafaring life." (P. 202.)

Trimmer proceeds in her remarks: "The author of
the book, formed that his young readers might from his
bnarrathtiire be dig; 1mfrom the line 1'of life 'bedgor them

y eir very o ' out, an in very
strong occurs, the misery $21113 {mthe breach offilial
duty; but these reflections we apprehend are commonly over--
loofetdg when the curiosity of thozd'mendflil: strongly excide
an e eehngs werfnll angel mmmtances o

the story; howevgro, we erg glad to findy that the hero of this
engaging tale, though car-elem in respect to religion in his
earlydays, is made a good andpious Christian atlast; and
that the Bible was the means of his conversion, and the instru-
ment made use of by him for converting his faithful savage.
My. Some of his opinions, however, are not accurate, for
he, in the first volume, is made to declare himself no friend to
church government, yet in the second, he is described as lean-
ing to the doctrines of the Roman Catholics, at least a Romish
fit is exhibited as the perfection of the ministerial character.

' volume did.not make a part of the original work; it was
added afterwards, in consequence of the wonderful sale of the
first volume; but it is very inferior to it, and on many accounts
totally unfit for the rusal of children."

The attention of . e present Editor was drawn to the work
on its being adopted by the Society for Promoting Christian
Knowledge, on their Supgrlemental Catalogue, as ;a Reward
Book for children at the ational Schools; and; recollecting
the objections made to it by the just-mentioned excellent
Guardian of Education, so many of whose books are on the
Society's List, the Editor, in perusing it, acknowledged the
justice of the objections; and, still further, thought that it
favoured the doctrine of predestinatrbn, or fatalism, as Robinson
Crusoe granted himself as born to be his own destruction,
and urg on by a fate which he could not resist. He must
confess, likewise, that he found some parts of it rather heavy;
and thought that it would facilitate the Reader's progress to
divide it into Chapters, which, like mdestones on a road, though
they do not really make the journey shorter, yet they make it
appear so, by showing at intervals, how much of the way is
gone over, and how much is to come, and are objects to look
orward to, and interest the attention. They are, farther, like
inns, at which the literary traveller may stop and rest, and
take refreshment: and the heads of Chapters, collected into
a Table of Contents, afford a useful epitome of the work, either
to take a bird's-eye view of the wthnuy beforehand, (131630
Was anyparticular s t ater e journeyis com e .
To remedy these defects Es been the object of the 'tor
in this edition. : ,.

The Author of the Life of Robinson Crusoe, it seems to. be
generally held, was Daniel Defoe; but the Editor is not aware
that it was ever publicly avowed by him, or, at least, that he
ever put his name to it. The first edition bears date 1719,
and it attained to at least a third edition the same year; both
title-pages say, Written by Himself, that is, by the Adventurer,
Robinson Crusoe. The second volume, written in consequence
of the great success of the first, was published in the same
year. ' '

Dani! Defoe was the son of James Foe, a citizen and
butcher of London, and was born about the year 1663. How
he came to alter his name does not appear. His enemies
asserted, that he assumed the De to avoid being thought an
Englishman ; but what dislike he could have to that does not

.7-
seem easy to suppose. He might dislike the emfrzendly name
of Foe,- and, having been accustomed to write his name
D. Foe, for Daniel Foe, he might think it preferable, especially
as an author, to make his surname De Foe or Defoe. The
family were protestant dissenters, and Daniel, who had received
his education at a dissenting academy at Newinoton Green,
near London, was a dissenter upon principle. In 1688 he
kc t a hosier's sho in Comhill, and in 1692 he failed. One
of Ihis creditors too out a commission of bankruptcy, which
was superseded on the petition of those to whom he was most _
indebted, who accepted a composition on his single bond.
This he punctually paid, by the efforts of unwearied diligence.
But some of those creditors, who had been thus satisfied,
falling afterwards into distress themselves, Defoe being then
in easy circumstances, voluntarily paid them their whole claims.
In 1695 he was made accomptant to the commissioners of the
glass duty, which oflice he held till that impost was taken
off. When discontents ran high at the Revolution, and King
William was obliged to dismiss his Dutch guards, Defoe ridi-
culed the o posers of government, in his poem called the True-
bom Englisihman, which had a prodigious sale. The next satire
which he wrote was entitled Reformation of Manners, aimed
at some persons of high rank, who rendered themselves a
disgrace to their country. When the ecclesiastics in power,
as he thought, inclined to persecution, he wrote a tract, called
The Shortest Way with the Dissenters: for which he was
called to account, and explained himself with great firmness.
He was afterwards sentenced to the pillory, and fined and
imprisoned, for attacking some public measures. On regain-
ing his liberty, August, 1704, he retired to Bury St. Edmund's, '
where he continued to exercise his pen. While in prison, he
had projected "The Review," a periodical paper in~..4to, the
first number" 'Efirhich was published in February, 1704, and it

   

continued-ff? fini years. This probably led the way to the
Tatlers, Wtors, and Guardians, by Steele and Addison.

He was instrhrhental in promoting the Union of England and
Scotland, in 1707. In 1713 he was again committed to prison
for some political pamphlets, but Lord Oxford procured his
pardon. In 1715 he published the Family Instructor. Of
this work, Hervey, the author of the Meditations, says, in a
Letter to a Lady, (see his Works, 1797, Vol. VI. p. 96,) "If
you love entertainment, my next shall recommend a book,
which is as entertaining as a novel or a play, yet edifying as a
sermon." For the editor of his works says in a note, "The
book here meant is De Fee's Family Instructor, in two vols.,
12mo, which has passed twelve editions, and justly deserves
the character Mr. Hervey gives of it.--This is the same author
who wrote the treatise entitled Religious Courtship, being
Historical Discourses on the necessi of marryin' re' 'ous
Husbands and Wives." ty g kg]

To him is generally attributed "The History of the Great
Plague in London, in the year 1665. By a Citizen, who lived
the whole time in London." But Defoe was then but about
two years of age, so that he could know nothing of it from
personal knowledge. It is signed at the end H. 1* . Was this
a Henry Foe, an uncle, or some relation, from whose account
he might write it? The butcher's is said to be a particularly
healthful employment. Dr. Thornton, in his Herbal, under
the article European Olive, speaking of the use of oil in in-
fectious disorders, and particularly the plague, says, "when
the plague raged in LondOn, tallow-chandlers and butchers
were found exempt." (2nd edit. p.-17."')

The political tracts of Defoe were very numerous. Thirty of
them have been collected in two volumes, 8vo.

He wrote several novels, the only one of which that main-
tains any celebrity is Robinson Crusoe. Conce ' this, says
the writer of the article Defoe in the Encyclopwdia ritanm'ca,
"there is an anecdote that does the author of it no credit as to
the better part of a writer's character, honesty. When Captain
Woodes Rogers touched at the island of Juan Fernandez, in
the South Sea, he brought away Alexander Selkirk, a Scotch
sailor, who had been left ashore there, and had lived on that
desolate place above four years. When Selkirk came back to
England, he wrote a narrative of his adventures, and put the
papers into the hands of Defoe, to digest for publication; who
ungenerously converted the materials into the History of

Robinson Crusoe, and returned Selkirk his papersoagaini A '

fraud for which, in a humane view, the distinguished merit
of that romance can never atone." .

The justice of this accusation can be a preciated, at this
time, by considering the history of Selkiri, which shall be
given from the saine work, and from Captain Rogers's account
of that voyage. '

Ansxarmss SELKIRK "was born at Largo, in Fifeshire, in
Scotland, about the year 1676, and was bred a seaman. He

0 When the Editor had written this, he thought he would turn to the History
of the Plague to see if he could find anything upon the subject there. when. to
his great surprise (p. 92). he found the following sentences: "I laid in a quantity
0! Salt butter and Cheshire cheese; but I had no flesh meat, and the plague raged
so violently among the butchers and slaughter-houses. on the other side of our
street, where they are known to dwell in great numbers, that it was not advisable.
so muehas to over the street among them."---" I am certain the butchers of
mm w the greatest part of the flesh~meat was killed, were dreadfully
visited; and that at last to such a degree, that few of their shops were kept open.
and those that remained of them killed their meat at Jule-end and that way, and
brought it to market upon horses."

So much do doctors and historians <<litter, and so hard it is to get at truth. even
where one wishes it. and examines both sides! The Editor must leave it to

farther discussion.
went from England, in 1703, in the capacity of sailing-master
of a small vessel called the Oinque Ports Galley, Charles Picker-
i captain, burthen about 90 tons, with 16 and 63 men;
aha in Se tember the same year sailed from 6:312, in company
with ano er ship of 26 guns and 120 men, called the St. George,
commanded by that famous navigator, William Dampier, in-
tended to cruise against the Spaniards in the South Sea. On
the coast of Brazil, Pickering died, and was succeeded in his
command, by his lieutenant, Thomas Stradling. They fro-
ceeded on their voyage round Cape Hem to the island of uan
Fernandez, whence they were driven by the a cc of two
French shi of 36 guns each, and left five 0 gtradling's men
there on ore, who were taken of by the French. Hence
they sailed to the coast of America, where Dampier and Strad-
ling quarrelled and separated by agreement, on the 19th of
May, 1704. In September following, Stradling came again to
the island of Juan Fernandez, where Selkirk and his captain
had a difference, which, with the circumstance of the ship's
being very leaky, and in bad condition, induced him to deter-
mine on staying there alone; but when his companions were
about to depart, his resolution was shaken, and he desired to
be taken on board again. The captain, however, refused to
admit him, and he was obliged to remain."----" He kept up his
spirits tolerably till he saw the vemel put ofl', when (as he
afterwards related) his heart yearned within him, and melted
at parting with his comrades and all human society at once."

" Yet believe me. Areas,
Such Is the rooted love we hear mankind.
Alli-amansastheywereJnevei-heard
A sound so dismal as their parting oars."
Taousos's Aoumox.--E'ncyc. m

Captain Rogers arrived in the Duke at the island of Juan
Fernandez on the lat of February, 1709, and on the 2nd sent
the yawl on shore, which not returning, he " sent," to give his
own words, "the pinnaoe well armed, to see what had occa-
sioned the yawl to stay, being afraid there might be a Spanish
garrison on the island, who might have seized her and our
men. -

" Even the pinnace delayed returning, on which we put up
a signal for her to come back, when she soon came off with
abundance of cray-fish, bringing also a man clothed in oat-
skins, who seemed wilder than the original owners 0 his
ap rel. His name was Alexander Selkirk, a Scotsman, who
ha been left here by Captain Stradling, of the Cinque-Ports,
and had lived alone on the island for four years and four
months. Captain Dampier told me he had been master of the
Cinque--Ports, and was the best man in that vessel; so I imme-
diately agreed with him to serve as a mate in the Duke.mrnonUcrxox. ix

During his stay, he had seen several ships pass by, but only
two came to anchor at the island, which he found to be
Spaniards, and therefore retired from them, on which they fired
at him, but he escaped into the woods. Had they been
French, he would have surrendered to them; but chose rather
to run the risk of dying alone upon the island than fall into
the hands of the Spaniards, as he suspected they would either
put him to death, or make him a slave in their mines. The
bpaniards had landed before he knew what they were, and
came so near him that he had much ado to escape; for they
not only shot at him, but pursued him into the woods, where
he climbed up a tree, at the foot of which some of them stopped,
and killed several goats just by, yet went away without dis-
covering him."

Captain Rogers mentions then his birth, and his difference
with Captain Stradling, and his being left on the island, and
proceeds: " he had with him his clothes and bedding, with a
hrelock and some powder and bullets, some tobacco, a knife, a
kettle, a Bible, with some other books, and his mathematical
instruments. He diverted himself and provided for his sus-
tenance as well as he could; but had much ado to bear up
against melancholy for the first eight months, and was sore
distressed at being left alone in such a desolate place. He
built himself two huts of pimento trees, thatched with long
grass, and lined with goat skins, killing goats as he needed
them with his gun, so long as his wder lasted, which was
only about a pound at first. When at was all spent, he ro-
cured fire by rubbing two sticks of pimento wood toge er.
He slept in his larger but and cooked his victuals in the
smaller, which was at some distance, and employed himself in
reading, praying, and singing psalms, so that he said he was a
better Christian during his solitude than he had ever been be.
fore, or than, as he was afraid, he should ever be again.

" At first he never ate but when constrained by hunger,
grfly from grief, and page? for want of bread and salt.

either did he then go to till he could watch no longer,
the pimento wood serving him both for fire and candle, as it
burned very clear and refreshed him by its fragrant smell.
He might have had fish enough, but would not eat them for
want of salt, as they occasioned a looseness, except cray-fish,
which are as lar e as our lobsters, and are very good. These
he sometimes boi ed, and at other times broiled, as he did his
goats' flesh, of which he made good broth, for they are not so
rank as our goats. Having kept an account, he said, he had
killed 500 goats while on the island,' besides having caught

' Here is, undoubtedly, some misrepresentation. or error, as it is a goat in less
than every four days throughout his stay.-- Editor. 3
A
as many more, which be marked on the ear and let them go.
When his powder failed, he ran down the goats by speed of
foot; for his mode of living, with continual exercise of walking
and running, cleared him of all gross humours, so that he
could run with wonderful swiftness through the woods, and up
the hills and rocks, as we experienced in catching goats for us.
"'0 had a bull-dog, which we sent along with several of our
nimblest runners to help him in catching goats, but he out-
stript our dog and men, caught the goats, and brought them
to us on his back. On one occasion, his agility in pursuing
a goat had nearly cost him his life ; as, while pursuing it with
great eagerness, he caught hold of it on the brink of a preci-
pice, of which he was not aware, being concealed by bushes,
so that he fell with the goat down the precipice to a great
depth, and was so bruised and stunned by the fall, that he lay
senseless, as he supposed, for twenty-four hours,' and when
he recovered his senses, found the goat dead under him. He
was then scarcely able to crawl to his but, about a mile dis-
tant, and he could not stir out again for ten days.

" He came at length to relish his meat well enough without
bread and. salt. In the proper season he had plenty of good
turnips, which had been sowed there by Captain Dampier's
men, and had now spread over several acres of ground. He
had also abundance of cabbage from the cabbage-palms, and
seasoned his food with the fruit of the pimento, which is the
same with Jamaica pepper, and has a line flavour. He found
also a species of black pepper, called mulagctu, which was good
for expelling wind and curing gripes. He soon wore out all
his shoes and other clothes, by running in the woods: and,
being forced to shift without, his feet became so hard that he
ran about everywhere without inconvenience, and it was some
time after he came to us before he could wear shoes, and his
feet swelled when he first began again towear them. After he
had got' the better of his melancholy, he sometimes amused
himself with carving his name on the trees, together with the
date of'his being left there, and the time of his solitary resi-
dence. At first he was much pestered with cats and rats,
which had bred there in great numbers, from some of each
species which had got on shore from ships that had wooded
and watered at the island. The rats gnawed his feet and elothw
when he was asleep, which obliged him to cherish the cats, by
feeding them with goats' flesh, so that many of them became
so tame, that they used to lie beside him in hundreds, and soon
delivered him from the rats. He also tamed some kids, and
for his diversion would at times sing and dance with them and

" He afterwards related to Sir Richard Steele, that he computed. from the
alteration of the moon, he had lain three days--Emma. Brit.
his cats; so that, by the favour of Providence and the vigour
of his youth, for he was now only thirty years of age, he came
at length to conquer all the inconveniences of his solitude, and
to be uite easy in his mind.

" then his clothes were wom out, he made himself a coat
and a cap of goats' skins, which he stitched together with
thongs of the same, cut out with his knife, using a nail, by way
of a needle or awl. When his knife was worn out, he made
others as well as he could, of some old hoops that had been
left on the shore, which he beat out thin between two stones,
and grinded to an edge on a smooth stone. Having some linen
cloth, he sewed himself some shirts, by means of a nail for a
needle, stitching them with worsted, which he pulled out on
purpose from his old stockings, and he had the last of his
shirts on when we found him. At his first coming on board,
he had so much forgotten his language, for want of use,'
that we could scarcely understand him, as he seemed to
speak his words only by halves. We offered him a dram,
which he refused, not having drank anything but water all
the time he had been on the island, and it was some time
before he could relish our provisions. He could give us no
farther account of the productions of the island than has been
already given, except that there were some very good black
plums, but hard to come at, as the trees which hear them grow
on high mountains and steep rocks.~ There are many pimento
trees, some of them being sixty feet high, and two yards
round, and we saw cotton trees still higher, and near four
fathoms round the stems. The climate is excellent, and the
trees and grass are quite verdant the whole year. The winter
lasts no longer than J unc and July, and is not then severe, there
being then only slight frosts and a little hail, but sometimes
very great rains. The heat of summer is equally moderate,
and there is not much thunder or tempestuous weather. He
saw no venomous or savage creature on the island, nor any
other beasts besides goats, bred there from a few brought by
Juan Fernandez, a Spaniard; who settled there with a-
few families, till the continent of Chili began to submit to the
Spaniards, when they removed to that country as more profit-
able."

"This island of Juan Fernandez is about fifteen English
miles in length, from E. to W., and five miles where broadest,
but averaging little more than two miles in breadth, and is
mostly composed of high rugged land."--" The wind blows
here generally ofi' the shore, sometimes in heavy ualls, but
for the most part calm, and where we were moore the water

0 The Encyc. Brit. says he had constantly performed his devotions a: stated
hours, and read aloud.
was very smooth, owing to the winding of the shore. Mr.
Selkirk told us it had never blown towards the land above four
hours all the time he had been there. It is all hills and
valleys, and would doubtless produce most plants usual in
such climates, if manured and cultivated, as the soil promises
well in most rts, and already grows turnips and some other
roots, which suppose were formerly sowed. It has plenty of
wood and water.'

There was abundance of fish, sea-fowl, and sea-lions, and
seals. (Xero's General Histo and Collection of Voyages and
Travels, Vol. X. p. 349--3543

" After a fortnight's stay at Juan Fernandez, the ships pro-
ceeded on their cruise against the Spaniards; plundered a town
on the coast of Peru ; took a Manilla ship off California; and
returned by the way of the East Indies to England, where
they arrived the lat of October, 1711: Selkirk having been
absent eight years, more than half of which time he had spent
alone on the island.

" 0f the time or place or manner of this extraordinary man's
death we have no account ; but in 1798, the chest and musket
which Selkirk had with him on the island were in the posses-
sion of his grand-nephew, John Selkirk, weaver, in Largo."
(Encyc. Brit.)

On comparing this account with the History of Robinson
Crusoe, it will appear, that excepting the fundamental circum-
stance of each living alone for some years upon an uninhabited
. island, there is little or nothing in common. Selkirk was only
four years and four months upon his island, Robinson Crusoe
was twenty-eight upon his. Selkirk appears to have had very
little ingenuity, even his habitation seems to have been incon-
venient. The Encyc. Brit. says it was so obscurely situated,
and so difficult of access, that only one of the ship's oflieers
would accompany him to it. He had no method of drying
fruit, raising corn, making bread and butter and beer, making
pottery, baskets, &c. He repaired no boat, and made no
canoes. His island was not infested by cannibals, and he
obtained no savage as his servant and companion. There is
nothing in Robinson Crusoe but what the author might obtain
from Captain Rogers's account of Selkirk, which was published
in 1712, seven years before; or from an account of him in
some of the periodical publications of the time: or from some
other account of a sailor left on a desolate island. If it were
really true that Defoe had used Selkirk, as stated above,
Selkirk had an easy remedy by publishing his own papers, to
which the celebrity of Robinson Crusoe would have obtained
the greater portion of notice and profit. Defoe might think, that

' Them are plans and vlews of Juan Fernando: in the (to edition of 10rd
Alison's voyage.ixrnonucriox. xiii

Selkirk had not made the best of his talents and means, and
wrote his Robinson Crusoe to instruct and stimulate future
mariners, who might be placed in similar situations. Even
had Selkirk published his narrative at length, there appears no
good reason why Defoe might not still have written and pub-
lished The Life and Surprising Adventures of Robinson Crusoe.

But the ri ht of Defoe himself to the merit of the work has
not been wi out question. When the Editor of this edition
was at Epsom, in the autumn of 1811, he was in company with
the late Miss Hamilton, who told him, that her father, the late
Captain Hamilton, used to say, that " Robinson Crusoe was
written by Loan Oxroav, while a prisoner in the Tower, and
was-fathered by Daniel Defoe." The dates will not contradict
this supposition. Lord Oxford was impeached of high treason
by the Commons, and committed to the Tower in 1715, and he
remained there two years, when he was brought to his trial,
and acquitted. It has already appeared, that, when Defoe was
imprisoned in 1713, his release and pardon were procured by
Lord Oxford; so that there was an acquaintance, and even an
intimacy, between them. The internal evidence is not against
this idea. The general cast of the work is such as was not
unlikely to proceed from the solitude of a prison; and the
account of the exiled nobles of Muscovy, towards the end of
the volume (see chapter lvi.), savours much of the writing,
or at least the suggestion, of the impeached statesman. The
'first volume was published, as already stated, in 1719, and
attained at least a third edition the same year. The second
volume was ublished the same year, a despateh of authorshi
which woul be materially assisted by a coadjutor. Lor
Oxford died in 1724, Defoe in 1731.

As to the objection, that the author has been too favourable
to the Roman Catholics, he has certainly drawn the character
of a very liberal and amiable Romish priest; but it is rather a
lesson to Roman Catholics to be zealous and liberal, not a
defence of their doctrines.

Would the great body become such, we should think them
in a fair way to join the Protestant Church: and we think,
likewise, that many a Protestant might learn candour and zeal
from this amiable Papist. Defoe is certainly sufficiently explicit
in his censure of P0 ish doctrines in his Religious Courtship.

He has been equally candid and favourable to the Spaniards,
who are held up in a much more favourable light than the
Enolish. But then, it must be recollected that the English,
with whom he contrasts them, are of the worst description, of
that disposition which cannot endure subordination, and breaks
outin mutiny. Selkirk, it appears, had a very different idea
of the Spanish character. He was afraid to trust the Spaniards
who landed on the islandxiv m'rsonucnos.

The amiable poet, Co , published some verses suplpomd
to have been written b exander Selkirk, during his so 'tary
abode in the island of nan Fernandez, which, thouvh ascribed
tohim, seemrather to havebeensuggested by e perusal
of Robinson Crusoe. See particularly chapter xv. p. 100.)
Perha Cowper had e general feeling, of thinking that
Selkir had been unduly deprived of his celebrity, and wished,
as fares he could, to restore it to him. Ifthis werehisobject,
he has completely succeeded; and if Defoe really did him any
injury, 00 r has repaired it. The circulation of Cowper's
volumes wil <probably, surpass that of Robinson Crusoe. The
verses, too, fin a place in almost every selection; they have
been 'ven by Dr. Percival, in his Father's Instructions, by
Mrs. 'E-immer, annexed to her review of Robinson Crusoe, and
by the Encyclopedia Britannica, at the end of the article on
Selkirk; and they ought, on account of their elegance, pathos,
and piety, to find a place somewhere in every edition of
Robinson Crusoe, and shall, therefore, be given here.

, . .
. rr_damia'ntm.uumm m)" tLWRODUCI'] ON .

VERSES.

Supposed" be mine. by Alexander Selkirk, during Ia. solitary

abodeon lhea'slmdoflm Fernandez.

I.

1 .us monarch of all I survey
My right there is none to. dispute;
From the centre all round to the see.
I am lord of the fowl and the brute.

Ola~ solitude ! where are the ehsrms
hat sages have seen in thy face ?
Better dwell in the midst of alarms,

Then reign in this horrible place.

no

I em out of humanity's reach,
I must finish my journey slone,
Never hear the sweet music of speech;
I start at the sound of my own.

The beasts thst roam over the plain
My form with indifi'erenoe see;
The ore so nnseqnsinted with'msn,

'I' eir temeness is shocking to me

III.

Soci friendshi , end love
nix} p '

ely bestowed u n men,
Oh, had I the wings ofp: dove,

How soon would I taste you sgsin!

M sorrowsIthenmi hteesusge
n the ways of reli on and truth,
Might learn from the wisdom ofsge,
And be cheered by the ssllies 0 youth

8'xvi

w

INTRODUCTION.

Iv.

Religion! what treasure untold
Besides in that heavenly word!
More precious than silver and gold,

01- all that this earth can afl'ord.

But the sound of the church-goin bell
These valleys and rocks never eard,

Ne'er sighed at the sound of a knell,
0r smiled when a sabbath appeared.

v.

Ye winds, that have made me your
Convey to this desolate shore sport,
Some cordial endearing report
Ofa land I shall visit no more.

My friends, do they now and then send
A wish or a thought after me ?

0 tell me I yet have a friend,
Though a friend I am never to see!

VI.
How fleet is the glance of the mind!
Compared with the of its flight

The tempest itself lags ind
And the swift-winged arroazs of light.

When I think of my own native land,
In a moment I seem to be there;
But alas l recollection at hand
Soon hurries me back to despair.

VII.

But the sea-fowl is gone to her nest,
The beast is laid down in his lair;
Even here is a season of rest,
And I to my cabin repair.

There's mercy in every place;

And mercy, encouraging thoughts
Gives even affliction a grace,

And reconciles man to his lot.POSTSCRIPT.

Sixes writing the above, the Editor has consulted Dr. James
Stanier Clarke's " Naufragi'a, or Historical Memoirs of Shi

wrecks and of the Providential Deliverance of Vessels ;" pu

lished in 1805, Chap. i. Section i. of which, is a Dissertation on
Alexander Selkirk, and on the real author of Robinson Crusoe.
At page 12, he says, " But before I conclude this Section, 1
wish to make the admirers of this Nautical Romance mindful
of a report, which prevailed many years ago; that Defoe, after
all, was not the real author of Robinson Woe. This asertion
is noticed in an article in the seventh volume of the Edinburgh
Magazine. Dr. Towers, in his life of Defoe, in the Biographia,
is inclined to pay no attention to it: but was that writer aware
of the following letter, which also appeared in the Gentleman's
Wigffor 1788 P at least, no notice is taken of it in his

e 0 oe.

' Dublin, February 25
' Ms. URBAN,

' In the course of a late conversation with a nobleman of the
first consequence and information in this kingdom, he assured
me, that Mr. Benjamin Holloway, of Middleton Stony, assured
him some time ago, that he knew for fact, that the celebrated
romance of Robinson Crusoe was really written by the Earl of
Oatford, when confined in the Tower of London; that his
lordship gave the manuscript to Daniel De oe, who fiefiiflently
visited him during his confinement; an that De oe, ving
afterwards added the second volume, blished e whole as
his own production. This anecdote, would not venture to
send to your valuable magazine, if I did not think my infor-
mation good, and imagine it might be acceptable to your

numerous readers; notwithstanding the work has heretofore '

been generally attributed to the latter. W. W.'
"It is impossible for me to enter on a discumion of this

literary subject; though I thought the circumstance ought to
' Vol. lviinarti. pagezoe.be more generally known. And yet I must observe, that I
always discerned a very striking falling off between the com-
position of the first and second volumes of this Romance~they
seem to"bear evident marks of having been the work of difl'erent
writers.

On this sup difi'erence between the first and second
volumes, the er will consider what is said above, and
~ determine as he thinks the evidence weighs for one side or
the other.

Dr. 8. Clarke, in a note to the preface of his second volume,
published in 1806, p. viii., says,

"The present EARL or Oxrosn, since the publication of this
volume," the first, " has done me the honour of informing me,
that his family had always considered the first EARL or Ononn
to have been the author of Rosmson Causes."

This is, probably, the most decisive evidence upon the
subject that can now be obtained.

November 9. ms.
CONTENTS.

m1.

1'"-

Bobinson (husoe'e birth and Inge--rumbling thoughts-pom"! counsel
---e mowers auger--e boo elo.pement .
CHAPTER II.

An edventurer'e misfortune--good resolutions In dishes--manta! when

nuoved-e worse storm--lose of the ship--life uved--ftrusglee owns:
conviction .

CHAPTER III.

Voyage to Guinea--second voyage--taken by. n Bellee NMploym:
endoscope . .

CHAPTER IV.

1: mkaammalmm--MMamm
u--fin'lveeottheBmzfle. . 9

CHAPTER v.
Beoomee n punter-prosperous: but discontented-4pm tame a voyege _ .

CHAPTER"

A rogrnhndo--ehip punched--Robinson Crusoe onty and, and cost on shore--
" ' I O .

CHAPTERVH.

Moming--ewhebnektotbeehlp--mnkeenre madm-
veyethemufetohnd--viewetheoonntry, linden-amend."
owned--revisits the ship--nukes n tent--venous other voyages an

"MP C O O O O O
CHAPTERVIIL

An unseen-em nuempe--eoustmcu n form--o Wan:
respecting gunpowder--kins 3 goat and e kid--reflections on 113 condition.

CHAPTERIX.

memmhmM--meofmmrm
hheondidon-enlergee his Wanton--inane furniture--his

prune!" . . ' .

ll

17

31

3?
CHAPTER I.

PAGI
Piseons-corn--reflections on Providence--an earthquake--dreadful hurricane
thoughts of removing his habitation--the ship brought nearer shore--eon-

tinuation <<Journal--tails iii of the argue-terrific dream . . . . 59

CHAYI'ER XI.
Religious reflections--finds his Bible--the oonseqnenoe--reoorers--and be.
comes happier . . . . . . . . . . . 68
CHAPTER XII.

Surveys the island--finds fine fruits--again thinks of moving his habitation
---gives up the idea--makes a bower--the rainy season-increase of cats--
anniversary of his landing--observes the Sabbath--experiments in sowing
com--makes baskets . . . . . . . . . . 76

CHAPTER XIII.

Another excursion to explore the island--procure: a parrot--loses himself--
procnres a kid. which he brings up tame--returns home--second anniversary
---causes for thankfuiness . . . . . . . . . 83

CHAPTER XIV.
Commencement of his third year--division oi' time--laboriousness of his Work
--diflcuit.ies in raising corn--and in making bread--pottery--oveu . . 88

CHAPI'ER XV.

Projects for escaping--the ship's boat--canoe--fourth anniversary--reflections
on his condition--failure of his ink--and biscuit-and clothes--makes new
clothes of skins . . . . . . . .- . . . 96

CHAPTER XVI.

Resignation to God's providence--second canoe--cruise round the island-
narrow escapbretum to his bower--remarkable voice heard--Poll . . 105

CHAPTER XVII.

Ammunition grows iow--oontrivea snares and pitfalls--catches goats--
encloses und--makes butter and cheese--his plenty--with his family at
dinner-- ourney--deacription of his figure--observation on the coast--his
two plantations . . . . . . . . . . . 112

CHAPTER XVIII.

Observes the print of a man's foot on the shore--conjectures upon it--revisits
the mark--new fortification--and new arrangements for the goats--fmrcies
he sees a boat upon the sea, at a great distance--sees the shore spread with
human bones--deflections and precautions . . . . . . 120

CHAPTER XIX.

The edge of invention taken off--thoughts of making beer--projects against
the savages-doubts about. the Justice of them--thoughts on pmvidentiai
intimations and deiiverances . . . . . . . . . 130

CHAPTER XX.

Antiwar--discovers a cave--what he found there--gmtto--removea things
to it--amnsements--sees a fire, and savages round it--they go off in two
canoes--hears a gun at sea, at nightr-a ship wrecked 03' the island . . 137
CHAPTER XXI.

r as
Regret at none of the crew being saved--visits the wreck--hringshach a dog '
and various artifice--fresh projects to get away--a dream--and resolutions
in consequence . . . . . . . . . . . 141

CHAPTER XXII.

l-'lve canoes on shore--a captive escapes. and la rescued--reception of him---
namud Mday--clothed--his fidelity--reflections on the sovereignty of
Providence . . . . . . . . . . . . 156

CHAPTER XXIII.

hiday and the gun--stewed meat--salt--roast meat--renouncee man's flesh
--encloaing more iand--conveuation--situstion of the island ascertained-
religious conversation--and reflections . . . . . . . 161

CHAPTER XXIV.

Robinson Crusoe informs Friday Refining his country and religion--and
Friday informs him of there being w te people living in his country--fears
respecting may-but soon dissipated--makes a canoe, and tries it . . 172

CHAPTER XXV.

His happy life--more savages on the island--a fierce contest--rescues a
Spaniard--and Friday's father--the savages. some killed. and some put to
the rout--the new guests conveyed to the fortification . . . . 178

CHAPTER XXVI.

Entertainment ofthe new guests-burial of the dead--an increase of provision
-the Spaniard and Friday's father sent on an embany . . . . 18'!

CHAPTER XXVII.

Arrival of an English ship--remark on secret notices-mutineers against
their captain land--rescue of the captain and men--mode of dealing with
the mutineers--urrival of a second boat and departure of it again . . 193

CHAPTER XXVIIL

Return of the boat--death of some. and capture of others of the mutineers--
the captain returns with the boats to the ship. and recovers the ship--
retnrna to thelsland--andsaila with Robinson Crusoe, leavingthreeofthe

mutineers on the island-return to England . . . 203

CHAPTER XXIX.

Robinson Crusoe a stranger in England--departs for Lisbon--his property in
the Brasils--prepamiona for Journey by land to England . . . . 218

CKAP'I'ERXIX.

Departure for Lisbon--Madrid-Pampeiona--me Pyrenees--encounter with

wild heaets--Thouionse--Paria. Calais. Dover . . . . 223

CHAPTER XXII.

Ornaoe' unsettled disposition--remarkson the power ofthe imag-
mutton and appari. dons--his wife--talus a farm--death of hiswife--givesup
histamandretnrnatolpndon-hisnephew ofi'eratocarryhimhacktohia

island--accepts the proposal . . . 238
xxii CONTENTS.

CHAPTER XXXII.
no:
Persons and stores carried out--wind-bound at Gamay--sail again--a ship
on fire at sea--it blows up--the crew saved in boats. and taken into the
ship--effects of this deliverance on them, put most of them on shore at
Newfoundland . . . . . . . . . . . 242

CHAPTER XXXHI.
Another ship in dhu'ess-fltmlne--administer relief--arrival at the island . 251

CHAPTER XXXIV.

landing on the island--meeting of Friday and his father--the Spaniards--
nccount of what had happened on the island after the departure of Robinson

0111309- . a o o a a n o o o o .258

CHAPTER XXXV.

Relation of an incident before the departure of the ship from oil" the island.
when Robinson Crusoe left it in less--continuation of the account of the
motions on the Leland--feuds . . . . . . . . 263

CHAPTER XXXVI.

Return to order. and relapse--two large parties of savages on the island--a
batt'ldeuunee relugees taken--the conquerors depart--improvements on the
PS513 0 O O O O o 0 0 o O o I o 270

CHAPTER XXXVII.

Another alarm--another mutiny-the mutineers dismissed from the society--
and depart from the island for the continent--return with three men and five

women. savages. prisonets--acconnt of their voyage . . . . . 278

CHAPTER XXXVIII.
The Englishmen adopt the black women as wives--diligence and sloth . . 286

CHATTER XXXIX.

More savages on the island-three left behind. and captured--one makes his
scape-arrival of a stronger force of savages--conflugmtlon of some of the
huts--some of the savages killed. some taken prisoners. some escape--the

destroyed huts made good again . . . . . . . . 290

CHAPTER XL.

A fleet of twenty-eight canoes invades the island--an army of about two
hundred and fifty--various encounters and battles -all destmyed but thirty-
seven, who surrender. and have a. settlement given them on the island--

thelringennity....-......298

CHAPTER m.

Events on the return of Robinson Crusoe to his island--acceptable tools--
Will Atkins's hut--religion of the colonist5~the Sahara: --their life among
the savages--treaty of friendship between the gush and Spaniards--d
{east--the artiiloets introduced . . . . . . . . 30'!coxrsxrs. xxiii

CHAPTER XLli.
Pass

The French ecclesiastie--hls anxiety for the souls of the inhabitants--agrees
'au 0c leit to endeavour to convert them . . . . . . 317

CHAPTER XLHI.
Marriages-conversion of Atkins and Wife--liberality in a Roman Catholic . 327

CHAPTER XLIV

Dialogue between Robinson Cnisoe and Will Atkins-sins against parents--
marriage--dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife--the bad lives of
Christians a stumbling-block to heathens--God--the Bible--prayer--

'baptlsm of Atkins's wile--and his marriage with her . . . 333

CHAPTER. XLV.

The young man from the ship in distress--marriage of the Jack-of-all-Trades
with the maid Susan--Settlement of the plantations--Robinson Crusoe's
reparations to depart-injunction respecting religious disputes--leaves a
gible--the young woman from the ship in distress--her description of what
it was to starve-Robinson Cnisoe does not leave the sloop at the island . 345

CHAPTER XLVI.

Robinson Crusoe leaves the island--arrives at the Emails-adventure by the
way--army of savages in canoes--the death of Friday--the army routed---
the ship anchors oil" the bay of All Saints--ditficulty of getting on shore---
his partner--the sloop finished and freighted for the island--safe arrival . 354

CHAPTER XLVII.

The follies of an old man--voyage to the East Indies--wrong conduct in
respect to the island--last letters from thence--the Popish cl
Cape of Good Hope--Madagssear--transgression against the natives. and
dreadful encounter with them--murder of Tom J etiry--the sacking a town
--the massacre of Madagascar. . . . . . . . . as;

CHAPTER XLVIII.

The gulf of Persia--five of the crew go on shore, and are not heard of after
--diii'erenee between Robinson Crusoe and the boatswain--the road of
Bengal--Robinson (h'usoe goes on shore--the crew msolve to leave him--he
su mits . . . . . - . . . . . . 3'"

CHAPTER XLIX.

Proposal for afresh voyage--Achin. Siam, Suskan--return to Bengal-another
voyage and retum-Robinson Crusoe and his partner garchase a' ship--
e

trade among the Philippine and Molucea isles--putsinto river Cambodia
--taken for pirates and chased--vanquish their pursuers . . . . 3'19
CHAPTER L.

History of the ship-voyage to Chum--small rivernesr the bayof Tonqnin--
the ship laid on one side to be repaired-attacked by the Cochin-Chinese--
who get pitch-kettled . . . . . . . . . . 38'!

CHAPTER LI.

Island of Formosa--eii'ects of the Christian religion--they sail nth--take a
Portuguese pilot on board--the gulf of Nanquin--Quinchanf--the dreadful

state of living in fear--go on shore . . 39;131V WNTEN'I'S.

CHAPTER LII.

PAGE

Bomish missionaries--father Simon--disposal of the ship and merchandise-the
young man. Robinson Crusoe's wmpaMon--journey to Nanquin--ohserva-
tiom on China--return to Quinchang . . . . . . .

CHAPTER L111.

Journey to Pekin in the suite of a Mandarin--a country gentlemen--arrive
at Pekin--mravan setting out for Moscow--they join it--number or the
mvm--house-buflt with china-ware--the greet wall--encounter with the
Turters. . . . . . . . . . . . .

CHAPTER LIV.

Another encounter-a body of ten thousand Tel-tars appear. but do not molest
them --the city of Nam--enter the Musoovite dominiony--the river Argunn
--the river Ynmour~the Taurus--idolatry . . . . . .

CHAPTER LV.

'Nerteinskny--Bohinson Crusoe and the Scots merchant destroy the idol--
pursued by the Tmeena--frightful deserb--Adinskoy--the Ton-
gueeeo-Jeneuy--the river Oby-Toboiski-winters there . .

CHAPTER LVI.

The climate--wean house--exiles of Muscovy--riddies in government-
happy state of the mind of man when brought to reflection--a great con-
queror--the cold--provisionkpmpmuons to depart--condition of the
exiles--amn- to an exile to assist him in making his .escape--declined--bnt
accepted for his son . . . . . . . . .

CHAPTER LVH.

Departure fmm Toboiski -smali caravan--the river Knmn--Soioy Kamskoi--
vat desertr--a troop of thieves--encounter--end remat--Kermnzinskoy--

Venslima--Lawremhoy--Amhangel--Hambnrgh--Imndon--the end

403

428

. 436

. I"
ROBINSOX CRUSOE'S BIRTH AND PARENTAGE--RAIIBLING THOUGHTS--PARENTAL
COUNSEIr-A MOTHER'S ARGBR--A BOY'S ELOPEMENT.

I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good
family, though not of that country, my father being a foreigner
of Bremen, who settled first at Hull. He got a good estate
by merchandise, and leaving off. his trade lived afterwards at
.York; from whence he had married my mother, whose rela-
tions were named Robinson, a very good family in that country,
and from whom I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; but by the
usual corruption of words in England, we are now called, 11",>>;
we call ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe; and So my;
companions always called me. " "

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly
commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed
at the battle near Dunkirk, against the Spaniards. What
became of my second brother I never knew, any more than
my father and mother did know what was become of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade,
my head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts.
My father, who was very ancient, had given me a competent
share of learning, as far as house education and a country
free-school generally go, and designed: me for the law; but
I would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea; and

B2 ADVENTURES or

my inclination to this led me strongly against the will, nay,
the commands of my father, and against all the entreaties
and persuasions of my mother and other friends.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design.
He called me one morning into his chamber, where he was
confined by the gout, and expostulated very wisely with me
upon this subject; he asked me what reasons, more than a
mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving his house, and
my native country, where I might be well introduced, and had
a prospect of raising my fortune, b application and industry,
with a life of ease and pleasure. {1e told me it was for men
of desperate fortunes, on one hand, or of aspiring, superior
fortunes, on the other, who went abroad upon adventures, to
rise by enterprise, and make themselves famous in under-
takings of a nature out of the common road; that these
things were all either too far above me, or too far below me;
that mine was the middle state, or what might be called the
upper station of low life, which he had found, by long ex--
perience, was the best state in the world, the most suited to
ruman happiness; not exposed to the miseries and hardships,
the labour and sufferings, of the mechanic part of mankind,
and not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and
envy of the upper part of mankind: he told me, I might judge
of the happiness of this state by one thing, viz., that this was
the state of life which all other people envied; that kings
have frequently lamented the miserable consequences of being
born to great things, and wished they had been placed in
the middle of two extremes, between the mean and the great;
that the wise man gave his testimony to this, as the just
standard of true. felicity, when he prayed to have "neither
poverty nor riches."

He bid me observe it, and I should always find, that the
calamities of life were shared among the upper and lower part
of mankind; but that the middle station had the fewest dis-
asters, and was not exposed to so many vicissitudes as the
higher or lower part of 'nfankind ynay, that they were not sub-
jected to so many distempers and uneasinesses, either of body
'or mind, as those were, who; by vicious living, luxury, and
extravagances, on one hand, or by hard labour, want of
necessaries, and mean and insufficient diet, on the other hand,
bring distempers upon themselves by the natural consequence
of their way of living; that the middle station of life was
calculated for all kinds of virtues, dd all kinds of enjoyments;
that peace and plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune;
that temperance, moderation, quietness, health, society, all
agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were the
blessings attending the middle station of life; that this waynomssox causes. ' 3

men went silently, and smoothly through the world, and com-
fortably out of it, not embarrassed with the labours of the hands,
or of the head, not sold to the life of slavery for daily bread, nor
harassed with perplexing circumstances, which rob the soul of
peace and the body of rest; not enraged with the passion of
envy, nor secret burning lust of ambition for great things: but,
in easy circumstances, sliding gently through the world, and
sensibly tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter; feeling
that they are happy, and learning, by every day's experience, to
know it more sensibly.

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affec-
tionate manner, not to play the young man, not to precipitate
myself into miseries, which nature and the station of life I was
born in, seemed to have provided against; that I was under no
necessity of seeking my bread; that he would do well for me,
and endeavour to enter me fairly into the station of life which
he had been just recommending to me; and that, if I was not
very easy and happy in the world, it must be my more fault
that must hinder it; and that he should have nothing to answer
for, having thus discharged his duty in warning me against
measures which he knew would be to my hurt. In a word,
that, as he would do very kind things for me, if I would
stay and settle at home, as he directed, so he would not have
so much hand in my misfortunes as to give me any encourage-
ment to go away; and, to close all, he told me I had my elder
.brother for an example, to whom he had used the same earnest
persuasions to keep him from going into the Low Country
wars, but could not prevail, his young desires prompting him
to run into the army, where he was killed; and though, he said,
he would not cease to, pray for me, yet he would venture to
say to me, that if I did take this foolish step, God would not
bless me; and I would have leisure, hereafter, to reflect upon
having neglected his counsel, when there might be none to
assist in my recovery.

I observed, in this last part of his discourse, which was
truly prophetic, though, I suppose, my father did not know
it to be so himself; I say, I observed the tears run down his
face very" lentifully, especially when he spoke of my brother
who was ~ , ed; and that, when he spoke of my having
leisure to,.r',e_'"pent, and none to assist me, he was so moved,
that he bmaofi' the discourse, and told me his heart was so
full, that he-could say no more to me. '

I was sincerely affected with this discourse; as, indeed, who
could be otherwise? and 'I' reselved not to think of. going
abroad any more, but to settle at home, according tomy father's
desire. But, alas! a few days were it all off: and, in short, to
prevent any of my father's further importunities, in a few weeks

after, I resolved to run quite away from him. However
a 24 anvnx'nmas or

I did notact so hastily, neither, as my first heat of resolu-
tion tempted; but I took my mother, at a time when I
thong 1: her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told her
my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the world,
that I should never settle to anything with resolution enough
to go through with it, and my father had better 've me his
consent than force me to go without it; that was now
eighteen years old, which was too late to go ap rentice to a
trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure if did Ishould
never serve out my time, and I should certainly run away from
my master before my time was out, and go to sea; and, if she
would speak to my father to let me make but one voyage abroad,
if I came home again, and did not like it, I would go no more;
and I would promise, by a double diligence, to recover the time
I had lost.

' This made my mother very angry: she told me she knew
it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any
such a subject: that he knew too well what was my interest
to give his consent to anything so much for my hurt; and
that she wondered how I could think of any such thing, after
such a discourse as I had had from my father, and such kind
and tender expressions as she knew my father had used to me:
and that, in short, if I would ruin myself, there was no help for
me; but I might depend I should never have their consent to it:
that, for her part, she Would not have so much hand in my
destruction ; and I should never have it to say " that my mother
was willing, when my father was not."

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as

have heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him;
and that my father, after showing a great concern at it,' said to
her with a sigh, "That boy might be h y if he would stay at
home; but, if he goes abroad, he will the most miserable
wretch that ever was born; I can give no consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose:
though, in the mean time, I continued obstinately deaf to
all proposals of settling to business, frequently expostulating
with my father and mother about their being so positively
determined against what they knew my inclinations prompted
me to. But being one day at Hull, where I went casually,
and without any purpose of making an elopement at that time,
and one of my companions then going to London by sea in his
father's ship, and prompting me to go with them by the common
allurement of seafaring men, viz, "that it should cost me
nothing for my passage," I consulted neither father nor mother
any more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but left them
to hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessmg, or
my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or con-
sequences, and in an ill hour, God knows.

a .ROBIRSON CBUBOE.

 

CHAPTER 11. 4"

AS ADVEKI'UBEB'B umomuxss--coon 83801311038 m DMBm--DMIPATBD
WHEN RELIEVE--A WORSE "OBI--1053 OF 233 SKIP--ml SAVED--
S'I'BUGGLLS AGAINST WBWICTIOX.

ON the lst of September, 1651, 1 went on board a ship bound
for London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I
believe, began earlier, or continued longer than mine. The
ship had no sooner got out of the Humber, than the wind
began to blow, and the waves to rise, in a most frightful
manner; and as I had never been at sea before, I was most
inexpressibly sick in body and terrified in mind; I began now
seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly I
was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven, for wickedly leav-
ing my father's house, and abandoning my duty. All the good
counsel of my parents, my father's tears, and my mother's
entreaties, came now fresh into my mind ; and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the itch of hardiness to which it
has been since, reproached me with the contempt of advice, and
the breach of my duty to God and my father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though nothing like
what I have seen many times since; no, nor what I saw a few
days after; but such as it was, enough to affect me then, who
was but a young sailor, and had never known anythin of the
matter. I expected every wave would have swallow us up,
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought, in the
trough, or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more; and
in this agony of mind I made many vows and resolutions,
that, if it would please God to spare my life thiswoyage, if
ever I got my foot once on dry land, I would go direetliy home
to my father, and never set it into a ship again while lived;
that I would take his advice, and never run myself into such
miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness
of his observations about the middle station in life; how easy,
how comfortable he had lived all his days, and never had been
exposed to tempests at sea or troubles on shore; and I re-
solved t1that I would, like a true repeating prodigal, go bathe to
m a er.

y'I'hese wise. and sober. thoughts continued durin the storm,
and indeed sdme time after; but the next day, as e wind was
abated, and the sea calmer, I began to be a little inured to it.
However, I was very grave that day, being also a little sea-

 

sick still: but towards night the weather cleared up, the wind ~ .' "

was quite over, and a charming fine evening followed; the6 anvaxruaas or

went down perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning; and,
having little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shinin
upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that
ever saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick,
but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea that was
so rough and terrible the day before, and could be so calm and
pleasant in a little time after.

And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my
companion, who had indeed enticed me away, came to me,
and said, " Well, Bob," clapping me on the shoulder, "how
do you do after it? I warrant you were frightened, wa'n't
you, last night, when it blew out a capful of wind ?" " A
capful do you call it?" said I; " 'twas a terrible storm." " A
storm, you fool 1" replies he; "do you call that a storm ?
Why it was nothing at all: give us but a good ship and sea-
room, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that:
you are but a fresh-water sailor, Bob; come, let us make a
bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that. D'ye see what
charming weather 'tis now P" To make short this sad part of
my story, we went the way of too many sailors; the punch
was made, and I was made drunk with it; and in that one
night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my past conduct, and all my resolutions for the
future. In a word, as the sea was returned to its smoothness
of surface and settled calmness, by the abatement of the storm,
so the hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and a pre-
hensions of being swallowed up by the sea forgotten, an the
current of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the
vows and promises I had made in my distress. I found, in-
deed, some intervals of reflection; and serious thoughts did,
as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes; but I shook
them ed, and roused myself from them, as it were from a dis-
temper, and applying myself to drink and company, soon
mastered the returns of those fits,--for so I called them; and
Ihad in five or six days got as complete a victory over conscience
as any young fellow, that resolved not to be troubled with it,
could desire. .

But Lwas to have another trial for it still ; and Providence,
as inwgch cases generally it does, resolved to leave me en-
tirelyfy. without excuse; for, if I would not take this for a
deliverance, the next was to be such an one, as the worst
and most hardened wretch among -us would confess both the
danger and the mercy'of. The sixth day of 'our being at
sea, we came into Yarmouth Roads: the wind having been
contrary, and the weather calm, we had made but little Way
since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to an anchor,
and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz., at south-aoanzson onusos. 7

west, for seven or eight days, during which time a great many
shi from Newcastle came into the same roads, as the common
har ur where the ships might wait for a wind for the river.
We had not, however, rid here so long, and should have tided
up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and after we
had lain four or five days, blew very hard. However, the
roads being reckoned as 00d as a harbour, the anchorage
good, and our ground-tar. e very strong, our men were un~
concerned, and not in the least apprehensiva of danger, but
spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the sea.
But the ei hth day, in the morning, the wind increased, and
we had al hands at work to strike our topmasts, and make
everything snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy
as possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our
ship rode forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought,
once or twice, our anchor had come home; upon which our
master ordered out the sheet anchor; so that we rode with
twg anchors ahead, and the cables veered out to the better
en .

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I
began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the
seamen themselves. The master was vigilant in the business
of preserving the ship: but, as he went in and out of his cabin
by me, I could hear him softly say to himself several times,
"Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be all lost; we shall be
all undone l" and the like. During these first hurries I was
stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the steerage, and
cann'ot describe my temper. I could ill reassume the first
mwnw, which I had so apparently trampled upon, and

ened myself against; I thought that the bitterness of
death had been past, and that this would be nothing too, like
the first; but when the master himself came by me, as I said
just now, and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully
frightened. Igot up out of my cabin, and looked out; but
sucha dismal sight I never saw: the sea went mountains high,
and broke u 11 us eve three or four minutes. When I
could look a ut, I coul see nothing but distress around us;
two ships that rid near us, we found had cut their masts by
the board, being deeply laden; and our men cried out that
a ship which rid about a mile ahead of us, was foundered.
Two more shi being driven from their anchors, were run
out of the to sea, at all adventures, and that with not a
mast standing. The li t=ships faredthe best, as not so much
labouring in the sea; at two or three of them drove, and'
came close by us, running away, with only their sprit-sails
out, before the wind. Toward evening, the mate and boat-
swain begged the master of our ship to let them cut away the
foremast, which he was very loth to do; but the boatswain
protesting to him, that, if he did not, the ship would founder
he consented; and when they had cut away the foremast, the
inainmast stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, that they
were obliged to cut it away also, and make a clear deck.

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in at all
this, who was but a young sailor, and who had been in such
a fright before at but a little. But if 1 can express, at this
distance, the thoughts I had about me at that time, I was in
tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my former'con-
victions, and the having returned from them to the resolutions
1 had wickedl_ taken at first, than I was at death itself; and
these, added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a
condition, that 1 can by no words describe it. But the worst
was not come yet; the storm continued with such fury, that
the seamen themselves acknowledged that they had never
known a worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep laden,
and so wallowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and
then cried out, she would founder. It was my advantage, in
one respect, that I did not know what they meant by
" founder," till I inquired. However, the storm was so
violent, that I saw, what is not often seen, the master, the
boatswain, and some others, more sensible than the rest, at
their prayers, and expectino every moment the ship would go
to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all the
rest of our distresses, one of the men, that had been down on
pu se to see, cried out, " we had sprung a leak ;" another
sai " there was four feet water in the hold." Then all hands
were called to the pump. At that very word, my heart, as I
thought, died within me; and I fell backwards upon the side
of my bed, where I sat in the cabin. However, the men
roused me, and told me, " that I," who was able to do nothing
before, "was as well able to pump as another :" at which I
stirred up and went to the pump, and worked very heartily.
While this was doing, the master seeing some light colliers,
who, not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and
run away to sea, and would not come near us, ordered us to
fire a gun, as a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what
that meant, was so surprised, that I thought the ship had broke,
or some dreadful thing had happened. In a word, I was so
surprised, that Ifell down in a swoon. As this was a time
when everybody had his own life to think of, no one minded
me, or what was become of me; but another man stepped up
to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie,
thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while before I
came to myself. '

We worked on; but the water increasina in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and, though the storm
began to abate a' little, yet, as it was not possible she couldROBINSON cnuson. 9

swim till we might run into a port, so the master continued
firing guns for help; and a light ship who had rid it out just
ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the
utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was impossible
for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near the ship's
side; till, at last, the men rowing very heartily, and venturing
their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the
stem with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great length,

 

which they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of, and
we hauled them close under our stern, and got all into their
boat. It was to no purpose for them, or us, after we were in
the boat, to think of reaching their own ship; so all agreed to
let her drive, and only pull her in towards shore as much
as we could; and our master promised them that, if the boat
was staved upon the shore, he would make it good to their
master; so, partly rowing, and partly driving, our boat went
away to the northward, sloping towards the shore almost as far
as Winterton-Ness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of
our ship when we saw her- sink; and then I understood, for
the first time, what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea.
I must acknowledge, I had hardly eyes to look up when the
seamen told me "she was sinking ;" for, from that moment,
they rather ut me into the boat, than that I might be said to

, go in. ' My eart was, as it were, dead within me, partly with
B 3 '
fright, partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what was
yet before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet labouring at
the car to bring the boat near the shore, we could see (when
our boat mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore)
a great many people running along the strand, to assist us
when we should come near; but we made slow way towards
the shore; nor were we able to reach it, till, being past the
light-house at Winterton, the shore falls 03' to the westward,
towards Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the violence
of the wind. Here we got in, and, though not without much
dificulty, got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards on foot
to Yarmouth; where, as unfortunate men, we were used with
great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town,
who assigned us good quarters, as by the particular mer-
chants and owners of ships; and had money given us suffi-
cient to carry us either to London, or back to Hull, as we
thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and
have gone home, I had been happy; and my father, an emblem
of our blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed the fatted call
for me; for, hearing the ship I went in was cast away in Yar-
mouth Roads, it was a great while before he had any assurance
that I was not drowned.

But my wayward disposition pushed me on with an obstinacy
that- nothing could resist; and, though I had, several times, loud
calls from my reason, and my more composed judgment, to go
home, yet I rushed on with my eyes open.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who
' was the master's son, was now less forward than I: the first
time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was
not till two or three days, for we were separated in the town
to several quarters; I say the first time he saw me, it ap-

. his tone was altered, and, looking very melancholy, and
shaking his head, ask me how I did: telling his father who
I was, and how I ha come this voyge only for a trial, in
order to go further abroad. His father, turning to me, with
a grave and concerned tone, " Young man," says he, " you ought
never to go to sea any more; you ought to take this for a
plain and visible token, that you are not to be a seafaring
man."----" ,Why, sir," said I, " will you go to sea no more '1'"--
" That is another case," said he; " it is my calling, and there-
fore my duty; but, as you made this voyage for a trial, you
see what a taste Heaven has given you of what you are to
expect if you persist. Perhaps this has all befallen us on your
account, like Jonah, in the ship of Tarshish.----Pray," continues
he, "what are you, and on what account did on go to sea?"
Upon that I told him some of my story; at e end of whichaoamsos. causon. 11

he burst out with a stran e kind of passion. "Whathad I
done," said he, "that su an unhappy wretch should come
into- my ship? I would not set m foot in the same ship
with thee again for a thousand pounds." This indeed was, as
I said, an excursion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by
the sense of his loss, and was farther than he could have au-
thority to [gm--However, he afterwards talked very gravely
to me; exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt
Providence to my ruin; told me I might see a visible hand
of Heaven against me; "and, young man," said he, "depend
upon it, if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet
with nothing but disasters and disappointments, till your
father's words are fulfilled upon you."

We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, andI
saw him no more; which way he went I know not: as for
me, having some money in my pocket, I travelled to London
by land; and there, as well as on the road, had many strug-
gles with myself what course of life I should take, and whether
I should go home, or go to sea. As to going home, shame
opposed the best motions that offered to my thoughts: and it
immediately occurred to me how I should be laughed at among
the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my father
and mother only, but even everybody else. From whence I
have often since observed, how incongruous and irrational the
common temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to that
reason which on ht to guide them in such cases, viz.,' that they
are not ashame to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not
ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to be es-
teemed fools; but are ashamed of the returning, which only
can make them be esteemed wise men.

an"

CHAPTER III.

VOYAGE 1'0 OMWND vanes--ram 31' A nun nom-nrmr.
arm AND WI.

IN this state of life, however, I remained some time, un-
certain what measures to take, and what course of life to
lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to going home;
and, as I stayed awhile, the remembrance of the distress
I had been in were off; and as that abated, the little motion
I had in m desires to a return wore off with it, till at last
I quite lai aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for a
voyage. That evil influence which carried me first away

,-_.;$%' {K c. mu. _. i
from my father's house, that hurried me into the wild and
indigested notion of raising my fortune, and that impressed
those conceits so forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf to all
good advice, and to the entreaties, and even the commands, of
my father; I say, the same influence, whatever it was, pre-
sented the most unfortunate of all ente rises to my view;
and I went on board a vessel bound to e coast of Africa;
or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.

It was my great misfortune, that, in all these adventures, I
did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might
indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet, at the
same time, I had learned the duty and oflice of a foremast-
man, and, in time, might have qualified myself for a mate or
lieutenant, if not a master; but, as I always chose for the
worse, so I did here; for having money in my pocket, and
good clothes upon my back, I would always go on board in
the habit of a gentleman; and so I neither had any business
in the ship, nor learned to do any. It was my lot, first of all,
to fall into pretty good company in London; which does not
always happen to such loose and misguided young fellows as
I then was; the devil, generally, not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early. But it was not so with me: I first
fell acquainted with the master of a ship, who had been on
the coast of .Guinea, and who, having had very good success
there, was resolved to go again. He, taking a fancy to my
conversation, which was not at all disagreeable at that time,
and hearing me say, "I had a mind to see the world," told
me, that "if I would go the voyage with him, I should be at
no expense; I should be his messmate and his companion;
and, if I could carry anything with me, I should have all the
advantage of it that the trade would admit; and perhaps I
micht meet with some encouragement." I embraced the offer,
and entering into a strict friendship with this captain, who
was an honest and plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with
him, and carried a small adventure with me; which by the
disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I increased
very considerably; for I carried about 401. in such toys and
trifles as the captain directed me to buy. This 401. I had
mustered together by the assistance of some 'of my relations
whom I corresponded with; and who, I behave, got my father
or at least my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure. This Was the only voyage which I may say
was successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to the
integrity and honesty of my friend the captain; under whom,
also, I got a competent knowledge of the mathematics and the
rules of navigation, learned how to keep an account of the
ship's course, take-an observation, and, in short, to understand
some things that were needful to be understood bya sailor: for,
.\

\

\
\

'\ the Moors.

aosmsox causon. 13

as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn;
and, in a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a
merchant: for I brought home 5lbs. 902. of gold dust for m
adventure, which yielded me in London, at my return, almost
3001., and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which
have since so completed my ruin. Yet, even in this voyage, I
had my misfortunes, too; particularly, that I was continually
sick, being thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive
heat of the climate; our principal trading being upon the
003.51% from the latitude of 15 degrees north, even to the Line
itse .

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to
my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved
to go the same voyage again: and I embarked in the same
vessel with one who was his mate in the former voyage, and
had now got the command of the ship. This was the un-
happiest voyage that ever man made; for, though I did not
carry quite 1001. of my new-gained wealth, so that I had 2002.
left, and which I lodged with my friend's widow, who was
very just to me, yetI fell into terrible misfortunes in this
voyage; and the first was this, viz.---our ship, making her
course towards the Canary Islands, or rather between those
islands and the African shore, was surprised, in the gray of
the morning, by a Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave chase to
us with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as
much canvas as our yards would spread, or our masts carry,
to get clear; but, finding the pirate gained upon us, and would
certainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to
fight, our ship having 12 guns, and the rogue 18. About
three in the afternoon, he came up with us; and bringing to,
by mistake, just athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our
stern, as he intended, we brought eight of our guns to bear
on that side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which made
him sheer off again, after returning our fire, and uring in
also his small shot from near 200 men which he ha on board.
However, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping
close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to defend our-

0

selves; but, laying us on board the next time upon our other

quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who immediately
fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rigging. We plied
them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and such like,
and cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut short.
this melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled, and
three of our men killed, and eight wounded, we were obliged to
yield, and all carried prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I ap-
prehended; nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's
court, as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the cap-
tain of the rover as his proper prize, and made his slave, being
young and nimble, and fit for his business. At this surprising
change of my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable
slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked back
upon my father's prophetic discourse tome, " that I should be
miserable and have none to relieve me ;" which I thought was
now so effectually brought to pass, that it could not be worse;
that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and Iwas
undone, without redemption. But, alas! this was but a taste
of the misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel
of this story. _

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his
house, so I was in ho 3 he would take me with him when he
went to sea again, be 'eving that it would, some time or other,
be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Po cuese man-of-
war; and that then 1 should be set at liberty. ut this ho '
of mine was soon taken away; for, when he went to sea, a
left me on shore to look after his little garden, and do the
common drudgery of slaves about his house; and when he
came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie in the
cabin, to look after the ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method
I might take to effect it; but found no way that had the least
probability in it. Nothing presented to'make the supposition
of it rational; for I _had nobody to communicate it to that
would embark with me; no fellow-slave, no Englishman,
Irishman, or 800th there but myself; so that for two
years, though I often pleased myself with the imagination,
yet I never had the least encouraging prospect of putting it in

ractice.

P After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself,
' which put the old thought of making some attempt for my
liberty again in my head. My patron lying at home longer
than usual without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was
for want of money, he used constantly, once or twice a week,
sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's
pinnace, and go out into the road a-fishing; and, as he always
took me and a young Moresco with him to row the boat, we
made him very merry, and I proved very dexterous in catching
fish, insomuch that sometimes he would send me with a Moor,
one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the Moresco, as they called
him, to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time, that going a-fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick, that, though we were not half
a league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing, we
knew not whither, or which way, we laboured all day and all
the next night, and when the morning came, we found we had
pulled 011' to sea, instead of pulling in for the shore, and that
we were at least two leagues from the shore; however, we got
well in again, though with a great deal of labour, and some
danger, for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the mom-
ing; but particularly we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take
more care of himself for the future; and, having lying by him
the long-boat of our English ship he had taken, he resolved
he would not go a-fishing any more without a com and
some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of the ' , who
was an English slave, to build a little state-room or ca ' , in
the middle of the long boat, like that of a barge, with a place
to stand behind it, to steer and haul home the main-sheet,
and with room before for a hand or two, to stand and work
the sails. She sailed with what we call a shoulder of mutton
sail, and the boom gibb'd over the top of the cabin, which lay

_ 'Very snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie, with a

slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to
put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink,
and icularly his bread, rice, and coffee.
e went frequently out with this boat a-fishing, and as
I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went
without me. It happened, that he had appointed to go out in
this boat, either for pleasure, or for fish, with two or three
Moors of some distinction in that place, and for whom he had
rovided extraordinarily, and had, therefore, sent on board the
t overnight, a larger store of provision than ordinary, and
had ordered me to get ready three fusees, with powder and shot,
which were on board his ship, for that they designed some sport
of fowling, as well as fishing.

I got all things ready, as he directed, and waited the next
morning with the boat washed clean, her ensigns and pendants
out, and everything to accommodate his guests; when,
by-and-by, my patron came on board alone, and told me his

guests had put of going upon some business that fell out,
and ordered me, with the man and boy, as usual, to go out

with the boat, and catch them some fish, for that his friends
were to sup at his house, and commanded, that as soon as I
had got some fish, I should bring it home to his house; all
which I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into
my thoughts, for now I- found I was like to have a little ship
at my command; and, my master being gone, I prepared to
furnish myself, not for a fishing business, but for a voyage:
though I knew not, neither did I so much as consider, whither
I should steer; for anywhere, to get out of that place, was my
way.

My first oontrivance was to make a pretence to speak to

>>'$} '.
'5
this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board;
for I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron's
bread: he said that was true; so he brought a large basket
of rusk or biscuit, of their kind, and three jars with fresh
water into the boat. I knew where my patron's case of
bottles stood, which it was evident by the make, were taken
out of some English prize, and I conveyed them into the boat
while the Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before
for our master. I conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax
into the boat, which weighed above half a hundred wei ht,
with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, sag a
hammer, all which were of great use to us afterwards,
especially the wax to make candles. Another trick I tried
upon him, which he innocently came into also; his name was
Ismael, whom they called Muley or Moley: so I called to him,
"Moley," said I, " our patron's guns are on board the host,
can you get a little wder and shot? it may be we may k1]?
some alcamies (fow like our curlews), for ourselves, fo
I know he kee the gunner's stores in the ship."--" Yes,"
says be, "I'll ring some ;" and, accordingly, he brought a
great leather pouch, which held about a tgound and a half of
powder, or rather more, and another wi shot, that had five
or six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into the boat: .
at the same time I found some powder of my master's in the
great cabin, with which I filled one of the large bottles in the
case, which was almost empty, pouring what was in it into
another; and thus furnished with everything needful, we
sailed out of the port to fish. The castle, which is at the
entrance of the port, knew who We were, and took no notice of
us; and we were not above a mile out of the port, before we
hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish. The wind blew
from N.N.E., which was contrary to my desire; for, had it
blown southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast of
Spain, and at last reached to the bay of Cadiz: but my resolu~
tions were, blow which way it would, I would be gone from the
horrid place where I was.

After we had fished some time, and catched nothing; for,
when I had fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that
he might not see them, I said to the Moor, " This will not do;
our master will not be thus served; we must stand farther
off." He, thinking no harm, agreed; and being at the head
of the boat, set the sails; and as I had the helm, I ran the
boat near a league further, and then brought to, as if I would
fish. Then, giving the boy the helm, I stepped forward to
where the Moor was, and I took'him by surprise, with my arm
under his waist, and tossed him clear overboard into the sea.
He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and calling to
me, begged to be taken in, and told me he would go all the
world over with me. He swam so strong after the boat, that
he would have reached me very quickly, there being but little
wind; upon which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one
of the fowling-pieces, I resented it at him, and told him, I had
done him no hurt, an if he would be quiet, I would do him
none. " But," said I, " you swim well enough to reach the
shore, and the sea is calm ;'make the best of your way to shore,
and I will do you no harm; but, if you come near the boat, I
will shoot you through the head; for I am resolved to have my
liberty." So he turned himself about, and swam for the shore;
and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was an
excellent swimmer.

 

Q . CHAPTER -1v.

m--anvnmas--nm L LION A1") A woman-cm AMA" A
1'03"")qu SKIP--ARRIVE! '1' I'll! MES.

I COULD have taken this Moor with me, and have drowned the
. boy; but there was no venturing to trust him, and humanity
forbade the other. When he was gone, I turned to the boy,
whom they called Xury, and said to him, "Xury, if you will
be faithful to me, I will make you a great man; but if you will
not stroke your face to be true to me, (that is, swear by
Mahomet and his father's beard,) I must throw you into the sea
too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently,
that I could not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me,
, and 0 all over the world with me.

'eI was in viewofthe Moorthat wasswimming, I stood
out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to windward,
that they might think me one towards the Strait's mouth (as
indeed any one that had ' en in their wits must have been
supposed to do); for who would have supposed we were sailing
on to the southward, to the truly Barbarian coast, where whole
nations of negroes were sure to surround us with their canoes,
and destroy us; where we could never once go on shore, but we
should be devoured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages
of human kind?

But, as soon as it w dusk in the evening, I changed my
course, and steered ' ectly south and by east, bendin my
course a little towards the east, that I might keep in wit the
shore; and, having a fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth uiet
sea, I made such sail that I believe, by the next day, at
o'clock in the afternoon, when I made the land, I could not be
less than 150 miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor of
Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other king thereabout ; for
we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the
dreadful apprehensions 1 had of falling into their hands, that
I would not stop or go on shore, or come to an anchor, the
wind continuing fair, till I had sailed in that manner five
days; and then the wind shifting to the southward, I con-
cluded, also, that if any of our vessels were in chase of me,
they also would now give over: so I ventured to make to the
coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river;
1 know not what nor where, neither what latitude, what
country, what nation, nor what river. I neither saw, nor
desired to see, any people; the principal thing I wanted was
fresh water. We came into this creek in the evening, resolving
to swim on shore as soon as it was dark, and discover the
country: but, as soon as it was quite dark, we heard an
dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of '\
creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that the poor boy was
ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore
till day. " Well, Xury," said 1, " then I will not; but it may
bewe mayseemen byday,whowill be asbadtousasthose
lions."-" Then we may give them the" shoot-gun," says
Xury, laughing; " make them run away." Such English
Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. However,
I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a dram
out of our patron's case of bottles to cheer him up. After
all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We dropped
our little anchor, and lay still all night: I say still, for we
slept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast creatures,
(we knew not what to call them,) of many sorts, come down
to the sea-shore, and run into the water, wallowing and
washing themselves, for the purpose of coolin themselves;
and they made such hideous howlings and y ' gs, that 1
never indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and, indeed, so was I too;
but we were both more frightened when we heard one of these
mighty creatures swimming towards our boat: we could not
see him, but we might hear him, by his blowing, to be a men-
strous, huge, and furious beast. Xury said it was a lion, and
it might be so, for aught I know; but poor Xury cried to me
to weigh the anchor and row away. "No," says I, "Xury;
we can slip our cable with the buoy to it, and go off to sea;
they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner said so, but I
perceived the creature (whatever it was) within two oars'
length, which something su rised me: however, I imme-
diately stept to the cabin cor, and, taking up my gun,
fired at him: upon which he turned round and swam to the

shore again.
But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises and hideous
cries and howlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of
the shore, as higher within the country, upon the noise or report
of the gun; a thing, I believe, those creatures had never heard
before. This convinced me there was no going on shore for us
in the night upon that coast; and how to venture on shore in
the day, was another question too; for, to have fallen into the
hands of any of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen
into the paws of lions and tigers: at least, We were equally
ap rehensive of the danger of it.

that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore, some-

where or other, for water, for we had not a pint left in the

best: when and where to get it was the point. Xury said, if

I would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he would find

if there was any water, and bring some to me. I asked him

why he would go; why I should not go, and he stay in the

3 t? The boy answered with so much affection, that he made

. . ,love him ever after. Sa s he, "If wild mans come, they

..4,'eafiniSS, you go away."--" ell, Xury," said I, " we will both

'- . 1- go}, and, if the wild mans come, we will kill them; they shall

' . . ("tacit-her of us.", So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to

" '~ means a dramfifl of our patron's case of bottles, which I

' . mentioned before; and we hauled in the boat as near the shore

as we thought was proper, and so waded to shore, carrying
nothin .but our arms, and two jars for water.

I di not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the
coming of canoes with savages down the river; but the boy,
seeing a low place, about a mile up the country, rambled to

' it; and, by-and-by, I saw him come running towards me. I
thought he was pursued by some savage, or frightened by
some wild beast, and I, therefore, ran forward to help him;
but when I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over
his shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like a
hare, but difi'erent in colour, and longer legs: however, we were
very glad of it, and it was Very good meat; but the great joy
that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good
water, and had seen no wild mans.

But we found, afterwards, that we need not take such pains
for water; for a little higher up the creek where we were, we
found the water fresh when the tide was out, which flowed but
a little way up; so we filled our jars, and having a fire, feasted
on the hare we had killed; and prepared to go on our way,
having seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part of
the country.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very
well that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd
Islands also, lay not far from the coast. But, as I had no
instruments to take an observation to find what latitude

'
we were in, and did not exactly know, or at least remember
what latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for
them, or when to stand off to sea towards them, otherwise
I might now have easily found some of these islands. But my
hope was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to the part
where the English traded, I should find some of their vessels
upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take
us m. '

By the best of my calculation, the place where I now was,
must be that country, which, lying between the Emperor of
Morocco's dominieus and the negroes, lies waste, and unin-
habited, except by wild beasts: the negroes having abandoned
it, and gone farther south, for fear of- the Moors, and the Moors
not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness;
and, indeed, both forsaking it because of the prodigious number
of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious creatures, which
harbour there: so that the Moors use it for their hunting 012?,
where they go like an army, two or three thousand men a a
time; and indeed, for near a hundred miles together upon this
coast, we saw nothing but a waste, uninhabited country by day,
andhheard nothing but howlings and f of wild beasts by
nit? t. $ -

{hoe or twice in the daytime, I though I saw the Pike of
Tenerifl'e, being the top of the mountain Tenerifi'e, in the
Canaries, and had a eat mind to venture out in hopes of
reaching thither; but Irraving tried twice, I was forced in again
by contrary winds, the sea also going too high for my little
vessel, so I resolved to pursue my first design, and keep along
the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we
had left this place; and once in particular, being early in the
morning, we came to an anchor under a little point of land
which was pretty high; and the tide beginning to'flow, we lay
still, to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about
him than, it seems, mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me,
' that we had best go farther ofl' the shore; for, says he, "look,
yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock, fast
asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful mon-
ster indeed, for it was a terrible great lion, that lay on the side
of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill, that hung,
as it were, over him. " Xury," says I, "you shall go on shore
and Inn him." Xury looked frightened and said, "Me kill!
he eat me at one mouth :" one mouthful he meant. However,
I said no more to the boy, but bade him be still; and I took
our biggest gun, which was almost musket-bore, and loaded
it with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs, and laid
it down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets; and a
third, for we had three pieces, I loaded with five smaller bullets.
I took the best aim I could with the first iece, to have shot
him in the head; but he lay so, with his eg raised a little
above his nose, that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and
broke the bone: he started up, growling at first: but, finding
his leg broke, fell down again, and then got up u n three
legs, and gave the most hideous roar that ever I hear . I was
a little su rised, that I hadnot hit him on the head; however,
I took up e second piece immediately, and though he began
to move ofi', fired again, and shot him in the head; and had
the pleasure to see him drop, and make but little noise, but lie
struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would have
me let him go on shore. "Well, go," said I: so the boy
jumped into the water, and, taking a little gun in one hand,
swam to shore with the other hand, and coming close to the
creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him
in the head again, which deSpatched him quite.
'This was game, indeed, to us, but itwas no food; and I
was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot
you a creature that was good for nothing to us. However,
my said he would have some of him; so he comes on
boardg-and asked. " to give him the hatchet. " For what,
Xury ?" said I. '3 e cut ofi' his head," said he. However,
Xury could not cut off his head; but he cut 03' a foot, and
brought it with him, and it was a monstrous great one. 1
bethought myself, however, that, perhaps, the skin of him
might, one way or other, be of some value to us; and I
resolved to take off his skin, if I could. So Xury and I went
to work with him; but Xury was much the better workman
at it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed, it took us
both up the whole day; but, at last, we got 011' the hide of
him, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun efi'eetually
dried it in two days' time, and it afterwards served me to lie
upon. '

After this stop, we made on to the southward continually,
for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly on our provi~
sions. which began to abate very much, and going no oftener
in to the shore than we were obliged to for fresh water. My
design in this, was to make the river Gambia, or Senegal;
that is to say, anywhere about the Cape de Verd, where I
was in hopes to meet with some European ship; and if I did
not, I knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the
islands, or perish among the negroes. I knew that all the
ships from Europe, which sailed either to the coast of Guinea,
or to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this cape, or those
islands: and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon
this single point, either that I must meet with some ship, or
must perish.

When I pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as22 mmrunns or

I have said, I began to see that the land was inhabited; and,
in two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand
upon the shore to look at us; we could also perceive they were
quite black, and stark naked. I was once inclined to have
gone on shore to them; but Xury was my better coun-
sellor, and said to me, "No go, no go." However, I hauled
in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them; and I found
they ran along the shore by me a good Way. I observed
they had no weapons in their hands, except one, who had
a long slender stick, which .Xury said was a lance, and that
they would throw them a great way with good aim; so
I kept at a distance, but talked to them by Sims, as well
as I could, and particularly made signs foraometlhing to eat.
They beckoned to me to stop my boat, ahdthe would fetch
me some meat: upon this, I lowered the mp1; my sail, and
lay by, and two of them ran up into the couritfl'fipnd, in less
than half an hour, came back, and brought {withtthem two
pieces of dry flesh, and some corn, such as isfi'thoigjpf cc of
their country; but we neither knew what'thd bnejtn'r the
other was; however, we were willing to accept itnz'rBut how
to come at it was our next dispute, for I was not for venturing
on shore to them, and they were as much "afraid of us; but
they took a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore,
and laid it down, and went and stood a great way off till we
fetched it on board, and then came close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to
make them amends: but an Opportunity ofi'ered that very
instant to oblige them wonderfully: for, while we were lying
by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the
other (as we took it with great fury, from the mountains
towards the sea; w ether it was the male pursuing the
female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we could
not tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual, or
strange; but I believe it was the latter, because, in the first
place, those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the
night; and, in the second place, we found the peeple terribly
frightened, especially the women. The man that had the
lance or dart did not fly from them, but the rest did; how-
ever, as the two creatures ran directly into the water, they
did not seem to ofl'er to fall upon any of the negroes, but
mged themselves into the sea, and swam about as if they

come for their diversion; at last, one of them began to
come nearer our boat than at first I expected; but I lay ready
for him, for I had loaded my gun with all possible expledition,
and bade Xury load both the others. As~soon as e came
fairly within my 'reach, I fired, and shot him directly in the
head: immediately be sunk down into the water, but rose
instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was struggling
for life, and so indeed he was; he immediately made to the
shore; but between the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and
the strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the
shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor
creatures, at the noise and fire of my gun; some of them were
even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very
terror; but when they saw the creature dead and sunk in
the water, and that I made signs to them to come to the
shore, they took heart and came to the shore, and began to
search for the creature. I found him by his blood staining the
water; and by the help of a rope, which I slung round him,
and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore,
and found that it was a most curious leopard, s tted, and
fine to an admirable degree; and the negroes he d up their
hands with admiration, to think what it was I had killed hixr
with.

The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire and the
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran u directl to the
mountains from whence they 'came; nor coul I, at t t dis-
tance, know what it was. I found quickly the negroes were
for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have
them take it as a favour from me; which, when I made signs
to them that they might take him, they were very thankful
for. Immediately they fell to work with him; and, though
they had no knife, yet with a sharpened piece of wood, they
took off his skin as readily, and much more readily, than we
could have done with a knife. They offered me some of the
flesh, which I declined, making as if I would give it them,
but made signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely,

and brought me a great deal more of their provisions, which, -

though I did not understand, yet I accepted. I then made
signs to them for some water, and held out one of my jars to
them, turning it bottom upwards, to show that it was empty,
and that I wanted to have it filled. They called immediately
to some of their friends, and there came two women, and brought
a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the
sun ; this they set down for me, as before, and I sent Xury on
shore with my jars, and filled them all three. The women were
as stark naked as the men.

I was now furnished with roots, and corn, such as it was,
and water; and leaving my friendly negroes, I made ferward
for about eleven days more, without ofl'ering. to go near'the
shore, till I saw the land run out a great length into the sea,
at about the distance of four or five leagues before me; and
the sea being very calm, I kept a large offing, to make this

int. At length, doubling the (point, at about two]; es".

m the land, I saw plainly lan on the other ship; 4 is:-

- iii-3;..-- ' "
ward: then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that
this was the Ca de Verd, and those the islands, called from
thence Cape de verd Islands. However, they were at a great
distance, and I could not well tell what I had best to do; for,
if I should be taken with a gale of wind, I might neither reach
one nor the other.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the
cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the helm; when, on a
sudden, the boy cried out, "Master, master, a ship with a
sail!" and the foolish boy was frightened out of his wits,
thinking it must needs be some of his master's ships sent to
pursue us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out of
their reach. I jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw,
not only the ship, but what she was, viz., that it was a Por-
tuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the coast of Guinea
for negroes. But when I observed the course she steered, I
was soon convinced they were bound some other way, and did a
not design to come any nearer to the shore: upon which, I
stretched out to sea as much as I could, resolving to speak

with them if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able
to come in their way, but that they would .be gone by before
I could make any signal to them: but, after I had crowded to
the utmost, and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me, by
the help of their perspective glasses, and that it was some
European boat, which, they supposed, must belong to some
ship that was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come up;
I was encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's ensign
on board, I made a waft of it to them, for a signal of distress,
and fired a gun, both which they saw; for they told me they
saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun. Upon these~

signals, they very kindly brought to, and lay by for me; and, lair-f .3

in about three hours' time, I came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish,
and in French, but I understood none of them; but, at last,
a Scotch sailor, who was on board, called to me, and I answered
him, and told him I was an Englishman; that I had made my
escape out of slavery from the Moors, at Sallee: they then
bade me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all
my goods . . . .- .

It was an inespressible Joy to me, which any one wrll
believe, that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it from such
a miserable, and almost hopeless, condition as I was in: and
I immediately ofl'ered all I had to the captain of the ship,
as a return for my deliverance; but he generously told me, he
would take nothing from me, but that all I had should be '

,;delivered safe to me when I came to the Brazils. "For,"
says he, " I have saved your life on no other terms than
I would be glad to be saved myself,- and it may, one time
or other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition.
" Besides," said he, " when I carry you to the Brazils, so great
a way from your own country, it'I should take from you what
you have, you will be starved there, and then I only take away
that life I have given. No, no, Seignior Inglese " (Mr. English-
man), says he; "I will carry you thither in charity, and "1080
things will help to buy your subsistence there, and your passage
home again."

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the
performance to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen that none
should oti'er to touch anything I had; then he took everything
into his own possession, and gave me back an exact inventory
of them, that I might have them, even so much as my three
earthen jars.

As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he saw,
and told me he would buy it of me, for the ship's use; and
asked me what I would have for it? I told him, he had been
so generous to me in everything, that I could not ofi'er to make
any price of the boat, but left it entirely to. him : upon which,
he told me he would give me a note of hand to pay me eighty
pieces of eight for it at Brazil: and when it came there, if any
one ofi'ered to give more, he would make it u . He offered me
also sixty pieces of eight more for my boy ury, which I was
loth to take : not that I was not willing to let the captain have
him, but I was very'loth to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had
assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. However,
when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just, and
offered me this medium, that he would give the boy an obliga-
tion to set him free in ten years, it" he turned Christian: upon
_ this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let the
' ca tain have him.

6 had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and arrived in
the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about
' twenty-two days after. And now I was once more delivered
from the most miserable of all conditions of life; and what to
do next with myself, I was now to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never
enough remember; he would take nothing of me for my pas-
sage, gave me twenty ducats for the leopard's skin, and forty
for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and caused every-
thing I had in the ship to be punctually delivered to me ; and
what I was willing to sell, he bought of me: sfich as the case
of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of bees-
wax, for I had made candles of the rest: in a word, I made
about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo;
and with this stock I went on shore in the Brazils. - ,
CHAPTER V.

BRIO!" A PLANIBR~PMSPKIDUK BUT Dms'L'ImED--AGAlS TAKES A
VOYAGE.

l nan not long been here, before I was recommended to the
house of a good honest man, like himself, who had an ingenio,
as they call it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house).
I lived with him some time, and acquainted myself, by that
means, with the manner of planting and making of sugar:
and seeing how well the planters lived, and how they got rich
suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a licence to settle there,
I would turn planter among them; endeavouring, in the mean
time, to find out some way to et my money, whichl had left
in London, remitted to me. '0 this purpose, getting a kind
of a letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land, that
was uncured, as my money would reach, and formed a plan for
my plantation and settlement; such a one as might be suit-
:ibleltodthe stock which I proposed to myself to receive from

ng an .

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbour, because his
plantation lay next to mine, and we went on.very sociably
together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and we rather

lanted for food than anything else, for about two years.

owever, we began to increase, and our land began to come
into order; so that, the third year, we planted some tobacco
and made each of us a large piece of ground' ready for planting
canes in the year to come: but we both wanted help; and now
I foundfmore than before, I had done wrong in parting With
my boy Xury.

But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right, was no -
great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on : I had got into *

an employment quite remote to my genius, and directly con-
trary to the life I delighted in, and for which I forsook my
father's house,,a'n'd broke through all his good advice: nay,
I was coming into the very middle station, or upper degree of
low life, which my father advised me to before; and which, if
I resolved to go on with, I might as well have stayed at home,
and never havo fatigued myself in the world, as I had done:
and I used often to say to myself, "I could have done this as
well in England, among my friends, as have gone five thousand

miles off to do it among strangers and savages, in a wilderness, ';

7.3:. .

and at such a distance as never to hear from any part of the . "

world that had the least knowledge of me."

-< <<w'- ,ROBINSON 011158011. 27

In'this manner, I used to look upon my condition with the
utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with but, now and
then, this neighbour; no 11'o1'k to be done, but by the labour
of my hands: and I used to say, I lived just like a man east
away upon some desolate island, that had nobody there but
himself. But how just has it been . and how should all men
reflect, that, when tl1e1' compare their preSent condition 11ith
others that are 11o1'se, llea1 e11 111111 oblige them to make the
exchange, and be convinCed of their former lelicity by thei1
experience ; I say,l1o11' just has it been, that the truly solitary
life I reflected on, in an island of mere desolation, should b01111
lot, 11 ho had so often unjustlv compared it with the lite which
I then led, in 11111cl1l111d I continued, 1 had, in all probability,
been exceeding prosperous and rich.

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying.'
on the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the
ship that took me up at sea, went back; for the ship remained
there, 1n providing his lading, and preparing for his 1'o1'ag1,
near three months; when telling him what little stock I had
left behind me in London, he gave me this triendlv and sincere
advice: "Se1gmor Inglese," says he (for so he al11a1's called
me), "if you will give me lette1s, and a procuration here 111
form to me, with orders to the person who has your money
in London to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as
I shall direct, and 1n such goods as are proper for this countr1',
Iwill bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my
retur'n . but, since human affairs are all subject to changes and
disasters, I would have. 1011 gi1e 01ders tor but one hundred
pounds sterling, which, you say, is hall 1on1- stock, and let the
hazard be run for the first; so that, it it come sate, you may
order the rest the same way : and if it n1iscarr1',1 on may have
the other half to have recourse to tor 1'o11r stlppl\'-"

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendl1',tl1at
Icould not but be convinced it was the best course I could
take, so I, accordinglv, prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I had lett n11'1nonc1', and a procuration to the Por-
tuguese captain, as he desired me.

I wrote the English captain' s 11ido11' a full account of all my
adventures' my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the
Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity of his Meridian
what condition I was now in, with all other 11 '
tions {or my supply, and when this honest ca mourn
Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English mmhmfi-.
there, to send over, not the order onl1', but a l:"lull acopnfit6!
my story to a merchant at London, who represented it 'hfi'ect-
ually to her' , whereupon she not only delivered the money,
.but, out of her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very
handsome present for his humanity and charity to me.

c" ..
The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in
English goods, such as the captain had wrote for, sent them
directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me
at the Brazils; among which, without my direction (for I was
too young in my business to think of them), he had taken care
to have all sorts of tools, iron-work, and utensils, necessary for
my plantation, and which were of great use to me.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made, for
I was surprised with the joy of it; and my good steward, the
captain, had laid out the five pounds, which my friend had sent
him as a present for himself, to purchase and bring me over a
servant, under bond for six years' service, and would not acce t
of any consideration, except a little tobacco, which I wo d
have him accept, being of my own produce. Neither was this
all: but my goods, being all English manufactures, such as

cloths, stufl's, baize, and things particularly valuable and desir~'

able in the country, I found means to sell them to a very great
advantage; so that I might say, I had more than four times
the value of my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my
poor neighbour, I mean in the advancement of my plantation:
for the first thing I did, I bought me a negro slave, and an
European servant also; I mean another besides that which the
captain brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosPerity is oftentimes made the very means
of our greatest adversity, so was it with me. I went on the
next year with great success in my plantation; I raised fifty
great rolls of tobacco on my own ground, more than I had
disposed of for necessaries among my neighbours; and these

fifty rolls, being each of above 1001b., were well cured, and laid .

by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon: and now,
increasing in business and in wealth, my head began to be full
of projects and undertakings beyond my reach; such as are,
indeed, often the ruin of the best heads in business. Had
I continued in the station I was now in, 1 had room for all the
happy things to have yet befallen me, for which my father
so earnestly recommended a quiet, retired life, and which he
had so sensibly described the middle station of life to be full of:
but other things attended me, and I was still to be the wilful
agent of all my own miseries; and, particularly, to increase my
Fault, and double the reflections upon myself, which in m y
future sorrows I should have leisure to make, all these mis-
carriages were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering to
my foolish inclination of wandering abroad, and pursuing that

- inclination, in contradiction to the clearest views of 'doing my-

self good in a plain and fair pursuit of those prospects, and
those measures of life, which INature and Providence concurred
to present me with, and to make my duty.

As I had once done thus in breaking away from my parents,

'4nosmsorl onusos. 29

so I aonld nit be content now, but I must go and leave the
happy view I had of being a rich and thriving man in my new
plantation, only to pursue a rash and immodcrate desire of
rising faster than the nature of the thing admitted; and thus 1
cast myself down again into the deepest gulph of human misery
that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consistent with life,
and a state of health in the world.

To come, then, by just degrees, to the particulars of this part
of my story :--You may suppose, that, having now lived almost
four years in the Brazils, and beginning to thrive and prosper
very well upon my plantation, I had not only learned the lan--
guage, but had contracted an acquaintance and friendship among
my fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants at St. Sal-
vador, which was our port; and that, in my discourses among
them, I had frequently given them an account of my two voy-
ages to the coast of Guinea, the manner of trading with the
negroes there, and how easy it has to purchase on the coast, for
trifles--such as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of
glass, and the like--not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants'
teeth, &c.; but negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great
numbers.

The listened, always, very attentively to my discourses on
these eads, but especially to that part which related to the
buying ne ; which was a trade, at that time, not only not
far ente into, but, as far as it was, had been carried on by
the Assientos, or permission of the kings of Spain and Portu-
gal, and engrossed from the public; so that few negroes were
bought, and those excessively dear.

It happened, being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very
earnestly, three of them cameto me the next morning, and told
me they had been musing very much upon what I had dis-
coursed with them of the last night, and they came to make a
secret primal to me: and, after enjoining me to secrecy, they
told ms, t they had a mindto fit out a ship to go to Guinea;
that they had all plantations, as well as I, and were stmitened
for nothin so much as servants; that, as it was a trade that
could not carried on, because they could not publicly sell the
negroes, when they came home, so they desired tomake but one
voyage, to bring the negroes on shore privately, and divide them
among their own plantations: and, in a word, the question was,
whether I would go their superairgo in the ship, to manage the
trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered me
that I should have an equal share of the negroes, without pro-
viding any part of :he stock. . , '

This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had it been
made to any one that had not a settlement and plantation of

his own to look after, which was in a fair way of coming'fto'. be p

x
a
\'cry considerable, and with a good stock upon it. But for me
that was thus entered and established, and had nothing to do but
go on as I had begun, for three or four years more, and to have
sent for the other hundred pounds from England; and who, in
that time, and with that little addition, could scarce have failed
of being worth three or four thousand pounds sterling, and that
increasing too; for me to think of such a voyage, was the most
preposterous thing that ever man, in such circumstances, could
be guilty of.

But I, that was always my own destroyer, would no more
resist the offer, than Iwould restrain my first rambling designs,
when my father's good counsel was lost upon me. In a word,
I told them I would go with all my heart, if they would under-
take to look after my plantation in my absence, and would
dispose of it to such as I should direct, if I miscarried. This
they all engaged to do, and entered into writings, or covenants,
to do so: and I made a formal will, disposing of my plantation
and effects, in case of my death; making the captain of the ship
that had saved my life, as before, my universal heir; but
obliging him to dispose of my effects as I had directed in my
will; one half of the produce being to himself, and the other to
be shipped to England.

' In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my effects,
and to keep up my plantation: had I used half as much
prudence to have looked into my own interest, and have made
a judgment of what I ought to have done and not to have done,
I had certainly never gone away from so prosperous an under-
taking, leaving all the probable views of a thriving circumstance,
and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its common
hazards, to say nothing of the reasons I had toexpect particular
misfortunes to myself. _

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly' the dictates of my
fancy, rather than my reason: and, accordingly, the ship being
fitted out, and the cargo fumished, and all things done as b
agreement, by my partners in the voyage, I went on board, in
an evil hour again, the first of September, 1659, being the same
day eight years that Iwent from my father and mother at Hull,
in order to act the rebel to their authority, and the fool to my
own interest.ROBINSON 030803. 31

CHAPTER VI.

A rouxwo--smrwnncx--noxmsox CBUSOE ONLY SAVED, AND CAST 08
SHORE--NIGHT.

THE same day I went on board, we set. sail; standing away
to the northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch
over for the African coast. When they came about ten or
twelve degrees of northern latitude, which, it seems, was the
manner of their course in those days, we had very good
weather, only excessively hot, all the way upon our own coast,
till we came to the height of Cape St. Augustine; from whence,
keeping farther off at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered
as if we were bound for the isle Fernando de Noronha, holding
our course N .E. by N. and leaving those isles on the east. In
this course we passed the Line in about twelve days' time, and
' were, by our last observation, in 7 degrees 22 minutes northern

 

latitude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite
out of our knowledge; it began from the south-east, came
about to the northwest, and then settled in the north-east;
from whence it blew in such a terrible manner, that, for twelve
days together, we'could do nothin but drive, and, scuddjng
away before it, let it carry us whi er the fury of the winds
directed; and, during these twelve days, I need not say that I
expected every day to be swallowed up ;. nor, indeed, did any
in the ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the storm, one
of our men died of the calenture, and one man and a boy
washed overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather abating
a little, the master made an observation, as well as he could,
and found that he was in about 11 degrees north latitude, but
that he was 22 degrees of longitude difference west from Ca
St. Augustino; so that he found that he was got upon t to.
coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river
Amazons, toward that of the river Oroonoque, commonly
called the Great River; and began to consult with me what
course he should take, for the ship was leaky and very much
giwblled, and he was going directly back to the coast of

r321 .

I was positively against that; and, looking over the charts
of the sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there was
no inhabited country for us to have recourse to, till we came
within the circle of the Caribbee islands, and therefore re-
solved to stand away for Barbadoes; which, by keeping off to
sea, to avoid the iii-draft of the bay, or gulph, of Mexico, we
might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen da 3' sail;
whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to t e coast
oflAfrica, without some assistance, both to our ship and our-
se ves.

With this design, we changed our course, and steered away
N .W. by W., in order to reach some of our English islands,
where I hoped for relief: but our voyage was otherwise deter-
mined; for, being in the latitude of 12 decrees 18 minutes, a
second storm came upon us, whiph carried us away with the
same impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the verv
way of all human commerce, that had all our lives been saved,
as to the sea, we were rather-in danger of being devoured by
savages than ever returning t 'our own country.

In this distress, the wind s Ill blowing very hard, one of our
men, early in the morning, cried out, Land! and we had no
sooner run out of the cabin, to look out, in hopes of seeing
whereabouts in the world w were, but the ship struck upon a
sand, and, in a moment, h ' motion being so stopped, the sea
broke over her in such a manner, that we expected we should
all have perished immediately ; and we were immediately driven
into our close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and '
spray of the sea.
It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like con-
dition to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such
circumstances: we knew nothing where we were,'or upon what
land it was we were driven, whether an island or the main,
whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as the rage of the
wind was still great, though rather less than at first, we could
not so much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes,
without breaking in pieces, unless the wind, by a kind of miracle,
should immediately turn about. In a word, We sat lookintr
upon one another, and expecting death every moment: and
eVery man acting accmdingly, as preparing for another world, for
there was little, or nothing, more for us to do in this: that
which was our present comfort, and all the comfort we had,
was, that, contrary to our expectation, the ship did not break
yet, and that the master said the wind began to abate.

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate,
yet the "ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking
too fast for us to expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful
condition indeed, and had nothing to do, but to think of saving
our lives as well as we could. We had a boat at our stern
just before the storm, but she was first staved, by dashing
against the ship's rudder, and, in the next place, she broke
away, and either sunk, or was driven off to sea; so there was
no hope from her: we had another boat on board, but how to
get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing; however, there
was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in
pieces every minute, and some told us she was actually broken

rea y.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat,
and, with the help of the rest of the men, they got her flung
over the ship's side; and getting all into her, let her go, and
committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy,
and the wild sea: for though the storm was abated consider-
ably, yet the sea went dreadfully high upon the shore, and
might be well called "den wild zee," as the Dutch call the sea
in a storm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw
plainly, that the sea went so high that the boat could not live,
and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to making sail
we had none; nor, if we had, could we have done anything
with it; so we worked at the oar towards the land, though
with heavy hearts, like men going to execution; for we all
knew, that, when the boat came nearer to the shore, she would.
be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea.
However, we committed our.souls to God in the most earnest
manner ; and the wind driving us towards the shore, we hastened .
our destruction with our own hands, pulling, as well-aswe'

could, towards land. 1 .
c 8
What the shore was--whether rock or sand, whether steep or
shoal--we knew not; the only hope that could rationally give
us the least shadow of expectation, was, if we might happen
into some bay or gulph, or the mouth of some river, where, by
great chance, we might have run our boat in, or at under the
lee of the land, and perha made smooth water. ut there was
nothing of this a ; and, as we made nearer and nearer
the shore, the lan looked more frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a
half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain like, came
rolling astern of us, andplainly bade us expect the coup de
mice. In a word, it took us with such a fury, that it overset
the boat at once; and separating us, as well from the boat as
from one another, gave us not time hardly to say, "0 God !"
for we were all swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt,
when I sunk into the water: for though I swam very well, yet
I could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw my
breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather carried me,
a vast way on towards the shore, and havin spent itself, went
back and left me upon the land almost dry, int half dead with
the water I took in. I had so much presence of mind, as well
as breath left, that, seeing myself nearer the main land than
1 expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to make on
towards the land as fast as I could, before another wave should
return and take me u again; but I soon found it was impos-
sible to avoid it; for saw the sea come after me as high as a
great hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I had no means
or strength to contend with ; my business was to hold my
breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I could; and, so
by swimmin , to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself
towards thee re, if possible; my greatest concern now being,
that the wave, as it would carry me a great way towards the
shore when it came on, might not carry me back again with it
when it gave back towards the sea.

, The wave that came upon me again, buried me at once
twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body; and I could feel
myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness towards the
shore, a very great way; but I held my breath and assisted
myself to swim still forward with all my might. I was ready
to burst with holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising
up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands
shoot out above the surface of the water; and, though it was
not two seconds of time that I could keep myself so, yet it
relieved me greatly, gave me breath, and new courage. I was
covered again with water a good while, but not so long but
I held it out; and, finding the water had spent itself, and began
to return, I struck forward against the return of the waves,deg' 1 held fast to the rock."--Page 35. ,nosmson 03090:. 35

and felt ground again with my feet. I stood still a few moments
to recover breath, and till- the water went from me, and then
took to my heels, and ran with what strength I had farther
towards the shore. But' neither would this deliver me from the
fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again; and
twice more I was lifted up by the waves and carried forwards
as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well nigh been fatal to me;
for the sea having hurried me along, as before, landed me, or
rather dashed me, against a piece of a rock, and that with such
force, as it left me senseless, and indeed helpless as to my own
deliverance; for the blow taking my side and breast, beat the
breath, as it were, quite out of my body; and had it returned
again immediately, I must have been strangled in the water;
but I recovered a little before the return of the waves, and,
seeing I should again be covered with the water, I resolved to
hold fast by a piece of the rock, and, so, to hold my breath, if
possible, till the wave went back. Now, as the waves were
not so high as the first, being nearer land, I held my hold till
the wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought
me so near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over
me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and
the next run I took, I got to the main land; where, to my great
comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down
upon the grass, free from danger, and quite out of the reach of
the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look up
and thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there
was, some minutes before, scarce any room to hope. I believe
it is impossible to express, to the life, what the ecstasies and
tranSports of the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say,
out of the grave: and I did not wonder now at the custom,
viz., that when a malefactor, who has the halter about his neck,
is tied up, and just going to be turned ofi', and has a reprieve
brought to him; I say I do not wonder 'that they bring a
surgeon with it, to let him blood, that very moment they tell
him of .it, that the surprise may not drive the animal spirits
from the heart and overwhelm him:

" For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first."

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands; and my
whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the contemplation of
my deliverance; making a thousand gestures and motions,
which I cannot describe; reflecting upon all my comrades that
were drowned, and that there should not be one soul saved but
myself; for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any
sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes
that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel--when, the beach and
froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay so far
off--and considered, Lord! how was it possible I could get on
shore?

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of
my condition, I began to look round me, to see what kind of a
place I was in, and what was next to be done; and I soon
found my comforts abate, and that, in a word, I had a dread-
ful deliverance: for I was wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor
anything, either to eat or drink, to comfort me; neither did I
see any prospect before me, but that of perishing with hunger,
or being devoured by wild beasts: and that which was particu-
larly atllicting to me was, that I had no weapon, either to
hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend
mySelf against any other creatures that might desire to kill me
for theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a
tobacco-pipe, and a little tobacco in a box. This was all my
provision; and this threw me into such terrible agonies of
mind, that, for a while, I ran about like a madman. Night
coming upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider
what would be my lot, if there were any ravenous beasts in
that country, seeing at night they always come abroad for their
prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that time,
was, to get up in a thick bushy tree, like a fir, but thorny--
which grew near me, and where I resolved to sit all night--
and consider the next day what. death I should die, for, as yet,
I saw no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong from the
shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which I
did, to my great joy; and, having drunk, and put a little to-
bacco in my mouth, to prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and,
getting up into it, endeavoured to place myself so, as that, if
1 should sleep, I might not fall; and, having cut me a short
stick, like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging ;
and, having been excessively fatigued, I fell asleep, and slept as
comfortably as, I believe, few could have done in my condition ;
and felt myself the most refreshed with it that I think lever
was on such an occasion.
l
CHAPTER vn.

KURNING--SWHIS BACK TO THE SHIP--NAKHSIA RAFT--PROCURES STORES, AND
NNVBYS TIN-ll! SAFE 1'0 LAND--V IEWS THE WUXTRY. AKD l-'IRDS IT AN ISLAND
AND UNINHABITED--RHVIBITS THE SHIP--MAKI'S .\ TENT--VARIOUS OTHER

VOYAGE 1'0 THE suu-.

WnEN I waked, it was broad day, the weather clear, and the
. storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before;

but that which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted
off in the night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of
the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the rock which I
first mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the wave dash-
ing me against it. This being within about a mile from the
shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still,
[wished myself on board, that at least I might save some
necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my apartment in the tree,I looked
about me again, and the first thing I found was the boat;
which lay, as the wind and the sea had tossed her up, upon the
land, about two miles on my right hand. I walked as far as
I could upon the shore to have got to her; but found a neck,
or inlet, of water between me and the boat, which was about
half a mile broad; so I came back for the present, being more
intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find some-
thing for my present subsistence.

A little after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide
ebbed so far out that I could come within a quarter of a mile
of the ship; and here I found a fresh renewing of my grief;
for I saw evidently, that if we had kept on board, we had been
all safe; that is to say, we had all got safaon shore, and I had
not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all
comfort and company, as I now was. This forced tears from
my eyes again; but as there was little relief in that,I resolved,
if possible, to get to the ship; so.I pulled otf my clothes, for
the weather was hot to extremity, and took to the water: but
when I came to the ship, my difliculty was still greater to
know how to get on board; for, as she lay aground, and high
out of the water, there was nothing within my reach to lay
hold of. I swam round her twice, and the second time I
spied a small piece of a rope, which I wondered I did not see
at first, hang down by the fore-chains, so low, as that, with
great difficulty, I got hold of it, and by the help,.oPS. that-
got into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found :. "
was bulged, and had a great deal of water in 11""... '
that she layso on the side of a bank of hard san "or ..
head low, almost to the water. By this means all her quarter
was free, and all that was in that part was dry; for, you may
be sure, my first work was to searchand to see what was
spoiled; and what was free: and, first, I found that all the
ship's provisions were dry, and untouched by the water; and,
being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-room, and
filled my pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went about
other things, for I had no time to lose. I also found some
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and
which I had indeed need enough of, to spirit me for what
was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish
myself with many things which I foresaw would be very neces-
sary to me.

It was in vain to sit still, and wish for what was not to be
had, and this extremity roused my application: we had several
spare yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a spare
topmast or two in the ship; [resolved to fall to work with
these, and flung as many overboard as I could manage for their
weight, tying every one with a rope, that they might not drive
away. When this was done, I went down the ship's side, and,
pulling them to me, I tied four of them fast together at both
ends, as well as I could, in the form of a raft; and laying two
or three short pieces of plank upon them crossways, I found I
could walk upon it very well, but that it was not able to bear
any great weight, the pieces being too light: so I went to
work, and, with the carpenter's saw, I cut a spare topmast
into three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great
deal of labour and pains. But the hope of furnishin myself
with necessaries, encouraged me to go beyond what should
have been able to have done upon another occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable
weight. My next care was what to load it with, and how to
preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I was
not long considering this. I first laid all the lanks, or boards,
upon it that I could get, and, having consi ered well what I
most wanted, I got three of the seamen's chests, which I had
broken open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my
raft; these I filled with provisions, viz., bread, rice, three Dutch
cheeses, five pieces of dried goats' flesh (which we lived much
upon), and a little remainder of European corn, which had
been laid by for some fowls which we had brought to sea with
us, but the fowls were killed. There had been some barley
and wheat together, but to my great disappointment I found
afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for
liquors, I found several cases of bottles belonging to our
skipper, in which were some cordial waters; and, in all, about
five or six gallons of rack. These I stoWed by themselves,
there being no need to put them. into the chests, nor any room

Q
for them. While I was doing this, I found the tide began to
flow, though very calm; and I had the mortification to see my
coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left. on shore, upon the
sand, swim away; as for my breeches, which were only linen,
and open-knead, I swam on board in them, and my stockings.
However, this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I
found enough, but took no more than I wanted for present use,
for I had other things which my eye was more upon; as, first,
tools to work with on shore: and it was after long searching
that I found the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very
useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a ship-lading
of gold would have been at that time. I got it down to my
raft, even whole as it was, without losing time to look into it,
for l knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There
were two very good fowling--pieces in the great cabin, and two
pistols; these I secured first, with some powder--horns, and a
small bag of shot, and two old rusty strds. I knew there
were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where
our gunner had stowed them; but, with much search, I found
them; two of them dry and good, the third had taken water.
Those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now I
thought myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how

 

        

_\.

 

I should get to shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor
rudder; and the least capful of "wind would have overset'all
my navigation.as I could.

PS0 anvnxrvmis or

I had three encouragements : let, A smooth, calm sea; 2ndly
The tide rising, and setting in to the shore; 3rdly, What little
wind there Was, blew me towards the land. And thus having
found two or three broken oars belonging to the boat, and,
besides the tools which were in the chest, I found two saws,
an axe, and a hammer; and, with this cargo, I ut to sea. For
a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I
found it drive a little distance from the place where I had
landed before; by which I perceived that there was some
in-draft of the Water, and, consequently, I hoped to find some
creek or river there, which I might make use of as a port to
land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was: there appeared before me a little
opening of the land, and I found a strong current of the tide
set into it; so I guided my raft, as well as 1 could, to get into
the middle of the stream. But here I had like to have suffered
a second shipwreck, which, if I had, I think verily would have
broken my heart; for knowing nothing of the coast, my raft
ran aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and, not being
aground at the other end, it wanted but a little that all my
cargo had slipped off towards that end that was afloat, and so
fallen into the water. I did "my utmost, by setting my back
against the chests, to keep them in their places, but could not
thrust of? the raft with all my strength; neither durst I stir
from the posture l was in, but holding up the chests with all
my might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which
time the rising of the water brought me a little more upon a
level; and a little after, the water still rising, my raft floated
again, and I thrust her off with the car I had into the channel,
and then, driving up higher, I at length found myself in the
mouth of a little river, with land on both sides, and a strong
current, or tide, running up. I looked on both sides for a
proper place to get to shore, for I was not willing to be driven
too high up the river; hoping, in time, to see some ship at
sea, and, therefore, resolved to place myself as near the coast

At length, I spied a little code, on the right shore of the
creek, to which, with great pain and dificulty, I guided my
raft, and, at last, got so near, as that reaching ground with
my car, I could thrust her directly in; but here I had'like
to have dipped all my cargo into the sea again; for that shore
lying pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there was no lace
to land, but where one end of my float, if it ran on s ore,
would lie so high, and the other sink lower, as before, that it
would endanger my cargo again. All that I could do, was to
wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft with my

l-. ' car, like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore,
' near a flat piece of ground, which I expected the water wouldnonmsox 0311303. 4!

flow over, and so it did. As soon as I found water enough,
for my raft drew about a foot of Water, I thrust her upon that
flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her, by
sticking my two broken oars into the round, one on one side,
near one end, and one on the other si e, near the other end :
and thus I lay, till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and
all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure
them from whatever might happen. Where I was, I yet
knew not; whether on the continent, or on an island; whether
inhabited, or not inhabited ; whether in danger of wild beasts,
or not. There was a hill, not above a mile from me, which
rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some
other hills, which lay as in a rid e, from it, northward. I took
out one of the fowling-pieces, an one of the pistols, and a horn
of powder; and, thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to
the top of that hill; where, after 1 had, with great labour and
difficulty, got up to the tOp, I saw my lot, to my great afflic-
tion, viz., that I was in an island, environed every way with the
sea, no land to be seen, except some rocks, which lay a great
way off, and two small islands, less than this, which lay about
three leagues to the west.

I found, also, that the island I was in was barren, and, as
1 saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of whom, however, I saw none; yet I saw abundance
of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither, when I killed
them, could I tell what was fit for food, and what not. At my
coming back, I shot at a great bird,'which I saw sitting upon
a tree, on the side of a great wood. I believe it was the first
gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world :
[had no sooner fired, but from all parts of the wood, there
arose an innumerable number of fowls, of many sorts, making
a confused screaming, and crying, every one according to his
usual note; but not one of them of any kind that I knew. ,,. -
As for the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, ' ' g; ' "
colour and beak resembling it, but had no talons or claws, mo ' , V
than common. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing. ' '

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, : #3
fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up thb'e . ' 1
rest of that day; what to do with myself at night, I knew not, 1? .. .
nor indeed where to rest; for I was afraid to lie down on the '-'-"
ground, not knowing but some wild beasts might devour me;
though, as I afterwards found, there was really no need for
those fears. . .

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round with
the chest and boards that I had brought on shore, and made a
kind of but for that night's lodging. As for foo-3, I yet saw not

:T'
'3' V. l: .1
- fi' -.-'ZMSS:
which way to supply myself, except that I had seen two or three
creatures, like hares, run out of the wood where 1 shot the
fowl.

I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great many
things out of the ship, which would be useful to me, and par-
ticularly some of the rigging and sails, and such other things
as might come to land ; and I resolved to make another voyage
on board the vessel, if possible. And, as I knew that the first
storm that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces,
I resolved to set all other things apart, till I got everything
out of the ship that I could get. Then I called a council, that
is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should take back the
raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved to go as
before, when the tide was down; and I did so, only that l
stripped before I went from my hut; having nothing on but a
chequered shirt, 8. pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps
on my feet. .

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second
raft; and, having had experience of the first, I neither made
this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yetI brought away
several things very useful to me: as, first, in the carpenter's
stores, I found two or three bags full of nails and spikes, a
great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets; and, above all,
that most useful thing called a grindstone. All these I secured,
together with several things belonging to the gunner; particu-
larly two or three iron crows, and two barrels of musket-
bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with some
small quantity of powder more; a large bag full of small shot.
and a great roll of sheet lead; but this last was so heavy, I
could not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I could
find, and a spare fore-topsail, a hammock, and some bedding;
and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought them all
safe on shore, to my great comfort.

I was under some apprehension, during my absence-from the

, land, that at least my provisions might be devoured "on shore: "
but when I came back I found no sign of any visitor; only
there sat a creature, like a wild cat, upon one of the chests,
which, when I came towards it, ran away a little distance, and
then stood still. She sat very composed and unconcerned, and
looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted
with me. I presented my gun at her, but as she did not under-
stand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she offer
to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though,
by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store was not
great; however, I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it,

, smelled at it, and ate it, and looked (as pleased) for more; but

.' ~I thanked her, and could spare no more; so she marched ofi'.

. ,9

mi
Having got my second cargo on shore--though I was fain
to open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for
they were too heavy, being large casks--I went to work to
make mea little tent with the sail, and some poles which I cut
for that purpose; and into this tent I brought everything that
I knew would spoil either with rain or sun ; and I piled all the
empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent to fortify
it from any sudden attempt either from man or beast.

When 1 had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with
some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without;
and, spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two
pistols just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went
to bed, for the first time, and slept very quietly all night, for
l was very weary and heavy; for the night before I had slept
little, and had laboured very hard all day, as well to fetch all
those things from the ship, as to get them on shore. .

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds, now, that ever was
laid up, Ibelieve, for one man; but I was not satisfied still,
for while the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought
to get everything out of her that I could: so, every day, at low
water, I went on board, and brought away something or other :
but, particularly, the third time I went, I brought away as
much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes and
rope-twine I could get, with a piece of spare canvas, which was
to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet gun-
powder. In a word, I brought away all the sails first and last;
only that I was fain to cut them in pieces and bring as much
at a time as I could; for they were no more useful to be sails;
but as mere canvas only. .

But that which comforted me still more was, that, last of all,

after I had made five or six such voyages as these, andthought

I had nothing more to expect from the ship that was wertlijfiy
meddling with ; I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead
of bread, and three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box
of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour: this was surprising to me,
because I had given over expectina any more provisions, except

what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied the hogshead .5. g":

of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of ' "

the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word, I got all this safe on
shore also.

The next (13le made another voyage; and now, having
plundered the s 'p of what was portable and fit to hand out,

I began with the cables, and cuttin the great cable into pieces,
such as I could move, I got two ca les and a hawser on shore,

with all the iron-work I could get; and, having cut down the
spritsail-yard and the mizen-yard, and everything I could to

make a large raft,_I loaded it with all those heavy goods, and p .1':
came away: but this raft was so unwieldy, and so overladenfi .
that, after I was entered the little cove, where I had landed
the rest of my goods,'not being able to guide it so handily as
I did the other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into
the water; as for myself it was no great harm, for I was near
the shore; but as to my cargo, it was the greater part of it
lost, especially the iron, which I expected would have been of
greatuse to me : however, when the tide was out, I got most of
the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with
infinite labour; for I was fain to dip for it into the water, a
work which fatigued me very much. After this I went every
day on board, and brought away what I could get.

 

CHAPTER VIII.

AN CXSUCCESSFUL u-rsurr--coxmnccrs A FORTRIES--A TENPEST--COXSIDERAO
TIOSS nesrmmo OUSYOWDEB--m A GOAT LXI) A m--mnscnoss 03
ms CONDITION.

I HAD been now thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven
times on board the ship; in which time I had brought away
all that one 'r of hands could well be supposed capable to
bring; thougETII believe verily, had the calm weather held,
I should have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece;
but, preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I found the
wind began to rise; however, at low water, I went on board;
and, though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectu-
ally as that nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a
locker, with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or.
three razors, "and one pair of large scissors, with some ten,
or a dozen, of good knives and forks; in another I found
about thirty-six pounds value in money, some European
coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, and some
silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money: "0 drug 1"
said I aloud, " what art thou good for? Thou art not worth
to me, no not the taking 03' the ground ; one of those knives
is worth all this heap; I haVe no manner of use for thee;
e'en remain where thou art, and go to the bottom, as a creature
whose life is not worth saving." However, upon second
thoughts, I took it away; and wrapping all this in a piece of
canvas, I began to think of makin 'another' raft; but, While
I was preparing this, I found the s y overcast, and the wine
began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour, it blew a fresh gale
from the shore. It presently occurred to me, that it was in
vain to pretend to make a raft witn the wind off shore; and
that it was my business to be gone before the tide of flood
began, or otherwise, I might not be able to reach the shore at
all. Accordingly I let myself down into the water, and swam
across the channel which lay between the ship and the sands.
and even that with difficulty enough, tly with the weight of
the things I had about me, and mnfyrthe roughness of the
water; for the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite
high water, it blew a storm.

But I was get home to my little tent, where I lay, with all
my wealth about me, very secure. It blew very hard all that
night, and in the morning, when I looked out, behold, no more
ship was to be seen! Iwas a little surprised, but recovered
myself with this satisfactory reflection, viz., that I had lost no
time, nor abated my diligence, to get everything out of her that
could be useful to me, and that, indeed, there was little left in
her that l was able to bring away, if I had had more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any
thing out of her, except what might drive on shore from her -
wreck; as indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did; but
those thims were of small use to me. _

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securina
myself against either savages, if any 3 ould appear, ogfld
beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many thoughtsof
' the method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling tom'ake,
whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon
the earth: and, in short, I resolved upon both; the manner
and description of which it may not be improper to give an
account of.

I' soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement,
particularly, because it was upon a low, moorish ground, near
the sea, and I believed it would not be wholesome; and, more
particularly, because there was no fresh water near it: so
I resolgred to find a more healthy, and more convenient spot of

man .

g I consulted several things in my situation, which I found
would be proper for me: let, Health and fresh water, I just
now mentioned; 2ndly, Shelter from the heat of the sun;
3rdly, Security from ravenous creatures, whether men or
beasts; 4thly, A view to the sea, that if God sent any ship
in sioht, I might not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of
which I was not willing to banish all my expectation yet.

In search for a proper place for this, I found a little plain on
the side of a rising hill, on which was a rock whose front
towards this little lain was steep as a house-side, so that
nothing could come own upon me from the top. On the side
of this rock there was a hollow place, worn a little way in, like
the entrance, or door, of a cave; but there was not really any
cave, or wayiinto the rock, at all.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I re-
solved to pitch my tent. This plain was not above a hundred
yards broad, and about twice as long, and lay like a green
before my door; and, at the end of it, descended irregularly
every way down into the low round by the sea-side. It was.
on the N .N.W. side of the hi ; so that it was sheltered from
the heat every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or
thereabouts, which, in those countries, is near the setting.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle 'befoas the
hollow place, which took in about ten yards in its semis-dia-
meter from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter Wits
beginning and ending.

In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving
them into the ground till they stood very firm, like piles, the
biggest end being out of the ground about five feet and a half,
and sharpened on the top. The two rows did not stand above
six inches from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship,
and laid them in rows, one above another, within the circle,
between these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other
stakes in the inside leaning against them, about two feet and a
half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence was so strong,
that neither man nor beast could get into it, or over it. This
cost me a great deal of time and labour, especially to cut the
piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and drive them
into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a door,
but by a short ladder to get over the top : which ladder, when
I was in, I lifted over after me; and so I was completely
fenced in and fortified, as I thought, from all the world, and
consequently, slept secure in the night, which, otherwise, I
could not have done; though, as it appeared afterwards, there
was no need of all this caution from the enemies that I appre-
hended danger from.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour I carried all
my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which
you have the account above; and I made me a large tent,
which, to preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the
year are very violent there, I made double, viz., one smaller tent
within, and one larger tent above it, and covered the uppermost
with a large tarpaulin, which I had saved among the sails.

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I had
brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very
good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything
that would spoil by the wet; and having thus enclosed all my
goods, 1 made up the entrance, which, till now, I had left open,'
and so passed and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.

\Vhen I had done this, I began to work my way into the

I
rock ; and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down
out through my tent, I laid them up within my fence in the
nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground within about
in foot and a half; and thus I made me a cave, just behind my
tent, which served me like a cellar to my house. It cost me
much labour and many days before all these things were
brought to perfection ; and, therefore, I must go back to some
other things which took up some of my thouohts. At the
same time it happened, after I had laid my schemes for the
setting up my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning
happened, and, after that, a great clap of thunder, as is
naturally the efi'ect of it. I was not so much surprised with
the lightning, as I was with the thought, which darted into
my mind as swift as the lightning itself--"0 my powder!"
My very heart sunk within me when I thought that, at one
blast, all my wder might be destroyed; on which, not my
defence only, ut the providing me food, as I thought, entirely
depended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own
danger, though, had the powder took fire, I had never known
who had hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that, after the
storm was over, I laid aside all my works, my building and
fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes, to
separate the powder, and to keep it a little and a little in a
parcel, in hope that whatever might come, it might not all
take fire at once; and to keep it so apart, that it should not
be possible to make one part fire another. I finished this
work in about a fortnight; and I think my powder, which in
all was about 240 lb. weight, was divided into not less than a
hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had been wet, I did
not apprehend any danger from that; so Iplaced it in. my new
cave, which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the rest I
hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
might come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out at
least once every day with my gun, as well to divert myself, as
to see if I could kill anything fit for food; and, as near as
I could, to acquaint myself with what the island reduced.
The first time I went out, I presently discovered t at there
were goats upon the island, which was a great satisfaction to
me ; but then it Was attended with this misfortune to me, viz.,
that they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it
was the most difficult thing in the world to come at them: but
I was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might now
and then shoot one, as it soon happened; for, after I had
found their haunts a little, I laid wait in'this manner for them:
I observed if they saw me in the valleys, though they were
upon the rocks, they would run away, as in a terrible fright;
but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the
rocks, they took no notice of me; from whence I concluded,
' that by the position of their optics, their sight was so directed
downward, that they did not readily see objects that were
above them : so, afterwards I took this method--I always
climbed the rocks first, to et above them, and then had fre-
quently a fair mark. The rst shot I made among these crea-
tures I killed a she-goat, which had a little kid by her, which
she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily; but when the old
one fell, the kid stood stock still by her, till I came and took
her up : and not only so, but when I carried the old one with
me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my en-
closure : upon which I laid down the dam, and took the kid in
my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it
up tame; but it would not eat; so 1 was forced to kill it, and
eat it myself. These two supplied me with flesh a great while,
for I ate sparingly, and preserved my provisions (my bread
especially) as much as possibly I could.

Having now fixed my habitation, Ifound it absolutely neces-
sary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to burn; and
what I did for that, as also how I enlarged my cave, and what
conveniencesI made, I. shall give a full account of it in its
proper place: but I must, first, give some little account of
myself, and of my thoughts about living, which, it may be
well supposed, were not a few.

I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for, as I was not
cast away upon that island without being driven, as is said, by
a violent storm, quite out of the course of our intended voyaoe,
and a great way, viz., some hundreds of leaaues, out of e
ordinary course of the trade of mankind, I had great reason to
consider it as a determination of Heaven, that in this desolate
place, and in this desolate manner, I should end my life. The
tears would run plentifully down my face when I made these
reflections; and sometimes I would expostulate with myself
why Providence should thus completely ruin its creatures, and
render them so absolutely miserable; so abandoned without
help, so entirely depressed, that it could hardly be rational to
be thankful for such a life.

But something always returned swift upon me to check
these thoughts, and to reprove me; and particularly, one day
walking with my gun in my hand, by the sea-side, l was very
pensive upon the subject of my present condition, when reason,
as it were, expostulated with me the other way, thus : " Well,
you are in a desolate condition, it is true; but, pray, remember
where are the rest of you ? Did not you come eleven of you
into the boat? Where are the ten? Why were they not saved,
and you lost ? Why were you singled out? Is it better to be
here or there?" And then I inted to the sea. All evils are
to be considered with the g that is in them, and with what
worse attends them. -

Then it occurred to me, again, how well I was furnished for
my subsistence, and what would have been my case if it had
not happened (which was abundred thousand to one) that the
ship floated from the lace where she first struck, and wa:
driven so near to the s ore that I had time to get all thcs'.'
things out of her: what would have been my case, if I had
been to have lived in the condition in which I at first came on
shore, without the necessaries of life, or means to supply and
procure them? Particularly, said I, aloud (though to myself),
what should I have done without a gun, without ammunition,
without an tools to make anything, or to work with, without
clothes, ding, a tent, or any manner of covering? and that
now I had all these to a sufficient quantity, and was in a fair
way to provide myself in such a manner as to live without my
gun, when my ammunition was spent: so that I had a tolerable
view of subsisting without any want, as long as I lived; for
I considered from the beginning, how I would provide for the
accidents that might happen, and for the time that was to come,
not only after my ammunition should be spent, but even after
my health or strength should decay.

I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my ammuni-
tion being destroyed at one blast, I mean, my powder being
blown up by lightning; and this made the thoughts of it so
surprising to me, when it lightened and thundered, as I observed
just now.

 

CHAPTER IX.

CALENDAR--DOG m CATO--P858. INK. AND PAPBB--WART OP roots--smug!
"31.30110!" 08 ms mums--mumps RIB MUTATION--IA" PERSI-
raw-ms JOURNAL

Aim now, being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene
of silent life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world
before, I shall take it from its beginning, and continue it in
its order. It was, by my account, the 30th of September,
when, in the manner as above said, I first set foot upon this
horrible island; when the sun, bein to us in its autumnal
equinox, was almost just over my h ; for I reckoned myself,
by observation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees 22 minutes
north of the Line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into
my thoughts, that I should lose my reckoning of time for want
of books, and pen and ink, and should even forget the sabbath-

n
day's from the working-days: but to prevent this, I cut it, with
my knife, upon a large post, in capital letters; and making it
into a great moss, I set it up on the shore where I first landed,
viz., " {"I came on shore here on the 30th of September, 1659. "
Upon the sides of this square post, I cut, every day, a notch
with my knife, and every seventh .notch was as long again as
the rest, and every first day of the month, as long again as that
long one: and thus I kept my calendar, or weeakly, monthly,
andD yearly reckoning of time.

But it happened5 that, among the many things which I
brought out of the ship, in the several voyages which, as
above mentioned, I made to it, Iar got several things of less
value, but not at all less useful to me, which I found some time
after, in rummaging the chests; as, in particulzu pens, ink,
and paper, se1e1'al U'pa1cels in the captain's, mates, gunner' s,
and cmpenter s keeping; three 01 four compasses, some mathe-
matical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books of
naVigat-ion , all which I huddled together, whether I might
want them or no: also I found threeo very good Bibles, which
came to me in my cargo from Enoland, and which I had packed
up among my things; some gi'ortuguese books also, and,
among them, two or otlnce Popish pray er-books, and several
other books, all which I caiefully secuied. And 1 must not
forget, that we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of whose
eminent history I may have occasion to say something, in its

lacc: for I carried both the cats with me; and as for the dog,

1e jumped out of the ship himself, and swam on shore to me,
the day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a
trusty servant to me for many years; I wanted3 nothing that
he could fetch me, nor any company that he could make up to
me; I only wanted to have him talk to me, but that would not
do. As I observed before, I found pens, ink, and paper, and
I husbanded them to the utmost; and I shall show, that, while
my ink lasted, I kept things very exact, but after that 11 as gone,
I could not: for I could not make any ink, by any means bthat
I could de11se.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, not-
withstanding all that I had amassed together; and of these,
this of ink was one; as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig,
or remove the earth, needles, pins, and thread: as for linen, I
soon learned to want that without much difficulty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily ,
and it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished' mv
little pale, or surrounded habitation. The piles, or stakes,
which were as hea1 y as I could well lift, were a long time in
cutting and preparing in the woods, and more, by far,deg 1n bring-
ing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting anod
blinging home one of those posts, and a third day 1n driving
it into the ground; for which purpose I got a heavy piece of
wood at first, but at last bctho aht myself of one of the irOn
crows ; which, however, though found it, yet it made driving
these posts, or iles, very laborious and tedious work. But what
need I have n concerned at the tediousness of ' gI
had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in; nor had I any
other employment, if that had been over, at least that I could
foresee, except ranging the island to seek for food; which I did,
more or less, every day '2

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the cir-
cumstances I was reduced to; and I drew up the state of~ my
affairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any that were
to come after me (for I was like to have but few heirs) as to
deliver my thoughts from daily poringupon them, and afflicting
my mind: and, as my reason began now to master my de-
spoudency, I began to comfort myself as well as I could, and to
set the good against the evil; that I might have something to
distinguish ngcase from worse ; and I stated it very impartially,

like debtor d creditor, the comforts I enjoyed against the
miseries I suffered, thus :--
Evu. Goon.
I am cast upon a horrible, desolate But I am alive and not drowned, as
island. void of all hope of recovery. all my ship's company were.

I am singled out and separated. as
it were, from all the world, to be
miserable. '

But I am singled out. too. from all
the ship's crew, to be spared from
death; and He that provideutially
saved me from death, can deliver me
from this condition.

I am divided from mankind, a sole?
tab-e.- one banished from human so-
clety.

l have no clothes to cover me.'

I am without any defence, or means
to resist any violence of man or beast.

I have no soul to speak to, or relieve
me.

But i am not sinned, and perishlng
in a barren place affording no suste-
nance.

But 1 am in a hot climate, where. if
I had clothes, I could hardly wear them.

But I am cast on an island where 1
scene wildbeaststohurtme,aslsaw
on the coast of Africa: andwhat if I
had been shipwrecked there?

But God wonderfully sent the shi
in near enough to the shore that
hate got out so many necessary things.
as will either supply my wants, or en-
abli: me to supply myself, even as long
as i ve.

' Robinson Crusoe seems here to have forgotten what he had said before.
Chapter vii, p. 39. "this put me upon rummaging for clothes. of which I found
enough. but took no more than 1 wanted {or present use." And. again. Chap.xiv.,
"i had. among the seamen's clothes which were saved out of the ship. some
ueckcloths of calico, or muslin." Chap. xv, "My clothes, too, began to decay
mightll : as to linen, I ind none for a great while. except some chequered shirts
which found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully preserved,
because many times I could bear no clothes on but a shirt, and it was a very

t he! to me. that I had. among all me men's clothes of the shi , almost three
mu 0 shirts. There were also, indeed. several thick wa -coata of the
aesthen's." are. So that. at. the most, he can mean only, that he has no reserve, .
or prospect of a supply. of clothes. 2

D
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony, that
there was scarce any condition in the world so miserable, but
there was something negative, or something positive, to be
thankful for in it: and let this stand as a direction, from the
experience of the most miserable of all conditions in this world,
that we may always find in it something to comfort ourselves
from, and to set, in the description of good and evil, on the
credit side of the account. -

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condition,
and giving overlooking out to sea, to see if I could spya ship;
I say, giving over these things, I began to apply myself to ac-
commodate my way of living, and to make things as easy to me
as I could.

I have already described my habitation, which was a tent
under the side of a rock, surrounded with a strong pale of
posts and cables; but I might now rather call it a wall, for I
raised a kind of wall against it of turfs, about two feet thick on
the outside : and, after some time, (I think it was a year and
a half,) I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock, and thatched
or covered it with boughs of trees, and such things as I could
get, to keep out the rain ; which I found at some times of the
year very violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into
this pale, and into the cave which I had made behind me.
But I must observe, too, that at first this was a confused heap
of goods, which, as they lay in no order, so they took 11 all
my place: lhad no room to turn myself: so I set myse to
enlarge my cave, and work farther into the earth; for it was a
loose, sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labour 1 bestowed
on it: and when I found I was pretty safe as to the beasts of
prey, I worked sideways, to the right hand into the rock, and
then, turning to the right again, worked quite out, and made
me a door to come out on the outside of my pale or forti-
fication.

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were, a back
way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to
stow my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary
things as I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a
table; for, without these, I was not able to enjoy the few
comforts I had in the World: I could not write, or eat, or do
several things with so much pleasure without a table ; so I went
to work. And here I must needs observe, that, as reason is
the substance and original of the mathematics, so by stating
and squaring everything by reason, and by making the most
rational judgment of things, every man may be, in time, master
of every mechanic art. 1 had never handled a tool in my life;
and yet, in time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I
found, at last, that I wanted nothing but I could have made,
especially if I had had tools. However, I made abundance of
things even without tools; and some with no more tools than
an adze and a hatchet, which, perhaps, were never made that
way before, and that with infinite labour. For example, if I
wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree,
set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either side with
my axe till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank, and then
dub it smooth with my adze. It is true by this method 1
could make but one board out of a whole tree; but this I had
no remedy for but patience, any more than I had for the pro-
digious deal of time and labour which it took me up to make a
plank or board; but my time or labour was little worth, and
so it was as well employed one way as another.

 

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place; and this I did out of the short pieces
of boards that I brought on my raft from the ship. But, when
I wrought out some boards, as above, I made large shelves,
of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another, all along
one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-work
on; and, in a word, to separate everything at large in their
places, that I might easily come at them. I knocked pieces
into the wall of the rock, to hang my guns and all things that
would hang up; so that, had my cave been seen, it looked
like a general magazine of all necessary things; and I had
everything so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to
me to see all my goods in such order, and especially to find my
stock of all necessaries so great.

. And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every
day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much
hurry, and not only hurry as to labour, but in much discom-
posure of mind; and my journal would, too, have been full of
many dull things: for example, I must have said thus--
" Sept. 30th. After I had got to shore, and had escaped drown-
ing, instead of being thankful to God for my deliverance, having
first vomited, with the great quantity of salt water which was
gotten into my stomach, and recovering myself a little, I ran
about the shore, wringing my hands, and beating my head and
face, exclaiming at my misery, and crying out, I was undone,
undone! till tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the
groundd to repose; but durst not sleep, for fear of being de-
voure ."

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship,
and got all that I could out of her, I could not forbear getting
up to the top of a little mountain, and looking out to sea, in
hopes of seeing a ship; then fancy that, at a vast distance, I
spied a sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and after look-
ing steadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and sit down
anlcll weep like a child, and thus increase my misery by my
fo y.

But having gotten over these things, in some measure, and
having settled my household stuff and habitation, made me a
table and chair, and all as handsome about me as I could, I
began to keep my Journal: of which I shall here give you the
copy (though in it will be told all those particulars over again)
ias long as it lasted; for, having no more ink, I was forced to
save it 03'.

OWN

THE J 01: RNAL.

September 30th, 1659. I, poor miserable Robinson Crusoe,
being shipwrecked, during a dreadful storm, in the oiling,
came on shore on this dismal unfortunate island, which I
called the ISLAND or Dnsum; all the rest of the ship's com-
pany being drowned, and myself almostgdead.

All the rest of that day I Spent li'fli ' g myself at the
dismal circumstances I was brought te',viz'. had neither food,
house, clothes, wea n, nor place to fly to: and, in despair of
any relief, saw not 'ng but death before me; that I should
either be devoured 'ry wild beasts, murdered by savages, or
starved todeath for want of food. At the approach of ' t,
I slept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures, but slept soun ,
though it rained all night.

October 1. In the morning, I saw, to my great surprise, thd '
ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore
again, much nearer the island; which, as it was some comfort,
on one hand (for seeing her sit upright, and not broken in
pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, i might get on board, and
get some food and necessaries out of her for my relief), so on
the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades,
who, I imagined, if we had all stayed on board, might have saved
the ship, or, at least, that they would not have been all
drowned, as they were; and that had the men been saved, we
might, perhaps, have built us a boat, out of the ruins of the
ship, to have carried us to some other part of the world. I
spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on them
things; but, at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went
upon the sand, as near as I could, and then swam on board.
Thill day, also, it continued raining, though with no wind
at a .

From the 151: of October to the 24th. All these days entirely
spent in making several voyages to get all 1 could out of the
ship; which I brought on shore, every time of flood, upon
rafts. Much rain, also, on these days, though with some
intervals of fair weather; but, it seems, this was the rainy
season.

Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got upon
it; but, being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly
heavy, I recovered many of them when the tide was out.

Oct. 25. It mined all night and all day, with some gusts of
wind; during which time the ship broke in pieces (the wind
blowing a little harder than before), and was no more to be
seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at low water. I
Spent this day in covering and securing the goods which I had
saved, that the rain might not spoil them.

Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all day, to find
out a place to fix my habitation; greatly concerned to secure
myself from any attack in the night, either from wild beasts
or men. Towards night I fixed upon a proper place, under a
rock, and marked out a semicircle for my encampment; which
I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification,
made of double piles, lined within with cables, and without
with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying
all my goods to my new habitation, though some part of the
time it rained exceedingly hard.

The 3lst, in the morning, Iwent out into the island with my
gun, to see for some food, and discover the country; when l

'01 ~._.
killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home, which I
afterwards killed also, because it would not feed.

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there
for the first night; making it as large as I could, with stakes
driven in to swing my hammock upon.

Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and the ieces of
timber which made my rafts; and, with them, forme a fence
round me, a little within the place I had marked out for my
fortification.

Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like
ducks, which were very good food. In the afternoon I went to
work to make me a table.

Nov. 5. This morning I began to order my times of work,
of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion:
viz., every morning I walked out with my gun, for two or
three hours, if it did not rain; then employed myself to work
till about eleven o'clock; then ate what I had to live on; and
from twelve to two I lay down to sleep, the weather being
excessive hot; and then, in the evening, to work again. The
working part of this day and the next was wholly employed
in making my table, for I was yet but a very sorry workman :
though time and necessity made me a complete natural me-
chanic soon after, as I believe they would any one else.

Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and dog, and
killed a wild eat; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good for
nothing: of every creature that I killed I took off the skins,
and preserved them. Coming back by the seashore, I saw
many sorts of sea-fowl which I did not understand: but was
surprised, and almost frightened with two or three seals;
which, while I was gazing at them (not well knowing what
they were), got into the sea, and esca d me for that time.

Nov. 6. After my morning walk went to work with my
table again, and finished it, though not to my liking: nor was
it long before I learned to mend it. .

Nov. 7. N ow it began to be settled fair weather. The
7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for the 11th was
Sunday, according to my reckoning), I took wholly up to make
me a chair, and with much ado brought it to a tolerable shape,
but never to please me; and, even in the making, I pulled it in
pieces several times.

Note. I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, omitting
my mark for "them on my post, I forgot which was which.

Nov. 12. This day it rained; which refreshed me exceed-
ingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accompanied with
terrible thunder and lightning, which frightened me dreadfully,
for fear of my powder. As soon as it was over, I resolved to
separate my stock of powder into as many little parcels as
possible, that it might not be in danger.

I
Nov. 14, 15, 16. These three days I spent in making little
square chests, or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or
two pounds at most, of powder; and so, putting the powder
in, I stowed it in places as secure and as remote from'one
another as pomible. On one of these three days I killed
a lllarge bird that was good to eat; but I knew not what to
ca it.

Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent, into the
rock, to make room for my farther convenience.

Note. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work,
viz., a pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket: so
I desisted from my work, and began to, consider how to supply
these wants, and make me some tools. As for a pickaxe,
I made use of the iron crows, which were preper enou h,
though heavy: but the next thing was a shovel or s e;
this was so absoluwa necessary, that, indeed, I could do
nothing effectually without it; but what kind of one to make
I knew not.

Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I found a
tree of that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call the
iron-tree, from its exceeding hardness: of this, with great
labour, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a piece; and brought
it home, too, with difiiculty enough, for it was exceeding heavy.
The excessive hardness of the wood, and by having no other
way, made me a long while upon this machine: for I worked
it efl'ectually, by little and little, into the form of a shovel
or spade; the handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only
that, the broad part having no iron shod upon it at bottom,
it would not last me so long: however, it served well enough
for the uses which I had occasion to put it to; but never
was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long
a-making.

I was still deficient; for I wanted a basket, or a wheelbarrow.
A basket I could not make by any means, having no such
things as twigs that would bend to make wicker-ware; at least,
none yet found out: and as to the wheelbarrow, I fancied
I could make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of;
neither did I know how to go about it; besides, I had no pos-
sible way to make iron gudgeons, for the spindle or axis of the
wheel to run in; so I gave it over; and, for carrying army the
earth which I dug out of the cave,I made mea thing like ahod,
which the labourers carry the mortar in for the bricklayers.
This was not so difiicult to me as the making the shovel: and
yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt which I made in vain
to make a wheelbarrow, took me up no less than four days;
I mean, always excepting my morning walk with my gun,
which I seldom omitted, and very seldom failed also bringing
home something fit to eat. 8

D

$.

'fi'
Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, because 01
my making these tools, when they were finished, I went on;
and, working every day, as my strength and time allowed, I
spent eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my
cave, that it might hold my goods commodiously.

Note. During all this time, I worked to make this room,
or cave, Spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse,
or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar. As for a
lodging, I kept to the tent: except that, sometimes, in the wet
season of the year, it rained so hard that I could not keep
myself dry ; which caused me, afterwards, to cover all my place
within my pale with long poles in the form of rafters, leaning
against the rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of
trees, like a thatch.

December 10. I began now to think my caVe, or vault,
finished; when, on a sudden it seems Ihad made it too large),
a great quantity of earth fell own from the top and one side:
so much that, in short, it frightened me, and not without
reason too; for, if I had been under it, I should never have
wanted a grave--digger. Upon this disaster,I had a great deal
of work to do over again, for I had the loose earth to carry out;
and, which was of more importance, I had the ceiling to prop
up, so that I might be sure no more would come down.

Dec. 11. This dayI went to work with it accordingly; and
got two shores, or posts, pitched upright to the t0p, with two
pieces of board across over each post: this I finished the next
day; and setting more posts up with boards, in about a week
more I had the roof secured; and the posts, standing in rows,
served me for partitions, to part 03' my house.

Dec. 17. From this day to the 20th, I placed shelves, and
knocked up nails on the posts, to hang everything up that
could be hung up; and now I began to be in some order
within doors.

Dec. 20. I carried everything into the cave, and began to
furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards like a
dresser, to order my victuals upon; but boards began to be very
scarce with me: also I made me another table.

Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day: no stirring out.

Dec. 25. Rain all day.

.Dec. 26. N 0 rain; and the earth much cooler than before,
and pleasanter.

Dec. 27. Killed a young goat; and lamed another, so that
I catched it, and led it home in a string: when I had it home,
I bound and splintered up its leg, which was broke.

NJ}. I took such care of it, that it lived; and the leg grew
well, and as strong as ever: but, by nursing it so long, it grew
tame, and fed upon the little green at my door, and would not
go away. This was the first time that I entertaineda thought
of breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have food
when my powder and shot was all spent.

Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and no breeze; so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food:
this time I spent in putting all my things in order within
doors.

- January 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early and
late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This
evening, going farther into the valleys which lay towards the
centre of the island, I found there was plenty of goats, though
exceeding shy, and hard to come at; however, I resolved to try
if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down. Accordingly,
the next day, I went out with my dog, and set him upon the
oats: but I was mistaken, for they all faced about upon the
30g; and he knew his danger too well, for he would not come
near them. '

Jam. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being still jealous
of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very
thick and strong.

N.B. This wall being described before, I purposely omit
what was said in the Journal: it is sufficient to observe, that
I was no less time than from the 3rd of January to the 14th
of April, working, finishing, and perfecting this wall: though
it was no more than about 25 yards in length, being a half-
circle, from one place in the rock to another place, about
twelve yards from it, the door of the cave being in the centre,

behind it.

CHAPTER X.

rrcnoxs--cons--nunecrross ON PROVIDENCE--LN m'l'HQUAKB--DRZADFL'L
"CRIME--THOUGHTS 0? REMOVING ms BABITATXON--TEE SHIP BROUGHT
NEAR!!! SHORE--COXTIXUA'HON 0F JOURSAL--FLLLS ILL 07 THE AGL'E--
TERBIFIC DREAX.

ALL this time I worked very hard; the rains hindering me
many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but I thought
I should never be perfectly secure till this wall was finished;
and it is scarce credible what inexpressible labour everything
was done with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods,
and driving them into the ground; for I made them much
bigger than I needed to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double fenced,
with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that
if any people were to come on shore there, they would not
perceive anything like a habitation; and it was very Well60 surnames or

I did so, as may be observed hereafter, upon a very remarkable
occasion.

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game
every day, when the rain permitted me, and made frequent
discoveries, in these walks, of something or other to my advan-
tage; particularly, I found a kind of wild pigeons, who build
not, as wood-pigeons, in a tree, but rather, as house-pigeons,
in the holes of the rocks: and taking some young ones,
I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did so; but, when
they grew older, they all flew away; which, perhaps, was at
first for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them:
however, I frequently found their nests, and got their young
ones, which were very good meat. And now, in the managing
my household affairs, 1 found myself wanting in many things,
which I thought at first it was impossible for me to make; as,
indeed, as to some of them it was; for instance, I could never
make a cask to be hooped. I had a small runlet or two, as
I observed before; but I could never arrive to the ca acity of
making one by them, tho oh I spent many weeks a out it;
I could neither put in the eads, nor join the staves so true
to one another as to make them hold water; so I gave
that also over. In the next place I was at a great loss for
candle; so that, as soon as it was dark, which was generally
by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered
the lump of bees-wax, with which I made candles in my
African adventure; but I had none of that now; the only
remedy I had was, that, when I had killed a goat, I saved the
tallow; and with a little dish, made of clay, which I baked in
the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum,I made me a
lamp; and this gave me light, though not a clear steady light,
like a candle. In the middle of all my labours, it happened
that, in rummaov'incr my things, I found a little bag; which, as
I hinted before, had, been filled with corn, for feeding of poultry ;
not for this voyage, but before, as I suppose, when the ship
came from Lisbon. What little remainder of corn had been
in the bag was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing in
the bag but husks and dust; and, being willing to have the bag
for some other use SI think it was to put powder in, when
I divided it for fear 0 the lightning, or some such use), Ishook
the husks of corn out of it, on one side of my fortification,
under the rock.

It was a little before the great rain, just now mentioned,
that I threw this stuff away; taking no notice of anything,
and not so much as remembering that I had thrown anything
there: when, about a month after, I saw 80me few stalks of
something green, shooting out of the ground, which I fancied
might be some plant I had not seen; but I was surprised, and
perfectly astonished, when, after a little longer time, I saw about
ten or twelve ears come out, which were perfect green barley,
of the same kind as our European, nay, as our English barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion
of my thoughts on this occasion: Ihad hitherto acted upon
no religious foundation at all; indeed, I had very few notions
of religion in my head, not had entertained any sense of any-
thing that had befallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or, as
we lightly say, what pleases God; without so much as inquir-
ing into the end of Providence in these things, or His order in
governing events in the world. But after I saw barley grow
there, in a climate which I knew was not prOper for com, and
especially as _I knew not how it came there, it startled me
strangely; and I began to suggest, that God had miraculously
caused this grain to grow without any help of seed sown, and
that it was so directed purely for my sustenance, on that wild
miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my
eyes; and I began to bless myself that such a prodigy of nature
should happen upon my account: and this was the more
strange to me, because 1 saw near it still, all along by the side
of the rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved to be
stalks of rice, and which I knew, because I had seen it grow
in Africa, when I was ashore there. .

I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence
for my support, but, not doubting that there was mors'jn the

lace, I went over all that part of the island where I had been
Before, searching in every corner, and under every rock, for
more of it; but I could not find any. At last it occurred
to my thoughts, that I had shook out a bag of chicken's-
meat in that place, and then the wonder began to cease:
and I must confess my religious thankfulness to God's pro-
vidence began to abate too, upon the discovering that all
this was nothing but what was common, though I ought to
have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a pro-
vidence as if it had been miraculous; for it was really the
work of Providence, as to me, that should order or appoint
that ten or twelve he of corn should remain unspoiled,
when the rats had troyed all the rest, as if it h bee
dropt from heaven; as also, that I should throw it out in that
particular place, where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it
s rang up immediately: whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere
etc, at that time, it would have been burnt up and destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in
their season, which was about the end of June; and, laying up
every com, I resolved to sow them all again; hoping, in time,
to have some uantity suficient to supply me with bread. But
it was not till the fourth year that 1 could allow myself the
least'grain of this corn to eat, and, even then, but sparingly, as62 wmrms or

I shall show afterwards, in its order; for I lost all that I sowed
the first season, by not obmrving the proper time; as I sowed
just before the dry season, so that it never came up at all, at
least, not as it would have done; of which in its place.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty
stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same care; and
whose use was of the same kind, or to the same purpose, viz.,
to make me bread, or rather food; for I found ways to cook it
up without baking, though I did that also after some time.--
But to return to my Journal.

I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to get
my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up; contriving
to get into it, not by a door, but over the wall, b a ladder,
that there might be no sign on the outside of my ha itation.

April 16. I finished the ladder: so I went up with the
ladder to the top, and then pulled it after me, and let it down
in the inside: this was a complete enclosure to me; for within
I had room enough, and nothing could come at me from with-
out, unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost
all my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed; the
case was thus :--As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my
tent, just at the entrance into my cave, I was terribly
frightened with a most dreadful surprising thing indeed; for,
all on a sudden, I found the earth came crumbling down from
the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the hill over my
head, and two of the posts I had set up in the cave cracked
in a frightful manner. I was heartily scared: but thought
nothing of what reall was the cause, only thinking that the
top of my cave was f 'ng in, as some of it had done before :
and for fear I should be buried in it, I ran forward to my
ladder; and, not thinking myself safe neither, I got over my
wall, for fear of the pieces of the hill, which I expected might
roll down upon me. I had no sooner stepped down upon the
firm ground, but I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake:
for the ground I stood on shook three times, at about eight
minutes' distance, with three such shocks as would have over-
turned the strongest building that could be supposed to have
stood on the earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock,
which stood about half a mile from me, next the sea, fell down
with such a terrible noise as I never heard in all my life. I per-
ceived, also, that the very sea was put into a violent motion by
it; and I believe the shocks were stronger under the water
than on the island.

I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having never
felt the like, nor discoursed with any one that had), that I was
like one dead, or stupefied; and the motion of the earth made
my stomach sick, like one that was tossed at see: but the name
of the falling of the rock awaked me, as it were; and rousing
me from the stupefied condition I was in. filled me with horror,
and I thought of nothing but the hill falling upon my tent,
and my household goods, and burying all at once; this sunk
my very soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some
time, I began to take courage; yet I had not heart enough to
go over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but sat
still upon the ground, greatly cast down and disconsolate, not
knowing what to do. All this while, I had not the least serious
religious thought; nothing but the common, Lord, have mercy
upon. me! and when it was over, that went away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy,
as if it would rain, and, soon after, the wind rose by little and
little, so that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful
hurricane; the sea was, all on a sudden, covered with foam and
froth; the shore was covered with a breach of the water; the
trees were torn up by the roots; and a terrible storm it was.
This held about t ree hours, and then began to abate; and, in
two hours more, it was quite calm, and be to rain very
hard. All this while I sat upon the groun very much ter-
rified and dejected; when, on a sudden, it came into my
thoughts, that these winds and rain being the consequence of
the earthquake, the earthquake itself Was spent and over, and
I might venture into my cave again. With this thought my
spirits began to revive; and the rain, also, helping to persuade
me, I went in, and sat down in my tent; but the rain was so
violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it; and
I was forced to get into my cave, though very much afraid and
uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head. This violent rain
forced me to a new work, viz., to cut a hole through my new
fortification, like a sink, to let the water go out, which would
else have drowned my cave. After I had been in my cave for
some time, and found no more shocks of the earthquake follow,
I began to be more composed. And now, to support my
spirits, which, indeed, wanted it very much, I went to my little
store, and took a small an of rum, which, however,I did then,
and always, Very sparing y, knowing I could have no more
when that was gone. It continued raining all that night, and
great part of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad: but
my mind being more composed, I began to think of what I had
best do; concluding that, if the island was subject to these
earthquakes, there would be no living for me in a cave, but I
must consider of building me some little but in an open place,
which I might surround with a wall, as I had done here, and
so make myself secure from wild beasts or men: for, if I stayed
where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be buried

alive.
With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from
the place where it now stood, being just under the hang-
ing precipice of the hill, and which, if it should be shaken
again, would certainly fall upon my tent. I spent the two
next days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving -
where and how to remove my habitation. The fear of being
swallowed alive affected me so, that I never slept in quiet; and
yet the apprehension of lyino abroad, without any fence, was
almost equal to it: but stifi when I looked about, and saw
how everything was put in order, how pleasantly I was con-
cealed, and how safe from danger, it made me very loath to
remove. In the mean time it occurred to me, that it would
require a vast deal of time for me to do this; and that I must
be contented to run the risk where I was, till I had formed a
convenient camp, and had secured it so as to remove to it.
With this conclusion I composed myself for a time; and re.
solved that I would go to work with all speed to build me a
wall with piles and cables, &c., in a circle, as before, and set
up my tent in it when it was finished; but that I would
venture to stay where I was till it was ready, and fit to remove
to. This was the let.

April 22. The next morning, I began to consider of means
to put this measure into execution; but I was at a great lose
about the tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of
hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the In-
dians); but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard
wood, they were all full of notches and dull: and though I
had a grindstone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too.
This cost me as much thought as a statesman would have be-
stowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge upon the life
and death of a man. At length I contrived a wheel, with a
string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty.

Note. I had never seen any such thing in England, or, at
least, not to take notice how it was done, though since I have
observed it is very common there; besides that, my grindstone
was very large and heavy. This machine cost me a full week's
work to bring it to perfection.

Apri128, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding
my tools1i my machine for turning my grindstone performing
very we .

April 30. Having perceived that my bread had been low a
great while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself to
one biscuit~cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.

May 1. 1n the morning, looking towards the sea-side, the
tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than
ordinary, and it looked like a cask: when I came to it, I found
a small barrel, and two or three pieces of wreck of the ship,
which were driven on shore by the late hurricane; and, looking
towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher out
of the water than it used to do. I examined the barrel that was
driven on shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder;
but it had taken water, and the powder was caked as hard as a
stone : however, I rolled it farther on the shore for the present,
and went on upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck of
the ship, to look for more. .

When I came down to the ship I found it strangely re-
moved. The forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was
heaved up at least six feet: and the stern (which was broke to
pieces, and rted from the rest by the force of the sea, soon
after I had eft rummaging of her) was tossed, as it were, up,
and cast on one side; and the sand was thrown so high on
that side next her stern, that I could now walk quite up to her
when the tide was out: whereas there was a great piece of
water before, so thatI could not come within a quarter of a
mile of the wreck without swimming. I was surprised with
this at first, but soon concluded it must be done by the earth-
quake; and as by this violence the ship was more broke open
than formerly, so many things came daily on shore which the
sea had loosened, and which the winds and water rolled by
decrees to the land.

i'his wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of re-
moving my habitation; and I busied myself mightily, that day
especially, in searchino whether I could make any way into the
ship; but I found nofing was to be expected of that kind, for
all the inside of the ship was choked up with the sand. However,
as I had learned not to despair of anything, I resolved to pull
everything to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding that
everything that I could get from her would be of some use or
other to me.

May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam
through, which I thought held some of the upper part or
quarter-deck together ; and when I had cut it throu h, I cleared
away the sand as well as I could from the side which y highest;
but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for that
time.

May 4. Iwent a-fishing, but caught not one fish thatI durst
eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when, just going to leave
off, I caught a young dol hin. I had made me a lcng line of
some rope-yarn, but I he no hooks; yet I frequently caught
fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all which I dried in the
sun, and ate them dry.

May 5. Worked on the wreck; out another beam asunder,
and brought three great fir-planks off from the decks; which
I tied t'Ogether, and made swim on shore when the tide of flood

came on.
May 6. Worked on the wreck ; got several iron bolts out of
her, and other ieces of iron-work: worked very hard, and
came home muc tired, and had thoughts of giving it over.

May 7. Went to the wreck again, but not with an intent to
work; but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself
down, the beams being cut; that several pieces of the ship
seemed to lie loose; and the inside of the hold lay so open that
I could see into it; but almost full of water and sand.

May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron crow, to
Wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water and
sand. I wrenched up two lanks, and brought them on share
3:30 with the tide. I left e iron crow in the wreck for next

y.

May 9. Went to the wreck, and, with the crow, made way
into the body of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened
them with the crow, but could not break them up. I felt also
a roll of English lead, and could stir it; but it was too heavy
to remove.

May 10 to 14. Went every day to the wreck; and got a
great many pieces of timber, and boards or planks, and two or
three hundredweight of iron.

May 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a
piece of!" the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet,
and drivin it with the other; but as it lay about a foot and
a half in t e water, I could not make any blow to drive the
hatchet.

May 16. It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck
appeared more broken by the force of the water : but I stayed so
long in the woods, to get pigeons for food, that the tide pre-
vented my going to the wreck that day.

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore at
a great distance, two miles ofi' me, but resolved to seewhat they
were, and found it was a piece of the head, but too heavy for
me to bring away.

May 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck;
and, with hard labour, I loosened some things so much with the
crow, that the first flowing tide several casks floated out, and
two of the seamen's chests: but the wind blowing-from the
shore, nothing came to land that day, but pieces of timber and
a hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it; but the salt
water and the sand had spoiled it. I continued this work every
day to the 15th of June, except the time necessary to get food:
which I always a pointed, during this rt of my amp oyment,
to be when the ti e was up, that I mig t be ready when it was
ebbed out: and, by this time, I had gotten timber, and plank,
and iron-work enough 'to have built a good boat, if I hadknown
how: and I also got at several times, and in several pieces, near
one hundredweight of the sheet lead.
June 16. Going down . the sea-side, I found a large tore
toise, or turtle. This was the first I had seen: which, it
seems, was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place,
or scarcity: for, had I hap ed to be on the other side of
the island, I might have ha hundreds of them every day, as
Ihfound afierwards; but, perhaps, had paid dear enough for

em.

June 17. I spentincooking the turtle. I found in her three~
score eggs: and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most
savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life ; having had
niggeesh but of goats and fowls since I landed in this horrid
P - ~
June 18. Rained all that day, andI stayed within. Ithou ht,
at this time, the rain felt cold, and I was somewhat ' y;
which I knew was not usual in that latitude.

{guns 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been
00 .

June 20. No rest all night: violent pains in my head, and
feverish.

June 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death with the
apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help :
prayed to God, for the first time since the storm ofi' Hull;

ut scarce knew what I said, or why, my thoughts being all
confused.

June 22. A little better; but under dreadful apprehensions
of sickness.

June 23. Very bad again: cold and shivering, and then a
violent headache.

June 24. Much better.

June 25. Anague very violent; the fit held me seven hours;
cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats after it.

June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat, took my
gun, but found myself very weak: however, I killed a she-goat,
and with much difliculty got it home, and broiled some of it,
and ate. I Would fain have stewed it, and made some'broth,
but had no pot.

June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay a-bed all day,
and neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish from thirst;
but so weak I had not strength to stand up, or to get myself
any water to drink. Prayed to God again, but was light-
headed; and when I was not, I was so ignorant, that I knew
not what to say; only lay and cried, "Lord, look upon me!
Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me l" I suppose I did
nothing else for two or three hours; till the fit wearing off,
I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night. When I
awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and exweding
thirsty: however, as I had no water in my whole habitation,
I was forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again. In
this second sleep, I had this terriUe dream: I thought that I
was sittino on the ground, on the outside of my wall, where I
sat when the storm blew after the earth uake, and that 1 saw
a man descend from a great black clou in a bright flame of
fire, and light upon the ground: he was all over as bright as a
flame, so that I could but just hear to look towards him: his
countenance was most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for
words to describe: when he stepped upon the ground with his
feet, I thought the earth trembled, just as it had done before
-in the earthquake; and all the air looked, to my ap rehension,
as if it had been filled with flashes of fire. He ha no sooner
landed upon the earth but he moved forward towards me, with
along spear or weapon in his hand, to kill me; and, when he
came to a rising ground at some distance, he spoke to me, or
I heard a voice so terrible that it is impossible to express the
terror of it: all that I can say I understood was this: " Seein'g'
all these things have not brought thee to re ntance, now thou
shalt die I" at which words I thought he 'fted up the spear
that was in his hand to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account, will expect that 1
should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible
vision; I mean, that, even while it was a dream, I even dreamed
of these horrors; nor is it any more possible to describe the

impression that remained upon my mind when I awaked, and
found it was but a dream.

 

0

CHAPTER XI.

RELIGIOUS REFLECTIONS--FINDS ms BIBLE~TY=IE COXBEQUB'CD-WVEW--ASD
MIR RAPPIER.

I RAD, alas! no divine knowledge; what I had received by
the good instruction of my father was then wom out, by an
uninterrupted series for eight years of seafaring wickedness
and a constant conversation with none but such as were, like
myself, wicked and profane to the last degree: I do not re-
member that I had, in all that time, one thought that so much
as tended either to locking up towards God, or inward towards
a reflection upon my own ways: but a certain stupidity of
soul, without desire of good, or consciousness of evil, had
entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all that the most hard-
ened, unthinking, wicked creature among our common sailors
can be supposed to be: not having the least sense either of
the fear of God in danger, or of thankfulness to Him in deli-
verances.
In the relatin what has already put of my storv, this will
be the more easi y believed, when I shall add, that, through'all
the variety of miseries that had to this day befallen me, I
never had so much as one thought of its being the hand of
God, or that it was a just punishment for my sin ; either my
rebellious behaviour against my father, or my present sins,
which were great; or even as a punishment for the general
course of my wicked life.' When I was on the desperate
expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I never had so much
as one thought of what would become of me; or one wish to
God to direct me whither I should go, or to kee me from the
danger which apparently surrounded me, aswell m voracious
creatures as cruel savages: but I was (finite thoughtless of a
God, or a providence; acted like a mere rute, from the prin-
ciples of nature, and by the dictates of common sense only:
and, indeed, hardly that. When I was delivered and taken up
at sea by the Portuguese captain, well used, and dealt with
justly and honourably, as well as charitably, Ihad not the least
thankfulness in my thoughts. When, again, I was shipwrecked,
ruined, and in danger o drowning, on this island, I was far
from remorse, or looking on it as a judgment; I only said to
myself often, that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be
always miserable.

It is true, when I first got on shore here, and found all my
ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was surprised with
a kind of ecstasy, and some transports of soul, which, had the
grace of God assisted, might have come up to true thankful-
ness: but it ended where it began, in a mere common flight of
joy ; or, as I may say, being glad Iwas alive, without the least
reflection upon the distinguishing goodness of the hand which
had preserved me, and had singled me out to be preserved,
when all the rest were destroyed ; or an inquiry why Providence
had been thus merciful to me: just the same common sort of
joy which seamen generally have, after they are got safe ashore
from a shi wreck; which they drown all in the next bowl of
punch, an forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest
of my life was like it. Even when I was afterwards, on due
consideration, made sensible of my conditiom--how I was cast
on this dreadful place, out of the reach of human kind, out of
all hope of relief or prospect of redemption, as soon as I saw
but a prospect of living, and thatI should not starve and grish
for hunger, all the sense of my aflliction wore ofi', and I gan
to be very easy, 'ap lied myself to the works preper for my pre-
servation and supp y, and was far enough from being amicted
at my condition, as a judgment from Heaven, or as the hand

'RoblnsonCmsoshemwsan tswhsthehassaldheforeonthlssubjoct.
seepageaallmndts. Helm! esereflecuonsandoonvlcttone,buthadrt-

them.
of God against me: these were thoughts which very seldom
entered into my head.

The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my Journal, had
at first some little influence upon me, and began to affect me
with seriousness, as long as I thought it had something
miraculous in it; but, as soon as that part of the thought was
removed, all the impression which was raised from it, wore ofl'
also, asI have noted already. Even the earthquake, though
nothing could be more terrible in its nature, or more immedi-
ately directing to the invisible Power which alone directs such
things, yet no sooner was the fright over, but the impression
it had made went off also. I had no more sense of God, or
His judgments, much less of the present affliction of my cir-
cumstances being from His hand, than if I had been in the
most prosperous condition of life. But now, when I began
to be sick, and a leisure view of the miseries of death came to
place itself before me; when my spirits began to sink under
the burden of a strong distemper, and nature was exhausted
with the violence of the fever; conscience, that had slept so
long, began to awake; and I reproached myself with my past
life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon weakness,
provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncommon
strokes, and to deal with me in so vindictive a manner. These
reflections oppressed me for the second or third day of my
distemper; and in the violence, as well of the fever as of the.
dreadful reproaches of my conscience, extorted from me some
words like praying to God: though I cannot say it wasaprayer
attended either with desires or with hopes; it was rather the
voice of mere fright and distress. My thoughts were confused;
the convictions eat upon my mind; and the horror of dying
in such a misera le condition raised vapours in my head with
the mere apprehension; and, in those hurries of my soul, I
knew not what my tongue might express; but it was rather
exclamation, such as, "Lord, what a miserable creature am I!
If I should be sick, I shall certame die for want of help;
and what will become of me ?" Then the tears burst out of
my eyes, and I could say no more for a good while. In this
interval the good advice of my father came to my mind, and
presently his prediction, which I mentioned at the beginning
of this story, viz., that, if I did take this foolish step, God woul
not bless me; and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect
upon having neglected his counsel, when there might be none
to assist in my recovery. "Now," said I, aloud, "my dear
father's words are come to pass; God's justice has overtaken
me, and I have none to help or hear me. I reje'sted the voice
of Providence, which had mercifully put me ina station of life
wherein I might have been happy and easy; but I would
neither see it myself, nor learn from my parents to know the
blessing of it. I left them to mourn over my folly ; and now
Iam left to mourn under the consequences of it; I refused
their help and assistance, who would have pushed me in the
world, and would have made everything easy to me ; and now
I have difficulties to struggle with, too great for even nature
itself to support; and no assistance, no comfort, no advice."
Then I cried out, "Lord, be my help, for I am in great dis.
tress!" This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that I
had made for many years. But I return to my Journal.

June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep
I had had, and the tit being entirely 03', I got up; and, though
the fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I con-
sidered that the fit of the ague would return again the next
day, and now was my time to get something to refresh and
support myself when I should be ill. The first thing I did was
to fill a large square case-bottle with water, and set it upon
my table, in reach of my bed; and to take ofi' the chill or
aguish disposition of the water, I'put about a quarter of a
pint of rum into it, and mixed them together. Then I got me
a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but
could eat very little. I walked about; but was very weak, and
withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable
condition, dreading the return of my distemper the next day.
At night, I made my supper of three of the turtle's eggs;
which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the shell;
and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's bless-
ing to, as I could remember, in my whole life. After I had
eaten, I tried to walk ; but found myself so weak, that I could
hardly carry the gun (for I never went out without that) ; so
I went but a little way, and sat down upon the ground, lookin
out upon the sea, which was just before me, an very calm and
smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts as these occurred
to me: What is this earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much? Whence is it produced ? And what am I, and all the
other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal? Whence
are we P Surely we are all made by some secret Power, who
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky. And who is that?
Then it followed most naturally, it is God that has made all.
Well, but then, it came on strangely, if God has made all these
things, He guides and governs them all, and all things that
concern them ; for the Power that could make all things,
must certainly have power to guide and direct them; if so,
nothing can happen in the great circuit of His works, either
without His knowlege or appointment.

And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He knows
that I am here, and am in this dreadful condition: and, if
nothing ha pens without His appointment, He has appointed all
this to befa me. Nothing occurred to my thought, to contra-
I

dict any of these conclusions: and, therefore, it rested upon
me with the greatest force, that it must needs be, that God
hath appointed all this to befall me; that I was brought to this
miserable circumstance by His direction, He having the sole
power, not of me only, but of everything that happens in
the world. Immediately it followed, Why has God done this
to me? What have I done to be thus used? My conscience
presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed;
and methought it spoke to me like a voice, " Wretch! dost
thou ask what thou hast done? Look back upon a dreadful
misspent life, and ask thyself, what thou hast not done? Ask,
why is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed? Why wert
thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads ; killed in the fight when
the ship was taken by the Sallee man-of-war ; devoured by the
wild beasts on the coast of Africa; or drowned here, when all
the crew perished but thyself? Dost thou ask what thou hast
done?" I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one
astonished, and had not a word to say ; no, not to answer to
myself; and, rising up pensive and sad, walked back to my
retreat, and went over my wall, asif I had been going to bed :
but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclina-
tion to sleep; so I sat down in the chair, and lighted my lamp,
for it began to be dark. Now, as the apprehension of the return
of my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred to my
thought that the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for
almost all distempers; and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in
one of the chests, which was quite cured ; and some also that
was green, and not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt: for in this chest I
found a cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and
found what I looked for, viz., the tobacco; and, as the few
books I had saved lay there too, I took out one of the BIBLES
which I mentioned before, and which, to this time, I had not
found leisure, or so much as inclination, to look into. I say,
I took it out, and brought both that and the tobacco with me
to the table. What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as
to my distemper, nor whether it was good for it or not; but
I tried several experiments with it, as I was resolved it should
hit one way or other. I first took a piece of a leaf, and chewed
it in my month; which indeed, at first, almost stupefied my
brain; the tobacco being green and strong, and such as I had
not been much used to. Then I took some, and stee it, an
hour or two, in some rum, and resolved to take a ose of it
when I lay down: and, lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of
coals, and held my nose close over the smoke of it as long as
I could bear it, as well for the heat, as almost for sufl'ocation.
In the interval of this Operation, I took up the Bible, and began
to read; but my head was toomuch disturbed with the tobacco
to bear reading, at least at that time; only, having opened the
book casually, the first words that occurred to me were these :
" Call on me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me." These words were very apt to my

 

case; and made some impression upon my thoughts at the
time of reading them, though not so much as they did after-
wards: for, as for being delivered, the word had no sound, as
Imay say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in
my apprehension of things, that, as the children of Israel said,
when they were promised flesh to eat, "Can God spread a
table in the wilderness?" so I began to say, "Can even God
himself deliver me from this place?" And as it was not for
many years that any hopes appeared, this prevailed very often
upon my thoughts: but, however, the words made a great
impression upon me, and I mused upon them very often. It
now grew late; and the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my
head so much, that I inclined to sleep: so I left my lamp
burning in the cave, lest I should want anything in the night,
and went to bed. But, before I la down, I did what I never
had done in all my life; I kneele down, and prayed to God
to fulfil the promise to me, "That, if I called upon Him in
the day of trouble, he would deliver me." After my broken
and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum in which I had
steeped the tobacco: which was so strong and rank of the
tobacco, that, indeed, I could scarce get it down: immediately
r:
upon this I went to bed. I found presently the rum flew into
my head violently; but I fell into a sound sleep, and waked
no more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day : nay, to this hour, I am
partly of opinion, that I slept all the next day and night, and
till almost three the day after: for, otherwise,I know not how
I should lose a day out of my reckoning in the days of the
week, as it appeared some years after I had done: for if I had
lost it by crossing and recrossing the Line, I should have lost
more than one day; but, certainly,l lost a day in my account,
and never knew which way. Be that, however, one way or the
other, when I awaked I found myself exceedingly refreshed
and my spirits lively and cheerful: when 1 got up I was
stronger than 1 was the day before, and my stomach better,
for I was hungry; and, in short,I had no fit the next day, but
continued much altered for the better. This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad
with my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a
sea-fowl or two, something like a brand goose, and brought
them home; but was not very forward to eat them ; so I ate
some more of the turtle's eggs, which were very good. This
evening I renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did me
good the day before, viz., the tobacco steeped in rum; only
I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew any of the
leaf, or hold my head over the smoke: however, I was not so
well the next day, which was the lst of July, as I hoped 1
should have been; for I had a little of the cold fit, but it was
not much.

July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which
I drank.

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not
recover my full strength for some weeks after. While I was
thus gathering strength, my thoughts ran exceedingly upon
this Scripture, "I will deliver thee :" and the impossibility of
my deliverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever
expecting it; but, as I was discouraging myself with such
thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I pored so much upon
my deliverance from the main atfliction, that I disregarded the
deliverance I had received: and I was, as it were, madeto ask '
myself such questions as these, viz., " Have I not been de-
livered, and wonderfully, too, from sickness; from the most
distressed condition that could be, and that was so friohtful to
me? and what notice have I taken of it? Have I done my
part P God has delivered me, but I have not glorified Him ; that
is to say, I have not owned, and been thankful for that, as a
deliverance: and how can I expect a greater deliverance?"
This touched my heart very much; and immediately I knelt
down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from my
sickness.

July 4. In the morningI took the Bible; and, beginning
at the New Testament, I began seriously to read it; and
imposed upon myself to read a while every morning and every
night; not binding myself to the number of chapters, but as
long as my thoughts should engage me. It was not long
after I set seriously to this work that I found my heart more
deeply and sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past
life. The impression of my dream revived; and the words,
"all these things have not brought thee to repentance," ran
seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging of God to
give me repentance, when it happened, providentially, the very
same day, that, reading the Scripture, I came to these words,
"He is exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance,
and to give remission." I threw down the book; and with my
heart as well as my handslifted up to heaven, in a kind of
ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, " Jesus, thou Son of David!
Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repentance!"
This was the first time, in all my life, I could say, in the true
sense of the words, thatI prayed; for now I prayed with a
sense of my condition, and with a true Scripture view of hope,
founded on the encouragement of the word of God: and from
this time, I may say, I began to have hope that God would
hear me.

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above, " Call
on me, and 1 will deliver thee," in a different sense from what
I had ever done before; for then I had no notion of anything
being called deliverance, but my being delivered from the cap-
ti vity I was in: for, though I was indeed at large in the place,
yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that in the
worst sense in the world. But now I learned to take it in
another sense: now I looked back upon my past life with such
horror, and my sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought
nothing of God but deliverance from the load of guilt that bore
down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was nothing;
I did not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of
it; "it was all of no consideration in comparison with this.
And I add this part here, to hint to whoever shall read it,
that whenever they come to a true sense of things, they will
find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing t n deliver-
ance from afliction. But, leaving this part, I return to my
Journal.

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable
as to my way of living, yet much easier to my mind; and my
thoughts being directed, by constantly reading the Scripture
and praying to God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great
deal of comfort within, which, till now, I knew nothing of;

E 2
also, as my health and strength returned, I bestirred me to tur-
nish myself with everything that I wanted, and made my way
of living as regular as I could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly em loyed in
walking about with my gun in my hand, a little an a little
at a time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a
fit of sickness; for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was,
and to what weakness I was reduced. The application which
I made use of was perfectly new, and, perhaps, what had never
cured an ague before; neither can I recommend it to any one
to practise, by this experiment; and, though it did carry off
the fit, yet it rather contributed to weakening me; for I had
frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time.
Ilearned from it, also, this in particular; that being abroad in
the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health
that could be, especially in those rains which came attended
with storms and hurricanes of wind; for, as the rain which
came in the dry season was almost always accompanied with
such storms, so I found that this rain was much more dangerous
than the rain which fell in September and October.

MVW

CHAPTER XII.

SURVEYS THE lSLAXD--FISN FINE FRUITS--AGAIN THINKS 0F MOVING "18
HABflATIOX-fin'fi 13? ms IDEA--HARE A "WEB--TEE KAI-\T SEAQ'IK--
INCREASE 0F CATS--ANSWEBABT OF HIS LANDING--OBSERVE THE SABBATII~
EXPEBIXEXTS [8 some WEN--IAKFS BASKETS.

I HAD now been in this unhappy island above ten months: all
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be
entirely taken from me; and I firmly believed that no humar.
shape had ever set foot upon that place. Having secured my
habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great desire
to make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to see what
other productions I might find, which I yet knew nothing of.
It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more par-
ticular survey of the island itself. I went up the creek first,
where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on shore. I found,
after I came about two miles up, that the tide did not flow any
higher; and that it was no more thana little brook of running
water, very fresh and good: but this being the dry season,
there was hardly any water in some parts of it; at least, not
any stream. On the banks of this brook 1 found many
pleasant savannahs, or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered
with grass: and, on the rising parts of them, next to the
higher grounds (where the water, as it might be supposed,
never overflowed), I found a great deal of tobacco, green. and
growing to a great and very strong stalk: and there were divers
other plants which I had no knowledge of, or understanding
about, and that might, perhaps, have virtues of their own,
which 1 could not find out. I searched for the cassava root,
which the Indians, in all that climate, make their bread of;
but I could find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not
understand them. I saw several sugar-canes, but wild; and
for want of cultivation, imperfect. [contented myself with
these discoveries for this time; and came back, musing with
myself what course I might take to know the virtue and good-
ness of any of the fruits and plants which I should discover;
but could bring it to no Conclusion ; for, in short, I had made
so little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew
little of the plants in the field; at least, very little that might
serve me to any purpose now in my distress.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again; and,
after going something farther than I had gone the day before,
I found the brook and the savannahs begin to come, and the
country became more woody than before. In this part I found
different fruits; and particularly, I found melons upon the
ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees: the
vines, indeed, had Spread over the trees, and the clusters of
grapes were now 'ust in their prime, very ripe and rich. This
was a surprising 'scovery, and I was exceedingly glad of them,
but I was warned by my experience to eat sparingly of them ;
remembering that, when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating
of grapes killed several of our Englishmen who were slaves
there, by throwing them into fluxes and fevers. I found, how-
ever, an excellent use for these grapes; and that was to cure
and dry them in the sun, and keep them, as dried grapes, or
raisins are kept; which I thought would be (as indeed they
were) as wholesome, and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes
were to be had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation; which, by the way, was the first night, as I might
say, I had lain from home. At night, I took my first contriv-
ance, and got up into a tree, where I slept well; and the next
morning proceeded on my discovery, travellin near four
miles, as I might judge by the length of the val ey; keeping
still due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and north
sides of me. At the end of this march, I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west; and a little
spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the hill by
me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and the country ap-
peared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, everything being in
a constant verdure, or flourish of spring, that it looked like a
planted garden. I descended a little on the side of that deli-
cious vale, surveying it with a kind of secret pleasure (though
mixed with other afflicting thoughts), to think that this was all
my own; that I was king and lord of all this country indefea-
sibly, and had a right of possession; and, if I could convey it,
Imight have it in inheritance as completely as any lord of a
manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa-trees, and
orange, lemon, and citron trees, but all wild, and very few
bearing any fruit, at least not then. However, the green limes
that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very whole-
some; and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which
made it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing. I found
new I had business enough, to gather and carry home; and I
resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes, as limes and
lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which I knew was
approaching. In order to this, I gathered a great heap of
grapes in one place, a lesser heap in another place, and a great
parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking a few
of each with me, I travelled homeward: and resolved to come
again, and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to carry
the rest home. Accordingly, having spent three days in this
journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent and my
cave): but, before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled; the
richness of the fruits, and the weight of the juice, having
broken, and bruised them, they were good for little or nothing:
as to the limes, they were good, but I could bring only a
few.

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made me
two small bags to bring home my harvest; but I was sur-
prised when, coming to my heap of grapes, which were so rich
and fine when I gathered them, I found them all spread about,
trod to pieces, and dragged about, some here, some there, and
abundance eaten and devoured. By this I concluded there
were some wild creatures thereabouts', which had done this;
but what they were I knew not. However, as I found there
was no laying them up in heaps, and no carrying them away in
a sack; but that, one way, they would be destroyed, and, the
other way, they would be crushed with their own weight; I
took another course: I then gathered a large quantity of the
grapes, and hung them upon the out branches of the trees,
that they might cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes
and lemons, I carried as many back as I could well stand
under.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated, with
great pleasure, the fruitfulness of that valley, and the pleasant-
ness of the situation; the security from storms on that side;
the water and the wood: and concluded that I had pitched
upon a place to fix my abode in, which was by far the worst
part of the country. Upon the whole I began to consider of
removing my habitation, and to look out for a place equally
safe as where I was now situate ; if possible, in that pleasant,
fruitful part of the island '

This thought ran long in my head; and I was exceeding fond
of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting me -
but when I came to a nearer view of it, I considered that I was
now by the sea-side, where it was at least possible that some-
thing might happen to my advantage ; and though it was scarce
probable that any such thing should ever happen, yet to enclose
myself among the hills and woods in the centre of the island,
was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such an afl'air not
only improbable, but impossible; and that, therefore, I ought
not by any means to remove. However, I was so enamoured
of this place, that I Spent much of my time there for the whole
remaining part of the month of July; and though, upon second
thoughts, I resolved, as above stated, not to remove, yet I built
me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with
a strong fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could reach,
well staked, and filled between with brushwood. Here I lay
very secure, sometimes two or three nights together; always
going over it with a ladder, as before: so that I fancied now I
had my country and my sea-coast house. ' This work took me
up till the beginning of August.

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my
labour, when the rains came on, and made me stick close to my
first habitation: for though I had made a tent like the other,
with a piece of sail, and spread it very Well, yet I had not the
shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me
to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my
bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of Augustl found
the grapes I had hung up were perfectly dried, and, indeed,
were excellent good raisins of the sun; so I began to take them
down from the trees; and it was very happy that I did so, as
the rains which followed would have spoiled them, and I should
have lost the best part of my winter food; for I had above We
hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had 1 taken them
all down, and carried most of them home to my cave, but it
began to rain : and from hence, which was the 14th of August,
it rained, more or less, every day till the middle of October;
and sometimes so violently that I could not stir out of my cave
:or several days.

In this season I was much surprised with the increase of my
family. I had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats,
who ran away from me; or, as I thought, had been dead; and
I heard no more of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home
with three kittens. This Was the more strange to me, because,
about the end of August, though I had killed a wild cat, as I
called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was quite a different
kind from our EurOpean cats; yet the young cats were the
same kind of house breed as the old one; and both of my cats
being females, I thought it very strange. But from these three,
I afterwards came to be so pestered with cats, that I was forced
to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from
my house as much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain; so that
I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet.
In this confinement I began to be straitened for food; but ven-
turing out twice,I one day killed a goat, and the last day,
which was the 26th, I found a very large tortoise, which was a
treat to me. My food was now regulated thus: I ate a bunch
of raisins for my breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh, or of the '
turtle, broiled, for my dinner (for, to my great misfortune, I had
no vessel to boil or stew anything); and two or three of the
turtles eggs for my supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I worked
daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave: and by degrees
worked it on towards one side, till I came to the outside of the
hill; and made a door, or way out, which came beyond my
fence, or 'wall: and so I came in and out this way. But I was
not perfectly easy at lying so open : for as I had managed my-
self before, I wasin a perfect enclosure, whereas, now Ithought
I lay exposed; and yet I could not perceive that there was any
living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had yet seen
upon the island being a goat.

September 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of
my landing. I cast up the notches on my post, and found I
had been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept
this day as a solemn fast; setting it apart for religious exercise,
prostrating myself on the ground with the most serious humilia-
tion, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging His righteous
judgments upon me, and praying to Him to have mercy on me
through Jesus Christ; and having not tasted the least refresh-
ment for twelve hours, even till the going down of the sun, I
then ate a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed,
finishing the dayas I began it. Ihad all this time obsen'ed no
sabbath-day; for, as I had at first no sense of religion upon
my mind, I had, after some time, omitted to distinguish the
weeks by making a longer notch than ordinary for the sabbath-
day, and so did not really know what any of the days were :
but now, having cast up the days, as above, I found I had been
there a year; so I divided it into weeks, and set apart every
seventh day for a sabbath: though I found, at the end of my
account, I had Inst 9. day or two in my reckoning. A little
after this, my ink beginning to fail me, I contented myself to
use it more sparingly; and to write down only the most re-
markable events of my life, without continuing a daily memo-
randum of other things.

The rainy Season and the dry season began now to appear
regular to me, and I learned to divide them, so as to provide for
them accordingly; but I bought all my experience before Ihad
it; and what I am going to relate was one of the most discou-
raging experiments that I had made at all.

I have mentioned that I had saved a few ears of barley and
rice, which I had so surprisingly found sprung up, asI thought,
of themselves. I believe there were about thirty stalks of
rice, and about twenty of barley; and now I thought it a
proper time to sow after the rains; the sun being in its
southern position, going from me. Accordingly, I dug a piece
of ground, as well as I could, with my wooden spade; and,
dividing it into two parts, lsowed my grain: but, as Iwas
sowing it, it casually occurred to my thoughts, that I would
not sow it all at first, because I did not know when was the
proper time for it; so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed,
leaving about a handful of each; and it was a great comfort
to me, afterwards, that I did so, for not one grain of what
lsowed this time came to anything: for the dry month fol-
lowing, and the earth having thus had no rain after the seed
was sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth, and never
mime up at all till the wet season had come again, and then it
grew as if it had been but newly sown. Finding my first seed
did not grow, which I easily imagined was from the drought,
Isought for a moister piece of ground to make another trial
in; and I dug up a piece of ground near my new bower, and
sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little before the
vernal equinox. This, having the rainy months of March and
April to water it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a
very good crop, but, having only part of the seed left, and,
not daring to sow all that I had, I got but a small quantity at
last, my whole crop not amounting to above half a peck of
each kind. But by this experiment I was made master of my
business, and knew exactly when was the proper time to sow:
and that I might expect two seed times, and two harvests,
every year.

\Vhile this corn was growing, I made a little discovery,
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains
were over, and the weather began to settle, which was about
the month of November, I made a visit up the country to my
bower; where, though I had not been some months, yet I
found all things just as I left them. The circle or double
hedge that I had made was not only firm and entire, but the
stakes which Ihad cut out of some trees that grew there-
abouts, were all shot out and grown with long branches, as

much as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year afterglopping
E .
its head; but I could not tell what tree to call it that these
stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well
pleased, to see the young trees grow: and I pruned them, and
led them to grow as much alike as I could; and it is scarce
credible how beautiful a figure they grew into in three years:
so that, though the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five
yards in diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now call
them, soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufficient
to lodge under all the dry season. This made me resolve to
cut some more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in a
semicircle, round my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling),
which I did: and placing the trees or stakes in a double row,
at about eight yards' distance from my first fence, they grew
presently; and Were at first a fine cover to my habitation, and
afterwards served for a defence also, as I shall observe in its
order.

I found now that the seasons of the year might generally be
divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe ; but into
the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, which were generally
thus; from the middle of February to the middle of April,
rainy; the sun being then on, or near, the equinox. From
the middle of April till the middle of August, dry; the sun
being then north of the Line. From the middle of August
till the middle of October, rainy; the sun being then come
back to the Line. From the middle of October till the middle
of February, dry ; the sun being then to the south of the Line.

The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes
shorter, as the winds happened to blow; but this was the
general observation I made. After I had found, by experience,
the ill consequences of being abroad in the rain, I took care to
furnish myself with provisions beforehand, that I might not
be obliged to go out: and I sat within doors as much as pos-
sible during the wet menths. This time I found much employ-
ment, and very suitable, also, to the time; for I found great
occasion for many things which I had no way to furnish
myself with, but by hard labour and constant application;
particularly, I tried many ways to make myself a basket: but
all the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so brittle, that
they would do nothing. It proved of excellent advantage to
me now, that, when I was a boy, I used to take great delight
in standing at a basket-maker's in the town where my father
lived, to see them make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys
usually are, very oficious to help, and a great observer of the
manner how they worked those things, and sometimes lending
a hand, I had, by these means, full knowledge of the methods
of it, so that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it
came into my mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence
I cut my stakes that grew, might possibly be as tough as the
sallows, willows, and osiers, in England; and I resolved to try.
Accordingly, the next day I went to my country hdiise, as I
called it; and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them
to my purpose as much as I could desire: whereupon I came
the next day prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity,
which I soon found, for there was great plenty of them.
These I set up to dry within my circle or hedge; and when
they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave; and here,
during the next season, I employed myself in making, as well
as I could, several baskets; both to carry earth, or to carry,
or lay up, anything, as I had occasion for. Though I did not
finish them very handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently
serviceable for my purpose; and thus, afterwards, I took care
never to be without them; and, as my wicker-ware decayed,
I made more; especially strong deep baskets, to place my
com in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any
quantity of it.

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of
time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possrble, how to
supply two other wants. I had no vessel to hold anything
that was liquid, except two runlets, which were almost full of
rum: and some glass bottles, some of the common size, and
others (which were case bottles) square, for the holding of
water, spirits, &c. I had not so much as a pot to boil any~
thing; except a great kettle which I saved out of the ship,
and which was too big for such use as I desired it, viz., to make
broth, and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing
I would fain have had, was a tobacco-pipe; but it was impos~
sible for me to make one; however, I found a contrivance for
that, too, at last. I employed myself in planting my second
row of stakes, or piles, and also, in this wicker-working, all
the summer, or dry season; when anpther business took me
up more time than it could be imagined I could spare.

mm>>o~ a--

CHAP'I'ER XIIl.'

ANOTHER EXCURSION 1'0 2.ku m "0--?3000838 A PARROT--PS0838
HIMSELF--P80013358 A KID. WHICH BB BRINGS UP nus--name KOBE-
SECOND ANNIVERSARY--CAUSE F08 THAXKI-'Ulm

I MENTIONED before, that I had a great mind to see the whole
island; and that I had travelled up the brook, and so on to
where I had built my bower, and where I had an opening quite
to the sea, on the other side of the island. I now resolved to
travel quite across to the sea-shore, on that side: 30, taking
my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder
and shot than usual ; with two biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch
of raisins, in my uch, for my store, I began my journey.
When I had the vale where my bower stood, as above,
Ioame within view of the sea, to the west, and, it being a
very clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an island, or
continent, I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending
from W. to W.S.W. at a very great distance: by my guess, it
could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

I could not tell what part of the world this might be: other-
wise than that I knew it must be part of America: and, as
I concluded, by all my observations, must be near the Spanish
dominions; and rha was all inhabited by savages, where,
if I should have nd I had been in a worse condition than
I was now. I therefore acquiesced in the dispositions of
Providence, which I began now to own, and to believe, ordered
everything for the best; I say I quieted my mind with this,
31nd left ofl' afliicting myself with fruitless wishes of being
t ere.

Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered,
that, if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly,
one time or other, see some vessel pass, or repass, one way or
other; but, if not, then it was the savage coast between the
Spanish country and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed
the worst of savages; for they are cannibals, or men-eaters,
and fail not to murder and devour all human beings that fall
into their hands.

With these considerations, walking very leisurely forward,
I found this side of the island, where I now was, much
pleasanter than mine; the open, or savannah fields, sweetly
adorned with flowers and grass, and full of very fine wmds.
I saw. abundance of parrots; and fain would have caught one,
if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak
to me. I did, after ' g some pains, catch a young parrot;
for I knocked it down with a stick, and having recovered it,
I brought it home; but it was some years before I could make
him speak; however, at last I taught him to call me by my
name very familiarly. But the accident that followed, though
it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.

I was exceedingly amused with this journey. I found in
the low grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes;
but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I had met
with; nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed
several. But I had no need to be venturous; for I had no
want of food, and of that which was very good too; especially
these three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise.
With these, added to my grapes, Leadenhall-market could not
have furnished a table better than I, in proportion to the
company; and though my case was deplorable enough, yeta
/

nonmsox 0311802. 85

I had great cause for thankfulness; as I was not driven to any
extremities for food, but had rather plenty, even to dainties.
fever travelled, on this journey, above two miles outright
" a day, or thereabout; but I took so many turns and returns,
to see what discoveries I could make, that I came weary
enough to the place whereI resolved to sit down for the night;
and then I either reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded
myself with a row of stakes, set upright in the ground, either
from one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could come
at me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see
that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island:
for here, indeed, the shore was covered with innumerable
turtles; whereas, on the other side, I had found but three in a
year and a half. Here was, also, an infinite number of fowls
of many kinds; some of which I had seen, and some of which
I had not seen before, and many of them very good meat; but
such as I knew not the names of, except those called penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot; and therefore had more mind
to kill a she--goat, if I could, which I could better feed on.
But though there were many goats here more than on mum
of the island, yet it was with much more dificultithat I could
come near them; the country being flatahdeyeiand they saw
me much sooner than when I was uponiihill'.'

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than
mine: yet I had not the least inclination to remove; for, as
I was fixed in my habitation, it became natural to me, and I
seemed all the while I was here to be, as it were, upon a
journey, and from home. However, I travelled along the sea-
shore, towards the east, I suppose about twelve miles; and,
then, setting up a great pole upon the shore, for a mark, I con-
cluded I would go home again; and that the next journey
I took should be on the other side of the island, east from my
dwelling, and so round till I came to my post again: of which
in its place.

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking
I could easily kee so much of the island in my view, that I
could not miss nding my first dwelling by viewing the
country: but I found myself mistaken; for, being come about
two or three miles, I found myself descended into a very large
valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those bills covered
with wood, that I could not see which was my way, by any
direction, but that of the sun, nor even then unless I knew
very well the position of the sun at that time of the day.
And it happened, to my farther misfortune, that the weather
proved hazy for three or four days while I was in this valley;
and, not being able to see the sun, I wandered about very un-
comfortable, and, at last, was obhged to find out the sea-side,
look for my post, and come back the same way I went; and
then, by easy journeys, 1 turned homeward, the weather being
exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other
things, very heavy.

. In this journey, my dog surprised a young kid, and seized
upon it; and running to take hold of it, I caught it, and saved
it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if
I could; for I had often been musing, whether it might not be
possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame goats,
which might supply me when my powder and shot should be
all spent. I made a collar for this little creature, and with a
string which I had made of some rape-yarn, which I always
carried about me,I led him along, though with some difficulty,
till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed him, and left
him; for I was very impatient to be at home, from whence I
had been absent above a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come
into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-bed. This
little wandering journey, without a settled place of abode, had
been so unpleasant to me, that my own house, as I called it to
myself, was a perfect settlement to me, compared to that; and
it rendered everything about me so comfortable, that I re-
solved I would never go a great way from it again, while it
should be my lot to stay on the island.

I reposed myself here a Week, to rest and regale myself
after my long journey: during which, most of the time was
taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my Poll,
who began now to be more domestic, and to be mighty well
acquainted with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid
which I had penned within my little circle, and resolved to
fetch it home, or give it some food: accordingly I went, and
found it where I left it (for indeed it could not vet out), but was
almost starved for want of food. I went and cut boughs of
trees, and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and threw
it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it
away: but it was so tame with being hungry, that I had no
need to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog: and as
I continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so gentle,
and so fond, that it was, from that time, one of my domestics
also, and would never leave me afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come,
and I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner
as before, being the anniversary of my landing on the island;
having now been there two years, and no more prospect of
being delivered than the first day I came there. I spent the
whole day in humble and thankful acknowledgments for the
many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was
attended with, and without which it might have been infinitely
more miserable. I gave humble and hearty thanks to God for
having been pleased to discover to me, that it was possible
I might be more happy, even in this solitary condition, than
I should have been in the enjoyment of society, and in all

the pleasures of the world; that He could fully make up to '

me the deficiencies of my solitary state, and the want of human
society, by His presence, and the communications of His grace
to my soul: supportinrr, comforting, and encouraging me to
depend upon His provi encc here, and to hope for His eternal
presence hereafter.

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more
happy the life I now led was, with all its miserable circum-
stances, than the wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the
past part of my days: and now I changed both my sorrows
and my joys; my very desires altered, my affections changed
their guests, and my delights were perfectly new, from what
they were at my first coming, or indeed, for the two years

1:.

pasBefore, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for view-
ing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition would
break out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart would die
within me to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts
I was in; and how I was a prisoner, locked up with eternal
bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, with-
out redemption. In the midst of the test composures of
my mind, this would break out upon me ike a storm, and make
me wring my hands, and weep like a child; sometimes it would
take me in the middle of my work, and I would immediately
sit down and sigh, and look upon the ground for an hour or
two together: this was still worse to me; but if I could burst
into tears, or give vent to my feelings by words, it would go off,
and my grief, being exhausted, would abate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts;
I daily read the word of God, and applied all the comforts of
it to my present state. One morning ing very sad, I Opened
the Bible upon these words, "I will never, never leave thee,
nor forsake thee :" immediately it occurred that these words
were to me ; why else should they be directed in such a manner,
just at the moment when I was mourning over my condition,
as one forsaken of God and man? " Well, then," said I, "if
God does not forsake me, of what ill consequence can it be, or
what matters it, though the world should forsake me; seeing,
on the other hand, if I had all the world, and should lose the
favour and blessing of God, there would be no comparison
in the loss '2" '

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it
was possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken, solitary
condition than it was probable I should ever have been in any
other particular state in the world; and, with this thought,
I was going to give thanks to God for bringing me to this place.
I know not what it was, but something sohocked my mind at
that thought, and I durst not 8 k the words. " How canst
thou be such a hypocrite," sai I, even audibly, "to pretend
to be thankful for a condition, which, however thou mayst
endeavour to be contented with, thou wouldst rather pray
heartily to be delivered from?" Here I stopped: but, though
I could not say I thanked God for being here, yet I sinceme
gave thanks to God for Opening my eyes, by whatever amicting
providences, to see the former condition of my life, and to
mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I never opened the
Bible, or shut it, but my very soul within me blessed God for
directing my friend in England, without any order of mine, to
pack it up among my goods; and for assisting me afterwards
to save it out of the wreck of the ship.

CHAPTER XIV.

NXIEXCEXEX'I' OF HIS THIRD fun--Dn'rsros 0P TIXE~LANBIOUSNES 0!" R18
WORK--DEFICULTII'S IN RAISIXG COM--AND I2! MAKING Bum--mur--
OVEN.

Ear Tans, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year;
a}; and though I have not given the reader the trouble of so
icular an account of my works this year as the first, yet,

-'-1n general, it may be observed, that I was very seldom idle;

but, having regularly divided my time, according to the several

daily em loyments that were before me; such as, first, My

duty to od; and the reading the Scriptures, which I con-

stantly set apart some time for, thrice every day: secondly,

Going abroad with my gun for food, which generally took me

up three hours every morning when it did not rain: thirdly,

Ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed,

or catched, for my supply: these took up great part of the

day; also, it is to be considered, that, in the middle of the day,
when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of the heat was
too great to stir out; so that about four hours in the evening
was all the time I could be supposed to work in; with this
exception, that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and
working, and went to work in the morning, and abroad with
my gun in the afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added,
the exceeding laboriousness of my work; the many hours
which, for want of tools, want of help, and want of skill,
everything I did took up out of my time: for example, I was
full two-and-forty days makinc me a board for a long shelf,
which I wanted in my cave; w ereas two sawyers, with their
tools and a saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of the same
tree in half a day.

My case was this: it was a large tree which was to be cut
down, because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I
was three days cutting down, and two more in cutting off the
boughs, and reducing it to a log, or iece of timber. With
inexpressible hacking and hewing, I need both the sides of
it into chips, till it was light enough to move; then I turned
it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a board, from end
to end ; then, turning that side downward, cut the other side,
till I brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and
smooth on both sides. Any one may judge the labour of my
hands in such a piece of work; but labour and patience carried
me through that, and many other things: I only observe this
in particular, to show the reason why so much of my time
went away with so little work, viz., that what might be a little
to be done with help and tools, was a vast labour, and required
a prodigious time, to do alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding
this, with patience and labour, I went through many things;
and, indeed, everything that my circumstances made necessary
for me to do, as will appear by what follows.

I was new, in the months of November and December,
expecting my crap of barley and rice. The ground I had
manured, or dug up, for them was not great; for, as Iobserved,
my seed of each was not above the quantity of half a peck,
having lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season : but
now my crop promised very well; when, on a sudden, I found
I was in danger of losing it all again by enemies of several
sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it; as, first,
the goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who, tasting
the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as
it came up, and ate it so close, that it could get no time to
shoot up into stalk.

I saw no remedy for this, but by making an enclosure about
it with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil; and the
more because it required speed. However, as my arable land
was but small, suited to my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced
in about three weeks' time: and shooting some of the creatures
in the daytime, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying
him u to a stake at the gate, where he would stand, and bark
all ni t long; so in a little time the enemies forsook the place,
and 0 corn grew very strong and well, and began to ripen
a .

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in
the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it
was in the ear : for, going along by the place to see how it
throve, I saw my little crop surrounded with fowls, I know not
of how many sorts, who stood, as it were, watching till I should
be gone. I immediately let fly among them (for I always had
my gun with me): I had no sooner shot, but there rose up a
little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among
the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that, in a few days,
they would devour all my hopes; that I should be starved, and
never able to raise a crop at all; and what to do I could not
tell : however, I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though
I should watch it night and day. In the first place, I went
among it to see what damage was already done, and found
they had spoiled a good deal of it; but that, as it was yet too
green for them, the loss was not so great, but that the remainder
was likely to be a good crep, if it could be saved.

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I could
easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if
they only waited till I was gone away; and the event proved
it to be so: for, as I walked ofl', as if gone, I was no sooner out
of their sight, than they dropped down, one by one, into the
corn again. I was so provoked that I could not have patience
to stay till more came on, knowing that every grain they ate
now was, as it might be said, a peck-loaf to me in the conse-

uence; so, coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and killed
ee of them. This was what I wished for; so I took them
up, and served them as we serve notorious thieves in England,
viz., hanged them in chains, for a terror to others. It is impos-
sible to imagine that this should have such an effect as it had ,
for the fowls not only never came to the corn, but, in short,
they forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see
a bird near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there.
This [was very glad of, you may be sure; and about the latter
end of December, which was our second harvest of the year,
I reaped my com.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe, or sickle, to cut it down ;
and all I could do was to make one as well as I could out of
one of the broad-swords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the
arms out of the ship. However, as my first cr0p was but small,
I had no great difliculty to cut it down: in short, I reaped it
my way, for I cut nothing 06' but the ears, and carried it away
in a great basket which I had made, and so 'rubbed it out with
my hands; and, at the end of all my harvesting, I found that,
out of my half-peck of seed, I had near two bushels of rice,
and above two bushels and a half of barley; this is to say, by
my guess, for I had no measure.

However, this was great encouragement to me; and I fore-
saw that, in time, it would please God to supply me with
bread; and yet here I was perplexed again; for I neither
knew how to grind, or make meal of my corn, or, indeed, how
to clean it and part it; nor, if made into meal, how to make
bread of it; and, if how to make it, yet Iknew not how to
bake it: these things being added to my desire of having a
good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all for
seed against the next season; and in the mean time, to employ
all my study and hours of working to accomplish this great
work of providing myself with corn and bread.

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It
is a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have'
thought much upon, viz., the strange multitude of little things
necessary in the providing, producing, curing, dressing, making,
and finishing, this one article of bread.

I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to
my daily discouragement, and was made more sensible of it
every hour, even after I had got the first handful of seed-corn,
which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a

- su .rise.

first, Ihad no plough to turn up the earth: no spade or
shovel to dig it: well, this I conquered, by making a wooden
spade, as I observed before; but this did my work in but a
wooden manner; and though it cost me a great many days to
make it, yet for want of iron, it not only wore out the sooner,
but made my work the harder, and performed it much worse.
However, this 1 bore with, and was content to work it out with
patience, and bear with the badness of the performance. When
the corn was sowed I had no barrow, but was forced to go over
it myself, and drag a great heavy bough of a. tree over it, to
scratch it, as it may be called, rather than rake, or barrow it.
When it was growing and grown, I have observed already how
many things I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow, or reap it,
cure and carry it home, thresh, part it from the chafi', and save
it: then I wanted a mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast
and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it; and
yet all these things I did without, as shall be observed; and
the corn was an inestimable comfort and advantage to me : all
this, as I said, made everything laborious and tedious to me,
but that there was no help for ; neither was my time so much
loss-to me, because, as I had divided it, a certain part of it was
every day appointed to these works: and, as I resolved to use
none of the corn for bread, till I had a greater quantity by me,
I had the next six months to apply myself wholly, by labour
and invention, to furnish myself with utensils pr0per for the
performing all the operations necessary for making corn fit for
my use.

But now I was to prepare more land ; for I had seed enough
to sow above an acre of ground. Beforel did this, Ihad a
week's work at least to make me a s ade; which, when it was
done, was but a sorry one indeed, an very heavy, and required
double labour to work with it; however, I went through that,
and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as near
my house as I could find them to my mind, and fenced them in
with a good hedge; the stakes of which were all cut off that
wood which I had set before, and knew it would grow; so
that, in one year's time, I knew I should have a quick, or
living, hedge, that would want but little repair. This work
took me up full three months, because a great part of the
time was in the wet season, when I could not go abroad.
Within doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not go out,
I found employment on the following occasions: always ob-
serving, that, while I was at work, I diverted myself with
talking to my parrot, and teaching him to speak ; and I quickly
taught him to know his own name, and at last to speak it out
pretty loud, POLL; which was the first word I ever heard
spoken in the island by any mouth but my own. This, there-
fore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work; for now,
as I said, 1 had a great employment upon my hands, as fol-
lows: I had long studied, by some means or other, to make
myself some earthen vessels, which, indeed, I wanted much,
but knew not where to come at them; however, considering
the heat of the climate, I did not doubt, but, if I could find
out any clay, I might botch up some such t as might, being
dried in the sun, be hard and strong enoug to bear handling,
and to hold anything that was dry, and required to be kept
so; and as this was-necessary in the preparing corn, meal, &c.,
which was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as
large as I could, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what
should be ut into them.

It woul make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to
tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this pastil; what
odd, misshapen, ugly things I made; how many of them fell
in, and how many fell out, the clay not being stifi' enough to
bear its own weight; how many cracked by the over-violent
heat of the sun, being set out too hastily; and how many fell
in pieces with only removing, as well before, as after, they were
dried: and, in a word, how, after having laboured hard to find
the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work it,
I could not make above two large earthen ugly things(I cannot
call them jars) in about two months' labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I
lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in two
great wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for them,
that they might not break; and as, between the pot and the
basket, there was a little room to spare, I stufi'ed it full of the
 

rice and barley straw; and these two pots being to stand always
dry, I thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal,
when the corn was bruised. .

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots,
yet I made several smaller things with better success; such
as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and any-
thing my hand turned to; and the heat of the sun baked them
very hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an
earthen pot to hold liquids, and bear the fire, which none of
these could do. It happened, some time after, making a pretty
large fire for cooking my meat, when I went to put it out, after
I had done with it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthen-
ware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as
a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it; and said to myself,
that certainly they might be made to burn whole, if they would
burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it
burn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters
burn in, or of glazing them with lead, though I had some lead
to do it with; but I placed three large pi kins, and two or
three pots, in a pile, one upon another, an placed my fire-
wood all around it, with a great heap of embers under them.
I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and u n the
top, till I saw the pots, in the inside, red-hot quite t rough,
and observed that they did not crack at all: when I saw them
clear red, I let them stand in that heat above five or six hours,
till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or
run; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by
the violence of the heat, and would have run into glass if I had
gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till the pots be
to abate of the red colour; and, watching them all night, t t
I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning I had
three ve good, I will not say handsome, pipkins, and two
other ea en pots, as hard burnt as could be desired; and one
of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort
of earthenware for my use; but I must needs say, as to the
shapes of them, they were verilnindifl'erent, as any one may
suppose, as I had no way of ma ' g them, but as the chilan
make dirt pies, or as a woman would make pies, that never
learned to raise paste. '

No joy, at a thing of so mean a nature, was ever equal to
mine, when I found I had made an earthen pet that would beat
the fire; and I had hardly .patience to stay till they were cold,
before I set one on the fire again, with some water in it, to boil
me some meat, which it did admirably well; and, with a piece
of kid, I made some very good broth; though I wanted oat-

f"
meal, and several other ingredients requisite tomake it so good
as I would have had it been.

My next concern was to get a stone mortar, 'to stamp,_or
beat some corn in; for, as to the mill, there was no thought
of arriving to that perfection of art with one pair of hands.
To supply this want, I was at a great loss; for, of all trades in
the world, I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter, as
for any whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it with.
I spent many a day to find out a great stone big enough to
cut hollow,'and make fit for a mortar; but could find none at
all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I had no
way to dig or cut out; nor, indeed, were the rocks in the
island of sufiicient hardness, as they were all of a sandy,
crumbling stone, which would neither bear the weight of a
heavy pestle, nor would break the corn without filling it with
sand; so, after a great deal of time lost in searching for a
stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out a great block of
hard wood, which I found, indeed, much easier: and, getting
one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed
it on the outside with my axe and hatchet; and then, with the
help of fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow place in it, as
the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a
great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called iron-wood;
and this I prepared, and laid by, against I had my next crop of
corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or, rather, pound my
corn into meal, to make my bread.'

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or search, to dress
my meal, and to part it from the bran and the husk, without
which I did not see it possible I could have any bread. This
was a most diflicult thing, even but to think on; for I had
nothing like the necessary thing to make it; 1 mean fine thin
canvas, or stufi', to search the meal through. Here I was at a
full stop for many months; nor did I really know what to do;
linen I had none left, but what was mere rags; I had goats'-
hair, but neither knew how to weave it nor spin it; and, had
I known how, here were no tools to work it with: all the
remedy I found for this was at last recollecting I had, among
the seamen's clothes which were saved out of the ship, some
neckcloths of calico, or muslin; with some pieces of these I
made three small sieves, proper enough for the work: and

' This was one ancient method of preparing corn. Solomon says (Prowrbs
xxvll. 22). " Though thou shortlist bray a fool in a mortar amongst wheat with a
path. yet will not his foolishness depart from him." Hence it was called lunged
corn. or bread com. and thence what was msde' from the produce was called
simply bread. This isa "practice still used a: Scotland, in respect to barley to

in put into soups, where you may often see at the door of a cottage s large
square "with a semicircular, or conical. hole in it, called a knocking-stone."
(See an sassy on the Agriculture of the Israelites, in The Investigator. No. IL.

vol. L. p. m
 

thus I made shift for some years: how I did afterwards, I shall
show in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and
how I should make bread when I came to have corn; for, first,
I had no yeast; as to that part, there was no supplying the
want, so I did not concern myself much about it; but, for an
oven I was indeed puzzled. At length I found out an ex-
pedient for that also, which was this; I made some earthen
vessels, very broad, but not deep, that is to say, about two feet
diameter, and not above nine inches deep: these I burned in
the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by; and, when
I wanted to bake, I made a great lire upon my hearth, which I
had paved with some square tiles, of my own making and burn-
ing also; but I should not call them square.

When the fire-wood was burned into embers, or live coals, I
drew them forward upon the hearth, so as to cover it all over,
and there let them lie till the hearth was very hot; then, sweep--
ing away all the embers, I set down my loaf or loaves, and
covering them with the earthen pot, drew the embers all round
the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the heat;~and
thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
barley loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastry-cook
into the bargain; for 1 made myself several cakes and puddings
of the same; and made no pies, as I had nothing to put into
them, except the flesh of fowls or goats.

It need not be wondered at; if all these things took me up
most part of the third year of my abode here ; for it is to be
observed, in the intervals of these things, I had my new harvest
and husbandry to manage: I reaped my corn in its season, and
carried it home as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear in
my large basket, till I had time to rub it out; for I had no
floor to thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it with.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, 1 really wanted
to build my barns bigger: I wanted a place to lay it up in ; for
the increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that I had of
the barley about twenty bushels, and of rice as much, or more,
insomuch that now I resolved to begin to use it freely; for my
bread had been quite gone a great while: I resolved, also, to
see what quantity would be sufficient for me a whole year, and
to sow but once a year. ,

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and
' rice were much more than I could consume in a year: so I re-
solved to sow just the same quantity every year that I sowed
the last, in hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me

with bread, 6w.
CHAPTER XV .

PWECI'S l-'OB warms--run $111195 NAT--CANOB--FOI'MH AXNWEBSLBT--
"SMIONS ON HIS WNDITIOS--PAILUBE OF HIS INK--AND BISCUIT--AXE
owl'HB--MAKES NEW CLOTHES 0P SKINS.

ALL the while these things were doing, you may be sure my
thoughts ran many times 11 n the prospect of land, which I
had seen from the other si e of the island; and I was not .
without some secret wishes that I was on shore there; faucying,
that, seeing the mainland, and an inhabited country, I might
find some way or other to convey myself farther, and, perhaps,
at last find some means of escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of
such a condition, and that I might fall into the hands of
savages, and, perhaps, such as I might have reason to think
far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa; that if I once
me in their power, 'I should run hazard of more than a
thousand to one of being killed, and, rhaps, of being eaten;
for I had heard that the people of PS2 Caribbean coast were
mnnibals, or man-eaters; and I knew, by the latitude, that 1
could not be far 011' from that shore. Then, supposing they
were not cannibals, yet that they might kill me, as they had
many Europeans who had fallen into their hands, even when
they had been ten or twenty together; much more I, who was
but one, and could make little or no defence; all these things,
I say, which I ought to have considered well of, and did cast
up in my thoughts afterwards, took up none of my apprehen-
sions at first; yet my head ran mightily upon the thought of
getting over to the shore.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat, with the
shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand
miles on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain; then I
thought I would go and look at our ship's boat. which, as I
have said, was blown up upon the shore a great way, in the
storm, when we were first cast away. She lay nearly where
she did at first, but not quite; having turned, by the force of
the waves and the winds, almost bottom upward, against a high
ridge of beachy rough sand ; but no water about her, as before.
If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have launched
her into the water, the boat would have done very well, and I
might have gone back into the Brazils with her easily enough;
but I might have foreseen, that I could no more turn her, and
set her upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the
ialan ' however, I went to the woods, and cut levers and
roll brought them to-the boat, resolving to try what
I oo ' "suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn her
down, and repair the damage she had received, she would be a
very good boat, and I might venture to sea in her.

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil, and
spent, 1 think, three or four weeks about it: at last, finding it
impossible to heave her up with my little strength, I fell to
digging away the sand, to undermine her, and so, to make her
fall down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right
in the fall.

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir her up again,
or to get under her, much less to move her forward towards
the water; so I was forced to give it over; and yet, though I
gave over the hopes of the boat, my desire to venture over the
main increased, rather than diminished, as the means for it
seemed impossible.

At length, I began to think whether it was not possible to
make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those
climates make, even without tools, or as I might say, without
hands, of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought
possible, but easy, and pleased myself extremely with the idea
of making it, and with my having much more convenience for
it than any of the negroes, or Indians; but not at all consider-
ing the particular inconveniences which I lay under, more than
the Indians did, viz., the want of hands to move it into the
water when it was made, a difliculty much harder for me to
surmount than all the consequences of want of tools could be
to them: for what could it avail me, if, after I had chosen my
tree, and with much trouble cut it down, and might be able
with my tools to hew and dub the outside into the proper
shape of a boat, and burn, or cut out the inside, to make it
hollow, so as to make a boat of it; if, after all this, I must
leave it just where I found it, and was not able to launch it
into the water.

One would imagine, if I had had the least reflection upon
my mind of my circumstances, while I was making this boat,
I should have immediately thought how I was to get it into
the sea; but my thoughts Were so intent upon my voyage in
it, that I never once considered how I should get it off the
land; and it was really in its own nature more easy for me to
guide it over forty-five miles of sea, than the forty-five fathoms
of land, where it lay, to set it afloat in the water.

1 went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever
man did who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself
with the design, without determining whether I was able to
undertake it; not but that the difficulty of launching my boat
came often' into my head; but I put a stop to my own in-'
quiries into it, by this foolish answer: Let usfirst mak '
This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of
my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar-tree,
and I question much, Whether Solomon ever had such a one for
the building of the Temple at Jerusalem; it was five feet ten
inches diameter at the lower part next the stump, and four feet
eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty~two feet, where it
lessmied, and then parted into branches. It was not without
infinite labour that I felled this tree; I was twenty days back-
ing and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen more getting the
branches and limbs and the vast spreading head of it cut 03;
after this it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a pro-
portion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it
might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three
months more to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make
an exact boat of it: this Idid indeed without fire, by mere

 

mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I had
brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough to
have carried six-and~twenty men, and consequently big enough
to have carried me and all my wrgo.

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely de-
lighted with it. The boat was really much bigger than ever I
saw a canoe or periagua that was made of one tree, in my life.
Man >> eary stroke it had cost, you may be sure; and there

remain othing but to get it into the water; which, had]
"1,. fl
accomplished, I make no question but I should have begun the
maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be performed, that
ever was undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me; though
they cost me inexpressible labour too. It lay about one
hundred yards from the water, and not more ; but the first in-
convenience was, it was up hill towards the creek. Well, to
take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the sur-
face of the earth and so make a declivity; this I began, and
it cost me a prodigious deal of pains; but who grudge pains
that have their deliverance in view? When this was worked
through, and this difficulty managed, it was still much the
same, {or I could no more stir the canoe than I could the other
boat. Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved
to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe,
seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well,
I began this work; and when I began to enter upon it, and
calculate how deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff
was to be thrown out, I found by the number of hands I had,
having none but my own, that it must have been ten or twelve
years before I could have gone through with it; for the shore
lay so high, that at the upper end it must have been at least
twenty feet deep; this attempt, though with great reluctancy,
I was at length obliged to give over also.

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too

--~late~,~--~the--ifolly..cf_beginning_a_wnnk..before we muntJhemsL--_
andhbefore we judge rightly of our OWn strength to go through
wit it.

In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth year in this
place, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and
with as much comfort, as before; for by constant study and
serious application to the Word of God, and by the assistance
of His grace, I gained a difl'erent knowledge from what I had
before; I entertained different notions of things; I looked
now u n the world as a thing remote, which I had nothing to
do with? no expectation from, and, indeed, no desires about : in
a word, I had nothing to do with it, nor was ever likely to
have; I thought it looked, as we may perhaps look upon it
hereafter, viz., as a place I had lived in, but was come out of it;
and well might I say, as father Abraham to Dives, " Between
me and thee is a great gulf fixed."

In the first place Iwas here removed from all the wickedness
of the world; I had neither "the lust of the flesh, the lust of
the eye, nor the pride of life." I had nothing to covet, for I
had all that I was now capable of enjoying: I was lord of the.
whole manor: or, if I pleased, I might call myselfjring, or
emperor, over the whole country which I had , '_ n of ;
there were no rivals; I had no competitor, none WZdispute

I100 summers on

sovereignty, or command, with me ;* I might have raised
ship-loadings of corn, but I had no use for it; so I let as little
grow as I thought enough for my occasion. I had tortoise or
turtle enough, but, now and then, one was as much as I could
put to any use : I had timber enough to have built a fleet of
ships : and I had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have
cured into raisins, to have loaded that fleet, when it had been
built. .

But all I could make use of was all that was valuable ; I had
enough to wit and supply my wants, and what was the rest to
me ? If I killed more flesh than I could eat, the dog must eat
it, or vermin; if I sowed more corn than I could eat, it must
be spoiled; the trees that I cut down were lying to rot on the
ground: 1 could make no more use of them than for fuel, and
that I had no other occasion for but to dress my food.

In a word, the nature and experience of things dictated to
me, upon just reflection, that all the good things of this world
are of no farther good to us than for our use; and that what-
ever we may heap up to give others, we enjoy only as much as
we can use, and no more. The most covetous, griping miser
in the world would have been cured of the vice of oovetousness,
if he had been in my case; for I possessed infinitely more than
I knew what to do with. I had no room for desire, except it
was for things which I had not, and they were comparatively
but trifles, though, indeed, of great use to me. I had, as I
hinted before, a parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about
thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas! there the nasty, sorry,
useless stufl' lay: I had no manner of business for it; and I
often thought within myself, that I would have given a handful
of it for a gross of tobacco pipes, or for a handmill to grind
my oorn: nay, Iwould have given it all for six pennyworth
of turnip and carrot seed from England, or for a handful of
peas and beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had not the
least advantage by it, or benefit from it: but there it lay in a
drawer, and grew mouldy with the damp of the cave in the wet
seasons; and if I had the drawer full of diamonds, it had
been the same case,---they had been of no manner of value to
me, because of no use.

I had now brought my state of life to be much more com-
fortable in itself than it was at first, and much easier to my
mind, as well as to my body. I frequently sat down to meat
with thankfulness, and admired the hand of God's providence,
which had thus " spread my table in the wilderness :" I
learned to look more on the bright side of my condition,
and less upon the dark side, and to consider what I enjoyed,

' Cowper": line. supposed to have been written by Alexander Selkirk. and
which were; probably, really suggested by the Adventures of Robinson Canon,
and by this in parumlar, may be read with great advantage here. See
the end of Preface.'

D
aosmsox causon. 10] '

rather than what I wanted: and this gave me sometimes sudii';
secret comforts, that I cannot express them; and whichI take '
notice of here, to l at those discontented people in mind of it,
who cannot enjoy comfortably what God has given them,
because they see and covet something that He has not given
them. All our discontents about what we want appeared to
me to spring from the want of thankfulness for what we have.

Another reflection was of great use to me, and doubtless
would be so to any one that should fall into such distress as
mine was: and this was, to compare my present condition with
what I at first expected it would be ; nay, with what it would
certainly have been, if the good providence of God had not
wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up near to the shore,
where I could not only come at her, but could bring what I got
out of her to the shore, for my relief and comfort; without
which I had wanted for tools to work, weapons for defence,
and gunpowder and shot for getting my food.

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing
to myself, in the most lively colours, how I must have acted
if I had got nothing out of the shi . I could not have so
much as got any food, except fish an turtles; and that, as it
was long before I found any of them, I must have perished ;
that I should have lived, if I had not perished, like a mere
sav e ; that, if I had killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance,
I hfi no way to flay or open it, or part the flesh from the skin
and the bowels, or to cut it up: but must gnaw it with my
teeth, and pull it with my claws like a beast.

These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of
Providence to me, and very thankful for my present condition,
with all its hardships and misfortunes: and this part, also,
I cannot but recommend to the reflection of those who are
apt, in their misery, to say, " Is any affliction like mine ?"
Let them consider how much worse the cases of some people
are, and their case might have been, if Providence had thought
fit.

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to comfort
my mind with hopes; and this was, comparing my present
condition with what I had deserved, and had therefore reason
to expect, from the hand of Providence. I had lived adreadful
life, perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of God.
I had been well instructed by father and mother; neither had
they been wanting to me in their endeavours to infuse an
early religious awe of God into my mind, a sense of my duty,
and what the nature and end of my being required of me.
But, alas! falling early into the seafaring life, which of all
lives is the most deatitute of the fear of God, though His terrors
are always before them; I say, falling early into the, seafaring
life, and into seafaring company, all that little senselof religion102 awareness or

which I had entertained was laughed out of me by my mess-
mates; by a hardened despising of dangers, and the views of
death, which grew habitual to me; by my long absence from
all manner of opportunities to converse with anything but
what was like myself, or to hear anything that was good, or
tending towards it.

So void was I of everything that was good, or of the least
sense of what I was, or was to be, that, in the greatest deliver-
ances I enjoyed, (such as my escape from Sallee, my being
taken up by the Portuguese master of a ship, my being planted
so well in the Brazils, my receiving the cargo from England,
and the like,) I never had once the words, "thank God," so
much as on my mind, or in my mouth; nor in the greatest
distress had I so much as a thought to pray to Him, or so
much as to say, "Lord, have mercy upon me!" no, nor to
mention the name of God, unless it was to swear by, and
blaspheme it.

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many months,
as I have already observed, on account of my wicked and
hardened life past: and, when I looked about me, and con-
sidered what particular providences had attended me since my
coming into this place, and how God had dealt bountifully with
me,--had not only punished me less than my iniquity had
deserved, but had so plentifully provided for me,--this gave
me great hopes that my repentance was accepted, and that God
had yet mercies ' store for me.

With these re ections, I worked my mind up, not only to a
resignation to the will of God, in the present disposition of my
' circumstances, but even to a sincere thankfulness for my con-
dition; and that I, who was yet a IiVing man, ought not to
complain, seeing I had not the due punishment of my sins;
that I enjoyed so many mercies which I had no reason to have
expected in that place, that I ought never more to repine at my
condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that daily
bread, which nothing but a crowd of wonders could have
brought; and that I could hardly have named a place in the
uninhabitable part of the world where I could have been cast
more to my advantage; a place where, as I had no' society,
which was my affliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous
beasts, no furious wolves, or tigers, to threaten my life; no
venomous or poisonous creatures, which I might feed on to my
hurt; no savages to murder and devour me. In a word, as
my life was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy
another; and I wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort,
but to make myself sensible of Grid's goodness to me, and
care over me in this condition; and after I did make a just

improvement of these things, I went away, and was no more
sad.
I had now been here so long, that many things which I
brought on shore for my help were either quite gone, or very
much wasted and near spent.

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some time, all but
a very little, which I eked out with water, a little and a little,
till it was so pale, it scarce left any appearance of black upon
the paper. As long as it lasted, 1 made use of it to minute
down the days of the month on which any remarkable thing
happened to me : and, first, by casting up times past, I remem-
ber that there was a strange concurrence of days in the various
providences which befel me, and which, if I had been super-
stitiously inclined to observe days, as fatal or fortunate, I
might have had reason to have looked upon with a great deal
of curiosity.

First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away
from my father and my friends, and ran away to Bull, in order
to go to sea, the same day afterwards I was taken by the Sallee
man-of-war, and made a slave; the same day of the year that
I escaped out of the wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads,
that same day-year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee
in the boat: and the same day of the year I was born on, viz.,
the 30th of September, that same day I had my life so miracu-
lously saved twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore
in this island: so that my wicked life and my solitary life
began both on one day.

The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my
bread, I mean the biscuit which I brought out of the ship;
this I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself but
one cake of bread a day for above a year; and yet I was quite
without bread for near a year before I got any corn of my own;
and great reason I had to be thankful that I had any at all,
the getting it being, as has been already observed, next to
miraculous.

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily: as to linen, I had
had none for a great while, except some chequered shirts, which
I found in the chests of the other seamen, and whichlcarefully
preserved, because many times I could bear no clothes on but
a shirt; and it was a very great help to me, that I had among
all the'men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts.
There were, also, indeed, several thick watch-coats of the
seamen which were left, but they were too hot to wear; and
though it is true that the weather was so violently hot that
there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked,
no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was not, nor could
I abide the thought of it, though I was all alone. The reason
why I could not go' quite naked was, I could not beattthe heat
of the sun so well when quite naked as with some clothes on;
nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin: whereas, with104 humans or

a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and whistling
under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No more
could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun
without a cap or hat; the heat of the sun beating with such
violence as it does in that place, would give me the headache
presently, by darting so directly upon my head without a cap
or hat on, so that I could not bear it: whereas, if I put on my
hat, it would presently go away.

Upon these views I began to consider about putting the
few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order: I had
worn out all the waistcoats 1 had, and my business was now
to try if I could not make jackets out of the great watch-coats
that I had by me, and with such other materials as I had; so
I set to work a-tailoring, or rather indeed, a-botching, for
I made most piteous work of it. However, I made shift to
make two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped would serve
me a great while: as for breeches or drawers, I made but a
very sorry shift indeed, till afterwards.

I have mentioned, that I saved the skins of all the creatures
that I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them
up, stretched out with sticks, in the sun, by which means some
of them were so dry and hard that they were fit for little, but
others I found very useful. The first thing I made of these
was a great cap for my head, with the hair on the outside, to
shoot off the rain: and this I performed so well, that, after
this, I made me a suit of clothes wholly of the skins, that is to
say, a waistcoat and breeches, Open at the knees, and both
loose; for they were rather wanting to keep me cool than warm.
I must not omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly
made; for, if I was a bad carpenter, I was a worse tailor.
However, they were such as I made very good shift with; and,
when I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waist-
coat and cap being uppermost, I was kept Very dry.

After this, I spent a great deal of time and pains to make
me an umbrella: I was, indeed, in great want of one, and had
a great mind to make one; 1 had seen them made in the
Brazils, where they were very useful in the great heats which
are there: and I felt the heats every jot as great here, and
greater too, being nearer the equinox: besides, as I was
obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful thing to me,
as well for the rains as the heats. I took a world of pains at
it, and was a great while before I could make anything likely
to hold: nay, after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two
or three before I made one to my mind; but at last I made
one that answered indifl'erently well: the main dificulty I
found was to make it to let down; I could make it spread, but
if it did not let down, too, and draw in, it was not portable for
me any way but just over my head, which would not do. How-
ever, at last, as I said, I made one to answer, and covered it
with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast 03' the rain likes
pent-house, and kept ofi' the sun so efl'ectually that I could
walk out, in the hottest of the weather, with greater advantage
than I could before in the coolest; and, when I had no need of
it, could close it, and carry it under my arm.

CHAPTER XVI.

BIRCNA'HOX 1'0 GOD'S PROVIDWCB--SWXD CANOE--CRUD! 30m 1'!!!
mm--xuuow ESCAPE--RETURN N 313 "WEB--W VOICI

BEARD--POLL.

Time I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely
composed by resigning to the will of God, and throwing myself
wholly upon the disposal of His providence. This made my
life better than sociable, for when began to regret the want of
conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus conversing
mutually with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I may say,
with even God Himself, by ejaculations, was not better than .
the utmost enjoyment of human society in the world?

I cannot say, that after this, for five years, any extraordinary
thing happened to me; but I lived on in the same course, in
the same posture and place, just as before: the chief things I
was employed in, besides my yearly labour of planting my
bmley and rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always
kept u just enough to have suficient stock of one year's pro-
vision heforehand; I say, besides this yearly labour, and my
daily pursuit of going out with my gun, I had one labour, to
make me a canoe, which at last I finished; so that by digging
a canal to it of six feet wide, and four feet dee , I broncht it
into the creek, almost half a mile. As for the rst, whic was
so vastly big, as I made it without considering beforehand, as I
ought to do, how I should be able to launch it, so, never being
able to bring it into the water, or bring the water to it, I was
obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach
me to be wiser the next time; indeed, the next time, though I
could not get a tree proper for it, and was in a place where I
could not et the water to it at any less distance than, as Ihave
said, near half a mile, yet, as I saw it was practicable at last,
I never gave it over: and though I was near two years about
it, yet I never grudged'my labour, in hopes of having at boat to
goofl'toseaatlast. . . 't

However, though my httle periaguawas finished,3 yet. the

o r .
Size of it was not at all answerable to the design which I had
in view when I made the first; I mean of venturing over to
the term fima, where it was above forty miles broad; accord-
ingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that
design, and now I thought no more of it. As I had a beat,
my next design was to make a cruise round the island : form
I had been on the other side in one place, crossing, as I have
already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I made
in that little journey made me very eager to see other parts of
the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but
sailing round the island.

For this purpose, that I might do everything with discretion
and consideration. I fitted up a little mast in my boat, and
made a sail to it, out of some of the pieces of the ship's sails

 

which lay in store, and of which 1 had a great stock by me.
Having fitted my mast and Sail, and tried the boat,l found she
would sail very well: then I made little lockers, or boxes, at
each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries, ammu-
nition, &c., into, to be kept dry, either from rain, or the spray
of the sea: and a little long hollow place I cut m the mSIde of
the boat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang
down over it, to keep it dry.
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast,
to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun ofi' me,
like an awning; and thus I every now and then took a little
voyage upon the sea, but never went far out, nor far from the
little creek. At last, being eager to view the circumference of
my little kingdom, Iresolved upon my cruise; and, accordingly,
I victualled my ship for the voyge, putting in two dozen of
loaves,(cakes I should rather call them) of barley bread, an
earthen Est full of parched rice, (a food I ate a good deal of,)
a little ttle of rum, half a goat, and powder and shot for
killing more, and two large watch-coats, of those which, as I
mentioned before, I had saved out of the seamen's chests;
thoze I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in the
nig t.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign,
or my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voy-
age, and I found it much longer than I expected; for though
the island itself was not very large, yet when I came to the
east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two
leagues into the sea, some above water, some under it; and,
beyond that, a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more,
83 that I was obliged to go a great way out to sea, to double
t e int. '

en first I discovered them, 1 was going to give over my
enterprise, and come back again, not knowing how far it might
oblige me to go out to sea, and above all, doubting how I
should get back again: so I came to an anchor: for I had
made me a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken grapnel,
which I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gun, and went on
shore, climbing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook that
point, where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to
venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, l
perceived a strong and indeed a most furious current, which
ran to the east, and even came close to the point: and I took
the more notice of it, because I saw there might be some
danger, that, when I came into it, I might be carried out tosea
by the strength of it, and not be able tomake the island again:
and, indeed, had I not got first upon this hill, I believe it would
have been so; for there was the same current on the other side
the island, only that it set 011' at a farther distance, and I saw

there was a strong eddy under the shore: so I had nothing to '

do but to get out of the first current, and I should presently be
in an eddy. .

I lay here, however, two days, because the wind.blowmg
pretty fresh at E.S.E., and that being just contrary to the
said current, made a great breach of the sea upon the point;_ ok' I".-

108 anvmvrms or

so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the
shore, for the breach, nor to go too far off, because of the
stream. '
The third day in the morning, the wind having abated
overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a
warning-piece again to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no
sooner was I come to the point, when I was not even my
boat's length from the shore, but I found myself in a great
depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a mill; it
carried my boat along with it with such violence, that all I
could do could not keep her so much as on the edge of it; but
I found it hurried me farther and farther out from the eddy,
which was on my left hand. There was no wind stirring to

' help me, and all I could do with my paddles signified nothing;

and, now, I began to give myself over for lost: for, as the
current was on both sides of the island, I knew in a few
leagues' distance, they must join again, and then I was irre-
coverably fix; nor could I see any possibility of avoiding it;
so that I no prospect before me but of perishing, not by'
the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunger.
I had, indeed, found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I
could lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great
jar of fresh water, that is to say, one of my earthen pots; but
what was all this to being driven in the vast ocean, where, to
be sure, there was no shore, no main land, or island, for a
thousand leagues at least!

And now 1 saw how easy it was for the providence of God
to make even the most miserable condition of mankind worse.
Now I looked back upon my desolate, solitary island as the
most pleasant lace in the world; and all the ha piness my
heart could wis for was to be put there again. stretched
out my hands to it, with eager wishes: "0 happy desert!"
said I, "I shall never see thee more. 0 miserable creature!
whither am I going?" Then I reproached myself with my
unthankful temper, and how I had repined at my solitary con.
dition; and now what would I give to be on shore there
again! Thus, we never see the true state of our condition
till it is illustrated to us by its contraries, nor know how to
value what we enjoy but by the want of it. It is scarce pos-
sible to imagine the consternation I was now in, being driven
from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to be) into
the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair of
ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till indeed
my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much
to the northward, that is, towards the side of the current which
the. eddy lay on, as'possibly I could; when about noon, as the
sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of
wind in my face, springing {1p from the S.S.E. This cheered
my heart a little, and, especially, when, in about half an hour
more, it blew a pretty gentle gale. By this time, I was ot at
a frightful distance from the island, and, had the least c oudy
or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone another way
too; for I had no compus on board, and should never have
known how to have steered towards the island, if I had but
once lost sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I ap-
plied myself to get up my mast 'gain, and spread my sail,
standing away to the north as much as possible, to get out of
the current. ,

JustasI had set mymastand sail, and the boat began to
stretch away, I saw, even by the clearness of the water, some
alteration of the current was near; for, where the current was
so strong, the water was foul; but, perceiving the water clear,
I found the current abate, and, presently, I found to the east,
at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks:
these rocks I found caused the current to part again, andas the
main stress of it ran away, more southerly, leaving the rocks
to the north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of the
rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again to the
north-west, with a very sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to -

them upon the ladder, or to be resoued from thieves just
going to murder them, or have been in such-like extremities,
may guess what my present surprise of joy was, and how
gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy; and the
wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, run-
ning cheerfuny before the wind, with a strong tide or eddy
under foot. '

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again,
directly towards the island, but about two leagues more to the
northward than the current which carried me away at first; so
that, when I came near the island, I found myself open to the
northern shore of it, that is to say, the other end of the island,
op its to that which I went out from.

en I had made something more than a league of way by
the help of this current, or edd , I found it was spent, and
served me no farther. However found, that, being between
two great currents, viz., that on the south side, which had
hurried me away, and that on the north, which lay about a
league on the other side; I say, between these two, in the wake
of the island, I found the water at least still, and running no
way; and having still a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on,
steering directly for the island, though not making such fresh
way as I did before. .

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a
league of the island, I found the point of the rocks which 00-
casioned this disaster stretching out, as is described before,,to

' bl"
the southward, and, casting off the current more southerly,
had, of course, made another eddy to the north: and this 1
found very strong, but not directly setting the way my course
lay, which was due west, but almost full north. However,
having a fresh gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting
north-west ; and, in about an hour, came within about a
inilg of the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon get to
an .

When I was on shore I fell on my knees, 'and gave God
thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts
of my deliverance by my boat; and refreshing myself with such
things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore, in a
little cove that I had spied under some trees, and laid me down
to sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the
voyage.

l was now at a great loss which way to get home with my
boat: I had run so much hazard, and knew too much of the
case, to think of attempting it by the wayI went out; and
what miaht be at the other side (I mean at the west side) I knew
not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures ; so I only
resolved, in the morning, to make my way westward along the
shore, and to see if there was no creek where I might lay tip
my frigate in safety, so as to have her again, if I wanted her.
In about three miles, or thereabout, coasting the shore, I came
to a very good inlet or bay, about a mile over, which narrowed
till it came to a very little rivulet or brook, where I found
a very convenient harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if
she had been in a little dock made on purpose for her. Here
I put- in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore
to look about me, and see where I was.

I soon found 1 had but a little passed by the place where 1
had been before, when I travelled on foot to that shore; so
taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and umbrella, for
it was exceeding hot, I began my march. The way was com-
fortable enough after such a voyage as I had been upon, and I
reached my old bower in the evening, where I found every-
thing standing as I left it: for I always kept it in good order,
being, as I said before, my country-house.

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade, to rest
my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep: but judge you,
if you can, that read my story, what a surprise I must be in,
when I was awaked out of my sleep by a voice, calling me by
my name several times, " Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe; poor
Robin Crusoe ! Where are you Robin Crusoe ? Where are you 2"
Where have you been P"

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, or
paddling, as it is called, the first part of the day, and with
walking the latter part, that I did not wake thoroughly; but
dozing between sleeping and waking, thought I dreamed that
somebody spoke to me: but, as the voice continued to repeat
Robin Crusoe! Robin Crusoe! at last I began to wake more
perfectly, and was at first dreadquy frightened, and started up
in the utmost consternation: but, no sooner were my eyes
open, but I saw my Poll sitting on the top of the hedge;
and immediately knew it was he that spoke to me; for just
in such bemoaning language I had used to talk to him and
teach him; and he had learned it so perfectly that he would
sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to my face, and
cry " Poor Robinson Crusoe! Where are you? Where have you
keen? How came you here?" and such things as I had taught
"11.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that
indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while before I
could compose myself: First, I was amazed how the creature
got thither, and then, how he should just keep about the place,
and nowhere else: but, as I was well satisfied it could be
nobody but honest Poll, I got over it; and holding out my
hand, and calling him by his name, " Poll," the sociable
creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he used
to do, and continued talking to me, Poor Robinson Crusoe! and
how did I come here? and where had I been? just as if he
had been OVerjoyed to see me again: and so I carried him home
along with me.

I now had had enough of rambling ,to sea for some time,
and had enough to do for many days, to sit still and reflect
upon the danger I had been in. I would have been very glad
to have had my boat again on my side of the island; but I
knew not how it was practicable to get it about. As to the
east side of the island, which I had gone round, I knew well
enough there was no venturing that way: my very heart
would shrink, and my very blood run chill, but to think of it;
and, as to the other side of the island, I did not know how it
might be there; but supposing the current ran with the same
force a ' t the shore at the east, as it passed by it on the
other, might run the same risk of being driven down the
stream, and carried by the island, as I had been before of
being carried away from it; so, with these thoughts, I con-
tented myself to be without my boat, though it had been the
product of so many months' labour to make it, and of so many
more to get it into the sea.

In this government of my temper I remained near a year,
living a very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and
my thoughts being very much composed as to my condition,
and fully comforted in resigning myself to the dispositions of
Providence, I thought I lived really very happily in 'all things
except that of society.
I improved myself, in this time, in all the mechanic exercises
which my necessities put me upon applying myself to; and I
believe I couid, upon occasion, have made a very good car-
penter, especially considering how few tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an unex ted perfection in my
earthenware, and contrived well enoug to make them with a
wheel, which I found infiniter easier and better; because I
made things round and shapeable, which before were filthy
things indeed to look on. But I think I was never more vain
of my own performance, or more joyful for anything I found
out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-pi : and,
though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing when it was one, and
only burnt red, like other earthenware, yet, as it was hard and

and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted
with it, for I had been always used to smoke: and there were
pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not thinkin that
there was tobacco in the island; and, afterwards, w en I
searched the ship again, I could not come at any pipes at all.

In my wicker-ware also I improved much, and made abun-
dance of necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed
me: though not very handsome, yet they were such as were
very handy and convenient for my laying things up in, or
fetching things home. For example, if I killed a goat abroad,
I could hano it up in a tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in
pieces, and Ibring it home in a basket: and the like by a
turtle; I could cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or
two of the flesh, which was enough for me, and bring them
home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also large
deep baskets were the receivers of my corn, which I always
rubbed out, as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept it in
great baskets.

 

CHAPTER XVII.

norms GROWS now--comes SHARES AND WALLS-CATCH" GOA?!
--RNCWE GROUND--"RPS BUTTER AND 03333--818 PLEXTY--Wfl'fl 318

FAKE! AT Dmn--JOURNBY--DWBIPTION OF HIS PIGUBHNBBVA'HOX ON
ml MAST--HIS TWO rum-anon.

I BEGAN now to perceive my powder abated considerably:
this was a want which it was impossible for me to supply, and
I began seriously to consider what I must do when I should
have no more powder; that is to say, how I should do to kill
any goats. I had, as is observed, in the third year of my being
here, kept a young kid, and bred her u tame, and I was in
hopes of getting a he-goat; but I co not by any means

9
bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and, as I could
never find in my heart to kill her, she died at last of mere age.

But, being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and,
as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to
study some art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether I
could not catch some of them alive; and, particularly, I
wanted a she-goat great with young. For this purpose, I made
snares to hamper them; and I do believe they were more than
once taken in them; but my tackle was not good, for I had no
wire, and I always found them broken, and my bait devoured.
At length I resolved to try a pitfall: so I dug several large
pits in the earth, in places where I had obmrved the goats
used to feed, and over these pits I placed hurdles, of my own
making too, with a great weight upon them; and several
times 1 put ears of barley and dry rice, without setting the
trap, and I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in
an eaten up the corn, for I could see the marks of their feet.
At length I set three traps in one night, and going the next
morning, I found them all standing and yet the bait eaten and
gone; this was very discouraging. However, I altered my
traps; and, not to trouble you with particulars, going one
morning to see my traps, I found in one of them a large old
the-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a male and two

emales.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him: he was
so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him: that'is to say, to
00 about to bring him away alive, which was what I wanted :
I could have killed him, but that was not my business, nor
would it answer my end; so I even let him out, and he ran
away, as if he had been frightened out of his wits. But I had
forgot then, what I had learnt afterwards, that hunger will '
tame a lion. If I had let him stay there three or four da 8
without food, and then have carried him some water to '
and then a little corn, he would have been as tame as one
of the kids; for they are mighty sagacious, tractable creatures,
where they are well used.

However, for the present, I let him go, knowing no better
at that time: then I went to the three kids, and taking them
one by one, I tied them with strings together, and, with some
dificulty, brought them all home.

It was a good while before they would feed; but, throwing
them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be
tame. And now I found, that if I expected to supply myself
with goats' flesh, when I had no powder or shot left, breeding
some up tame was my only way: when, perhaps, I might have _
them about my house like a flock of sheep. But then-it oc-
curred to me, that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else
they would always run wild when they grew up: and the only
'
way for this was, to have some enclosed piece of ground, well
fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so efl'ectually
that those within might not break out, nor those without
break in.

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands: yet, as
I saw there was an absolute necessity for doing it, my first
work was to find out a proper piece of ground, where there
was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water for them to
drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.

Those who understand such enclosures will think I had very
little contrivance, when I pitched upon a place very proper for
all these (being a plain open piece of meadow land, or savan-
nah, as our people call it in the westem colonies), which had
two or three little drills of fresh water in it, and at one end
was very woody: I say, they will smile at my forecast, when
I shall tell them, I began by enclosing this piece of ground
in such a manner, that my hedge, or pale, must have been at
least two miles about. Nor was the madness of it so great as
to the compass, for if it was ten miles about, I was likely to
have time enough to do it in ; but I did not consider that my
goats would be as wild in so much compass, as if they had had
the whole island, and I should have so much room to chase
them in, that I should never catch them.

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe about fifty
yards, when this thought occurred to me; so I presently stopt
short, and, for the first beginning, I resolved to enclose a piece
of about 150 yards in length, and 100 yards in breadth;
which, as it would maintain as many as I should have in any
reasonable time, so, as my stock increased, I could add more
ground to my enclosure. .

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work
with courage. I was about three months hedging in the first
piece; and till I had done it, I tethered the three kids in the
best part of it, and used them to feed as near me as possible,
to make them familiar; and very often I would go and carry
them some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them
out of my hand : so that after my enclosure was finished, and
I let them loose, they would follow me up and down, bleating
after me for a handful of corn. .

This answered my end; and, in about a year and a half,
1 had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two
years more, Ihad three-and-forty, besides several that I took
and killed for my food. After that I enclosed five several
pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pens to drive them
into, to take them as Iwanted, and gates out of one piece of
ground into another.

But this was not all; for, now, I not only had got goats'
flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too; a thing which,
indeed, in the beginning, 1 did not so much as think of, and
which, when it came into my thoughts, was really an agreeable
surprise: for, now, I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a
gallon or two of milk in a day. And, as nature, who gives
supplies of food to every creature, dictates even naturally how
to make use of it, so I, that had never milked a cow, much
less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, only when l was a
boy, after a great many essays and miscarriages, made me both
butter and cheese at last, and also salt, (though I found it
partly made to my hand by the heat of the sun upon some of
the rocks of the sea,) and never wanted it afterwards. How
mercifully can our Creator treat I'Iis creatures, even in those
Conditions in which they seemed to be overwhelmed in destruc-
tion ! How can He sweeten the bitterest providences, and give
us cause to praise Him for dungeons and prisons ! What " a
table" was here "spread for me in a wilderness," where I saw
nothing, at first, but to "perish for hunger!"

It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me and my
little family sit down to dinner: there was my majesty, the

 

prince and lord of the whole island; I had the lives of all my
subjects at my absolute command; I could hang, draw, give
liberty, and take it away; and no rebels among all my sub-
iects. Then to see how like a king 1 dined too, all alone, at.
ionded by my servants: Poll, as if he had been my favourite,
was the only person permitted to talk to me. My dog, who
was now grown very old and crazy, and had found no species
to multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right hand; and
two cats, one on one side of the table, and one on the other,
expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of
special favour.

But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore
at first, for they were both of them dead, and had been interred
near my habitation by my own hand; but one of them having
multiplied by I know not what kind of creature, these were
two which I had preserved tame : whereas the rest ran wild in
the woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at last; for
they would often come into my house, and plunder me too, till
at last, I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great
many: at length they left me. With this attendance, and in
this lentiful manner, I lived; neither could I be said to want
anything but society; and of that, some time after this, I was
like to have too much.

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the
use of my boat, though very loth to run any more hazards;
and therefore, sometimes, I sat contriving ways to get her
about the island, and, at other times, I sat myself down con-
tented enough without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in
my mind to go down to the point of the island where, as l
have said in my last ramble, I went up to the hill to see how
the shore lay, and how the current set, that I might see what
I had to do: this inclination increased upon me every day,
and, at length, I resolved to travel thither by land, followin
the edge of the shore. I did so; but had any one in England
been to meet such a man as I was, it must either have
frightened him, or raised a great deal of laughter; and, as I
frequently stood still to look at myself, I could not but smile at
the notion of my travelling through Yorkshire, with such an
equipage, and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of
my figure, as follows :--

I had a great high sha less cap, made of goat's skin, with a .
flap hanging down behin as well to keep the sun from me, as
to shoot the rain 013' from running into my neck; nothing being .
so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon the flesh under the '
clothes. .

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down
to about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of open-kneed
breeches of the same; the breeches were made of the skin of
an old he-goat, whose hair hung down such a length on either
side, that, like pantaloons, it reached to the middle of my legs;
stockings and shoes I had none, but had made me a pair of
somethings, I scarce know what to call them, like buskins; to
flap over my legs, and lat.) on either side like spatterdashes;

Jn'f A'..
"1:th a most barbarous shape, as indeed were all the rest of my
c t es.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles;
and, in a kind of frog on either side of this, instead of a
sword and dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet; one on one
side, and one on the other. I had another belt, not so broad,
and fastened in the same manner, which hung over my
shoulder; and, at the end of it, under my left arm, hung two
pouches, both made of goat's skin too; in one of which hung
my powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried my
basket, and on my shoulder my gun; and over my head a
great, clumsy, ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all,
was the most necessary thing I had about me, next to my
gun. As for my face, the colour of it was really not so mulatto-
like as one might expect for a man not at all careful of it,
and living within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My
beard I had once sufiered to grow till it was about a quarter of
a yard long; but, as I had both scissors and razors sufficient,
I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee ; for the
Moors did not wear such, though the Turks did; of these
moustachoes, or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough
to hang my hat upon them, but they were of a length and shape
monstrous enough, and such as in England would have passed
for frightful.

But all this is by-the-by; for, as to my figure, I had so few
to observe me, that it was of no manner of consequence; so
I say no more to that part. In this kind of figure I went my
new journey, and was out five or six days. I travelled first
along the sea-shore, directly to the place where I first brought
my boat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks: and, having no
boat now to take care of, I went over the land, a nearer way,
to the same height that I was upon before; when, looking for-
ward to the point of the rocks which lay out, and which I was
obliged to double with my boat, as is said above, I was sur-
prised to see the sea all smooth and quiet; no rippling, no
motion, no current, any more there than in any other places.
1 was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved to
spend some time in the observing it, to see if nothing from the
sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was presently con-
vinced how it was, viz., that the tide of ebb setting from the
west, and joining with the current of waters from some great
river on the shore, must be the occasion of this current; and

t, according as the wind blew more forcibly from the west,
or from the north, this current came nearer, or went farther
from the shore; for, waiting thereabouts till evening, I went
up to the rock again, and then the tide of ebb being made, I
plainly saw the current again as before, only that it ran farther
ofl', being near half a league from the shore; whereas, in my
case, it set close upon the shore, and hurried me and my canoe
along with it; which at another time it would not have done.

This observation convinced me, that I had nothing to do but
to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might
very easily bring my boat about the island again; but, when
I began to think of putting it in practice, I had such a terror
up0n my spirits at the remembrance of the danger I had been
in, that I could not think of it again with any tience ; but,
on the contrary, I took up another resolution, w ich was more
safe, though more laborious; and this was, that I would build,
or rather make me, another periagua, or canoe; and so have
one for one side of the island and one for the other.

You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one, my little fortification, or tent,
with the wall about it, under the rock, with the cave behind
me, which, by this time, I had enlarged into several apart-
ments or caves, one within another. One of these, which was
the driest and largest, and had a door out behind my wall, or
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall joined to
the rock, was all filled up with the large earthen pots, of which
I have given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great
baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each, where I
laid up my stores of provision, eSpecially my corn, some in the
ear, out off short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with
my hands.

As for my wall,*made as before, with long stakes or piles,
those piles grew all like trees, and were, by this time, grown
so big, and spread so very much, that there was not the least
appearance, to any one's view, of any habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the
land, and upon lower ground, lay my two mass of corn land,
which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, an which duly yielded
me their harvest in its season : and whenever I had occasion for
more com, I had more land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, 1 had my country seat; and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also; for, first, I had my little
bower, as called it, which I kept in repair; that is to say, I
kept the hedge which encircled it in constantly fitted up to its
usual height, the ladder standing always in the inside; I kept
the trees which at first were no more than my stakes, but
were now grown very firm and tall, always out, so that they
might spread, and grow thick and wild, and make the more
agreeable shade; which they did efi'ectually to my mind. In
the middle of this I had my tent always standing, being a pier!
of a sail spread' over poles, set up for that purpose, and which
never wanted any repair, or renewing; and under this Ihad
made me a squab or couch, with the skins of the creatures I
had killed, and with other soft things; and a blanket laid on
them, such as belonged to our sea bedding, which I had saved,
and a great watch-coat to cover me : and here, whenever I had
occasion to be absent from my chief seat, I took up my country
habitation.

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle, that is
to say, my goats; and as I had taken an inconceivable deal of
pains to fence and enclose this ground, Iwas so anxious to
see it kept entire, lest the goats should break through, that I
never left 03', till, with infinite labour, I had stuck the out-
side of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one
another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was
smrce room to put a hand through between them; which
afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next
rainy season, made the enclosure strong like a wall,--indeed
stronger than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared
no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my
comfortable support: for I considered the keeping up a breed
of tame creatures, thus at my hand, would be a living
magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me as long as
I lived in the place, if it were to be forty years; and that
keeping them in my reach depended entirely nyommy perfect-
ing 'my enclosures to such a degree, that I ' . he sure of
keeping them together; which, by this meth . ' ".I so
effectually secured, that, when these Emmett began to grow,
I had planted them so very thick, thatwa to pull some
of them up again. - ".'i'v xi; -

In this place, also, I had my grapes growmgg which I princi-
pally depended on for my winter's store of raisins, and which
I never failed to preserve very care , as the best and most
agreeable dainty of my whole diet; an indeed, they were not
only agreeable, but physical, wholesome, nourishing, and re-
freshing to the last degree. ' 'i

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation
and the place where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed,
and lay here, in my way thither; for I used frequently to visit
my boat; and I kept all things about, or belonging to her, in
very good order; sometimes I went out in her to divert myself,
but no more hazardous voyages would I 0, nor scarce ever
above a stone's cast or two from the shore, was so apprehen-
sive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by the cur-
rents or winds, or any other accident. But now I come to a

new scene in my life.
CHAPTER XVIII.

OBSERVES THE PRIXT OF A NAN'S FOOT ON THE SHORE--CONJECTURES UPON
lT--BEVISI'I'S THE fiARK--NEW FORTIFICATIOX--AND KEW ARRAKGEMBNTS
FOR THE GOATS--FAXCIES HE SEES A BOAT UPON THE SEA, AT A GREY!

DISTANCE--SEES THE SHORE SPREAD WITH HUMAN BOXES--REFLECTIONS AND
PRECAUTIONS.

I'r happened one day, about noon, going towards my boat, I
was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot
on the shore, Whlch was very plain to be seen in the sand.

W351" . . h _
"fii'rfis'nz ' T~

- as -. ~

3

a

 

' ~- - '"_..---".--PS:_

 

I stood like one thunderstruck; I listened, I looked around
me, but I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to
a rising ground to look farther; I went up the shore, and down
the shore, but it was all one; I could see no other impression
but that one. I went to it again, to see if there was any
more, and to observe if it might not be my fancy; but there
was no room for that, for there was exactly the print of a foot,
toes, heel, and every part of a foot: how it came thither I.
knew not, nor could I in the least imagine; but after innume-
rable fluttering thoughts, like a man perfectly confused and
out of myself, 'I came home to my fortification, not feeling, as
we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree:
looking behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking every
bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a distance to be
a man. Nor is it possible to describe how many various shapes
my afirighted imagination represented things to me in, how
many wild ideas were foundevery moment in my fancy, and
what strange, unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts
by the way.

When I came to my castle, (for so I think ] called it ever
after this,) I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went
over it by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole
in the rock, which I had called a door, I cannot remember: no,
nor could I remember the next morning; for never frightened
hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind than
I to this retreat.

I slept none that night; the farther I was from the occasion
of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were; which is
something contrary to the nature of such things, and espe-
cially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear; but I was
so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing,
that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even
though I was now a great way 03' it. Sometimes I fancied it
must be the devil, and reason joined in with me upon this
supposition; for how should any other thing in human shape
come into the place? Where was the vessel that brou ht them?
What marks were there of any other footsteps? an how was
it possible a man should come there? But then, to think that
Satan should take human shape upon him in such a place,
where there could be no manner of occasion for it, but to leave
the print of his foot behind him, and that even for no purpose
too. for he could not be sure I should see it,-this was an
amazement the other way. I considered that the devil might
have found out abundance of other ways to have terrified me
than this of the single print of a foot; that, as I lived quite on
the other side of the island, he would never have been so
simple as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten tlfiiusand
to one whether I should ever see it or not, and in the sand, too,
which the first surge of the sea, upon a high wind, would have
defaced entirely: all this seemed inconsistent with the thing
itself, and with all the notions we usually entertain of the sub-
tilty of the devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out
of all ap rehensions of its being the devil; and I presently con-
cluded, en, that it must be some more dangerous creature,
viz'., that it must be some of the savages of the main land over
against me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes, and,
either driven by the currents, or by contrary winds, had made
the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away again

0
to sea: being as loth, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate
island as I would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was
very thankful in my thoughts, that I was so happy as not to .
be thereabouts at the time, or that they did not see my boat,
by which they would have concluded that some inhabitants
had been in the place, and perha have searched farther for
me: then terrible thoughts rack my imagination about their
having found my boat, and that there were people here: and
that, if so, I should certainly have them come again in greater
numbers, and devour me: that if it should happen so that they
should not find me, yet they would find my enclosure, destroy
all my corn, carry away all my flock of tame goats, andI should
perish at last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that former
confidence in God which was founded upon such wonderful
experience as I had had of His goodness, as if He, that had fed
me hitherto, could not preserve, by His wer, the provision
which He had made for me by His g ess. I reproached
myself with my laziness, that would not sow any more com
one year than would just serve meitill the next season, as if
no accident would intervene to nt my enjoying the cm
that was upon the ground: and 'deg I thought so justare too}:
that I resolved for the future to have two or three years corn
beforehand; so that, whatever might come, I might not perish
for want of bread.

How strange a chequer-work of Providence is the life of
man! and by what secret difl'erent springs are the- afl'ections
hurried about as different circumstances present! To-day we
love what to-morrow we hate; to-day we seek what tomorrow
we shun; to-day we desire what tomorrow we fear; nay,
even tremble at the apprehensions of : this was exemplified in
me, at this time, in the most lively manner imaginable; for I,
whose only affliction was that I seemed banished from human
society that I was alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean,
cut oflefrom mankind, and condemned to what I called silent
life: that I was as one whom Heaven thought not worthy to
be numbered among the living, or to appear among the rest of
His creatures; that to have seen one of my own ies would
have seemed to me 9. raising me from death to ' e, and the
greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the supreme bless-
ing of salvation, could bestow; I say, that I should now
tremble at the very apprehensions of seeing a man, and was
ready to sink into the ground at but the shadow, or silent
up rance, of a man's having set his foot in the island.

uch is the uneven state of human life; and it afl'orded me
a great many curious speculations afterwards, when I had a
little recovered my first surprise. I considered that this was
the station of life the infinitely wise and good providence of
God had determined for me; that, as I could not foresee what
the ends of divine wisdom might be in all this, so I was not to
dispute His sovereignty, who, as I was His creature, had an
undoubted right, by creation, to govern and dispose of me,
absolutely, as He thought fit; and who, as I was a creature
that had ofi'ended Him, had likewise a judicial right to con-
demn me to what punishment He thought fit; and that it was
my part to submit to bear His indi tion, because I had
sinned against Him. I then reflec that as God, who was
not only righteous, but omnipotent, had thought fit thus to
punish and afilict me, so He was able to deliver me; that, if
He did not think fit to do so, it was my unquestioned duty to
resign myself absolutely and entirely to His will: and, on the
other hand, it was my duty, also, to hope in Him, pray to Him,
and quietly to attend the dictates and directions of His daily
providence.

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may
say, weeks and months; and one particular effect of my oogi-
tations on this occasion I cannot omit: one morning, ear y,
lying in bed, and filled with thoughts about my danger from
the appearances of savages, I found it discomposed me very
much; upon which these words of the Scripture came into m
thoughts, "Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I 'l
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Upon this, rising
cheerfully out of my bed, my heart was not only cpmforted,
but I was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to God for
deliverance: when I had done praying, I took up my Bible,
and Opening it to read, the first words that presented to me
were, " Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall
strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impos-
sible to express the comfort this gave me. In answer, I
thankfme laid down the book, and was no more sad, at least
on that occasion.

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, angreflec-
tions, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be
a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might be the
print of my own foot, when I came on shore from my boat;
this cheered me up a little too, and I began to persuade myself
it was all a delusion; that itwas nothing else but my own foot;
and why might I not come that way from the boat, as well as
I was going that way to the boat? Again, I considered, also,
that I could by no means tell for certain where I had trod,
and where I had not; and that, if at last this was only the
print of my own foot, I had played the part of those fools who
try to make stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are
frio tened at them more than anybody. '

- ow I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for

G
I had not stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so
that I began to starve for provisions; for I had little or
nothing within doors but some barley cakes and water; then
I knew that my goats wanted to be milked, too, which usually
was my evening diversion; and the poor creatures were in
great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and, indeed, it
almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their milk.
Encouraging myself, therefore, with the belief that this was
nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and that I might
be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began to go abroad
again, and went to my country-house to milk my flock : but to
see with what fear I went forward, how often I looked behind
me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down my
basket, and run for my life, it would have made any one
think I was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had
been lately most terribly frightened; and, so indeed, I had.
However, as I went down thus two or three days, and having
seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to think there
was really nothing in it but my own imagination; but I could
not persuade myself fully of this till I should go down to the
shore again, and see this print of a foot, and measure it by my
own, and see if there was any similitude or fitness, that I might
be assured it was my own foot: but, when I came to the place,
first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid up my
boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabout:
secondly, when I came to measure the mark with my own foot,
I found my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these
things filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me the
vapours again to the highest degree, so that I shock with cold
like one in an ague; and I went home again, filled with the
belief that some man or men had been on shore there; or, in
short, that the island was inhabited, and I might be surprised
before I was aware: and what course to take for my security I
knew not.

Oh, what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with
fear! It deprives them of the useof those means which reason
offers for their relief. The first thing I proposed to myself
was, to throw down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle
wild into the woods, lest the enemy should find them, and then
frequent the island in prospect of the same, or the like booty:
then to the simple thing of digging up my two com-fields, lest
they should find such a grain there, and still be prompted to
frequent the island: then to demolish my bower and tent,
that they might not see any vestiges of habitation, and be
prompted to look farther, in order to find out the persons
inhabiting. .

These were the subject of the first night's cogitations, after
I was come home again, while the apprehensions which had
so overrun my mind were fresh upon me, and my head was
full of vapours, as above. Thus fear of danger is ten thousand
times more terrifying than danger itself, when apparent to the
eyes; and we find the burden of anxiety greater by much
than the evil which we are anxious about; and, which was
worse than all this, I had not that relief in this trouble from
the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped to have.
I looked, I thought, like Saul, who complained, not only that
the Philistines were upon him, but that God had forsaken him;
for I did not now take due ways to compose my mind, by cry-
ing to God in my distress, and resting upon His providence, as
I had done before, for my defence and deliverance; which, if
I had done, I had at least been more cheerfully supported
under this new surprise, and perhaps carried through it with
more resolution.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night; but
in the morning I fell asleep; and having, by the amusement of
my mind, been, as it were, tired, and my spirits exhausted,
I slept very soundly, and waked much better composed than
I had ever been before. And now I began to think sedately :
and, upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded that this
island, which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no farther
from the main land than as had seen, was not so entirely
abandoned as I might imagine; that, although there were no
stated inhabitants who lived on the Spot, yet that there might
sometimes come boats off from the shore, who, either with
design, or perhaps never but when they were driven by cross
winds, might come to this place; that I had lived here fifteen
years now, and had not met with the least shadow or figure
of any people yet; and that, if at any time they should be
driven here, it was probable they went away again as soon as
ever they could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix here
upon any occasion; that the most I could suggest any danger
from, was from any casual accidental landing of straggling
people from the main, who, as it was likely, if they were
driven hither; were here against their wills, so they'made no
stay here, but went off again with all possible speed: seldom
staying one night on shore, lest they should not have the help
of the tides and daylight back again; and that, therefore, I had
nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in case I
should see any savages land upon the spot.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so
large as to bring a door through again, which door, as I said,
came out beyond where my fortification joined to the rock:
upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved to draw
me a second fortification, in the same manner of a semicircle,
at a distance from my wall, just where I had lanted a double .
row of trees about twelve years before, 0 which I made
mention: these trees having been planted so thick before,
they wanted but few piles to be driven between them, that
they might be thicker and stronger, and my wall would be
soon finished, so that I had now a double wall; and- my
outer wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and
everything I could think of, to make it strong; having in it
seven little holes, about as big as I might put my arm out at.
In the inside of this, I thickened my wall to about ten feet
thick, with continually bringing earth out of my cave, and
laying it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon it; and
through the seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of
which I took notice that I had got seven on shore out of the
ship; these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into
frames, that held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all
the seven guns in two minutes' time: this wall 1 was many a
weary month in finishing, and yet never thought myself safe
till it was done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my
wall, for a great length every way, as full with stakes, or
sticks, of the osier-like wood, which I found so apt to grow,
as they could well stand; insomuch, that I believe I might set
in near twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space
between them and my wall, that I might have room to see an
enemy, and they might have no shelter from the young trees,
if they attempted to approach my outer walI.

Thus, in two years' time, I had a thick grove; and, in five
or six years' time, I had a wood before my dwelling, growing
so monstrous thick and strong, that it was, indeed, perfectly
impassable; and no men, of what kind soever, would ever
imagine that there was anything beyond it, much less a habi-
tation. As for the way which I proposed to myself to co in
and out (for I left no avenue), it was by setting two ladders,
one to a part of the rock which was low, and then broke in,
and left room to place another ladder upon that; so, when the
two ladders were taken down, no man livin could come down
to me without doing himself mischief; an if they had come
down, they were still on the outside of my outer Wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest
for my own preservation: and it will be seen, at lencth, that
they were not altogether without just reason; though I foresaw
nothing, at that time, more than my mere fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my
other affairs; for I had great concern upon me for my little
herd of goats; they were not only a ready supply to me on
every occasion, and began to be sufficient for me, without the
expense of potvder and shot, but also without the fatigue. of
hunting after the wild ones; and I was loth to lose the advan-
tage of them, and to have them all to nurse up over again.q

aosmson 030803. 124

For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of
but two ways to preserve them; one was, to find another con-
venient place, to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them
into it every night; and the other was, to enclose two or three
little bits of land, remote from one another, and as much
concealed as I could, where I might keep about half a dozen
young goats in each place; so that, if any disaster happened
to the ock in eneral, I might be able to raise them again
with little troub e and time: and this, though it would require
a great deal of time and labour, I thought was the most
rational desi .

Accordingly}, I spent some time to find out the most retired
parts of the island; and I pitched upon one, which was as pri-
vate, indeed, as my heart could wish for: it was a little damp
piece of ground, in the middle of the hollow and thick woods,
where, as is observed, I almost lost myself once before, en-
deavouring to come back that way from the eastern rt of the
island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near t ee acres,
so surrounded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure by
nature; at least, it did not want near so much labour to make
it so as the other pieces of ground I had worked so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and
in less than a month's time, I had so fenced it round, that my
flock, or herd, call it what you please, who were not so wild
now as at first they might be supposed to he, were well
enough secured in it: so, without any further delay, I removed
tcn young she-goats and two he-goats to this piece; and, when
they were there, I continued to perfect the fence, till I had
>> made it as secure as the other; which, however, I did at more
leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal. All this
labour I was at the expense of, purely from my apprehensions
on the account of the print of a man's foot which I had seen;
for as yet I never saw any human creature come near the
island; and I had now lived two years under this uneasiness,
which, indeed, made my life much less comfortable than it was
before, as may be well imagined by any one who knows what
it is to live in the constant fear of the snare of man. And this
I must observe with grief too, that the discomposure of my
mind had too great impressions also upon the religious part
of my thoughts: for the dread and terror of falling into the
hands of savages and cannibals lay so u n my spirits, that I
seldom found myself in a due temper or application to my
Maker, at least, not with the sedate calmness and resi tion
of soul which I was wont to do: I rather prayed to od, as
under great affliction and pressure of mind, surrounded with
danger, and in expectation every night of being murdered and
devoured before morning; and I must testify, from my expe-
rience, that a temper of peace, thankfulness, love, and aflec-
tion, is much the more proper frame for prayer than that of
terror and discomposure; and that, under the dread of mis-
chief impending, a man is no more fit for a comforting perform-
ance of the duty of praying to God, than he is for a re ntance
on a sick bed; for these discomposures afl'ect the min , as the
others do the body; and the discomposure of the mind must
necessarily be as great a disability as that of the body, and
much greater; praying to God being properly. an act of the
mind, not of the body.'

But to go on: after I had thus secured one rt of my little
living stock, I went about the whole island,a searching for
another private place to make such another de it; when,
wandering more to the west point of the islangoathan I had
ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat
upon the sea at a great distance. I had found a rspective
glass or two in one of the seamen's chests, which saved out
of our ship, but I had it not about me; and this was so remote,
that 1 could not tell what to make of it, thouah I looked at it
till my eyes were not able to hold to look any longer: whether
it was a boat or not I do not know, but, as I descended from
the hill, I could see no more of it; so I gave it over: only I
resolved to o no mom out without a perspective glass in my
pocket. W en 1 was come down the hill to the end of the
island, where, indeed, I had never been before, I was presently
convinced that the seeing the rint of a man's foot was not
such a strange thing in the is and as I imagined: and, (but
that it was a special providence that I was cast upon the side
of the island where the savages never came,) I should easily
have known that nothing was more frequent, than for the
canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little too
far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for
harbour; likewise, as they often met and fought in their canoes,
the victors having taken any prisoners, would bring them over
to this shore, where, according to their dreadful customs, being
all cannibals, they would kill and eat them; of which here-
after.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said
above, being the S.W. point of the island, I was perfectly con-
founded and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the
horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls,
hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies; and, parti-
cularly, I observed a place where there had been a fire made,
and a circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed

' Though It is perfectly true. that "a temper of peace. thankfulnees. love. and
affection" is the more comfortable state of in ad for prayer to God; " yet. in times
of terror and diseompoeure." we stand in the greater need of God's assistance and
the comforting influence of Iii-Holy Spirit, and prayer will bring that down; and
it should be one exercise of the mind to learn to lift it up to God in every circum-
stance, prosperous and adverse.
the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings
upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I
entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a
long while; all my apprehensions were buried in the thoughts
of such a pitch of inhuman brutality, and the horror of the
degeneracy of human nature, which, though I had heard of it
very often, yet I never had so near a view before: in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my stomach
grew sick, and I was just at the point of fainting, when nature
discharged the disorder from my stomach: and, having vomited
with uncommon violence, I was a little relieved, but could not
bear to stay in the place a moment; so I got me up the hill
again with all the speed I could, and walked on towards my
own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood
still a while, as amazed, and then, recovering myself, I looked
up with the utmost affection of my soul, and with a flood of
tears in my eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot
in a part of the world where I was distinguished from such
dreadful creatures as these: and that, though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had yet given me so
many comforts in it, that I had still more to give thanks for
than to complain of: and this, above all, that I had, even in
this miserable condition, been comforted with the knowledge
of Himself, and the hope of His blessing; which was a felicity
more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which I had
suffered, or could suffer.

In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my castle,
and began to be much easier now as to the safety of my cir-
cumstances, than ever I was before; for I observed that these
wretches never came to this island in search of what they could
get, perhaps not seeking, nor wanting, or not expecting any-
thggg here; and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered,
W part of it, without finding anything to their purpose.
I knew I had been here now almost eighteen years, and never
saw the least footsteps of human creature there before; and I
might be eighteen years more ,as entirely concealed as I was
now, if I did not discover myself to them, which I had no
manner of occasion to do; it being my only business to keep
myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a better
sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to.
Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches I
have been speaking of, and of the wretched inhuman custom
of their devouring and eating one another up, that I continued
pensive and sad, and kept close within my own circle for
almost two years after this: when I say my own circle, 1
mean by it my three plantations, viz., my castle, my (aountry-

G
1.30 anvnsrvans or

seat, which I called my bower, and my enclosure in the woods:
nor did I look after this for any other use than as an enclosure
for my goats; for the aversion which nature gave me to these
hellish wretches was such, that I was as fearful of seeing them
as of seeing the devil himself. I did not so much as go to look
after my boat all this time, but began rather to think of making
me another; for I could not think of ever making any more
attempts to bring the other boat round the island to me, lest I
should meet with some of these creatures at sea; in which, if
I had happened to have fallen into their hands, I knew what
would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no
danger of being discovered by these people, began to wear off
my uneasiness about them; and I began to live just in the
' same composed manner as before; only with this difl'erence,
that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more about me
than I did before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of
them; and particularly, I was more cautious of firing my gun,
lest any of them being on the island should happen to hear it.
It was, therefore, a very good providence to me that I had fur-
nished myself with a tame breed of goats, and that I had no
need to hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at them;
and, if I did catch any of them after this, it was by traps and
snares, as I had done before: so that, for two years after this,
I believe I never fired my gun once ofl', though I never went
out without it; and, which was more, as I had saved three
pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out with me, or
at least two of them, sticking them in my goat-skin belt. I
also furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out of
the ship, and made me a belt to hang it on also; so that I was
now a most formidable fellow to look at, when I went abroad,
if you add to the former description of myself the particular of
two pistols, and a great broadsword hanging at my side, in a

belt, but without a scabbard.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE BBC! 0! 1817381103 um OFF--130001113 0P "A1080 DESI--PROJECTS
AGAINST m uvaoss--nomrrs non-r NIB "SHOE OP IBEX--180061178 OX
rsovmmm "NATIONS AND nmvxmcu.

Tamas going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed.
excepting these cautions, to be reduced to my former calm.
sedate way of living. All those things tended to show me,
more and more, how far my condition was from being miserable,
compared to some others: nay, to many other particulars of
life, which it might have pleased God to have made my lot.
It put me upon reflecting how little re ining there would
be among mankind at any condition of 'fe, if people would
rather compare their conditions with those that were worse,
in order to be thankful, than be always comparing them
with those which are better, to assist their murmurings and
complainings.

As, in my present condition, there were not really many
things which I wanted, so, indeed, I thought that the frights I
had Lbeen in about these savage wretches, and the concern I
had been in for my own preservation, had taken ofl' the edge
of my invention for my own conveniences: and I had dr0pped
a good desion, which I at once bent my thoughts too much
upon, and that was, to try if I could not make some of my
barley into malt, and then try to brew myself some beer.
This was really a whimsical thought, and I reproved myself
often for the simplicity of it; for I presently saw there would
be the want of several things necessary to the making my beer
that it would be impossible for me to supply: as, first, casks
to preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have observed
already, I could never compass: no, though I spent not only
many days, but weeks, nay, monthsg'in attempting it, but to
no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to make it keep,
no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it boil;
and yet, with all these things wanting, I verily believe, had not
the frights and terrors I was in about the savages intervened,
I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to pass too; for
I seldom ve anything over without accomplishing it, when
once I hafit in my head to begin it. But my invention now
ran quite another way; for night and day I could think of
nothing but how I might destroy some of these monsters in
their cruel, bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the
victim they should bring hither to destr y. It would take up
a larger volume than this whole work is intended to be, to set
down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded u n,
in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at east
frightening them, so as to prevent their coming hither any
more: but all this was abortive; nothing could be possible to
take efl'ect, unless I was to be there to do it myself: and what
could one man do among them, when, perhaps, there might be
twenty or thirty of them together, with their darts, or their
bows and arrows, with which they could shootas true to amark
as I could with my gun?

Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and put in five or six pounds of
gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire, would eon-
sequently take fire, and blow up all that was near it; but as in
the first place, I should be unwilling to waste so much powder
upon them, my store being now within the quantity of one
barrel, so neither could I be sure of its going ofi' at any certain
time, when it might surprise them; and, at best, that it would
do little more than just blow the fire about their ears, and
fright them, but not sufiicientto make them forsake the place:
so I laid it aside; and then proposed that I would place my-
self in ambush, in some convenient place, with my three guns
all double-loaded, and in the middle of their bloody ceremony,
let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound,
perhaps, two or three at every shot; and then, falling in upon
them with my three pistols, and my sword, I made no doubt,
but that, if there were twenty, I should kill them all. This
fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks; and I was so full
of it, that I often dreamed of it, and sometimes that I was just
going to let fly at them in my sleep. I went so far with it in
my imagination, that I employed myself several days to find
out prOper places to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to
watch for them; and I went fre uently to the place itself,
which was now grown more fa ' at to me; but while my
mind was thus filled with thoughts of reVenge, and a bloody
putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I may call
it, the horror I had at the place, and at the signals of the bar-
barous wretches devouring one another, abetted my malice.
Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill, where I
was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any of their boats
coming: and might then, even before they would be ready to
come on shore, convey myself, unseen, into some thickets of
trees, in one of which there was a hollow large enough to
conceal me entirely; and there I might sit and observe all
their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when
they were so close together, as that it would be next to im-
possible that I should miss my shot, or that I could fail
wounding three or four of them at the first shot. In this
place, then, I resolved to fix my design: and, accordingly, I
prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling--piece. The
two muskets I loaded with a brace of slugs each, and four or
five smaller bullets, about the size of pistol-bullets: and the
fowh'ng-piece I loaded with near a handful of swanvshot, of
the largest size: I also loaded my pistols with about four bul-
lets each: and in this posture, well provided with ammunition
for a second and third charge, I prepared myself for my '
expedition.

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in my
imagination, put it in practice, I continually made my tour
every morning 11 to the top of the hill, which was from my
castle, as I call it, about three miles, or more, to see if I
qud observe any boats upon the sea, coming near the island,
or standing over towards it: but 1 oegan to tire of this hard
duty, after I had, for two or three months, constantly kept my
watch, but came always back without any discovery; there
having not, in all that time, been the least appearance, not only
on or near the shore, but on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes
or glasses could reach every way.

As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so
long, also, I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits
seemed to be all the while in a suitable form for so outrageous
an execution as the killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for
an offence which I had not at all entered into a discussion of
in my thoughts, any farther than my passions were at first
fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural custom of the
Eople of that country, who, it seems, had been suffered by

ovidence, in His wise disposition of the world, to have no
other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated
passions: and consequently were left, and perhaps had been
so for some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such
dreadful customs, as nothing but nature entirely abandoned by
Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy, could have
run them into. But now, when, as I have said, I began to be
weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made so long,
and so far, every morning in vain, so my opinion of the action
itself began to alter: and I began, with cooler and calmer
thoughts, to consider what I was going to engage in; what
authority or call I had to pretend to be judge and executioner
upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit,
for so many ages, to sufi'er unpunished, to go on, and to be,
as it were, the executioners of His judgments one upon another.
How far these people were offenders against me, and what
right I had to engage in the quarrel of that blood which they
shed promiscuously upon one another, I debated this very
often with myself, thus: How do I know what God Himself
judges in this particular case? It is certain this people do not
. commit this as a crime; it is not against their own consciences
reproving, or their light reproaching them: they do not know
it to be an offence, and then commit it in defiance of Divine
justice, as we do in almost all the sin we commit. They think
it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war, than we do to
kill an ox; nor to eat human flesh, than we do to eat mutton.

When I considered this a little, it followed necessarily that
I was certainly in the wrong in it; that these people were not
murderers in the sense that I had before condemned them in
my thoughts, any more than those Christians were murderers
who often put to death the prisoners taken in battle; or more
frequently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of men to
the sword, without giving quarter, though they threw down
their arms and submitted. In the next place, it occurred to
me that, although the usage they gave one another was thus
brutish and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me; these
people had done me no injury: that, if they attempted me, or
I saw it necessary, for my immediate preservation, to fall upon
them, something might be said for it; but that I was yet out
of their power, and they really had no knowledge of me, and,
consequently, no design upon me, and therefore it could not
be just for me to fall upon them: that this would justify the
conduct of the Spaniards in all their barbarities practised in
America, where they destroyed millions of these pe0ple ; who,
however they were idolaters and barbarians, and had several
bloody and barbarous rites in their customs, such as sacrificing
human bodies to their idols, were yet, as to the Spaniards, very
innocent people; and that the rooting them out of the country
is spoken of with the utmost abhorrence and detestation by
even the Spaniards themselves at this time, and by all other
Christian nations in Europe, as a mere butchery, a bloody and
unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to God or man;
and for which the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be
frightful and terrible to all people of humanity, or of Christian
compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain were particularly
eminent for the roduce of a race of men who were without
principles of ten erness, or the common bowels of pity to the
miserable, which is reckoned to be a mark of generous temper
in the mind.

These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a kind
of a full stop; and I began, by little and little, to be off my
design, and to conclude I had taken wrong measures in my
resolution to attack the savages; and that it was not my busi-
ness to meddle with them unless they first attacked me; and
this it was my business, if possible, to prevent; but that, if I
were discovered and attacked by them, I knew my duty. On
the other hand I argued with myself, that this really was the
way not to deliver myself, but entirely to ruin and destroy
myself ; for, unless I was sure to kill every one that not only
should be on shore at that time, but that should ever come on
shore afterwards, if but one of them escaped to tell their country-
people what had happened, they would come over again by
thousands to revenge the death of their fellows, and I should
only bring upon myself a certain destruction, which at present
I had no manner of occasion for. Upon the whole, I con-
cluded, that, neither in principle nor in policy, I ought, one
way or other, to concern myself in this afl'air: that my busi-
ness was, by all possible means, to conceal myself from them,
and not to leave the least signal to them to guess by that
there were any living creatures upon the island, I mean of
human shape. Religion joined in with this prudential resolu-
tion ; and I was convinced now, many ways, that I was per-
foctly out of my duty when I was laying all my bloody schemes
for the destruction of innocent creatures, I mean innocent as
to me. As to the crimes they were guilty of towards one
another, I had nothing to do with them; they were national,
and I ought to leave them to the justice of God, who is the
Governor of nations, and knows how, by national punishments,
to make a just retribution for national offences, and to bring
public judgments upon those who offend in a public manner,
by such ways as best please Him. This appeared so clear to
me now, that nothing was a greater satisfaction to me than
that I had not been sufl'ered to do a thing which I now saw so
much reason to believe would have been no less a sin than that
of wilful murder, if I had committed it; and I gave most
humble thanks on my knees to God, that had thus delivered
me from blood-guiltiness; beseeching Him to grant me the pro-
tection of His providence, that I might not fall into the hands
of the barbarians, or that I might not lay my hands upon them,
unless I had a more clear call from Heaven to do it, in defence
of my own life.

In this disposition I continued for near a year after this;
and so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon
these wretches, that, in all that time, I never once went up
the hill to see whether there were any>> of them in sight, or to
know whether any of them had been on shore there or not,
that I might not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances
against them, or be provoked, by any advantage which 'might
present itself, to fall upon them: only this I did, I went and
removed my boat, which I had on the other side of the island,
and carried it down to the east end of the whole island, where
I ran it into a little cove, which I found under some high
rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the currents, the
savages durst not, at least would not, come with their boats,
upon any account whatever. With my boat I carried away
everything that I had left there belonging to her, though not
necessary for the bare going thither, viz., a mast and sail, which
I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but which
indeed, could not be called either anchor or grapnel; however,
it was the best I could make of its kind: all these I removed,
that there might not be the least shadow of any discovery, or
any appearance of any boat, or of any human habitation upon
the island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired
than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than upon my
constant employment, viz., to milk my she-goats and manage
my little flock in the wood, which, as it was on the other
part of the island, was quite out of danger; for certain it is,
that these savage people, who sometimes haunted this island,
never came with any thoughts of finding anything here, and,
consequently, never wandered 06 from the coast: and I doubt
not but they might have been several times on shore, after my
ap rehensions of them had made me cautious, as well as before.
In I looked back with some horror 11 n the thouohts of
what my condition would have been, if had cho upon
the and been discovered, before that, when, naked and un--
arm except with one gun, and that loaded often only with
small shot, I walked everywhere, pee ing and peering about
the island to see what 1 could get; w t a surprise should I
have been in, if, when I discovered the print of a man's foot, I
had, instead of that, seen fifteen or twenty savages, and found
them pursuing me, and, by the swiftness of their running, no
possibility of my escaping them! The thoughts of this some-
times sunk my very soul within me, and distressed my mind so
much, that I could not soon recover it, to think what I should
have done, and how I should not only have been unable to
resist them, but even should not have had resenee of mind
enough to do what I might have done: muc less what now,
after so much consideration and preparation, I might be able
to. Indeed, after serious thinking of these things, I would be
very melancholy, and sometimes it would last a great while;
but I resolved it all, at last, into thankfulness to that Provi-
dence which had delivered me from so many unseen dangers,
and had kept from me those mischiefs which I could have no
way been the agent in delivering myself from, because I had
not the least notion of any such thing depending, or the least
suppodtion of its being possible. This renewed a contem 1a-
tion, which often had come to my thoughts in former time, w en
first I began to see the merciful dispositions of Heaven, in the

rs we run through in this life; how wonderfully we are
delivered when we know nothing of it; how, when we are in
(a quandary, as we call it) a doubt, or hesitation, whether to go
this way or that way, a secret hint shall direct us this way,
when we intended to go that way: nay, when sense, our own
inclination, and perhaps business has called to go the other
way, yet a strange impression upon the mind, from we know
not what springs, and by we know not what power, shall over-
rule us to go this way; and it shall afterwards appear, that,
had we gone that way which we should have gone, and even to
our imagination ought to have gone, we should have been
ruined and lost. Upon these, and many like reflections, I
afterwards made it a certain rule with me, that, whenever I
found those secret hints, or pressings of mind, to doing, or
not doing, anything that presented, or going this way, or that
way, I never failed to obey the secret dictate; though I knew
no other reason for it than that such a pressure, or such a hint,
hung upon my mind. I could give many examples of the
success of this conduct in the course of my life, but more
especially in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy5
nosmsox cansoa. 187

island; besides many occasions which it is very likely I might
have taken notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then
thatIseewith now. But itis nevertoolate tobe wise; and I
cannot but advise all considering men, whose lives are attended
with such extraordinary incidents as mine, or, even though not
so extraordinary, not to slight such secret intimations of Pro-
vidence, let them come from what invisible intelligence they
will: that I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for;
but certainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and a
secret communication between those embodied and those un-
embodied, and such a proof as can never be withstood; of
which I shall have occasion to give some very remarkable
instances in the remainder of my solitary residence in this
dismal place.'

-'W

CHAPTER XX.

nmm--msoovns A GAVE--"AT HI POUND mas--cm--mom
1311168 To rr--mssxxm--essa A rm urn "7A0" noun 11--43:!
00 on m m CANOE--BEARS A GUN L1? Murmur--a. SHIP wwnn
0P! '1'!!! mama.

I BELIEVE the reader of this will not think it strange if I con-
fess, that these anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and
the concern that was now upon me, ut an end to all invention,
and to all the contrivances that had laid for my future
accommodations and conveniences. Ihad the care of my safety
more now upon my hands than that of my food. I cared not
to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear of the noise
I might make should be heard; much less would I fire a gun,
for the same reason: and above all, I was intolerably uneasy
at making any fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a t
distance in the day, should betray me. For this reason filler:-
moved that part of my business which required fire, such as
burning of pots and pipes, &c., into my new apartment in the
woods: where, after I had been some time, I found, to my un-
speakable consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which
went in a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he
been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in;
nor, indeed, would any man else, but one who, like me, wanted
nothing so much as a safe retreat.

' These reflections upon "secret hints. or premlngs of mind." seem to require .

some limitations We must " try the spirits whether they be of God." whether
theybe conformable to His word or will, before we consent to them, or we may
beledawayby themggesuonsoftheEVuOne.

1
,4;
'1
The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock,
where, by mere accident, (I would say, if I did not see abundant
reason to ascribe all such things now to Providence,) I was
cutting down some thick branches of trees to make charcoal,
and before I go on, I must observe the reason of my making
this charcoal, which was this: I was afraid of making a smoke
about my habitation, as I said before; and yet I could not live
there without baking my bread, cooking my meat, &c.; so I
contrived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in Eng-
land, under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal; and then
putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home, and

 

perform the other services for which fire was wanting, without
danger of smoke. But this is by-the-by z--While Iwas cutting
down some wood here, I perceived that, behind a very thick
branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a kind of
hollow place: I was curious to look in it, and getting with
difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large: that
is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps
another with me; but I must confess to you that I made more
haste out than I did in, when, looking farther into the place,
and which was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of
some creature, whether devil or man I knew not, which
twinkled like two stars: the dim light from the cave's mouth
shining directly in, and making the reflection. However, after.'gfi, g
' 'l

aoamson onuson. 139

some pause, I recovered myself, and began to call myself a
thousand fools, and to think, that he that was afraid to see the
devil" was not fit to live twenty years in an island all alone:
and that Imight well think there was nothing in this cave that
was more frightful than myself. Upon this, plucking up my
courage, I took up a firebrand, and in I rushed again, with
the stick flaming in my hand; I had not got three steps in,
but I was almost as much frightened as I was before; for I
heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in some pain, and it
was followed by a broken noise, as of words half expressed,
and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was, indeed,
struck with such a surprise, that it ut me into a cold sweat:
and if I had had a hat on my hea I will not answer for it,
that my hair might not have lifted it off. But, still plucking
up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself a little
with considering that the power and presence of God were
everywhere, and were able to protect me, upon this I stepped
forward again, and by the liwht of the firebrand, holding it up
a little over my head, I saw lying on the ground a most mon-
strous frightful old he-goat, just making his will, as we say,
and gasping for life; and dying, indeed, of mere old age. I
stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he essayed
to get up, but was not able to raise himself: andI thought with
myself he might even lie there; for if he had frightened me so,
he would certame fright any of the savages, if any of them
{rhollliillcll1 be so hardy as to come in there while he had any life
in .

I was now recovered from my su rise, and began to look
round me, when I found the cave was ut very small, that is to
say, it might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner of
shape, neither round nor square, no band ever having been em-
ployed in making it but those of mere nature. 1 observed,
also, that there was a place at the farther side of it that went
in further, but was so low that it required me to creep upon

-my hands and knees to go into it, and whither it went I knew
not: so, having no candle,I gave it over for that time; but re-
solved to come again the next day, provided with candles and
a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the mus-
kets, with some wildfire in the pan. '

' Robinson Crusoe seems to have got his idea or the devil from pictures, or
dramatic representations. and not from Scripture or reality. " We are informed.
by the Holy Scriptures, that evil spirits, that the devil and his angels, are ever
busy for the destruction of man, watching around him, and offering temptations
ina variety of ways; but we have no authority from Scripture. of which I am
aware, to say that they ever appear to him. The an! instance on record is, when
the devil, at the temptation of Christ, a red to im; but in whstform this
was, we are not told; whether as himsel , or in a human form, as good angels had
appeared to the patriarchs. or as 'an angel of light.' in which disguise. St. Paul
tells us. Satan can appear." (2 Cor. xi. 14.) See the truth of the popular nation
or apparition. or ghosts, considered by the light of Scripture: A Sermon by
James Plumptre. 8.0.. p. 13.

\
Accordingly the next day, I came rovided with six large
candles of my own making; for I ma e very good candles now
of goats' tallow, but was har set for candle-wick, using some-
times rags or rope-yam, and sometimes the dried rind of aweed
like nettles ;) and, going into this low place, I was obliged to
creep upon all-fours, as 1 have said, almost ten yards; which, by-
the-way, I thought was a venture bold enough, considering that
I knew not how far it might go, nor what was beyond it. When
I had got through the strait, I found the roof rose higher up,
I believe near twenty feet: but never was such a glorious sight
seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to look round the
sides and roof of this vault or cave; the walls reflected an
hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles. What it
was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious
stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not.
The place I was in was a most delightful cavity, or grotto of
its kind, as could be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor
was dry and level, and had a sort of a small loose gravel upon
it, so that there was no nauseous or venomous creature to be
seen, neither was there any damp, or wet, on the sides or roof:
the only difficulty in it was the entrance: which, however, as
it was a place of security, and such a retreat as 'I wanted, I
thought that was a convenience; so that I was really rejoiced
at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to bring
some of those things which I was most anxious about to this
place; particularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine of

wder, and all my spare arms, viz., two fowling-pieces, for I
hid three in all, and three muskets, for of them I ad eight in
all ; so I kept at my castle only five, which stood ready mounted,
like pieces of cannon, on my outward fence; and were ready,
also, to take out upon any expedition. Upon this occasion of
removing my ammunition, I happened to o n the barrel of
powder which I took up out of the sea, an which had been
wet; and I found that the water had penetrated about two or
three inches into the powder on every side, which, caking and
growing hard, had preserved the inside like a kernel in the
shell; so that I had near sixty pounds of very good powder in
the centre of the cask: this was a very agreeable discovery to
me at this time: so I carried all away thither, never keeping
above two or three pounds of powder with me in my castle, for
fear of a surprise of any kind: I also carried thither all the lead
I had left for bullets.

~I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which
were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none
could come at them: for I persuaded myself while I was here,
if five hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never find
me out; or if they did, they would not venture to attack me

- here. The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the mouth
of the cave the next day after I had made this discovery; and
I found it much easier to dig a great hole there, and throw him
in and cover him with earth, than to drag himout; so Iinterred
him there to prevent offence to my nose.

I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this
island; and was so naturalized to the place, and the manner of
living, that, could I but have enjoyed the certainty that no
savages would come to the place to disturb me, I could have
been content to have capitulated for spending the rest of my
time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me down
and died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also arrived to
some little diversions and amusements, which made the time
pass a great deal more pleasantly with me than it did before:
as, first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak;
and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain,
that it was very pleasant to me; for I believe no bird ever spoke
plainer: and he lived with me no less than six-and-twenty
years; how long he might have lived afterwards I know not,
though I know they have a notion in the Brazils that they live
an hundred years. My dog was a very pleasant and lovin
companion to me for no less than sixteen years of my time, and
then died of mere old age. As for my cats, they multiplied, as
I have observed, to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot
several of them at first, to keep them from devouring me and
all I had; but, at length, when the two old ones I brought with
me were gone, and, after some time continually drivin them
from me, and letting them have no provision with me, ey all
ran wild into the woods, except two or three favourites, which
I kept tame, and whose young, when they had any, I always
drowned; and these were part of my family. Besides these, I
always kept two or three household kids about me, whom I
taught to feed out of my hand; and I had two more rrots,
which talked pretty well, and would all call " Robin "
but none like my first: nor, indeed, did I take the ' with
any of them that I had done with him. I had several
tamesea-fowls, whose names I knew not, that I caught 11
the shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes whic I
had planted before my castle wall being now grown up to a

'good thick grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees,

and bred there, which was very agreeable to me; so that'as I .-
said above, I began to be very well contented with the life I.
led, if I could but have been secured from the dread of the
savages. But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be
amiss for all peeple who shall meet with my story, to make
this just observation from it; viz, How frequently, in'ftlie '
course of our lives, the evil which in itself we seek most-to
shun, and which, when we are fallen into, is the most dreadful
to us, is oftentimes the very means, or door, of our deliverance, -
by which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we
are fallen into. I could give many examples of this in the
course of my unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more
particularly remarkable than in the circumstances of my last
years of solitary residence in this island.

It was now the month of December, as I said above, in
my twenty-third year; and this being the southern solstice,
(for winter I cannot call it,) was the particular time of 'my
harvest, and required my being pretty much abroad in the
fields; when oing out pretty early in the morning, even
before it was t oroughly daylight, I was surprised with seeing
a light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of
about two miles, towards the end of the island, where I had
observed some savages had been, as before, and not on the
other side: but to my great affliction it was on my side of the
island.

I was, indeed, terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be
surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from the ap-
prehensions I had, that if these savages, in rambling over the
island, should find my corn standing, or cut, or any of my
works and improvements, they would immediately conclude
that there were people in the place, aud would never give over
till they had found me out. In this extremity, I went back
directly to my castle, pulled up my ladder after me, and made
all things without look as wild and natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture
of defence : I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is to
say, my muskets, which were mounted upon my new fgrtifica-
tion, and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the
last gasp; not forgetting seriously to commend myself to the
Divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me
out of'the hands of the barbarians. Icontinued in this posture
about two hours; and began to be mighty impatient for intel-
ligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out. After sitting a
while longer, and musing what I should do in this case, I was
not able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer; so, setting
up my ladder to the side of the hill, where there was a flat
place, as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder up
after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top of the hill:
and pulling out my rspective glass, which I had taken on
purpose, I laid me own, flat, on my belly, on the ground,
and began to look for the place. I presently found thereawere
no less than nine naked savages, sitting round a mu fire
they had made, not to warm them, for they had no need of
that. the weather being extremely hot, but, as I supposed,
todresssome of their barbarous diet of human flesh, which they
_ had brought with them, whether alive or dead I could not tell.k" .
aonmsou causos. 143' '

. ' * -, '1'. ',

They had two canoes with them, which they had him up'
upon the shore; and, as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed
to me to wait for the return of the flood to go away again.
It is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me
into, especially seeing them come on my side of the island,
and so near me too; but, when I considered their coming must
be always with the current of the ebb, I began, afterwards, to
be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go
abroad with safety all the time of the tide of flood, if they
were not on shore before; and, having made this observation,
1 went abroad about my harvest-work with the more com-
posure. .

As I expected, so it proved; for, as soon as the tide made to
the westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as
we call it) away. I should have observed, that, for an hour, or
more, before they went ofi', they went a-dancing; and I could
easily discern their postures and gestures by my glass. I could
not perceive, by my nicest observation, but that they were
naked, and had not the least covering upon them.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns
upon my shoulders, ancl two pistols in my girdle, and my great
sword by my side, without a scabbard; and, with all the speed
I was able to make, went away to the hill, where I had disco-
vered the first appearance of all z and, as soon as I got thither,
which was not in less than two hours, (for I could not go space,
being so laden with arms as I was,) I perceived there had
been three canoes more of savages at that place; and looking
out farther, I saw they were all at sea together, making over
the main. This was a dreadful sight to me, especially as,
goin down to the shore, I could see the marks of horror,
whic the dismal work they had been about had left behind it,
viz., the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and
sport. I was so filled with indignation at the sight, that Inow
began to premeditate the destruction of the next that I saw
there, let them be whom or how many soever. It seemed
evident to me that the visits which they made thus to this
island were not very frequent, for it was above fifteen months
before any more of them came on shore there again; that is to
say, I neither saw them, nor any footsteps or signals of them,
in all that time; for, as to the rainy seasons, then they are
sure not to come abroad, at least not so far: yet all this while
I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant apprehensions
of their coming upon me by surprise; from whence l observe,
that the expectation of evil is more bitter than the sufl'ering,
especially if there is no room to shake 03' that expectationg-or
those apprehensions.

During all this time I was in the murdering humour and _ -
took up most of my hours, which should have been better
employed, in contriving how to circumvent and {all upon them,
the very next time I should see them, especially if they should
be divided, as they were the last time, into two parties: nor
did I consider at all, that if 'I killed one party, suppose ten or
a dozen, I was still the next day, or week, or month, to kill
another, and so another, even ad infinitum, till I should be at
length no less a murderer than they were in being man-eaters,
and rhaps much more so. I spent my days now in great
perp exity and anxiety of mind, expecting that I should, one
day or other, fall into the hands of these merciless creatures;
and, if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not without
looking round me with the greatest care and caution imagin-
able. And now I found, to my great comfort, how happy it
was that I provided for a tame flock or herd of goats; for
I dnrst not, upon any account, fire my gumfipecially near that
side of the island where they usually cameflest I should alarm
the savages; and if they fled from me now, I was sure to have
them come again, with, perhaps, two or three hundred canoes
with them, in a few days, and then I knew what to expect.
However, I wore out a year and three months more before I
ever saw any more of the savages, and then I found them
again, as I shall soon observe. It is true, they might have
been there once or twice, but, either they made no stay, or, at
least, I did not see them: but, in the month of May. as near
as I could calculate, and in my foyr--and-twentieth year, I had
a very strange encounter with them; of which in its place.
The rturbation of my mind during this fifteen or sixteen
mon interval was very great; I slept unquiet, dreamed
always frightful dreams, and often started out of my sleep in
the night: in the day great troubles overwhelmed my mind;
and in the night I dreamed often of killing the savages, and
of the reasons why I might justify the doing of it. But, to
waive all this for a while, it was in the middle of May, on
the sixteenth day I think, as well as my poor wooden calendar
would reckon, for I marked all upon the post still; I say, it was
on the sixteenth of May that it blew a very great storm of wind
all day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very
foul night it was after it. I knew not what was the particular
occasion of it, but, asI was reading in the Bible, and taken up
with very serious thoughts about my present condition, I was
surprised with the noise of a gnu, as'I thought, fired at sea.
This was, to be sure, a surprise quite of a different nature from
any I had met with before; for the notions thilsmsut into my
thoughts were quite of another kind. I sta ' up in the
greatest haste imaginable, and, in a trice, clapped my ladder
to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me: and
mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill the very
moment that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun,
which accordingl , in about half a minute, I heard; and, by
the sound knew t at it was from that part of the sea where
l was driven down the current in my boat. I immediately
considered that this must be some ship in distress, and that
they had some comrade, or some other ship in company, and
fired these guns for signals of distress, and to obtain help. I
had the presence of mind, at that minute, to think, that, though
I could not help them, it might be they might help me: so I
brought together all the dry wood I could get at hand, and
making a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill.
The wood was dry, and blazed freely; and, though the wind
blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out; so that I was certain
if there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it;
and no doubt they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up,
I heard another gun, and after that, several others, all from the
same quarter. I plied my fire all night long, till daybreak:
and, when it was brow day, and the air cleared up, I saw some-
thindeg, at a great distance, at sea, full east of the island, whether
a sail or a hull I could not distinguish, no, not with my glass;
the distance was so great, and the weather still something hazy
also; at least, it was so out at sea. ,

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived
that it did not move; so I presently concluded that it was
a ship at anchor; and being eager, you may be sure, to be
satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and ran towards the
south side of the island, to the rocks where I had formerly
been carried away with the current; and, getting up there, the
weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see,
to my great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in the
night upon those concealed rocks which found when I was
out in my boat; and which rocks, as they checked the violence
of the stream, and made a kind of counter stream,-or eddy,
were the occasion of my recovering from the most desperate,
hopeless condition, that ever I had been in all my life. Thus,
what is one man's safety is another man's destruction; for
it seems, these men, whoever they were, being out of their
knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under water, had been
driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at
E.N.E. Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily sup-
pose they did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavoured
to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat;
but their firing ofl' guns for help, especially when they saw, as
I imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts: first, I
imagined, that, upon seeing my light, they might have put
themselves into their boat, and endeavoured to make the shore ; '
but that the sea going very high, they might have been cast
away: other times {imagined that they, might have lost their

' 8
boat before, as might be the case, many ways; as, particularly,
by the breaking of the sea upon their ship, which man times
obliges men to stave, or take in pieces their boat, an some-
times to throw it overboard with their own hands : other times
I imagined they had some other 813) or shi in company, who,
upon the signals of distress theyh made, ad taken them up,
and carried them ofi' : other times I fancied they were all gone
ofi' to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by the current
that I had been formerly in, were carried out into the great
ocean, where there was nothing but misery and perishing ; and
that, perhaps, they might by this time thinkof starving, and of
being in a condition to eat one another.

As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the condition
1 was in, I could do no more than look on upon 'the misery of
the poor men, and pity them; which had still this good effect
on my side, that it gave me more and more cause to give
thanks to God, who had so happily and comfortably provided
for me in my desolate condition; and that of two ships' com-
panies, who were now cast away upon this part of the world,
not one life should be spared but mine. I learned here, again,
to observe, that it is very rare that the providence of God
casts us into any condition of life so low, or any misery so
great, but we may see something or other to be thankful for,
and may see others in worse 'circumstances than our own.
Such certame was the case with these men, of whom I could
not so much as see room to suppose any of them were saved
nothing could make it rational, so much as to wish, or expect,
that they did not all perish there, except the possibility only
of their being taken up by another ship in com y; and this
was but mere possibility indeed, for I saw not t e least sign or
appearance of any such thing. I cannot explain by any pos-
sible energy of words, what a strange longing, or hankering
of desires, 'I felt in my soul upon this sight, breaking out
sometimes thus--" 0 that there had been but one or two; nay,
or but one soul saved out of this ship, to have escaped to me,
that I might but have had one companion, one fellow-creature
to have spoken to me, and to have conversed with !" In all
the time of my solitary life, I never felt so earnest, so strong
a desire after the society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a
regret at the want of it.
CHAPTER XXI.

REGRET AT KORE 0? THE CREW BEING SAVED--VISITS m "WM--BRINGS
BACK A DOG. LSD VARIOUS amass--ram PROJECTS 1'0 631' AWAY--A
DBEAIu-AXD BfiOLL'TlUSD 13 0038301325033.

THERE are some secret moving springs in the affections which,
when they are set agoing by some object in view, or though
not in view, yet rendered present to the mind by the power of
imagination, that motion carries out the soul, by its impetuosity,
to such violent, eager embracings of the object, that the ab-
sence of it is insupportable. Such were these earnest wish-
ings, that but one man had been saved. I believe I repeated
the words, "0 that it had been but one!" a thousand times;
and my desires were so moved by it, that, when I spoke the
words, my hands would clinch together, and my fingers would
press the palms of my hands, that, if I had had any soft thing
in my hand, it would have crushed it involuntarily; and the
teeth in my head would strike together, and set against one
another so strong, that, for some time, I could not part them
again. Let the naturalists explain these things, and the reason
and manner of them: all I can say to them is, to describe the
fact, which was even surprising to me, when I found it, though
I knew not from whence it proceeded: it was, doubtless, the
efl'ect of ardent wishes, and of strong ideas formed in my
mind, realizing the comfort which the conversation of one of
my fellow-Christians would have been to me. But it was not
to be ; and, till the last year of my being on this island, I never
knew whether any were saved out of that ship or no; and had
only the affliction, some days after, to see the corpse of a
drowned boy come on shore, at the end of the island which
was next the shipwreck. He had no clothes on but a seaman's
waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt; but nothing to direct me so much as to guess what
nation he was of; he had nothing in his pockets but two pieces
of eight and a. tobacco-pipe; the last was to me of ten times
more value than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in
my boat to this wreck; not doubting but I might find some-
thing on board that might be useful to me; but that did not
altogether press me so much as the poMbiIity that there might
be yet some living creature on board, whose life I might not
only save, but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to
the last decree; and this thought clung so to my heart, that
I could notcbe quiet night or day, but I must venture out in
my boat on board this wreck; and, committing thezrest to

n
God's providence, I thought the impression was so strong upon '
my mind that it could not be resisted, that it must come from
some invisible direction, and that I should be wanting to
myself if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my
castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity of
bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a
bottle of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left), and
a basket of raisins: and thus, loading myself with everything
necessary, I went down to my boat, got the water out of her,
put her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home
again for more. My second cargo was a great bag of rice, the
umbrella to set up over my head for a shade, another large pot
of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves, or
barley--cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goats' milk
and a cheese; all which, with great labour and sweat, I carried
to my boat; and, praying to God to direct my voyage, I put
out; and rowing, or paddling, the canoe along the shore,
came at last to the utmost point of the island on the north-
east side. And now I was to launch out into the ocean, and
either to venture or not to venture. I looked on the rapid
currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a
distance, and which were very terrible to me, from the remem-
brance of the hazard I had been in before, and my heart began
to fail me; for I foresaw, that, if I was driven into either of
those currents, I should be carried a great way out to sea, and
perhaps out of my reach, or sight of the island again; and,
that then, as my boat was but small, if any little gale of wind
should rise, 1 should be inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give
over my enterprise; and, having hauled my boat into a little
creek on the shore, I stepped out, and sat me down upon a
rising bit of ground, very pensive and anxious, between fear
and desire, about my voyage; when, as I was musing, I could
perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood came on; upon
which my going was impracticable for so many hours. Upon
this, presently it occurred to me, that I should go up to the
highest piece of ground I could find, and observe, if I could,
how the sets of the tide, or currents, lay when the floods came
in, that I might judge whether, if I was driven one way out, I
might not expect to be driven another way home, with the same
rapidness of the currents. This thought was no sooner in my
head than I cast my eye upon a little bill, which sufliciently
overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I had a clear
view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and which way I was
to guide myself in my return. Here I found, that, as the
current of the ebb set out close by the south point of the
island, so the current of the flood set in close by the shore
of the north side; and that I had nothing to do but to keep to
the north side of the island in my return, and I should do well
enough.

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the next
morning, to set out with the first of the tide; and re ing
myself for the night in my canoe, under the great watc -'coat
I mentioned, I launched out. I first made a little out to sea,
full north, till i began to feel the benefit of the current, which
set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate: and yet
did not so hurry me as the current on the south side had done
before, so as to take from me all government of the boat; but
hav'in0r a strong steerage with my paddle, I went at a great
rate directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours, I
came up to it. It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship,
which, by its building, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in
between two rocks: all the stern and uarter of her were
beaten to pieces with the sea; and, as er forecastle, which
stuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence, her main-
mast and foremast were brought by the board, that is to say,
broken short 03' ; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head
and bow appeared firm. When I came close to 'her, a dog
appeared upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried;
and as soon as I called him, jumped into the sea tocome to me;
' I took him into the boat, and foundhim almost dead with
hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he
devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a
fortnight in the snow: I then gave the poor creature some
fresh water, with which, if I would have let him, he would
have burst himself. After this, I went on board; but the
first sight I met was two men drowned in the cock-room
or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about one another.
I concluded, as is indeed probable, that, when the ship struck,
it being in a storm, the sea broke so high, and so continually
.over her, that the men were not able to bear it, and were
strangled with the constant rushing in of the water, as much
as if they had been under water. Besides the dog, there was
nothing left in the ship that had life, nor any goods, that I
could see, but what were spoiled by the water. There were
some casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew not,
which lay lower in the hold and which, the water being ebbed
out, I could see; but they were too big to meddle with. 1 saw
several chests, which Ibelieved belonged to some of the seamen;
and I got two of them into the boat, without examining what
was in them. Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the
forepart broken oil, I am persuaded I might have made a good
voyage; for, by what 1 found in these two chests, I had room
to suppose the ship had a great deal of wealth on board; and,
if I may guess from the course she steered, she must have been
bound for Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south
part of America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havanna, in the
Gulph of Mexico, and so perhaps, to Spain. She had, no
doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use at that time to
anybody; and what became of her crew I then knew not.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of
about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much
difficulty. There were several muskets in the cabin, and a
great powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder in it;
as for the muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them,
but took the wder-horn. I took a fire shovel and tongs,
which I wan extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a
copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with this
cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make
home again ; and, the same evening, about an hour within night,
I reached the island again, weary and fatigued to the last degree.
I reposed that night in the boat; and in the morning, I resolved
to harbour what I had got into my new cave, and not carry it
home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo
on shore, and began to examine the particulars.' The cask of
liquor I found to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had at
the Brazils, and, in a word, not at all good; but when I came
to open the chests, I found several things of great use to me;
for example, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an extra-
ordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine and very good ;
the bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped with
silver. I found two pots of very good succades, or sweet-
meats, so fastened also on the top, that the salt water had not
hurt them, and two more of the same which the water had
spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which were very wel-
come to me; and about a dozen and a half of white linen
handkerchiefs and coloured neck-cloths; the former were also
very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a
hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the chest, I
found there three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about
eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapped up
in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some small bars or
wedges of gold; I suppose they might all weigh near a pound.
In the other chest were some clothes, but of little value; but,
by the circumstances, it must have belonged to the gunner's
mate, though there was no powder in it, except two pounds of
fine glazed powder, in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for
charging their fowling-pieces on occasion. Upon the whole,
I got very little by this voyage that was of anyuse to me ; for
as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for it; it was
to me as the dirt under my feet ; and I would have given it all
for three or four pairs of English shoes and stockings, which
were things I greatly wanted, but had none on my feet for
many years. I.had, indeed, got two pair of shoes now, which
I took off the feet of the two drowned men whom I saw in the
wreck, and I found two pair more in one of the chests, which
were very welcome to me; but they were not like our English
shoes, neither for ease nor service, being rather what we call
pumps than shoes. I found, in this seaman's chest, about fifty
pieces of eight in rials, but no gold: I suppose this belonged
to a poorer man than the other, which seemed to belong to
some oflicer. Well, however, I lugged this money home to
my cave and laid it up, as I had done that before which
I brought from our own ship; but it was a great pity, as I
said, that the other part of this ship had not come to my share;
for I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe several times
over with money: and, thought I, if I ever escape to Eng-
land}; it might lie here safe enough till I may come again and
fete it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured
them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along
the shore to her old harbour, where I laid her up, and made.
the best of my way to my old habitation, where I found every-'
thing safe and quiet. I began now to repose myself, live after
my old fashion, and take care of my family afiairs: and, for a
while, I lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than
I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad so
much; and if at any time I did stir with any freedom, it was
always to the east part of the island, where I was pretty well
satisfied the savages never came, and where I could go without
so many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammuni-
tion as I always carried with me, if I went the other way.
I lived in this condition near two, years more; but my head
was all these two years filled with projects and designs, how,
if it were ible, I might get away from this island: for
sometimes was for making another voyage to the wreck,
though my reason told me that there was nothing left there
worth the hazard of my voyage: sometimes for a ramble one
way, sometimes another; and I believe verily, if I had had
the boat that I went from Sallee in, I should have ventured to
sea, bound anywhere, I knew not whither. I have been, in
all my circumstances, a memento to those who are touched with
the general plague of mankind, whence, from aught I know, one
half of their miseries flow ; I mean that of not being satisfied
with the station wherein God hath placed them; for, not to
look back upon my primitive condition, and the excellent advice
of my father, the opposition to which was, as I may call it,
my original sin, my subsequent mistakes of the same kind had
been the means of my coming into this miserable condition;
for, had I, who was so happily seated at the Brazils, as a
planter, but confined my desires, and could I have been con-
tented to have gone on gradually, I might have been by this
time, I mean in the time of my being on this island, one of the
most considerable planters in the Brazils; nay, I ampersuaded,
that, by the improvements I had made in that little time I lived
there, and the increase I should probably have made, if I had
remained, I might have been worth an hundred thousand moi-
dores: and what business had I to leave a settled fortune, a
well-stocked plantation, improving and increasing, to turn
supercargo to Guinea to fetch negroes, when patience and time
would have so increased our stock at home, that we could have
bought them at our own door from those whose business it
was to fetch them? and though it had cost us something more,
yet the difference of that price was by no means worth saving
at so great a hazard. But, as this is usually the lot of young
heads, so reflecting upon the folly of it is as commonly the
exercise of more years, or of the dear-bought experience of
time: so it was with me now; and yet so deep had the mis-.
take taken root in my temper, that I could not satisfy myself
in my station, but was continually poring upon the means and
possibility of my escape from this place; and, that Imay, with
the greater pleasure to the reader, bring on the remaining part of
my story, it may not be improper to give some account of my
first conce tions on the subject of this foolish scheme for my
escape, an how, and upon what foundation, I acted.

I am now to be supposed retired into my castle, after my late
voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured under water
as usual, and my condition restored to what it was before: I had
more wealth, indeed, than I had before; but was not at all the
richer; for I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had
before the Spaniards came there.

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the
four-and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island
of solitude, l was lying in my bed or hammock, awake, very
well in health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of
body, nor any uneasiness of mind more than ordinary, but could
by no means close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep: no, not a
wink all night long, otherwise than as follows :-----It is impossible
to set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled
through that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in
this night's time: I ran over the whole history of my life, in
miniature, or by abridgment, as I maycall it, to my coming to
this island, and also of that part of my life since I Came to this
island. In my reflections upon the state of my case since I came
on shore on this island, I was comparing the happy posture of
my afi'airs in the first years of my habitation here, comparedto
the life of anxiety, fear, and care, which L had lived in ever
since I had seen the print of a foot in the sand; not that I did
not believe the savages had frequented the island, even all the
while, and might have been several hundreds of them, at times,
on shore there, but I had never known it, and was incapable
of any apprehensions about it; my satisfaction was perfect,
though my danger was the same, and I was as happy in not
knowing my danger, as if I had never really been exposed to
it. This furnished my thoughts with many very profitable re-
flections, and particularly this one: How infinitely good that
Providence is, which has provided, in its government of mankind,
such narrow bounds tohissight and knowledge of things: and,
though he walks in the midst of somany thousand dangers, the
sight of which, if discovered to him, would distract his mind and
sink his spirits, he is kept serene and calm, by having the events
of things hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of the dangers
which surround him.

After these thoughts had, for some time, entertained me, 1
came to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been in
for so many years in this very island, and how I had walked
about in the greatest security, and with all possible tranquil-
lity, even when, perhaps, nothing but the brow of a hill, a great
tree, or the casual approach of night, had been between me
and the worst kind of destruction, viz., that of falling into the
hands of cannibals and savages, who would have seized on me
with the same view as I would on a goat or a turtle, and would
have thought it no more a crime to kill and devour me than
I did of a pigeon or curlew. I would unjustly slander myself,
if I should say I was not sincerely thankful to my great Pre-
server, to whose singular rotection, I acknowledged, with
great humility, all these unfinown deliverances were due, and
without which I must inevitably have fallen into their merciless
hands.

When those thoughts-were over, my head was for some time
taken up in considering the nature of these wretched creatures,
I mean the savages, and how it came to pass in the world, that
the wise Governor of all things should give up any of his
creatures to such inhumanity, nay, to something so much
below even brutality itself, as to devour its own kind : but, as
this ended in some (at that time fruitless)- speculations, it
occurred to me to inquire what part of the world these wretches
lived in? How far 03' the coast was. from whence they came?
What they ventured over so far from home for P What kind
of boats they had? And why Imight not order myself and my
business so that I might be as able to go over thither as they
were to come to me? -

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I
should do with myself when I went thither; what would bc~
come of me, if I fell into the hands of the savages; or how I
should escape from them, if they attacked me; no, nor so
much as how it was possible for me to reach the coast, 51nd not

. n
be attacked by some or other of them, without any possibility
of delivering myself; and, if I should not fall into their hands,
what I should do for provision, or whither I should bend my
course: none of these thoughts, I say, so much as came in my
way; but my mind was wholly bent u n the notion of my
passing over in my boat to the main Ian I looked upon my
present condition as the most miserable that could possibly be;
that I was not able to throw myself into anything but death,
that could be called worse: and, if I reached the shore of the
main, I might, perhaps, meet with relief, or I might coast
along, as I did on the African shore, till I came to some in-
habited country, and where I might find some relief; and,
after all, perhaps, I might fall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in; and, if the worst came to the worst,I could
but die, which would put an end to all these miseries at once.
Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind, an im-
patient temper, made desperate, as it were, by the long continu-
ance of my troubles, and the disappointments I had met in
the wreck I had been on board of, and where I had been so
near obtaining what I so earnestly longed for, viz., somebody to
speak to, and to learn some knowledge from them of the place
where I was, and of the probable means of my deliverance.
I was agitated wholly by these thoughts; all my calm of mind,
in my resignation to Providence, and waiting the issue of the dis-
positions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had, as it
were, no power to turn my thoughts to anything but to the pro-
ject of a voyage to the main; which came upon me with such
force, and such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be
resisted.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more,
with such violence that it set my very blood into a ferment,
and my pulse beat as if I had been in a fever, merely with the
extraordinary fervour of mind about it, nature, as if I had
been fatigued and exhausted with the very thought of it,
threw me into a sound sleep. One would have thought I
should have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of anything
relating to it: but I dreamed, that, as I was going out in the
morning, as usual from my trestle, I saw upon the shore two
canoes and eleven savages coming to land, and that they
brought with them another savage whom they were going to
kill, in order to eat him; when, on a sudden, the savage that
they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life; and
I thought, in my sleep, that he came running into my little
thick grove before my fortification, to hide himself; and that
I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the others sought
him that way, showed myself to him, and, smiling upon him,
encouraged him: that he kneeled down to me, seeming to ray
to me to assist him; upon which I showed him my der,
made him go up, and carried him into my cave, and he became
my servant: and that, as soon as I had got this man, I said to
myself, now I may certainly venture to the main land; for
this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me what to
do, and whither to go for provisions, and whither not to go for
fear of being devoured; what places to venture into, and what
to shim. I waked with this thought; and was under such in-
expressible impressions of joy at the pros t of my escape in
my dream, that the disappointment which felt upon coming to
myself, and finding that it was no more than a dream, was
equally extravagant the other way, and threw me into a very
great dejection of spirits.'

Upon this,.however, I made this conclusion; that my only
way to go about to attempt an escape, was, if possible, to get
a savage into my possession; and, if possible, it should be one
of their prisoners whom they had condemned to be eaten, and
should bring hither to kill. But these thoughts still were at-
tended with this difliculty, that it was impossible to effect this
without attacking a whole caravan of them, and killing them
all; and this was not only a very desperate attempt, and might
miscarry, but, on the other hand, I had greatly scru led the
lawfulness of it to myself; and my heart tremble at the

thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was for my ,

deliverance. I need not repeat the arguments which occurred
to me against this, they being the same mentioned before:
but, though I had other reasons to offer now, viz., that those
men were enemies to my life, and would devour me, if they
could; that it was self-preservation, in the highest degree, to
deliver myself from this death of a life, and was acting in my
own defence as much as if they were actually assaulting me,
and the like; I say, though these things argued for it, yet the
thoughts of shedding human blood for my deliverance were
very terrible to me, and such as I could by no means reconcile
myself to for a great while. However, at last, after many
secret disputes with myself, and after great perplexities about
it, (for all these arguments, one way and another, struggled in
my head along time,)the eager prevailing desire of deliverance
at length mastered all the rest; and I resolved, if possible, to
get one of those savages into my hands, cost what it would.

0 in this and other places Robinson Crusoe seems to lay great stress upon
dreams. That dreams were formerLy one of the means by which God conveyed
the knowledge of His will, or of future events. l0 particular persons. is very
certain. But. even then. mankind Were particularly warned how they hearkened
to a dreamer of dreams (Dent. xiii. l-- 5). With the ceasing of prophecy. we
are. no doubt, to suppose the ceasing a" prophetic dreams. ' But, as God still
suggests to our minds, when awake. by the culinary impulses of His Holy.Spirit,
so may He not suggest fihewise to our sleeping thoughts? and we must, in this
use. as before (see p. 137), "try the suggestions. whether they be of God," and
conformable to His word and will. This would prove the general system oi
Orwirocrt'h'a to be utterly unworthy of such 'an origin.
My next thing was to contrive how to do it; and this, indeed,
was very difficult to resolve on: but, as I could pitch upon no
probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch,
to see them when they came on shore, and leave the rest to the
event; taking such measures as the Opportunity should present,
let what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon
the scout as often as possible, and, indeed, so often, that I
was heartily tired of it; for it was above a year and a half that
I waited; and, for great part of that time, went out to the
west end, and to the south-west corner of the island, almost
every day, to look for canoes, but none appeared. This was
very discouraging, and began to trouble me much; though I
cannot say that it did in this case (as it had done some time
before) wear off the edge of my desire to the thing; but the
longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for it:
iii a word, I was not at first so careful to shun the sight of
these savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I was now
eager to be upon them. Besides, I fancied myself able to
manage one, nay, two or three savages, if I had them, so as to
make them entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should
direct them, and to prevent their being able at any time to do
me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself with
this affair; but nothing still presented; all my fancies and
schemes came to nothing, for no savages came near me for a
great while.

CHAPTER XXII.

FIVE CANOE ON SHORE--A CAPTIVE ESCAPE, AND IS END--WHICH
OP Ell--NAMED PRIDAY--CWI'KED--HIS FIDELITY--REFLECTIOXS OX 1'"
SOVEREIGNTY 0F PROVIDEXOB.

ABOUT a year and a half after I entertained these notions,
(and, by long musing, had, as it were, resolved them all into
nothing, for want of an occasion to put them into execution,)
I was surprised one morning early with seeing no less than
five canoes all on shore together, on my side the island, and
the people who belonged to them all landed, and out of my
sight. The number of them broke all my measures; for see-
ing so many, and knowing that they always came four, or 81x,
or sometimes more in a boat, I could not tell what to think of
it, or how to take my measures, to attack twenty or thirty
men single-handed; so lay still in my castle, perplexed and
discomforted: however, I put myself into all the same postures
for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just ready
for action, if anything had presented. Having waited a good
while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at length, being
very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and
clambered up to the foot of the hill, by my two stages, as usual;
standing so, however, that my head did not appear above the
hill, so that they could not perceive me by any means. Here
I observed, by the help of my perspective glass, that they were
no less than thirty in number; that they had a fire kindled,
and that they had meat dressed. How they had cooked it I
knew not, or what it was: but they were all dancing, in I know
not how many barbarous gestures and figures, their own way,
round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my per-
spective, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats,
where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now brought out
for the slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately fall,
being knocked down, I suppose with a club, or wooden sword,
for that was their way, and two or three others were at work
immediately, cutting him open for their cookery, while the
other victim was left standing by himself, till they should be
ready for him. In that very moment, this poor wretch, seeing
himself a little at liberty, and unbound, nature inspired him
with hopes of life, and he started away from them, and ran
with incredible swiftness along the sands, directly towards me;
I mean towards that part of the coast where my habitation
was. I was dreadfuny frightened, I must acknowledge, when
Iperceived him run my way, and especially when, as I thought,
I saw him pursued by the whole body: and now I expected
that part of my dream was coming to pass, and he would
certainly take shelter in my grove; but 1 could not depend, by
any means, upon my dream for the rest of it, viz., that t 8 other
savages would not pursue him thither, and find him there.
However, I kept my station, and my spirits began to recover,
when I found that there was not above three men that followed
him; and still more was I encouraged, when I found that he
outstripped them exceedingly in running, and gained ground of
them; so that, if he could but hold it for half an hour, I saw
easily he would fairly get away from them all.

There was betWeen them and my castle the creek, which I
mentioned often in the first part of my story, where I landed
my cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must
necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken
there: but, when the savage escaping came thither, he made
nothing of it, though the tide was then up, but plunging in,
swam through in about thirty strokes or thereabouts, landed,
and ran on with exceeding strength and swiftness. When the

three persons came to the creek, I found that two of them
could swim, but the third could not, and that, standing on the
other side, he looked at the others, but went no farther, and
soon after went softly back again; which, as it happened, was
very well for him in the end. I observed, that the two who
swam were yet more than twice as long swimming over the
creek as the fellow was that fled from them. It came now
very warmly upon my thoughts, and, indeed, irresistibly, that
' now was the time to Get me a servant, and perhaps a com-
panion, or assistant, andD that Iwas called lainly by Providence
to save this poor creature's life. I immediately ran down the
ladders with all possible expedition, fetched my two guns, for
they were both at the foot of the ladders, as I observed above,
and getting up again, with the same haste, to the top of the
hill, I crossed towards the sea, and having a very short cut, and
all down hill, placed myself in the way between the pursuers
and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking
back, was at first, perhaps, as much frightened at me as at
them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come back;
and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that
followed; then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked
him down with the stock of my piece. I was 10th to fire, be-
cause I would not have the rest hear; though at that distance,
it would not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of
the smoke too, they would not have easily known what to
make of it. Having knocked this fellow down, the other who
pursued him stopped, as if he had been frightened, and I
advanced apace towards him : but, as I came nearer, I perceived
presently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot
at me: so I was then necessitated to shoot at him first, which
I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor savage who
fled, but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies fallen
and killed, as he thought, yet was so frightened with the fire
and noise of my piece, that he stood stock-still, and neither
came forward, nor went backward, though he seemed rather
inclined still to fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him,
and made signs to come forward, which he easily understood,
and came a little way; then stopped again, and then a little
farther, and stopped again; and I could then perceive that he
stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner, and had 'ust
been to be killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned to '

again to come to me, and gave him all the signs of encourage-
ment that I could think of ; and he came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of acknow-
ledgment for saving his life. I smiled at him, and looked
pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer: at length
he came close to me; and then he kneeled down again,
kissed the und, and laid his head upon the ground, and
taking me I; the foot, set my foot upon his head: this, it
' nosmson causes. 159
.'t:~. . '
seems; Was in token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I
took him up, and made much of him, andy encou raged him all
I could. But there was more work to do yet: for I perceived
the savage whom Ihad knocked down was not killed, but stunned
with the blow, and began to come to himself: so I pointed to
him, and showed him the savage, that he was not dead; upon
this he spoke some words too me, and though I could not
understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to hear;
for they were the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard,
my own excepted, for above twenty-five years. But there was
no time for such reflections now. the savage who was knocked
down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the ground,
and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid, but, when
I saw that, I presented my other piece at the man, as if I would
shoot him: upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made
a motion to me to lend him my sword, which hung naked' 1n a
belt by my side, which I did. He no sooner had it, but he
runs to his enemy, and, at one blow, cut 0E his head so cleverly,
no executioner in Germany could have done it sooner or better,
which I thought very strange for one who, I had reason to be-
lieve, never saw a sword in his life before, except their own
wooden swords: however, it seems, as I learned afterwards,
they make their wooden swords so sharp ,so heavy, and the
wood' is so hard, that they will cut 011' heads, even with them,
ay, and arms, and that at one blow too. When he had done
this, he comes laughing to me, in sign of triumph, and brought
me the sword again, and with abundance of gestures which I
did not understand, laid it down, with the head of the savage
that he had killed, just before me. But that which astonished
him most, was to know how I killed the other Indian so far
off: so pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to
him, so I bade him go, as well as I could. When he came to
him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turning him
first on one side, then on the other, looking at the wound the
bullet had made, which, it seems, was just in his breast, where
it had made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had fol-
lowed; but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He
took up his bow and arrows and came back: so I 8turned to go
away, and beckoned him to follow me, making gns to him
that more might'come after them. Upon this, :,he made signs
to me that he should bury them with sand, that they might not
be seen by the rest, if they followed; and so I made signs to
him again to do so. He fyell to work; and in an instant, he
had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough to
bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered
him, and did so by the other also: I believe he had buried
them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away, I
carried him, not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, cr.
the farther part of the island: so I did not let my dream come
to pass, in that part, viz., that he came into my grove for shel-
ter. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and
a draught of water, which I found he was indeed in great dis-
tress for, by his running; and, having refreshed him, I made
signs for him to go and lie down to sleep, showing him a place
where I had laid some rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, which
I used to sleep upon myself sometimes: so the poor creature
lay down and went to sleep.

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with
straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall, and well-shaped; and,
as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very good
countenance, not a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have
something very manly in his face; and yet he had all the
sweetness and softness 'of an European in his countenance too,
especially when he smiled. His hair was long and black, not
curled like wool; his forehead very high and large; and a
great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour
of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet not
of an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and
Virginians, and other natives of America, are, but of a bright
kind of a dun olive colour, that had in it something very agree-
able, though not very easy to describe. His face was round
and plump; his nose small, not flat like the negroes; a very
good mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and as white
as ivor '.

Aftei' he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour,
he awoke again, and came out of the cave to me, for Ihad been
milking my goats, which I had in the enclosure close by: when
he espied me, he came running to me, laying himself down
again upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an humble
thankful disposition, making a great many antic gestures to
show it. At last, he lays his head flat upon the ground, close
to my foot, and sets my other foot upon his head, as he had
done before; and after this, made all the signs to me of sub-
jection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me know
how he would serve me so long as he lived. I understood him
' .many things, and let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In a little time, I began to speak to him, and teach him
to speak to me; and, first, I let him know his name should
be FRIDAY, which was the day I saved his life: I called him so
for the memory of the time. I likewise taught him to say,
Master; and then let him know that was to be my name: I
likewise taught him to say yes and no, and to know the
meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an earthen pot,
and let him see me drink it before him and 30p my bread in it:
and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which he quickly
complied with, and made signs that it was very good for him.
ROBINSON causes. 16]

I kept there with him all that night; but, as soon as it was
day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know
I would give him Some clothes; at which he seemed very glad,
for he was stark naked. As we went by the place where he
had buried the two men, he pointed exactly to the place, and
showed me the marks that he had made to find them aaain,
making signs to me that we should dig them up again, an eat
them. At this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhor-
rence of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and
beckoned with my hands to him to come away; which he did
immediately with great submission. I then led him up to the
top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone; and pulling
out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where they
had been, but no appearance of them or their canoes; so that
it was plain they were gone, and had left their two comrades
behind them without any search after them.

But I was not content with this discovery; but having now
more courage, and, consequently, more curiosity, I took my
man Friday with me, giving him the sword in his hand, with
the bow and arrows at his back, which I found he could use
very dexterously, making him carry one gun for me, and Itwo
for myself; and away we marched to the place where these
creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get some fuller
intelligence of them. When I came to the place, my very
blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sunk within me, at
the horror of the spectacle; indeed, it was a dreadful sight, at
least it was so to me, though Friday made nothing of it. The
place was covered with human bones, the ground dyed with
their blood, and great pieces of flesh lying here and there, half-
eaten, mangled, and scorched ; and, in short, all the tokens of
the triumphant feast they had been making there, after a vic-
tory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands, and
the bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of the
other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me
understand that they brought over four prisoners to feast
upon; that three of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing
to himself, was the fourth: that there had been a great battle
between them and their next king, whose subjects, it seems, he
had been one of, and that they had taken a great number of
prisoners ; all which were carried to several places by those who
had taken them in the fight, in order to feast upon them, as were
done here by these wretches, upon those they brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make
a great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday
had still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was
still a cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so much abhor-
rence at the very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance.. v-
I

' J

162 ADVENTURES or

of it that he durst not discover it: for I had, by some means
let him know that I would kill him if he offered it.

When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and
there I fell to work for my man Friday : and, first of all, I gave
him a pair of linen drawers, which 1 had out of the poor gun-
ner's chest I mentioned, which I found in the wreck: and which
with a little alteration, fitted him very well : and then I made
him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow
(for I was now grown a tolerably good tailor) ; and Igave him
a cap, which I had made of hare's skin, very convenient and
fashionable enough: and thus he was clothed for the present
tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased to see himself
almost as well clothed as his master. It is true, he went
awkwardly in these clothes at first: wearing the drawers was
very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat galled
his shoulders and the inside of his arms; but a little easing
them where he complained they hurt him, and using himself to
them, he took to them at length very well.

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him,
I began to consider where Ishould lodge him; and that Imight
do well for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little
tent for him in the vacant place between my two fortifications,
in the inside of the last, and in the outside of the first. As
there was a door, or entrance there into my cave,I made a
formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards, and set it
up in the passage, a little within the entrance; and, causing
the door to open in the inside, I barred it up in the night,
taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could no way come
at me in the inside of my innermost wall, without making so
much nbise in getting over, that it must needs waken me; for
my first wall had now a complete roof over it of long poles,
covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill;
which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead of
laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice-
straw, which was strong, like reeds: and, at the hole, or place,
which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a
kind of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on the out-
side, would not have opened at all, but would have fallen down,
and made a great noise: as to weapons, I took them all into
my side every night. But I needed none of all this precaution;
for never man had a more faithful, loving, sincere, servant than
Friday was to me; without passions, sullenness, or designs,
perfectly obliged and engaged; his very afl'ections were tied
to me, like those of a child to a father; and I dare say, he would
have sacrificed his life for the saving mine, upon any occasion
whatsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of this put it
out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no
precautions, as to my safety, on his account.'I'e'i'i"

noamsoxi causes. 163

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with
wonder, that, however it had pleased God, in His providence,
and in the government of the works of His hands, to take from
so great a part of the world of His creatures the best uses to
which their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted,
yet, that He has bestowed upon them the same powers, the
same reason, the same affections, the same sentiments of kind-
ness and obligation, the same passions and resentments of
wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and the
capacities of doing good and receiving good, that He has given
to us; and that, when He pleases to offer them occasions of
exerting these, they are as ready, nay, more ready to apply
them to the right uses for which they were bestowed than
We are. This made me very melancholy sometimes, in re-
flecting, as the several occasions presented, how mean a use
we make of all these, even though we haVe these powers en-
lightened by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God,
and by the knowleQe of His word added to our understanding;
and why it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge
from so many millions of souls, who, if I might judge by this
poor savage, would make a much better use of it than we did.
From hence, I sometimes was led too far, to invade the sove-
reignty of Providence, and, as it were, arraign the justice of so
arbitrary a disposition of things, that should hide that light
from some, and reveal it to others, and yet ex ct a like duty
from both; but I shut it up, and checked my t oughts with this
conclusion : first, That we did not know by what light and law
these should be condemned; but that, as God was necessarily,
and, by the nature of His being, infinitely holy and just, so it
could not be, but, if these creatures were all sentenced to ab-
sence from Himself, it was on account of sinning against that
light, which, as the Scripture says, was a law to themselves,
and by such rules as their consciences would acknowledge to
be just, though the foundation was not discovered to us; and
secondly, That, still, as we all are the clay in the hand of the
potter, no vessel could say to him, " Why hast thou formed
me thus?"

But, to return to my new companion :~I was greatly de-
lighted with him, and made it my business to teach him every-
thing that was proper to make him useful, handy, and helpful;
but, especially, to make him speak, and understand me when I
spoke: and he was the aptest scholar that ever was; and par-
ticularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased
when he could but understand me, or make me understand
him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now my
life began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself, that
could I but have been safe from more savages, I cared not if
I never was to remOVe from the place where I lived.<<set

164 ' umrunns or

CHAPTER XXIII.

ran>>: AND IKE GUN--STEVE!) MEAT--SALT--ROAST HEAT--RESOURCES NAX'S
FLESH--ENGINE") KORE LASI)--NX\'EILSATIOX--SITUATIOX 0!" THE ISLAID
ASCEKTAINED--BEUGIOCS CONVERSATION ASD RBI-1.201033.

AFTER I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I
thought that, in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way
of feeding, and from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought
to let him taste other flesh: so, I took him out with me one
morning to the woods ; I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid
out of my own flock, and bring it home and dress it; but as I
was going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two
young kids sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday,--" Hold,"
says I, "stand still!" and made signs to him not to stir: im-
mediately I presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids.
The poor creature, who had, at a distance, indeed, seen me kill
the savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine,
how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled, and shook,
and looked so amazedhthat I thought he would have sunk
down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or perceive I had
killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to feel whether he was
not wounded; and, as I found presently, thought I was re-
solved to kill him: for he came and kneeled down to me, and
embracing my knees, said a great many things I did not un-
derstand: but I could easily see the meaning was, to pray me
not to kill him.
' I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and,
pointing to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run
and fetch it, which he did: and, while he was wonderingand
looking to see how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun
again. By-and-by, I saw a great fowl like a hawk, sitting upon
a tree, within shot; so to let Friday understand a little what
I could do, I called him to me again, pointed at the fowl, which
was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk; I
say, pointing to the parrot and to my gun, and to the ground
under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, 1 made
him understand that I would shoot, and kill that bird; accord-
ingly, I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw the
parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, notwith-
standing all I had said to him; and I found he was the more
amazed because he did not see me put anything into the gun,
but thought that there must be some wonderful fund of death
and destructio in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or any
thing near or ar off ; and 'the astonishment this created in him
was such as could not wear off for along time ; and I believe,
if I would have let him, he would have worshipped me and
my gun. As for the gun itself, he would not so much as touch
it for several days after; but he would speak to it, and talk to
it, as if it had answered him, when he was by himself; which,
as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to kill
him. Well, after his astonishment was a. little over at this, I
pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he
did, but stayed some time; for the parrot not being quite dead,
had fluttered away a good distance from the place where she
fell: however, he found her, took her up, and brought her to
me; and, as I had perceived his ignorance about the gun be-
fore, I took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not to
let him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other mark
that might present; but nothing more ofl'ered at that time:
so I brought home the kid, and the same evening I took the
skin off, and cut it out as well as I could; and having a
pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the flesh,
and made some. very good broth. After I had beaun to eat
some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and
liked it very well; but that which was strangest to him was to
see me eat salt With it. He made a sign to me that the salt was
not good to eat; and putting a little into his own mouth, he
seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, wash-
ing his mouth with fresh water after it; on the other hand, I
took some meat into my mouth, without salt, and I pretended
to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at
the salt; but it would not do; he would never care for salt
with his meat, or in his broth; at least, not for a great while,
and then, but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was re-
solved to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the
kid: this I did, by hanging it before the fire on a string, as I
had seen many people do in England, setting two poles up,
one on each side of the fire, and one across on the top, and
tying the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn con-
tinually. This Friday admired very much; but, when he came
to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well
he likedjt, that I could not but understand him; and, at last,
he told me, as well as he could, he would never eat man's flesh
any more, which I was very glad to hear.

The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out,
and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before;
and he soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially
after he had seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was
to make bread of it; for, after that, I let him see me make my
bread, and bake it too; and, in a little time, Friday was able to
do all the work for me, as well as I could do it myself.

I began now to consider, that, having two months to feed
instead of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do; so
I marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in the
same manner as before, in which Friday worked not only very
willingly and very hard, but did it very cheerfully; and I told
him what it was for; that it was for corn to make more bread,
because he 11as now with me, and that I might have enough
for him and my sel- too. He appeared verv osensible of that
part, and let me know that he thought I had much more labour
upon me on his account than I had for myself; and that
he would work the harder for me if I would tell him what
to do.

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this
place; Friday began to talk pretty w,ell and understand the
names of almost everything 1 had occasion to call for, and ot
everv place I had to send him to, and talked a great deal to me ,
so that, in short, I began now to ha1e some use for my tongue
again, which, indeed, I had very little occasion for before, that
is to sa1, about speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to him,
I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself. his simple
unfeigned honesty appeared to me more and more every dav,
and I began really to love the creature; and, on his side, I
believed he loved me more than it was possible for him ever
to love anything before.

I had a mind: once to try if he had any hankermo inclination
to his own countrv again; and, having taught him English so
well that he could answer me almost any question, I asked him
whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in
battle? At which he smiled, and said," Yes, yes, we always
fight the better: '" that is, he meant, always get the better in
fight, and so we began the following discourse: --

oMaster .--You always fight the better; how came you to be
taken prisoner, then, Frida1 :'

Friday. --My nation beat much, for all that.

Master. --Ho1v beat? If your nation beat them, how came

you to be taken?

F12da.--They more many than my nation in the place
where me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my nation
overbeat them in the yonder place, where me no was: there
my nation take one, two, great thousand.

Master.--But why did not your side recove1 you from the
hands of your enemies then?

1' rzduy --They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.

Master .---Well, Fridav, and what does your nation do with
the men they take? Do they carry them away and eat them,
as these did?

Friday--Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all up.

Master.--\\'here do they carry them?

Friday.--Go to other place, where they think.

Masha--Do they come hither?

Friday.--Yes, yes, they come hither: come other else place.

.Master.---Have you been here with them?

'rz'day.--Yes, I have been here (points to the N.W. side of
the island, which, it seems, was their side).

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly
been among the savages who used to come on shore on the
farther part of the island, on the same man-eating occasions
he was now brought for; and, some time after, when I took
the courage to carry him to that side, being the same I formerly
mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told me he was
there once when they ate up twenty men, two women, and one
child: he could not tell twenty in English, but he numbered
them, by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing to
me to tell them over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows;
that, after I had this discourse with him, I asked him how far
it was from our island to the shore, and whether the canoes
were not often lost? He told me there was no danger, no
canoes ever lost; but that, after a little way out to sea, there
was a current and wind, always one way in the morning, the
other in the afternoon. This I understood to be no more than
the sets of the tide, as going out or coming in; but I after-
wards understood it was occasioned by the great draft and
reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulf of
which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay; and that
this land which I perceived to the W. and N .W'. was the great
island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river.
I asked Friday a thousand questions about the country, the
inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nations were near:
he told me all he knew, with the greatest openness imaginable.

I asked him the names of the several nations of his sort of
' pic, but could get no other name than Caribs; from whence

easily understood that these were the Caribbees, which
our maps place on the part of America which reaches from
the mouth of the river ()roonoko to Guiana, and onwards to
St. Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond the
moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must
be west from their country, there dwelt white bearded men,
like me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned
before ; and that " they had killed much mans," that was his
word: by all which I understood, he meant the Spaniards,
whose cruelties in America have been spread over the whole
country, and were remembered by all the nations, from father
to son.

1 inquired, if he could tell me how I might go from this
island and get among those white men: he told me, "Yes,
yes, you may go in two canoe." I could not understand what
he meant, or make him describe to me what he meant by "two
canoe ;" till, at last, with great difliculty, I found he meant it
must be in a large boat, as big as two canoes. This part of
Friday's discourse began to relish with me very well; and,
from this time, I entertained some hopes that, one time or
other, I might find an opportunity to make my escape from
this place, and that this poor savage might be a means to help

me.
During the long time that Friday had now been with me,

and that he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was
not wanting to lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his
mind: particularly I asked him one time, who made him ? The
poor creature did not understand me at all, but thought I had
asked him who was his father: but I took it up by another
handle, and asked him who made the sea, the ground we walked
on, and the hills and woods? He told me it was one Bena-
muckee, that lived beyond all ; he could describe nothing of this
great person, but that he was very old, much older, he said,
than the sea or the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked
him then, if this old person had made all things, why did not
all things worship him? He looked very grave, and with a
perfect look of innocence, said, "All things say 0 to him."
I asked him if the people who die in this country Went away
anywhere? He said, " Yes;" they all went to Benamuckee.
Then I asked him, whether those they eat up went thither too?
He said, " Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge
of the true God: I told him that the great Maker of all things
lived up there, pointing up towards heaven; that He governed
the world by the same power and providence by which He
made it; that He was omnipotent, and could do everything for
us, give everything to us, take everything from us; and thus,
by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great atten-
tion, and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ
being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making our
prayers to God, and His being able to hear us, even in heaven.
He told me one day, that if our God could hear us up beyond the
sun, He must needs be a greater God than their Benamuckee,
who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till they
went up to the great mountains where he dwelt, to speak to
him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him?
He said, No: they never went that were young men; none
went thither but the old men, whom he called their Oowokakee ;
that is, as I made him explain it to me, their religious or clergy;
and that they went to say 0, (so he called saying prayers,)
and then came back, and told them what Benamuckee said; By
this I observed, that there is priestcraft even among the most
blinded, ignorant pagans 1n the world; and the policy of mak--
ing a secret of religion, in order to preserve the veneration of
the people to the clergy, is not only to be found in the Roman,
but, perhaps, among all religions in the world, even among the
most brutish and barbarous savages.

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday;
and told him that the pretence of their old men going up to
the mountains to say 0 to their god Benamuckee was a cheat;
and their bringing word from thence what he said was much
more so: that, if they met with any answer, or spake with any
one there, it must be with an evil Spirit: and then I entered
into a long discourse with him about the devil, the original of
him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the reason
of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to
be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many stra-
tagems he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin; how
he had a secret access to our passions and to our affections, and
so adapts his snares to our inclinations as to cause us even to
bl: our own tempters, and run upon our destruction by our own
c orce.

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind
about the devil, as it was about the being of a God: nature
assisted all my arguments to evidence to him even the neces-
sity of a great First Cause, and over-ruling, governing Power,
a secret, directing Providence, and of the equity and justice of
paying homage to Him that made us, and the like; but there
appeared nothing of this kind in the notion of an evil spirit;
of his original, his being, his nature, and above all, of his
inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too; and
the poor creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a
question merely natural and innocent, that I scarce knew what
to say to him. I had been talking a great deal to him of the
power of God, His omnipotence, His aversion to sin, His being
a consuming fire to the workers of iniquity; how, as He had
made us all, He could destroy us and all the world in a
moment: and he listened with great seriousness to me all the
while. After this, I had been telling him how the devil was
God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his malice and
skill to defeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin the
kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like. " Well," says
Friday, "but you say God is so strong, so great; is He not
much strong, much might as the devil P"---" Yes, yes," says I,
"Friday, God is stronger than the devil: God is above the
deviL'and therefore we pray to God to tread him down under

. 1
our feet, and enable us to resist his temptations, and quench
his fiery darts."--" But," says he, again, "if God much
stronger, much might as the devil, why God no kill the devil,
so make him no more do wicked ?" I was strangely surprised
at this question: and, after all, though I was now an old man,
yet I was but a young doctor, and ill qualified for a casuist,
or a solver of difliculties; and, at first, I could not tell what
to say ; so I pretended not to hear him, and asked him what
he said; but he was too earnest for an answer to forget his
question, so that he repeated it in the very same broken words
as above. By this time I had recovered myself a little, and
Isaid, "God will at last punish him severely; he is reserved
for the judgment, and is to be cast into the bottomless pit, to
dwell with everlasting fire." This did not satisfy Friday ; but
he returns upon me, repeating my words, " Reserve at last.
me no understand; but why not kill the devil now; not kill
great ago ?"--" You may as well ask me," said I, "why God
does not kill you and me, when we do wicked things here that
offend Him. We are preserved to repent and be pardoned.
He mused some time on this: " Well, well," says he, mighty
aflectionately, "that well: so you, I, devil, all wicked, all
preserve, repent, God pardon all." Here I was run down
again by him to the last degree; and it was a testimony to
me, how the mere notions of nature, though they will guide'
reasonable creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a
worship or homage due to the supreme being of God, as the
consequence of our nature, yet, nothing but divine revelation
can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of redemption
purchased for us, of a Mediator of the new covenant, and of an
Intercessor at the footstool of God's throne ; I say, nothing but
a revelation from Heaven can form these in the soul ; and that,
therefore, the gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I
mean the word of God and the Spirit of God, promised for the
guide and sanctifier of His people, are the absolutely nece
instructors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of God,
and the means of salvation.

I, therefore, diverted the present discourse between me and
my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden occasion of
going out; then, sending him for something a good way ofi',
I seriously prayed to God that He would enable me to instruct
savingly this poor savage; assisting, by His Spirit, the heart
of the poor ignorant creature to receive the light of the know~
ledge of God in Christ, reconciling him to Himself, and would '
guide me to speak so to him from the Word of God, as his
conscience might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul
saved. When he came again to me, I entered into along dis-
course with him upon the subject of the redemption of man
by the Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel
preached from Heaven, viz., of repentance towards God, and
faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. 1 then explained to him as
well as I could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on Him the
nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham ; and how, for that
reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemption; that
1}}: came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the

'e.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must
acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the same prin-
ciple will find, that, in laying things open to him I really
informed and instructed myself in many things, that either
I did not know, or had not fully considered before, but which
occurred naturally to my mind upon searching into them, for
the information of this poor savage; and I had more affection
in my inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever I felt
before: so that whether this poor wild wretch was the better
for me or no, Ihad great reason to be thankful that ever he
came to me; my grief sat fighter upon me; my habitation
grew comfortable to me beyond measure: and when I re-
flected, that in this solitary life which I had been confined to,
I had not only been moved to look up to Heaven myself, and
to seek to the hand that brought me here, but was now to be
made an instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and for
aught I knew, the soul of a poor savage, and to bring him
to the true knowledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine,
that he might know Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal;
I say, when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy ran
through every part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that
ever I was brought to this place, which I had so often thought
the most dreadful of all afflictions that could possibly have be-
fallen me.

I continued in this thankful frame all the remainder of my
time; and the conversation which employed the hours between
Friday and me was such, as made the three years which we
lived there together perfectly and completely happy, if any
such thing as complete happiness can be found in a sub-
lunary state. This savage was now a good Christian, a much
better than I; though I have reason to hope, and bless Gui
for it, that we were equally penitent, and comforted, restored
penitents. We had here the word of God to read, and nu
farther of from His Spirit to instruct, than if we had been in
England. I always applied myself, in reading the Scriptures,
to let him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what I
read; and he again, by his serious inquiries and questionings,
made me, as I said before, a much better scholar in the Scrip-
ture knowledge than I should ever have been by my own

mere private reading. Another thing I cannot refrain from
r 2
observing here, also from experience, in this retired part of
my life, viz., how infinite and inexpressible a blessing it is that
the knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by
Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the Word of God,
so easy to be received and understood, that, as the bare reading
the Scripture made me capable of understanding enough of my
duty to carry me directly on to the great work of sincere
repentance for my sins, and laying hold of a Saviour for life
and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and obedience
to all God's commands, and this without any teacher or in-
structor, I mean human; so the same plain instruction suffi-
ciently served to the enlightening this savage creature, and
bringing him to besucha Christian, as I have known few equal

to him in my life. But I must go on with the historical part
of things, and take every part in its order.

 

CHAPTER XXIV.

3030:sz cnusos rsrom l-'mnu' nsrwrmc ms ooux'rm' Asp chrox--
nu) FRIDAY 13:03:13 am or 133118 3mm warts ream; meo 1:: ms
coaster--runs nmmme PmAr--nc'r Soox msszn'rnn--nm A cute:
AX!) 1'3! 12.

AFTER Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and
that he could understand almost all I said to him, and speak
pretty fluently, though in broken English, to me, I acquainted
him with my own history, or at least so much of it as related
to my coming to this place; how I had lived here, and how
long: I let him into the mystery, for such it was to him, of
gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I gave
him a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted with ; and I
made him a belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as, in England,
we wear hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I
gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a weapon, in
some cases, but much more useful upon other occasions.

I described to him the country of Europe, particularly Eng-
land, which I came from; how we lived, how wehworshipped
God, how we behaved to one another, and how we traded in
ships to all parts of the world. I gave him an account of the
wreck which I had been on board of, and showed him, as near
as I could, the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in
pieces before and gone. I showed him the ruins of our boat,
which we lost when we escaped, and which I could not stir
with my whole strength then; but was now fallen almost all
to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a great
while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was he studied
upon? At last says he, " Me see such boat like come to place
at my nation." I did not understand him a ood while; but,
at last, when I had examined farther into it, understood, by
him, that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore upon
the country where he lived; that is, as he explained it, was
driven thither by stress of weather. I presently imagined
that some European ship must have been cast away upon their
coast, and the boat might get loose and drive ashore: but was
so dull that I never once thought of men making their escape
from a wreck thither, much less whence they might come: so
I only inquired after a description of the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought
me better to understand him when he added, with some
warmth, " We save the white mans from drown." Then I
presently asked him, if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat? "Yes," he said, "the boat full of white
mans." I asked him how many? He told upon his fingers
seventeen. I asked him then what became of them ? He told
me, " They live, they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently
imagined, that these might be the men belonging to the ship
that was cast away in the sight of m island, as I now called
it; and who, after the ship was struc on the rock, and they
saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat,
and were landed upon that wild shore among the savages.
Upon this, I inquired of him more critically what was become
of them: he assured me they lived still there; that they had
been there about four years: that the savages let them alone,
and gave them vietuals to live on. I asked him how it came
to pass they did not kill them, and eat them ? He said, " No,
they make brother with them ;" that is, as I understood him,
a truce; and then he added, " They no eat mans, but when
make the war fight ;" that is to say, they never eat any men
but such as come to fight with them, and are taken in battle.

It was after this some considerable time, that, being upon
the top of the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence,
as I have said, I had, in a clear day, discovered the main, or
continent of America, Friday, the weather being very serene,
looks vew earnestly towards the main land, and, in a kind of
surprise, fails a jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for
I was at some distance from him: I asked what was the
matter? " 0 joy!" says he; " O glad I there see my country,
there my nation ?" I observed an extraordinary sense of
pleasure appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his
countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a
mind to be in his own country again. This observation of
mine put a great many thoughts into me, which made me at
first not so easy about my new man Friday as I was before;
and I made no doubt but that if Friday could get back to his
own nation again, he would not only forget all his religion,
but all his obligation to me, and would be forward enough to
give his countrymen an account of me, and come back perhaps
with an hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon me,
at which he might be as merry as he used to be with those of
his enemies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged the
poor honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry
afterwards. - However, as my jealousy increased, and held me
some weeks, I was a little more circumspect, and not so familiar
and kind to him as before: in which I was, certainly, in the
wrong, too; the honest, grateful creature having no thought
about it, but what consisted with the best principles, both as
a religious Christian, and as a grateful friend; as appeared
afterwards, to my full satisfaction.

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was
every day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of
the new thoughts which I suspected were in him: but I found
everything he said was so honest and so innocent, that I could
find nothin to nourish my suspicion: and, in spite of all my
uneasiness, e made me at last entirely his, own again; nor did
he in the least perceive that I was uneasy, and, therefore, I
could not suspect him of deceit.

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being
hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called to
him, and said, " Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own
country, your own nation ?"--" Yes," he said, " I be much 0
glad to be at my own nation."~--" What would you do there?"
said I: "would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh again,
and be a savage, as you were before?" He looked full of com
cem, and shaking his head, said, "No, no; Friday tell them to
livegood, tell. them to pray God, tell them to eat com-bread,
cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man again."---" Why then," said I
to him, "they will kill you." He looked grave at that, and
then said, " No, no; they no kill me, they willing love learn."
He meant by this, they would be willing to learn. He added,
they learned much of the bearded mans that came in the
boat. Then I asked him, if he would go back to them? He
smiled at that, and told me that he could not swim 0 far. I
told him, I would make a canoe for him. He to d me he
would go, if I would go with him. "I go P" says I; " why,
they will eat me, if I come there."--" No, no," says he, "me
make they no eat you; me make they much love you." He
meant, he would tell them how I had killed his enemies, and
saved his life, and so he would make them love me. Then he
told me, as well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen
white men, or bearded men, as he called them, who came on
shore there in distress.
From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture orer, and
see if I could possibly join with those bearded men, who, I
made no doubt, were Spaniards and Portuguese: not doubting
but if I could, we might find some method to escape from
thence, being upon the continent, anda good company mgether,
better than I could from an island forty miles ofi' the shore,
and alone, without help. So, after some days, I took Friday
to work again, by way of discourse: and told him I would
give him a boat to go back tohisown nation: and, accordingly,
I carried him to my frigate, which lay on the other side of the
island, and, having cleared it of water (for I always ke t it
sunk in water), I brought it out, showed it him, and we th
went into it. I found he was a most dexterous fellow at
managing it, and would make it go almost as swift again as I
could : so, when he was in, I said to him, " Well, now, Friday,
shall we go to your nation?" He looked very dull at my
saying so; which, it seems, was because he thought the boat
too mall to go so far; I then told him I had a bigger; so the
next day I went to the place where the first boat lay which I
had made, but which I could not get into the water. He said
that was big enough: but then, as I had taken no care of it,
and it had lain two or three and twenty years there, the
sun had split and dried it, that it was in a manner rotten.
'Friday told me such a boat would do very well,and would
m much enough vittle, drink, bread; that was his way of

0.

Upoan the whole, I was, by this tinie, so fixed upon my de-
sign of going over with him to the continent, that I tpld him
we would go, and make one as big as that, and he should go
home in it. He answered not one word, but looked very grave
and sad. I asked him what was the matter with him? He
asked me again, " Why you angry mad with Friday? What
me done?" I asked him what he meant? I told him I was
not angry with him at all. "No angry!" says he, repeating
the words several times; " why send Friday home away to
my nation ?"---" Why," says I, " Friday, did not you say you
wished you were there ?"--" Yes, yes," says he, "wish we
both there; no wish Friday there, no master there." In a
word, he would not think of going there without me. -" I
there, Friday!" says I; " what shall I do there?" e
returned very quick upon me at this; " You do great deal
much good," says he; " you teach wild mans be good, sober,
tame mans: you tell them know God, pray God, and live new
1ife."--" Alas! Friday," says I, " thou knpwest not what thou
sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself."---" Yes, yes," says
he, "you teaches me good, you teaches them good."---"No,
no, Friday," says I, " you shall go without me; leave me
here to live by myself. as I did before." He looked confused
again at that word ; and, running to one of the hatchets which
he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me.
" What must I do with this?" says I to him. " You take kill
Friday," says he. " What must I kill you for?" said I again.
He returns very quick, "What you send Friday away for?
Take kill Friday, no send Friday away." This he spoke so
earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his eyes: in a word, I so
plainly discovered the utmost affection in him to me, and a firm
resolution in him, that I told him then, and often after, that I
would never send him away from me, if he was willing to stay
with me.

Upon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse, a settled
afl'ection to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so
I found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own country
was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of
my doing them good; a thing, which, as I had no notion of
myself, so I had not the least thought, or intention or desire
of undertaking it. But still, I found a strong inclination to
my attempting an escape, as above, founded on the supposition
gathered from the discourse, viz., that there were seventeen
bearded men there ; and therefore, without any more delay, I
went to work with Friday, to find out a great tree proper to
fell and make a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the
voyage. There were trees enough in the island to have built
a little fleet, not of periaguas, or canoes, but even of good large
vessels: but the main thing I looked at was, to get one so near
the water that we might launch it when it was made, to avoid
the mistake I committed at first. At last, Friday pitched
upon a tree, for I found'he knew much better than I what kind
of wood is fittest for it; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood
to call the tree we cut down, except that it was very like the
tree we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua wood,
for it was much of the same colour and smell. Friday was for
burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it for a
boat, but I showed him how to cut it with tools ; which, after
I had showed him how to use, he did very handily: and in
about a month's hard labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome; especially when, with our axes, which I showed
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true
shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fort-
night's time to get her along, as it were inch by inch, upon
great rollers, into the water ; but, when she was in, she would
have carried twenty men with great ease.

When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it
amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how swift my man
Friday would manage her, turn her, and paddle'her along; so
I asked him if he would, and if we might venture over in her.
" Yes," he said: "we venture over in her very well, though
nonmsox causes. 177'

great blow wind." However, I had a further design, that he
knew nothing of, and that was to make a mast and a sail, and
to fit her. with anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy
enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree,
which I found near the place, and which there Were great plenty
of in the island; and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and
gave him directions how to shape and order it. But as to the
sail, that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails, or
rather pieces of old sails enough; but as I had them six and
twenty years by me, and had not been very careful to preserve
them, not imagining that I should ever have this kind of use
for them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten, and, indeed,
most of them were so: however, I found two pieces which
appeared pretty good, and with these I went to work; and
with a great deal of pains and awkward stitching, you may be
sure, for want of needles, I, at length, made a three-cornered
ugly thing, like what we call in England a shoulder-of-mutton
sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a little short sprit at
the top, such as usually our ships' long-boats sail with, and
such as I best knew how to manage, as it was such a one I had
to the boat inwhich I made my escape from Barbary, as related
in the first part of my Story. -

I was near two months performing this last work, viz., rig-
ging and fitting my masts and sails; for I finished them very
complete, making a small stay and a sail, or fore-sail, to it, to
assist, if we should turn to windward; and, which was more
than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with. I
was but a bungling shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness,
and even necessity of such a thing, I applied myself with so
much pains to do it, that, at last, I brouaht it to pass; though,
considering the many dull contrivancesI had for it that failed,
I think it cost me almost as much labour as making the boat.

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to
what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for, though he
knew very well how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing what
belonged to a sail or a rudder; and was the most amazed
when he saw me work the boat to and again in the sea by the
rudder, and how the sail gibbed, and filled this way, or that
way, as the course we sailed changed; I say, when he sawthis,
he stood like one astonished and amazed. However, with a
little use, I made all these things familiar to him, and he be-
came an expert sailor; except that, as to the compass, I could
make him understand very little of that. On the other hand,
as there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never
any foga'in those parts, there wasthe less occasion for a com-
pass, sefi'ng the stars were always-to be seen by night, and the
shore by day, except in the rainy seasons, and then nobody

cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.
1 3
CHAPTER XXV.

us we: LIFE--KORE SAVAGE OX '1'!!! ISLAXD--A FIBER comm--assum-
A "Amtkn--AXD FRIDAY'S FATHER--m3 SAVAGRS, SOME KILLED, AS!) "I"

PUT TO ran. BOUT--TEE m cuss-rs WSVEYED 1'0 TBS FOBTIFICA'HON.

I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my cap--
tivity in this place; though the three last years that I had this
creature with me ought rather to be left out of the account, my
habitation being quite of another kind than in all the rest of
the time. I kept the anniversary of my landing here, with the
same thankfulness to God for His mercies, as at first; and, if I
had such cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more
so now, having such additional testimonies of the care of Provi-
dence over me, and the great hopes I had of being effectually
and speedily delivered; for I had an invincible im ression upon
my t oughts that my deliverance was at ban and that I
should not be another ear in this place. I went on,' however,
with my husbandry: 'gging, planting, and fencing as usual ;
I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every necessary thing,
as before.

The rainy season was, in the mean time, u n me, when I
kept more within doors than at other times. Ve had stowed
our new vessel as secure as we could, bringing her up into the
creek, where, as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from
the ship; and, hauling her up to the shore, at hi h-water mark,
Imade my man Friday dig a little dock, just ig enough to
hold her, and just deep enough to give her water enough to
float in; and then, when the tide was out we made a strong
dam across the end of it to keep the water out; and so she
lay dry, as to the tide from the sea; and to keep the rain 011',
we laid 9. eat many boughs of trees, so thick, that she was as
well thatc ed as a house; and thus we waited for the months
of November and December, in which I designed to make my
adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, as the thought
of my design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing
daily for the voyage: and the first thing I did was to lay by a
certain quantity of provisions, beino the stores for our voyage:
and intended, in a week or a. fortnight's time, to open the dock,
and launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon
something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him
go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a turtle or tor-
toise, a thing which we generally got once a week, for the sake
of the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long
gone, when he came running back, and flew over my outer
nonmsox 0317903. .179. '

wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the ste
he set his feet on; and before I had time to speak to him, e
cries out to me, " 0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad l"-
" What's the matter, Friday?" says I. " O yonder, there," says
he, "one, two, three canoe; one, two, three." By this way of
speaking, I concluded there were six; but, on inquiry, I found
it was but three. " Well, Friday," says I, "do not be fright-
ened!" So I heartened him up as well as I could: however,
I saw the poor fellow was most terribly smred; for nothin
ran in his head but that they were come to look after him, an
would cut him up in pieces and eat him: and the poor fellow
trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with him. I com
forted him as well as I could, and told him, I was in as much
danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as him:
" But," says I, " Friday, we must resolve to fight them. Can
you fight, Friday ?"----" Me shoot," says he ; " but there come
many great number."--"No matter for that," said I, again;
"our guns will fright them that we do not kill." So I asked
him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me,
and stand by me, and do just as I bid him. He said, " Me die
when you bid die, master." So I went and fetched a good
dram of rum and gave him; for I had been so good a husband
of my rum, that 1 had a great deal left. When he drank it, I
made him take the two fowling-pieces, which we always
carried, and loaded them with large swan-shot, as big as small
pistol bullets; then I took four muskets, and loaded them
with two slugs and five small bullets each; and my two pis-
tols I loaded with a brace of bullets each: I hung my great
sword, as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.
When I had thus prepared myself, I took my rspective-glass,
and went up to the side of the hill, to see w t I could dis~
cover; and I found quickly, by my glass, that there were one
and twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and
that their whole business seemed to be the triumphant banquet
upon these three human bodies; a barbarous feast, indeed!
but nothing more than, as I had observed, was usual with
them. I observed also, fliat they were landed, not where they
had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my
creek: where the shore was low, and where a thick wood came
almost close down to the sea. This, with the abhorrence of
the inhuman errand these wretches came about, filled me with
such indignation, that I came down again to Friday, and told
him I was resolved to go down to them, and kill them all: and
asked him if he would stand by me? He had now got over
his fright, and his spirits beings little raised with the dram
I had given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before,
he would die when I bid die.

In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which I had
charged, as before, between us: Igave Friday one pistol to
stick in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and I
took one pistol, and the other three guns myself; and, in this
posture, we marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in my

 

pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more powder and
bullets: and as to orders, I charged him to keep close behind
me, and not to stir, or shoot or do anything, till I bid him;
and, in the mean time, not to speak a word. In" this posture,
I fetched a compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to
get oger thhreek as to get into the wood, so that I might
. come within shot of them before I should be discovered, which
I had seen, by my glass, it was easy to do.
" . While I was making this march, my former thoughts re-
- turning, I began to abate my resolution; I do not mean that I
entertained any fear of their number; for, as they were naked,
unarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior to them; nay,
though I had been alone. But it occurred to my thoughts,
what call, what occasion, much less what necessity I was in,
to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people who had
neither done, nor intended, me any wrong ?--who as to me,
were innocent, and whose barbarous customs were their own
disaster; being, in them, a token; indeed, of God's having left
them, with the other nations of that part of the world, to such
stupidity, and to such inhuman courses, but did not (all me to
take upon me to be a judge of their actions, much less an exe-
cutioner of His justice ; that, whenever He thought fit, He would
take the cause into His own hands, and, by national vengeance,
punish them, as a people, for national crimes; but that, in
the mean time, it was none of my business; that it was true,

Friday might justify it, because he was a declared enemy, and I.. P I ..:

nosmsox causes. 18]

in a state of war with those very particular people, and it was
lawful for him to attack them; but I could not say the same
with respect to myself. These things were so warmly pressed
upon my thoughts all the way as I Went, that I resolved I
would only go and place myself near them, that I might
observe their barbarous feast, and I would act then as God
should direct; but that, unless something oflered, that was
gore a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle with

em.

With this resolution I entered the wood; and, with all pos-
sible wariness and silence, Friday following close at my heels,
I marched till I Came to the skirt of the wood, on the side
which was next to them, only that one corner of the wood lay
between me and them. Here I called softly to Friday, and,
showing him a great tree, which was just at the corner of the
wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if he
could see there plainly what they were doing. He did so; and -
came immediately back to me, and told me they might be
plainly viewed there; that'they were all about their fire, eatin
the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that another lay bound
upon the sand, 3 little from them, which, he said, they would
kill next, and which fired all the very soul within me. He told
me it was not one of their nation, but one of the bearded men
he had told me of, that came to their country in the boat. I
was filled with horror at the very naming the white bearded
man; and, going to the 'tree, I saw plainly, by my glasegai
white man who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his hands
and his feet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and that
he was an European, and had clothes on. ,., .. .

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about at. f '

fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I was, which '95:?"
by going a little way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered,
and that then I should be within half a shot of them: so I
withheld my passion, though I was indeed enraged to the
highest degree; and, going Back about twenty paces, I got
behind some bushes, which held all the way till I came to the
other tree; and then came to a little rising ground, which
gay:s me a full view of them, at the distance of about eighty
ya .

I had now not a moment'to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat u n the ground, all close huddled together, and
had just sent t 8 other two to butcher the r Christian, and
bring him, perhaps, limb by limb, to their re; and they were
stoo ing down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to
Fri y--" Now, Friday," said I, "do as I bid thee." Friday
said he would. "Then, Friday," said I, " do exactly as you
see me do: fail in nothing." So I set down one of the muskets
and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did the

'twe. _ tergg

I82 mms or

like by his; and with the other musket I took my aim at the
savages, bidding him to do the like; then, asking him if he
was ready, he said, " Yes." " Then fire at them," said I; and
the same moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that, on the
side that he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three
more; and, on my side, I killed one, and wounded two. They
were, you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation; and all of
them who were not hurt jumped upon their feet, but did not
immediately know which way to run, or which way to look,
for they knew not from whence their destruction came. Friday
kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I bid him, he might
observe what I did; so, as soon as the first shot was made, I
threw down the piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and
Friday did the like; he saw me cock and present: he did the
same train. "Are you ready, Friday?" said I. "Yes," says
he. 3%,; fly then," says I, " in the name of God I" and with
, that I fired again among the amazed wretches, and so did

Friday; and, as our pieces were now loaded with what I called
swan-shot, "or small pistol-bullets, we found only two drop,
but so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling and
screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and most of them
miserably wounded, whereof three more fell quickly after,
though not quite dead.

1" " Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces,
and taking up the musket which was yet loaded, " follow me ;"
which he did with a great deal of courage; upon which I
rushed out of the wood, and showed myself, and Friday close
at my feet. As soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as

loud as I could, and bade Friday to do so too; and running as '-

fast as I could, which, by the way, was not very fast, being
loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the poor
victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or shore,
between the place where they sat and the sea. The two
butchers, who were just going to work with him, had left him
at the surprise of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright w
the sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe, and three more of
the rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade
him step forwards, and fire at them; he understood me imme-
diately, and, running about forty yards, to be nearer them, he
shot at them, and I thought he had killed them all, for I saw
them all fall of a heap in the boat, though I saw two of them
up again quickly : however, he killed two of them, and wounded
the third so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if he
had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them I pulled out my knife,
and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his
nands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him in the Portu-

PS3 ~

'4... v."ma '4" . a, . - rm. 2
as" _ -- *~

nosmson causes. 1,83

  
  

guess tongue, what he was. He answered in Latin, , J
nus: but was so weak and faint, that he could scarce; . .
or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gaveith'im
making signs that he should drink, which he did; and I gave
him a piece of bread, which he ate. Then I asked him what
countryman he was ; and he said Espagniole; and being a little
recovered, let me know, by all the signs he could possibly make,
how much he was in my debt for his deliverance. " Seignior,"
said I, with as much Spanish as I could make up, "we will
talk afterwards, but we must fight now: if you have a:.y
strength left, take this pistol and sword, and lay about you."
He took them very thankfully; and no sooner had he the arms
in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour into him, he
flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had out two of them ,
in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as thewhole was a- .
surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened .
with the noise of our pieces, that they fell down for mere
amazement and fear, and had no more power to attem'pttheir,'
own escape than their flesh had to resist our shot; <<and,
was the case of those five that Friday shot at in theth3% -
f .

  

. as three of them fell with the hurt they received'flo the
two fell with the fright. '

I kept my piece iri my hand, still without firing, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the
Spaniard my pistol and sword see I called to Friday, and bade
him run up to the tree from whence we first fixed, and fetch
the arms which lay there, that had been discharged, which he
did with great swiftness; and then, giving him my musket,

' I sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade them
'._come to me when they wanted, While I was loading these
. ieces, there happened a fierce. engagement between the
paniard and one of the savages, who made at him with one of
their great Wooden swords, the same-like weapon that was to
have killed him before, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard,
.who was as bold and brave as could be ima ' ed, though weak,
- had fought this Indian a good while, an had cut him two
t wounds on his head: but the savage being a stout lusty
ellow, closing with him, had thro'wn him down, being faint,
and was wringing my sword out of his hand; when the
Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew
the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the body,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to
help him, could come near him.

Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches, with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and
with that he despatched those three, who, as I said before,
were wounded at first, and fallen, and all the rest he Could
come up with: and the Spaniard coming to me for a gun,.45

as; 3

184 anvmunns or

1 gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued
two of the savages, and wounded them both, but, as he was
not able to run, they both got from him into the wood, where
Friday pursued them, and killed one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded, yet had
plunged himself into the sea, and swam, with all his might,
011' to those two who were left in the canoe; which three in
the canoe, with one wounded, that we knew not whether he
died or no, were all that escaped our hands of one and twenty.
The account of the whole is as follows: 3 killed at our first
shot from the tree; 2 killed at the next shot; 2 killed by
Friday in the boat; 2 killed by Friday of those first wounded;
1 killed by Friday in the wood; 3 killed by the Spaniard;
4 killed, being found dropped here and there of their wounds
or killed by Friday in his chase of them; 4 escaped in the
boat, whereof one was wounded, if not dead.--Twenty-one
in all.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of
gun-shot, and, though Friday made two or three shots at
them, I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday would
fain have had me take one of their canoes, and pursue them ;
and, indeed, I was very anxious about their esmpe, lest, carry-
ing the news home to their people, they should come back,
perhaps, with two or three hundred of the canoes, and devour
us by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them by sea,
and, running to one of their canoes, I jumped in and bade
Friday follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised
to find another poor creature lie there bound hand and foot,
as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with
fear, not knowing what was the matter; for he had not been
able to look up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard
neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that he had really
but little life in him. '

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they
had bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he
could not stand, or Speak, but groancd most piteously, be-
lieving, it seems, still, that he was only unbound in order to
be killed. When Friday cameto him, I bade him speak tohim,
and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my bottle,
made him give the poor wretch a dram; which with the news
of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat u in the boat.
But when Friday came to hear him speak, an look in his
face, it would have moved any one to tears to have seen how
Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, hallooed,
'um about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his
ban beat his own face and head ; and then sung and jumped
about again, like a distracted creature. It was a good while
before I could make him speak to me, or tell me what was the
matter; but, when he came a little to himself, he told me that
it was his father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see
what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this poor savage
at the sight of his father, and of his being delivered from
death ; nor, indeed, can I describe half the extravaganoes
of his afi'ection after this: for he went into the boat, and out
of the boat, a great many times: when he went in to him, he
would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's
head close to his bosom for many minutes together, to nourish
it; then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and
stifl' with the binding, and cbafed and rubbed them with his
hands; and I, rceiving what the case was, gave him some
rum out of my ttle to rub them with, which did them a great
deal of good.

This afl'air put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the
other savages, who were now got almost out of sight; and it
was happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard within
two hours after, and before they could be at a quarter of
their way, and continued blowing so hard all nig t, and that from
the north-west, which was against them, that I could not suppose
their boat could live, or that they ever reached their own coast.

But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his father,
that I could not find in my heart to take him off for some
time; but, after I thought he could leave him a little, I called
him to me, and he came jum ing and laughing, and pleased to
the highest extreme; then asked him if he had given his
father any bread. He shook his head, and said, " None; ugly
dog eat all up self." I then gave him a cake of bread, out of
a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a dram
for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried it to his
father. I had in my pocket two or three bunches of raisins,
so I gave him a handful of them for his father. He had no
sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him come out
of the boat, and run away, at such a rate, that he was out of
sight, as it were, in an instant; for he was the swiftest fellow
on his feet that ever I saw: and, though I called, and hallooed
out too, after him, it was all one, away he went; and in a
quarter of an hour I saw him come back again, though not so
fast as he went; and, as he came nearer, I found his ace was
slacker, because he had something in his hand. hen he
came up to me, I found he had been quite home for an earthen
'ug, or pot, to bring his father some fresh water, and that he
had got two more cakes, or leaves of bread ; the bread he gave
me, but the water he carried to his father; however, as I was
very thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived
his father more than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for
he was just fainting with thirst
When his father had drunk, I called to him, to knowif there
was any water left: he said, " Yes :" and I bade him give it to
the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his
father; and I sent one of the cakes that Friday brought to
the Spaniard too, who was, indeed, very weak, and was re-
posing himself upon a green place under the shade of a tree;
and whose limbs were also very stifi', and very much swelled
with the rude bandage he had been tied with. When I saw
that, upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he sat up
and drank, and took the bread, and began to eat, I went to
him and gave him a handful of raisins: he looked up in my
face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that
could appear in any countenance: but was so weak, notwith-
standing he had so exerted himself in the fight, that he could
not stand up upon his feet: he tried to do it, two or three
times, but was really not able, his ankles were so swelled, and
so painful to him: so I bade him sit still, and mused Friday
to rub his ankles, and bathe them with mm, as he had done
his father's.

I observed the r afl'ectionate creature, every two minutes,
or perha less, the while he was here, turn his head about,
to see if fistfather was in the same place and posture, as he left
him sitting: and at last he found he Was not to be seen; at
which he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with
that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet
to touch the ground as he went: but when he came, he only
found he had laid himself down to ease his limbs, so Friday
camebacktc me resently; andthenI ketotheSpaniard
to let Friday help ' up, if he could, and ead him to the boat,
and then he should carry him to our dwelling, where I would
take care of him: but Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the
Spaniard quite up upon his back, and carried him away to the
boat, and set him down softly upon the side or gunnel of the
canoe, with his feet in the inside of it; and then lifting him
quite in, he set him close to his father; and presently, step ing
out again, launched the boat ofi', and paddled it along the are
faster than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty hardtco :
so he brought them safe into our creek, and leaving them in
the boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As he d me,
I s ke to him, and asked him whither he went. a told me,
" fetch more boat :" so away he went like the wind, for
sure never man, or horse, ran like him; and he had the other
canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land ; so he
wafted me over, and then went to help our new guests out of
the boat, which he did; but they were neither of them able to
walk, so that poor Friday knew not what to do. .

T o remedy this, I went to work in my thought, and calhng
to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while he came to
me, I soon made a kind of a hand-barrow to lay them on, and
Frida and 1 carried them both up together upon it, between
us. ut, when we got them to the outside of our wall, or for-
tification, we were at a worse loss than before, for it was im-
possible to get them over, and I was resolved not to break it
down: so I set to work again: and Friday and I, in about ' '
two hours' time, made a very handsome tent, covered with old
sails, and above that with boughs of trees, bein in the space
without our outward fence, and between that an the grove of
young wood which I had planted; and here we made them
two beds of such things as 1 had, viz., of good rice-straw, with
blarlilkleets1 laid upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on
sac . '

CHAPTER XXVI.

mm"! 0! m m GM--BURIAL 0' m nun-ax means: 0'
rmvrsross--m arm AND FRIDAY'S FATHER m 03 A! m.

M! island was now.'pe0pled, and] thought myself very rich
in subjects; aid it was a merry reflection, which I frequently
made, how like a king I looked. First of all, the whole country
was my own mere property, so that I had an undoubted right
of dominion. Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected;
I was absolutely lord and lawgiver; they all owed their lives
to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there had been
occasion for it, for me.

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners,
and given them shelter, and a place to rest them u n, I began
to think of making some provision for them; andt e first thin
I did, I ordered Frida to take a yearling goat, betwixt a k'
and a goat, out of my 'cular flock, to be killed; when Icut
off the hinder-quarter, and chopping it into small ieces, I set
Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made t em a very
good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth, having ut some
barley, and rice also, into the broth: and as I cook it with-
out-doors, for I made no fire within my inner wall, so I ca ted
it all into the new tent, and, having set a table there for th
I sat down, and ate my own dinner, also, with them, and, as
well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them. Friday
was my interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the
Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language of the
savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather an ped, I ordered Friday to
take one of the canoes, and go an fetch our muskets and
other fire-arms, which, for want of time, we had left upon the
field of battle ; and the next day I ordered him to go and bury
the dead bodies of the savages, which lay open to the sun, and
would presently be offensive. I also ordered him to bury the
horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I knew were
pretty much, and which I could not think of doing myself;
nay, I could not bear to see them, if I went that way; all
whi h he punctually performed, and efi'aced the very appearance
of the savages being there; so that, when I went again, I could
scarce know where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the
wood. pointing to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two
new subjects: and, first, I set Friday to inquire of his father
what he thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe,
and whether we might expect a return of them, with a power
too great for us to resist? His first 0 inion was, that the
savages in the boat never could live out e storm which blew
that night they went ofi', but must, of necessity, be drowned,
or driven south to those other shores, where they were as sure
to be devoured, as they were to be drowned if they were cast
away: but, as to what they would do, if they came safe on
shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion, that they
were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their bein
attacked, the noise and the fire, that he believed they woul
tell the people they were all killed by thunder and ligh '
not by the hand of man; and that the two which ap
viz., Friday and I, were two heavenly irits, or furies, come
down to destroy them, and not men wi weapons. This, he
said, he knew; because he heard them all cry out so in their
language, one to another; for it was impossible for them to
conceive that a man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and
kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as was done now :
and this old sav e was in the right; for, as I understood since,
by other handsfiie savages never attempted to go over to the
island afterwards, they were so terrified with the accounts
given by those four men (for it seems, they did escape the sea),
that they believed whoever went to that enchanted island
would be destroyed with fire from the gods. This, however,
I knew not; and therefore was under continual apprehensions
for a good while, and kept always upon my guard, with allmy
army; for, as there were now four of us, I would have ventured
upon a hundred of them, fairly in the open field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear
of their coming wore off; and I began to take my former
thoughts of a voy e to the main into consideration; being,
likewise, assured byggFriday's father that I might depend upon

ood usage from their nation, on his account, if 1 would go.
gut my thoughts were it little suspended, when I had a serious
discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that there
were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who,
having been cast away, and made their escape to thatside, lived
there at peace, indeed, with the savages, but were very sore
put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked him all
the particulars of their voyage, and found they were a Spanish
ship, bound from the Rio de la Flats to the Havanna, being
directed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly hides
and silver, and to bring back what Euro an goods they could
meet with there; that they had five ortuguese seamen on
board, whom they took out of another wreck; that five of
their own men were drowned, when first the shi was lost, and
that these escaped, through infinite dangers an hazards, and
arrived, almost starved on the cannibal coast, where they
expected to have been devoured every moment. He told me
they had some arms with them, but they were perfectly use-
less, for that they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of
the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a little, which

they used at their first landingtoprovide themselves some food.
' I asked him, what he thought would become of them there,
and if they had formed no design of making any escape? He
said they had made many consultations about it; but that,
having neither vessel, nor tools to build one, nor provisions of
any kind, their councils always ended in tears and despdr.
I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal
from me, which might tend towards an escape; and whether,
if they where all here, it might not be done? I told him, with
freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill usage of me, if
I put my life intheir hands; for that gratitude was no inherent
virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always uare their
dealing by the obligations they had received, so muc as they
did by the advantages they expected. I told him it would be
very hard that Ishould be the instrument of their deliverance,
and that they should afterwards make me their risoner in
New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to made a
sacrifice, what necessity or what accident soever brought him
thither; and that I had rather be delivered up to the savages,
and be devoured alive, than fall into the merciless claws of the
priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. I added, that other-
wise I was persuaded, if they were all here, we might, with so
many hands, build a bark large enough to carry us all away,
. either to the Brazils, southward, or to the islands or Spanish
coast northward; but that if, in requital, they should, when I
had put weapons into their hands, carry me by force among
their own people, I might be ill used for my kindness to them,
and make my case worse than it was before.

He answered, with a great deal of candour and ingenuous-
'ness, that their condition was so miserable, and that they were
so sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the thought
of using any man unkiudly that should contribute to their de-
liverance ; and that, it'l pleased, he would go to them with the
old man, and discourse with them about it, and return again,
and bring me their answer; that he would make conditions
With them, upon their solemn oath, that they should be abso-
lutely under my leading, as their commander and captain; and
that they should swear upon the holy Gospel to be true to me,
and go to such Christian country as that 1 should agree to, and
no other; and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my
orders, till they were landed safely in such country as I in-
tended; and that he would bring a contract from them, under
their hands, for that purpose. Then he told me, he would first
swear to me himself, that he would never stir from me as long
as he lived, till I gave him orders ; and that he would take my
side to the last drop of his blood, if there should happen the
least breach of faith among his countrymen. He told me, they
were all of them very civil, honest men, and they were under
the greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons, nor-
clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of the
savages; out of all hopes of ever returning to their own
country; and that, he was sure, if 1 would undertake their
relief, they would live and die by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them,
if possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over
to them to treat. But, when we had got all things in readi-
ness to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection, which
had so much prudence in it, on one hand, and so much sin-
cerity, on the other hand, that I could not but be very well
satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his
comrades for at least half a year. The case was thus: he had
been with us now about a month, during which time I had let
him see in what manner I had provided, with the assistance of
Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently what stock
of corn and rice I had laid up; which, though it was more than
sufficient for myself, yet it was not suflicient, without good
husbandry, for my family, now it was increased to four; but
much less would it be sufiicient if his countrymen, who were,
as he said, sixteen still alive, should come over; and least of
all, would it be suflicient to victual our vessel, if we should
build one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of
America; so he told me, he thoughtit would be more advisable
to let him and the other two dig and cultivate some more land,
as much as I could spare seed to Sew, and that we should wait
another harvest, that we might have a supply of corn for his
countrymen, when they should come; for want might be a
temptation to them to disagree, or not to think themselves
delivered, otherwise than out of one difficulty into another _
" You know," says he, " the children of Israel, though they
re'oiced at first for their being delivered out of Egypt, yet
re elled even against God Himself, that delivered them, when
they came to want bread in the wilderness."

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that
I could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well
as l was satisfied with his fidelity: sowe fell todigging, all four
of us, as well as the wooden tools we were furnished with per-
mitted; and, in about a month's time, by the end of which it
was seed-time, we had got as much land cured and trimmed up
as We sowed two and twenty bushels of barley on, and sixteen
jars of rice; which was, in short, all the seed we had to spare:
nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves barely sufficient for our own
food, for the six months that we had toexpect our crop; that is
to say, reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for sowing;
for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in
that country.

Having now society enough, and our number being suflicient
to put us out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless
their number had been very great, we went freely all over the
island, whenever we found occasion; and as here we had our
escape, or deliverance, upon our thoughts, it was im ssible,
at least for me, to have the means of it out of mine. or this
purpose, I marked out several trees which I thought fit for our
work, and I set Friday and his father to cutting them down;
and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my
thoughfion that affair, to oversee and direct their work. I
showed them with what indefatigable pains I had hewedalarge
tree into a single plank, and I caused them to do the like, till
they had made abouta dozen large planks of good oak, near two
feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to four inches
thick ; what prodigious labour it took up, any one may imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of
tame goats as much as I could; and, for this purpose, I made
Friday and the S 'ard go out one day, and myself with
Friday the next (hf: (for we took our turns,) and by this
means we got about twenty young kids to breed up with the
rest; for, whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and
added them to our flock. But, above all, the season for curing
the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantitytobe
hung up in the sun, that I believe, had we been at Alicant,
where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could have filled sixty
or eighty barrels: and these, with our bread, was a great part
of our food, and was very good living too, I assure you, for it is
exceedingly nourishing.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not
the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, how-
ever, it was enough to answer our end; for, from twenty-two
bushels of barley, we brought in and threshed out above two
hundred andtwenty bushels, and the like, in proportion, of the
rice ; which was store enough for our food to the next harvest,
though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me: for
if we had been ready for a voyage, it would very plentifully have
victualled our ship to have carried us to any port of the world,
that is to say, any part of America. When we had thus housed
and secured our magazine of corn, we fell to work to make more
wicker-ware, viz., great baskets, in which we kept it; and the
Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this part, and often
blamed me that I did not make some things for defence of this
kind of work; but I saw no need of it.

And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests 1
expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to
see what he could do with those he had left behind him there.
I gave him a strict charge not to bring any man with him who
would not first swear, in the presence of himself and the old
savage, that he would no way injure, fight with, or attack the
person he should find in the island, who was so kind as to send
for them in order to their deliverance; but that they would
stand by him, and defend him against all such attempts, and
wherever they went, would be entirely under and subjected to
his command; and that this should be put in writing, and
signed with their hands. How they were to have done this,
when I knew they had neither pen nor ink, was a question
which we never asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard
and the old savage, the father of Friday, went away inane of the
canoes which they might be said to come in, or ratheflere
brought in, when they came as prisoners to be devoured by the
savages. I gave each of them a musket, with a firclock on it,
and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging them to be
very good husbands of both, and not to use either of them but
upon urgent occasion.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by
me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and
some days. I gave them provisions of bread and of dried grapes
suflioient for themselves for many days, and sufficient for all the
Spaniards for about eight days' time; and, wishing them a good
voyage, I saw them go; agreeing with them about a signal they
should hang out at their return, by which I should know them
again, when they came back, at a distance, before they came on
shore. They went away with a fair gale, on the day that the
moon was at full, by my account, in the month of October; but
as for an exact reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I could
never recover it again; nor had I kept even the number of years
so punctually as to be sure I was right; though, as it proved,
when I afterwards examined my account, I found I had kept a
true reckoning of years.
CHAPTER XXVI].

ARRIVAL 0' AI 8861.18}! SHIP--REXARK ON SECRET XOTICBS--ICTINEERS AGAINST
THEIR CAPTAIX LARD--KBCUE OF THE CAI'I'AIS AND IIX--IODE 0P DEALING
WITH Till numuns--asm'u. OF A SEOJND NAT--AND DEPARTURE OF IT
AGAIN.

IT was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like
has not, perhaps, been heard of in history. I was fast asleep
in my hutch one morning, when my man Friday came running
in to me, and called aloud, "Master, master, they are come,
they are come !" I jumped up, and, regardless of danger,I
went out as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my
little grove, which, by the way, was by this time grown to be
a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went with-
out my arms, which was not my custom to do: but I was
surprised, when, turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a
boat at about a league and a half distance, standing in for the
shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the
wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in: also I observed
presently, that they did not come from that side which the
shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the island.
Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these
were not the people we looked for, and that we might not
know at whether they were friends or enemies. In the next
place, went in to fetch my perspective glass, to see what I
could make of them ; and having taken the ladder out, I climbed
up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was appre~
hensive of anything, and to take my view the plainer, without
being discovered. I had scarce set my foot upon the hill,
when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor, at
about two leagues and a half distance from me S.S.E., but not
above a league and a half from the shore. By my observation,
it appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the boat appeared
to be an English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in; though the joy of
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen, and consequently friends, was such
as I cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts hung
about me, I cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me
keep upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to
consider, what business an English ship could have in that
part of the world, since it was not the way to, or from, any
gm of the world where the English had any traflic; and I

ew there had been no storms to drive them in there, as in
K
distress; and that if they were really English/it was most ro-
bable that they were here upon no good design; and that I ad
better continue as Iwas. than fall into the hands of thieves and
murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger,
which sometimes are given him when he may think there is no
possibility of its being real. That such hints and notices are
given us, I believe few that have made any observations of
things can deny; that they are certain discoveries of an invisible
world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and, if the
tendency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why should
we not suppose they are from some friendly agent, (whether
supreme, or inferior and subordinate, is not the question,) and
that they are given for our good P

The present question abundantly confirms me in the justice
of this reasoning; for, had I not been made cautious by this
secret admonition, come it from whence it will, I had been un-
done inevitably, and in afar worse condition than before, as
you will see presently. I had not kept myself long in this
posture, but I saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they
looked for a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of land-
ing; however, as they did not come quite far enough, the ' did
not see the little inlet where I formerly landed m rafts, but
ran their boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile
from me, which was very happy for me; for otherwise they
would have landed just at my door, as I may say, and would
soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have
plundered me of all I had. When they were on share, I was
fully satisfied they were Englishmen, at least most of them;
one or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so;
they were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I found
were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and, when the first
four or five of them were jumped on shore, the took those
three out of the boat as prisoners: one of the ree I could
perceive using the most passionate gestures of entreaty, amic-
tion, and despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the other
two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and
appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a do as the
first. I was perfectly confounded at the sight, an knew not
what the meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in
English, as well as he could, "0 master! you see English
mans eat prisoner as well as saVage mans."---" Why, Friday,"
says I, "do you think they are going to eat them, then P"--
" Yes," says Friday, "they will eat them."--" No, no," says I,
" Friday, I am afraid they will murder them, indeed, but you
may be sure they will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really
was, but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expect-

('7
U

'.fl
p'
ing every moment when the three prisoners should be killed;
nay, once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a great
cutlass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to strike one of the
poor men; and I expected to see him fall every moment; at
which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my

 

veins. I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage
that was gone with him, or that I had any way to have come
undiscovered within shot of them, that I might have rescued
the three men, for I saw no fire-arms they had among them ;
but it fell out to my mind another way. After I had observed
the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen,
I observed the fellows run scattering about the island, as if
they wanted to see the country. I observed that the three
other men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they
sat down all three upon the ground, very pensive, and looked
like men in despair. This put me in mind of the first time
when I came on shore, and began to look about me; how I
gave myself over for lost; how wildly I looked round me;
what dreadful apprehensrons I had; and how I lodged in the
tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild beasts. As I
knew nothing, that night, of the supply I was to receive by
the providential driving of the ship nearer the land by the
storms and tide, by which I have since been long nourished
and supported ; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing,
how certain of deliverance and supply they were, how near

it was to them, and how efl'ectually and really they were in a
- K 2
condition of safety, at the same time that they thought them-
selves lost, and their case deSperate. So little do we see
before us in the world, and so much reason have we to depend
cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that He does not
leave His creatures so absolutely destitute, but that in the
worst circumstances, they have always something to be thank-
ful for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than
they imagine; nay, are even brought to their deliverance hr
the means by which they seem to be brought to their
destruction.

It was just at the top of high water when these people came
on shore; and, partly, while they rambled about to see what
kind of a place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the
tide was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably away,
leaving their boat aground. They had left two men in the
boat, who, as I found afterwards, having drunk a little too
much brandy, fell asleep: however, one of them waking a
little sooner than the other, and finding the boat too fast
aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest, who were
straggling about; upon which they all soon came to the boat:
but it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft oozy sand,
almost like a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen,
who are, perhaps, the least of all mankind given to fore-
thought, they gave it over, and away they strolled about the
country again; and I heard one of them say aloud to another,
calling them ofi' from the boat, " Why, let her alone, Jack, can't
you? she'll float next tide :" by which I was fully confirmed in
the main inquiry of what countrymen they were. All this
while I kept myself very close, not once daring to stir out of
my castle, any further than to my place of observation, near
the top of the hill; and very glad I was to think how well it
was fortified. I knew it was-no less than ten hours before the
boat could float again, and by that time it would be dark, and
I might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear
their discourse, if they had any. In the mean time I fitted
myself up for a battle, as before, though with more caution,
knowing I had to do with another kind of enemythan I had
at first. I ordered Friday, also, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took
myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My
figure, indeed, was very fierce; I had my formidable goats'
skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned, a naked
sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each
shoulder.

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any
attempt till it was dark: but about two o'clock, being the heat
of the day, I found, that, in short, they were all gone strag-
gling into the woods, and, as I thought, lain down to sleep.
I'he three poor distressed men, too anxious for their condition
to get any sleep, were, however, sat down under the shelter of
a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, and, as I
thought, out of sight of any of the rest. Upon this I resolved
to discover myself to them, and learn something of their con-
dition; immediately I marched to the place where they sat, my
man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable for his
arms as I, but not making quite so staring a figure as I did.
I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then, before
any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, " What
are ye, gentlemen?" They started up at the noise, but were
ten times more confounded when they saw me, and the un-
eouth figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but I
thought I perceived them just going to fly from me, when I
spoke to them in English; " Gentlemen," said I, "do not be
surprised at me; perha 3 you may have a friend near, when
you did not expect it.' --" He must be sent directly from
Heaven," said one of them very gravely to me, and pulling
ofl' his hat at the same time to me; " for our condition is past
the help of man."--"All help is from Heaven, sir," said I;
" but can you put a stranger in the way how to help you P for

on seem to be in some great distress. I saw you when you

nded; and when you seemed to make application to the
brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword
to kill you.

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, "Am I
talking to a real man, or an angel?"--"Be in no fear about
that, sir," said I: "if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he
would have come better clothed, and armed after another
manner, than you see me: pray lay aside your fears; I am a
man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you: you see I
have one servant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us
freely, can we serve you P What is your case ?"--" Our case,"
said he, "sir, is too long to tell you, while our murderers are
so- near us: but, in short, sir, I was commander of that shi :
my men have mutinied against me; they have been ha y
prevailed on not to murder me; and at last have set me on
shore in this desolate place, with these two men with me, one
my mate, the other a passenger, where we expected to perish,

believing the place to be umnhabited, and know not yet what
to think of it."--" Where are these brutes, your enemies?"
said I: " Do you know where they are gone P"--" There they
lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; "my heart
trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if
they have, the will certainly murder us all."--" Have they
. any fire-arms said I. He answered, they had only two
pieces, one of which they left in the boat. " Well then," said
I, "leave the rest tome. I see they are all asleep : it is aneasy
thing to kill them all: but shall we rather take them pri-
soners P" He told me there were two desperate villains
among them, that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to;
but if they were secured, he believed all the rest would return
to their duty. I asked him which they were ? He told me he
could not at that distance distinguish them, but he would obey
my orders in anything I would direct. " Well," says I, "let
us retreat out of their view, or hearing, lest they awake, and
we will resolve further." So they willingly went back with
me, till the woods covered us from them.

"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliver-
ance, are you willing to make two conditions with me P" He
anticipated my proposals, by telling me, that both he and the
ship, if recovered, should be wholly directed and commanded
by me in everything; and if the ship was not recovered, he
would live and die with me in what part of the world soever I
would send him; and the two other men said the same.
" Well," says I, "my conditions are but two: lst, That while
you stay in this island with me, you will not pretend to any
authority here: and, if I put arms in your hands, you will
upon all occasions, give them up to me, and do no prejudice to
me or mine upon this islan : and, in the mean time, be
governed by my orders : 2nd, That, if the shi is, or may be re-
covered, you will carry me and my man to Eng dpassage free."

He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of
man could devise, that he would comply with these most rea-
sonable demands ; and, besides, would owe his life to me,
and acknowledge it upon all occasions, as long as he lived.
" Well, then," said I, " here are three muskets for you, with
powder and ball: tell me next what you think is proper to be
done." He showed all the testimonies of his gratitude that he
was able, but offered to be wholly guidedb me. I told him I
thought it was hard venturing anything; ut the best method
I could think of was to fire upon them at once, as they lay,
and if any was not killed at the first volley, and offered to
submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's
providence to direct the shot. He said very modestly, that he
was loth to kill them, if he could help it; but that those two
were incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of all the
mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped we should be undone
still; for they would go on board and brincr the whole ship's
company, and destroy us all. " Well, then? says I, " necessity
legitimates my advice, for it is the only way to save our lives."
However, seeing him still cautious of shedding blood, I told
him they should go themselves, and manage as they found
convenient.
a

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake,
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet, I asked
him if either of them were the heads of the mutiny? He said
no. "Well, then," said I, "you may let them escape; and
Providence seems to have awakened'them on purpom to save
themselves. Now," says I, "if the rest escape you, it is your
fault." Animated with this, he took the musket I had given
him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades
with him, with each a piece in his hand; the two men who
were with him going first, made some noise, at which one of
, the seamen who was awake, turned about, and seeing them
coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too late then, for the
moment he cried out, they fired; I mean the two men, the
captain wisely reserving his Own piece. They had so well
aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one of them was
killed on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but
not being dead, he started u on his feet, and called egerly
for help to the other; but e captain step ing to him, told
him it was too late to cry for help, he should call upon God
to forgive his villany; and with that word, knocked him down
with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke more:
there were three more in the company, and one of them was
also slightly wounded. By this time I was come; and when
they saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they
begged for mercy. The captain told them he would 3
their lives, if they would give him any assurance of t eir
abhorrence of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and after-
wards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they
came. They ve him all the protestations of their sincerity
that could be gzsired, and he was willing to believe them, and
spare their lives, which I was not against, only that I obliged
lli'ilrzi so keep them bound, hand and foot, while they were on the

n .

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate
to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away the
oars and sails, which they did: and, by-and-by, three strag-
gling men, that were (happily for them) parted from the rest,
came back upon h ' the guns fired, and seeing the cap-
tain, who before was t eir prisoner, now their conqueror,
they submitted to be bound also; and so our victory was
complete.

It now remained that the ca tain and I should in uire into
one another's circumstances: began first, and tol him my
whole history, which he heard with an attention even to amaze-
ment; and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being
furnished with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my
story is a whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply.' .

But when he reflected from thence upon himself, and howl
seemed to have been preserved there on purpose to save his
life, the'tears ran down his face, and he could not speak a
word more. After this communication was at an end, I carried
him and his two men into' my apartment, leading them in just.
where I. came out, viz., at the top of the house, where 1 re-
freshed them with such rovisions as I had,- and showed them
all the contrivances I h made, during my long, long inhabit-
ing that place.

All I showed to them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my fortification,
and how perfectly I had concea ed my retreat with a grove of
trees, which, having been now planted near twenty years, and
the trees growing much faster than in England, was become
a little wood, and so thick that it was impassable in any part
of it but at that one side where I had reserved my little wind-
ing passage into it. I told him this was my castle and my
residence, but that I had a seat in the country, as most rinces
have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I woul show
him that too another time; but, at present, our business was
to consider how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as
to that; but told me, he was perfectly at a loss what measures
to take, for that there were still six-and-twenty hands on board,
who, having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they
had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be hardened in it
now by desperation, and would carry it on, knowing that, if
they were subdued, they would be brought to the gallows, as
soon as they came to England, or to any of the English
colonies; and that therefore there would be no attacking them
with so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found
that it was a very rational conclusion, and that, therefore,
something was to be resolved on speedily, as well to draw the
men on board into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent
their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon this it pre-
sently occurred to me, that, in a little while, the ship's crew,
wondering what was become of their comrades, and of the
boat, would certainly come on shore in their other boat, to
look for them ; and that then, rhaps, they might come armed,
and be too strong for us: this e allowed to be rational. Upon
this I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the
boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry
her off; and taking everything out of her, leave her so far
useless as not to be fit to swim: accordingly, we went on
board, took the arms which were left on board out of her, and
whatever else we found there, which was a bottle of brandy,
and another of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a horn of powder,
and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas (the sugar93'?!" v

nonmson catsoi3'5" 201

was five or six pounds); all whichwas very welcome to me,
especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had had none left
for many years. , ',

When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars,
mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were'carried away before, as
above), we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that, if they
had come strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry
off the boat. indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that
we could be able to recover the ship; but my view was, that,
if they went away without the boat, I did not much question
to make her fit again to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and
call upon our friends the Spaniards, in my way; for 1 had
them still in my thoughts. ,

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by
main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach, so hiah that
the tide would not float her off at high-water mark, andpbesides
had broke a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped,
and were sat down musing what we should do, we heard the
ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft with her ensign as a
signal for the boat to come on board: but no boat stirred;
and they fired several times, making other signals to the boat.
At last, when all their signals and firing proved fruitless, and
they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help
of my glasses, hoist another boat out, and row towards the
shore; and we found, as they approached, that there were no
lies than ten men in her, and that they had fire-arms with

em.

As the shi lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a
full view of em as they came, and a plain sight even of their
faces; because the tide having set them a little to the east of
the other boat, they rowed 11 under shore, to come to the same
place where the other had landed, and where the boat lay;
by this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the
captain knew the persons and character of all the men in the
boat, of whom, he said, there were three very honest fellows,
who, he was sure, were' led into this conspiracy by the rest,
being overpowered and frightened; but, that, as for the boat-
swain, who, it seems, was the chief officer among them, and
all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew,
and were, no doubt, made desperate in their new enterprise;
and terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too
powerful for us. I smiled at him, and told him, that men in '
our circumstances were put the operation of fear; that, seeing
almost every condition that could be was better than that
which we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the
consequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be a
deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the circumstances
of my life, and whether adeliverance was not worth v%nturing

Ko"

202 games or

for? "And where, sir,"=said I, "is your belief of my beina
preserved here on purpose to; save your life, which eleva
you a little while ago? For my part," said I, " there seems to
me but one thing amiss'in all the prospect of it."--" What is
that?" says he. " Why," said I, "it is, that as you say there
are three or four honest fellows among them, which should be
spared; had they been all of the wicked part of the crew I
should have thought God's providence had singled them out
to deliver them into your hands; for, depend upon it, every
man that comes ashore are our own, and shall die, or live, as
they behave to us." As I spoke this with a raised voice and
. cheerful countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so
we set vigorously to our business.

We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from
the ship, considered of separating our prisoners; and we had,
indeed, secured them effectually. Two of them, of whom the
captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday,
and one of the three delivered men, to my cave, where they
were remote enough,- and out of danger of being heard or dis-
covered, or of finding their way out of the woods if they could
have delivered themselves: here they left them bound, but
gave them provisions, and promised them, if they continued
there quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or two; but
that, if they attempted their escape, they should be put to
death without mercy. They promised faithquy to bear their
confinement with patience, and were very thankful that they
had such good usage as to have provisions and light left them;
for Friday gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for
their comfort; and they did not know but that he stood sentinel
over them at the entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage: two of them were
kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was not free to
trust them; but the other two were taken into my service,
upon the captain's recommendation, and upon their solemnly
engaging to live and die with us: so, with them and the three
honest men, we were seven men well armed; and I made no
doubt we should be able to deal well enough with the ten that
were coming, considering that the captain had said there were
three or four honest men among them also. As soon as they
got to the place where their other boat lay, they ran their boat
into the beach, and came all on shore, hauling the boat up after
them, which I was glad to see; for I was afraid they would
rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance from the
shore, with some hands in her to guard her, and so we should
not be able to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first thing
they did, they ran all to their other boat; and. it was easy to
see they were under a great surprise to find herstripped, as
above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.aosmsos sateen: 203
After they sad mused awhile upon' this, they set up two or
three great shouts, hallooing with all their might, to try if
they could make their companions hear; but all was to no
purpou:then they came all closeinaring, and fired a
volley of their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the
echoes made the woods ring; but it was all one: those in the
cave we were sure could not hear, and those in our keeping,
though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer
to them. They were so astonished at the surprise of this,
that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on
board again to their shi and let them know that the men
were all murdered, an the long-boat staved; accordingly,
they immediately launched their boat again, and got all of
them on board.

 

' CHAPTER xxvm.

Rm" 0? m NAT--DEATH 0? son AID ml 0! arm 01' m

"WWW--m CAPTAIN sums WITH 1'83 WATS 101m: sun, AND RIO
("V883 1'83 GRIP--m 1'0 TEE ISLAND--AND 2AM wrrs monsoon

GUNS. LUNG rm: 0' m Hum 02' ran mun-mum 20
House.

THE captain was'terribly amazed, and.even confounded at this,
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail,
giving their comrades over for lost, and so he should still lose
the ship, which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but
he was uickly as much frightened the other way.

They not been long put 011' with the boat, but we per-
ceived them all coming on shore again: but with this new
measure in their conduct, which it seems they consulted
together upon, viz., to leave three men in the boat, and the
rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to look for
their fellows. This was a t disappointment to us, for now
we were at a loss what to o; as our seizing those seven men
on shore would be no advantage tons, if we let the boat escape;
because they would then row away to the ship, and then the
restof them would be sureto weighandsetsaiLand so our
recovering the ship wouldbe lost. However, we hadno remedy
but to wait and see what the issue of things might present.
The seven men came on shore, and the three who remained in
the boat put her of to a good distance from the shore, and
same to an anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible
for us to come at them in the boat. Those that came on shore
kept close together, marching towards the :1): of the little hill
under which my habitation lay; and we co see them plainly,

>>
0204 . new or

though they could not perceive us. We could have been very
glad they would have come nearer to us, so that we might have
fired at them, or that they would have gone farther off that we
might have come abroad. But, when they were come to the
brow of the hill, where they could see a great way into the
valleys and wood, which lay towards the north-east part, and
where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till
they were weary; and, not caring, it seems, to venture far
from the shore, nor far from one another, they sat down
together under a tree, to consider of it. Had they thought
fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other part of them had
done, they had done the job for us; but they were too full of
apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, though
they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear
neither.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this
consultation of theirs, viz., that, perhaps, they would all fire
a volley again, to endeavour to make their fellows hear, and
that we should all sally upon them just at the juncture when
their pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly yield,
and we should have them without bloodshed. I liked this
proposal, provided it was done while we were near enough
to come up to them before they could load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen; and we lay still a long time,
very irresolute what course to take. At length I told them
there would be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and
then, if they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might find
a way to get between them and the shore, and so might use
some stratagem with them in the boat to get them on shore.
We waited a t while, though very impatient for their
removing; an were very uneasy, when, after long consulta-
tions, we saw them all start up, and march down towards the
sea : it seems theyhad such dreadful apprehensions u n them
of the danger of the place, that they resolved to go on ard the
ship again, give their companions over for lost, and so go on
with their intended voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perseived them to go towards the shore, I
imagined it to be, as it really was, that they had given over
their search, and were for going back again; and the captain,
as soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the
apprehensions of it: but I presently thought of a stratagem
to fetch them back again, and which answered my end to a
tittle. I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to 0 over the
little creek westward, towards the place where e savages
came on shore when Friday was rescued, and as soon as they
came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile distance,
I bade them halloo out as loud as they could, and wait till
they found the seamen heard them; that, as soon as ever they
heard the seamen answer them, they should return it again;
and then, keeping out of sight, take a round, always answerin
when the others hallooed, to draw them as far into the islan
and among the woods as possible, and then wheel about again
to me, by such ways as I directed them.

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the
mate hallooed ; and they presently heard them, and anewerin
ran along the shore westward, towards the voice they heard:
when they were presently stopped by the creek, where, the
water being up, they could not get over, and called for the
boat to come up and set them over; as, indeed, I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat
being gone a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a
harbour within the land, they took one of the three men out of
her, to 0 along with them, and left only two in the boat, having
fasten her to the stump of a little tree on the shore. This
was what I wished for: and, immediately, leaving Friday and
the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with .me,
and crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised the two
men before they were aware; one of them lying on the shore,
and the other being in the boat. The fellow on shore was
between sleeping and waking, and going to start up; the
captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him
down; and then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he
was a dead man. There needed very few arguments to per-
suade a single man to yield. when he saw five men upon him,
and his comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems,
one of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the
rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not only
to yield, but afterwards to join very sinceme with us. In
the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so well managed
their business with the rest, that they drew them by hallooing
and answerino, from one hill to another, and from one wood
to another, till they not only heartily tired them, but left them
where they were very sure they could not reach back to the
boat before it was dark, and, indeed, they were heartily tired
themselves also by the time they came back to us.

We had nothing new to do but to watch for them in the
dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with
them. It was several hours after Friday came back to me
before they came back to their boat; and we could hear the
foremost of them, long before they came quite up, calling
to those behind to come along; and could also hear them
answer, and complain how lame and tired they were, and
not able to come any faster; which was very welcome news
to us. At length they came up to the boat; but it is im-

'ble to express their confusion when they found the
t fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their

' )1
two men gone. We could hear them call to one another in a
most lamentable manner, telling one another they were got
into an enchanted island; that, either there were inhabitants
in it, and they should all be murdered, or else there were
devils and irits in it, and they should be all carried away
and devour ." They hallooed again, and called their two
comrades by their names a great many times; but no answer.
After some time we could see them, by the little light there
was, run about, wringing their hands like men in despair;
and that sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat
to rest themselves; then come on shore again, and walk about
again, and do the same thing over again. My men would
fain have had me give them leave to fall upon them at once
in the dark; but I was willing to take them at some advan-
tage, so to spare them and kill as few of them as I could; and
especially I was unwilling to hazard the killing any of our
men, knowing the others were very well armed. I resolved to
wait, to see if they did not separate; and therefore, to make
sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday
and the captain to creep upon their hands and feet, as close to
the ground as they could, that they might not be discovered,
andi get as near them as they could possibly, before they ofl'ered
to re.

They had not been long in that posture, when the boat-
swain, who was the princi al ringleader of the mutiny, and
had now shown himself e most dejected and dispirited of
all the rest, came walking towards them with two more of
the crew: the captain was so eager at having this principal
rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly have patience
to let him come so near as to be sure of him, for they only
heard his tongue before; but, when they came nearer, the
captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them.
The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man was
shot in the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die
till an hour or two after; and the third ran for it. At the
noise of the fire I immediately advanced with my whole army,
which was now eight men, viz., myself, generalissimo; Friday,
my lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men, and the
three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted with arms. We
came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not
see our number; and I made the man they had left inthe boat,
who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could

bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to
terms; which fell out just as we desired; or, indeed. it was

' The superstitions fancies of Voyager's and travellers suggested to Shakspeare
the characters and incrdents of his play or " The Tempest." to which Dryden. in

his alteration of it, added the second title of the " Enchanted Island;" and

Shakspeare wiu, probably. preserve sndoontinue those, and other superstitions. tot
somenges to come.
easy to think, as their condition then was, they would be very
willing to capitulate. So he calls out, as loud as he could, to
one of them, " Tom Smith! Tom Smith !" Tom Smith an-o
swered immediately, "Is that Robinson P" For it seems he
knew the voice. The other answered, " Ay, ay; for God's
sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms, and yield, or you
are all dead men this moment."--" Who must we yield to?
Where are they?" says Smith again. "Here they are," says
he; "here's our captain and fifty men with him, have been
hunting you these two hours : the boatswain is killed, Will
Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and, if you do not yield,
you are all lost."--" Will they give us quarter, then ?" says
Tom Smith, " and we will yield."--" I will go and ask, if you
promise to yield," says Robinson: so he asked the captain;
and the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith, you
know my voice; if you lay down your arms immediately,
ind submit, you shall have your lives, all but Will At-
1113."

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, " For God's sake, captain,
give me quarter; what have I done? They have all been as
bad as I:" which, by the way, was not true neither; for it
seems this Will Atkins was the first man that laid hold of the
captain when they'first mutinied, and used him barbarously, m
tying his hands, and giving him injurious language. How-
ever, the captain told him he must lay down his arms at dis-
cretion, and trust to the governor's mercy: by which he meant
me, for they all called me governor. In a word, they all laid
down their arms, and begged their lives: and I sent the man
that had parleyed with them, and two more, who bound them
all: and then my great army of fifty men, which, particularly
with those three, were in all but eight, came up and seized
upon them, and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and
one more out of sight, for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing
the ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley
with em, he expostulated with them upon the villany of
their practices with him, and at length upon the further wicked-
ness of their design, and how certainly it must bring them
to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.
They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their
lives. As for that, he told them they were none of his pri-
soners, but the commander's of the island; that they thought
they had set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited island; but
it had pleased God so to direct them that it was inhabited, and
that the governor was an Englishman: that he might han
them all there, if he pleased; but, as he had 'ven them a

uarter, he supposed e would send them to gland, to be
realt with there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he
was commanded by the govemor to advise to prepare for
death, for that he Would be hanged in the morning.

Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet it had its
desired effect. Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the captain
to intercede with the governor for his life; and all the rest
begged of him, for God's sake, that they might not be sent to
England.

it now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was
come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring these
fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship; so i
retired into the dark from them, that they might not see what
sort of a governor they had, and called the captain to me: when
I called, as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to
speak again, and say to the captain, "Captain, the commander
calls for you :" and presently, the captain replied, "Tell his
excellency I am just a-coming." This more perfect-1y amused
them, and they all believed that the commander was just by
with his fifty men. Upon the captain's coming to me, I told
him my project for seizing the ship, which he liked wonder-
fully well, and resolved to put it in execution the next
morning. But in order to execute it with more art, and to be
secure of success, I told him we must divide the prisoners, and
that he should go and take Atkins, and two more of the worst
of them, and send them pinioned to the cave where the others
lay. This was committed to Friday, and the two men who
came-en--shorc with the captain.-- They-conveyed them to the
cave, as to a prison: and it was indeed a dismal place, espe-
cially to men in their condition. The others I ordered to my
bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full description ;
and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was
secure enough, considering they were upon their behaviour.

To these, in the morning, I sent the captain, who was to
enter into a. parley with them ; in a word, to try them, and tell
me whether he thought they might be trusted or no to go on
board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the injury
done him, of the condition they were brought to, and that
though the governor: had given them quarter for their lives, as
to the present action, yet that, if they were sent to England,
they would all be hanged in chains, to be sure; but that
if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the
ship, he would have the governor's engagement for their
~ pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be
accepted by men in their condition; they fell down on their
knees to the captain, and promised with the deepest impreca-
tions, that they would be faithful to him to the last drop,
and that they should owe their lives to him, and would go
with him all over the world; and they would ownhim as a
father to them as bag as they lived. " Well," says the
captain, "I must go and tell the governor what you say, and
see what I can do to bring him to consent to it." So he
brought me an account of the temper he found them in, and
that he verily believed they would be faithful. However, that
we might be very secure, I told him he should go back again
and choose out those five, and tell them that they might see
he did not want men, that he would take out those five to be
his assistants, and that the governor would keep the other two,
and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave),
as hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that if they
proved unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should be

anged in chains alive on the shore. .This looked severe, and
convinced them that the governor was in earnest; however,
they had no way left them but to accept it: and it was now
the business of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to
persuade the other five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition:
lst, The captain, his mate, and passenger: 2nd, Then the two
prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having their characters
from the captain, I had given their liberty and trusted them
with arms: 3rd, The other two that I had kept till now in my
.bower pinioned, but on the captain's motion, had now re-
leased: 4th, These five released at last; so that they were
twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the cave for
hostages. """"

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these
bands on board the ship: but, as for me and my man Friday,
I did not think it was proper for us to stir, having seven men
left behind; and it was employment enough for us to keep
them asunder and su ply them with victuals. As to the five
in the cave, I resolve to keep them fast, but Friday went in
twice a day to them to supply them with necessaries; and
I made the other two carry provisions to a certain distance, where
Friday was to take it.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the
ca tain, who told them I was the person the governor had
or ered to look after them; and that it was the governor's
pleasure they should not stir anywhere, but by my direction ;
that if they did, they would be fetched into the castle and be
laid in irons: so that, as we never sufi'ered them to see me
as a governor, I now appeared as another person, and spoke
of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like upon all
occasions.

The pa tain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish
his two? ats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He
made passenger captain of one, with four of the men; and
hinged; " mate, and five more went in the other; and they
contrived their business very well, for they came up to the ship
about midnight. As soon as they came within call of the
ship he made Robinson hail them, and tell them they had
brought OR the men and the boat, but that it was along time
before they had found them, and the like, holding them in chat
till they came to the ship's side: when the captain and the
mate first entering with their arms, immediately knocked
down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end of their
muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men; they
secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-decks,
and began to fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were
below; when the other boat and their men entering at the
fore-chains, secured the fore-castle of the ship and the scuttle,
which went down into the cock-room, making three men they
found there prisoners. When this was done, and all safe upon
deck, the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to break
into the round-house, where the new rebel-captain lay, who,
having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two men and a
boy had got fire-arms in their hands; and, when the mate,
with a crow, split open the door, the new captain and his men
fired boldly among them, and wounded the mate with a musket-
ball, which broke his arm, and wounded two more of the men,
but killed nobody. The mate calling for help, rushed, how-
ever, into the round-house, wounded as he was, and with his
pistol, shot the new captain through the head, the bullet
' entering at his mouth, and came out again behind one of his
cars, so that he never spoke a word more: upon which the rest
lyieldeld, and the ship was taken effectually without any more
'ves cat.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered
' seven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with
me to give me notice of his success, which you may be sure
I was very glad to hear, having sat watching upon the shore
for it till near two o'clock in the morning. Having thus
heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it having been
a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was
something surprised with the noise of a gun: and presently
starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of governor,
governor, and presently I knew the captain's voice; when,
climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and pointing
to the ship, he embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend
and deliverer," says he, " there's your shi , for she is all yours,
and so are we, and all that belong to her. I cast my eyes to
the ship, and there she rode within little more than half a mile
of the shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they
were masters of her, and the weather being fair, had brought
her to an anchor, just against the mouth of the little creek;
and the tide being up, the captain had brought tne pinnace in
near the place where I at first landed my rafts, and so landed
just at my door. I was at first ready to sink down With sur-
prise; for I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my
ands, all thin easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me
away whither pleased to go. At first, for some time I was
not able to answer him one word; but, as he had taken me in
his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the
ground. He rceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a
bottle out of ' pocket, and gave me a dram of his cordial,
which he had brought on pu for me. After I had drunk
it, I sat down upon the groun ; and though it brought me tn
myself, yet it was a good while before I could speak a word
to him. Allthistime thepoormanwasinasgreatanecstasy
as I, only not under any surprise as I was; and he said a
thousand kind and tender things to me, to compose and bring
me to myself; but such was the flood of joy in my breast, that
it put all my spirits into confusion; at last it broke out into
tears; and in a little while after, I recovered my speech.
I then took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer, and
we rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon him as a man
sent from heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction
seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such things as these
were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence
governinv the world, and an evidence that the eye of an
infinite fiower could search into the remotest corner of the
world, and send help to the miserable whenever He pleased. -I
forgot not to lift my heart in thankfulness to Heaven; and
what heart .could forbear to bless Him, who had not onl pro-
vided for me in such awilderness, and such a desolate eon 'tion,
but from whom every deliverance must always be acknowledged
to rocced?
en we had talked awhile, the captain told me he had
brought me some little refreshment, such as the ship afforded,
and such as the wretches that had been so long his masters
had not plundered him of. Upon this he called aloud to the
boat, and bade his men bring the things ashore that were for
the governor; and indeed it was a present as if I had been
one that was not to be carried away with them, butas if I had
been to dwell upon the island still. First, he had brought me
a case of bottles, full of excellent cordial waters, six large
bottles of Madeira wine, (the bottles held two quarts each,)
two unds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of
the s 'p's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a. bag of peas, and
about a hundred weight of biscuit: he also bro ht me a box
of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full of lemons, an two bottles
of lime-juice, and abundance of other things. But, besides
these, and what was a thousand times more useful to me,
he brought me six new clean shirts, six very good neck-
cloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one
pair of stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of his own,
which had been worn but very little; in a word, he clotLed me
from head to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as
any one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never
was anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awk-
ward, and uneasy, as it was to me to wear such clothes at first.

After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good

things were brought into my little apartment, we began to
consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had; for
it was worth considering whether we might venture to take
them away with us or no, especially two of them, whom he
knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree; and
the captain said he knew they were such rogues that there was
no obliging them; and if he did carry them away, it must
be in irons as malcfactors, to be delivered over to justice at
the first English colony he could come at: and I found that
the captain himself was very anxious about it. Upon this
I told him, that if he desired it,I would undertake to bring
the two men he spoke of, to make it their own re uest that he
should leave them upon the island. "I should'lie very glad
of that," says the captain, " with all my heart."--" Well," sa 8
I, "I will send for them up, and talk with them for you."
I caused Friday and the two hostages, for they were now dis-
charged, their comrades having performed their promise; I say
I caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the five men,
pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep them there till
I came. After some time I came thither dressed in my new
habit; and now I was called governor again. Being all met,
and the captain with me, I caused the men to be brought
before me, and I told them I had got a full account of their
villanous behaviour to the captain, and how they had run
away with the ship, and were preparing to commit farther
robberies, but that Providence had ensnared them in their own
ways, and that they were fallen into the pit which they had
dug for others. I let them know that, by my direction, the
ship had been seized; that she lay now in the road; and they
might see by-and-by that their new captain had received the
reward of his villany, and that they would see him hanging at
the yard-arm: that, as to them, I wanted to know what they
had to say why I should not execute them as pirates, taken in
the fact, as by my commission, they would not doubt but I had
authority so to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they
had nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the
captain promised them their lives, and they humbly implored
my mercy. But I told them, I knew not what mercy to show
them; for as for myself, I had resolved to quit the island with30301803 031380]. 213

. all my men, and had taken passage with the captain to go for
England; and as for the captain, he could not carry them to
England other than as prisoners, in irons, to be tried for mutiny,
an running away with the ship; the consequence of which,
they must needs know, would be the gallows; so that I could
not tell what was best for them, unless they had a mind to
take their fate in the island: if they desired that, as I had
liberty to leave the island, I had some inclination to give them
their lives, if they thought they could shift on shore. They
seemed very thankful for it, said they would much rather venture
to stay there than be carried to England to be hanged: so I left
it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it,
as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a
little angry with the captain, and told him that they were my
prisoners, not his; and that, seeing I had offered them so much
favour, I would be as good as my word; and that if he did not
think fit to consent to it, I would set them at liberty, as
I found them; and if he did not like it, he might take them
again, if he could catch them. Upon this they appeared very
thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty, and bade them
retire into the woods to the place whence they came, and
I would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and
some directions how they should live very well, if they thought
fit. Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship; but told
the captain I would stay that night to prepare my things, and
desired him to goon board, in the mean time, and keep all
right in the ship, and send the boat on shore next day for me;
ordering him at all events, to cause the new captain, who was
Elillmed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men mightsee

. a>>
When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to mezfif
my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with them
on their circumstances. I told them, I thought they had made
a right choice; that if the captain had carried them away, they
would certainly be hanged. I showed them the new captain
hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had
nothing less to expect.

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then
told them I would let them into the story of my living there,
and put them in the way of making it easy to them: accord-
ingly I gave them the whole history of the place, and of my
coming to it; showed them my fortifications, the way I made
my bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes, and, in a word,
All that was necessary to make them easy. I told them the
story also of the seventeen Spaniards that were to be expected,
for whom I left a letter, and made them promise to treat
them in common with themselves. Here it may be noted, that _
the captain had ink on board, who was greatly surprised that -
I never hit upon a way of making ink of charcoal and water,
or of something else, as I had done things much more difiicult.

I left them my fire-arms, viz., five muskets, three fowling-
pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel and a half of
powder left; for, after the first year or two, I used but little,
and wasted none. I gave them a description of the way 1
man <<red the goats, and directions to milk and fatten them, and
to '0 both butter and cheese: in a word, I gave them every
part of my own story; and told them I should prevail with
the captain to leave them two barrels of gun wder more, and
some garden-seeds, which I told them I wo d have been very
glad of: also I gave them the bag of peas which the captain
had brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to sow and
increase them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on
board the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not
weigh that night. The next morning early, two of the five
men came swimming to the ship's side, and makin a most.
lamentable complaint of the other three, begged to taken
into the ship for God's sake, for they should be murdered, and
begged the captain to take them on board, though he hanged
them immediately. Upon this, the captain pretended to have
no power without me; but, after some difliculty, and after
their solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on
board, and were, some time after, soundly whipped and pickled;
after which they proved very honest and quiet fellows.

._ Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide
bhing up, with the things promised to the men ; to which the
" ' ' , at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to
ded, which they took, and were very thankful for. Ialso
uraged them by telling them, if it lay in my power to send
:any vessel to take them in, I would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for
reliques, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella,
and one of my parrots: also, I forgot not to take the money
lformerly mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless,
that it was grown rusty, or tarnished, and could hardly pass
for silver, till it had been a little rubbed and handled: as also
the money I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship. And
thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I found by
the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been upon it
eight-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being
delivered from this second captivity the same day of the
month as I first made my escape in the long-boat from among
the Moors of Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage, I
arrived in England the 11th of June, in the year 1687, having
been thirty-five years absent.
CHAPTER XXIX.

303mm onusoz A armors n" ZSGIAND--DEPANS P03 USER--HIS Pk.
PER" I! 338 MILE--PRE?ARA'HOS EUR 30153!!! 3! LAND 1'0 EKGUXD.

WHEN I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all the
world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor
and faithful steward, whom I had left my money in trust with,
was alive, but had had great" misfortunes in the world; was
become a widow the second time, and very low in the world.
I made her very easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I
would give her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude
for her former care and faithfulness to me, Irelieved her as
my little stock would afl'ord; which, at that time, would
indeed allow me to do but little for her;"but I assured her I
would never forget her former kindness to me; nor did I
forget her, when I had sufiicient to help her, as shall be
observed in its proper place. I went down afterwards into
Yorkshire; but my father was dead, and my mother, and all
the family extinct, except that I found two sisters, and two of
the children of one of my brothers; and, as I had been long
ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made
for me; so that, in a word, I found nothin to relieve or
assist me; and that the little money I had wo d not do much
for me as tose'ttling in the world. , d

I met,with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did '
expect; and this was, that the master of the ship whom I b
so happily delivered, and, by the same means, saved the
and cargo, having given a very- handsome account to .
owners of the manner how I had saved the lives of the men,
and the ship, they invited me to meet them, and some other
merchants concerned, and all together, made me a very hand-
somle:n compliment upon the subject, and a present of almost 2001.
ster ' g.

But, after making several reflections u n the circumstances
of my life, and how little way this woul go towards settling
me in the world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might
not come by some information of the state of my plantation
in the Brazils, and of what was become of my partner, who,
I had reason to suppose, had some years put given me over
for dead. With this view I took shi ping for Lisbon, where~I
arrived in April following; my man riday accompanying me
very honestly in all these rambhngsv, and proving a most
faithful servant upon all-occasions. hen I came to Lisbon,
I found out by inquiry, and to my rticular satisfaction, my
old friend the captain of the ship w 0 first took me up at sea
off the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left
ofi' going to sea, havino put his son, who was far from a young
man, into his ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The
old man did not know me: and, indeed, I hardly knew him;
but I soon brought him to my remembrance, and as soon
brought myself to his remembrance _when I told him who I
was.

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance
between us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation
and my partner. The old man told me he had not been in the
Brazils for about nine years; but that he could assure me,
that, when he came away, my partner was living; but the
trustees whom I had joined with him to take cognizance of
my part, were both dead; that, however, he believed I would
have a very good account of the improvement of the planta-
tion; for that, upon the general belief of my being cast away
and drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the
produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator--fiscal,
who had appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, one-
third to the king, and two-thirds to the monastery of St.
Augustine, to be expended for the benefit of the r, and for
the conversion of the Indians to the Catholic fai ; but that, '
if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it
would be restored; only that the improvement, or annual
production, being distributed to the charitable uses, could not
be restored; but he assured me, that the steward of the king's
revenue from lands, and the proviedore, or steward, of the
monastery, had taken great care all along that the incumbent,
that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful account
of the produce, of which they had duly received my moiety.
I asked him if he knew to what height of improvement he had
brought the plantation, and whether he thought it might be
worth looking after; or whether, on my going thither, I should
meet with any obstruction to mylfiossessing my just right in
the moiety. He told me he co d not exactly tell to what
degree the plantation was improved, but this he knew, that my
partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoyin his part
of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance, he ad heard
that the king's third of my part, which was, it' seems, granted
away to some other monastery or religious house, amounted to
above two hundred moidores a year: that, as to my being
restored to a quiet pomossion of it, there was, no question to
bsmade of that, my partner being alive to witness my title,
and my name being also enrolled in the register of the country:
also he told me, that the survivors of m two trustees were

very fair and honest pe0ple, and veryweal y; and he believed
I would not only have their assistance for putting me in pos-
session, but would find a very considerable sum of money in
their hands for my account, being the produce of the farm while
their fathers held the trust, and before it was given up, as
above; which, as he remembered, was for about twelve years.

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account,
and inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the
trustees should thus diam of my effects, when he knew that I
had made my will, and made him, the Portuguese captain,
my universal heir, &c.

He told me that was true; but that, as there was no proof of
my being dead, he could not act as executor until some certain
account should come of my death; and, besides, he was not
willinar to intermeddle with a thing so remote: that it was true
he had registered my will, and put in his claim; and, could he
have given any account of my being dead, or alive, he would
have acted by procuration, and taken possession of the ingenio
(so they called the sugar-house), and have given his son, who
was now in the Brazils, orders to do it. "But," says the old
man, "I have one piece of news to tell you, which, perhaps,
my not be so acceptable to you as the rest: and that is, be-
lieving you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did offer to account with me in your name,
for six, or eight, of the first years' profits, which I received.
There being at that time great disbursements for increasing the
works, building an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount
to near so much as afterwards it produced: however," says the
old man, "I shall give you a true account of what I have re-
ceived in all, and how I have disposed of it."

After a few days' farther conference with this ancient friend,
he brought me an account of the first six years' income of my
piantation, signed by my partner and the merchant trustees,

ing always delivered in goods, viz., tobacco in roll, and sugar
in chests, besides rum, molasses, &c., which is the consequence
of a sugar-work; and I found by this account, that eve year
the income considerably increased; but, as above, the dis urse-
ments being large, the sum at first was small; however, the
old man let me see that he was debtor to me 470 moidores of
gold, besides 60 cheats of sugar, and I5 double rolls of tobacco,
which were lost in his ship; he having been shipwrecked
coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years after m \ leaving
the place. The good man then began to complain his mis-
fortunes, and how he had been obliged to make use of my
money to recover his loues, and buy him a share image! .
ship. " However, my old friend," says he, " you shall inot"
want a supply in your necessity; and, as soon as my son
returns, you shall be fully satisfied." Upon this, he pulls out
an old pouch, and gives me 160 Portugal moidores in gold; and

L

I
giving the writings of his title to the ship, which his son was
gone to the Brazils in, of which he was a quarter part owner, and
his son another, he puts them both into my hands, for security
of the rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the
poor man to be able to hear this; and remembering what he had
done for me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously
he had used me on all occasions, and particularly, how sincere
a friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at
what he had said to me; therefore I asked him, if his circum-
stances admitted him to spare so much money, at that time,
and if it would not straitcn him? He told me he could not
say but it might straiten him a little; but, however, it was my
money, and 1 might want it more than he.

Everything the good man said was full of affection, and I could
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke: in short, I took one
hundred of the moidores, and-called for a pen and ink to give
him a receipt for them : then I returned him the rest, and told
him if ever I had possession of the plantation, I would return
the other to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards did): and that as
to the hill of sale of his partiu his son's ship, I would not. take it
by any means ; but that, it] wanted the money,l found he was
honest enough to pay me; and if I did not, but came to receive
what he gave me reason to expect, I would never have a penny
more from him.

When this was past, the old man asked me, if he should put
me into a method to make my claim to my plantation P I told
him I thought to go over to it myself. He said I might do so
if I pleased: but that, if I did not, there were ways enough
to secure my right, and immediately to appropriate the profits
to my use; and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon just
ready to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a
public register, with his afiidavit, aflirming, upon oath, that I was
alive, and that I was the same person who took up the land for
the planting the said plantation at first. This being regularly
attested by a notary, and a procuration affixed, he directed me
to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant of his ac-
quaintance at the place ; and then proposed my staying with him
till an account came of the return.

Never was anything more honourable than the proceedings
upon this procuration ; for, in less than seven months, I received
a large packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants,
for whose account I went to sea, in which were the following
particular letters and papers enclosed.

First, there was the account-current of the produce of my
farm, or plantation, from the year when their fathers had ba-
lanced with my old Portugal captain, being for six years; the
balance appeared to be 1174 moidores in my-favour.
Secondly, there was the account of ibur years more, while
they kept the effects in their hands, before the government
claimed the administration, as being the effects of a person not.
to be found, which they called civil death; and the balance of
this, the value of the plantation increasing, amounted to 19,446
crusadoes, being about 3240 moidores.

Thirdly, there was the prior of Augustine's account, who had
received the profits for above fourteen years; but, not being able
to account for what was disposed of by the hospital, very
honestly declared he had 872 moidores not distributed, which
he acknowledged to my account: as to the 'king's part, that re-
funded nothing.

There was a letter of my partner's congratulating me very
afi'ectionately upon my being alive, giving me an account how
the estate was improved, and what it produced a year; with a
particular of the number of squares, or acres, that it contained,

ow planted, how many slaves there were upon it, and making
two-and-twenty crosses for blessings, he told me he had said so
many Ave Marius, to thank the blessed Virgin that_I was
alive; inviting me very passionately to come over, and take
possession of my own; and, in the mean time, to give him
orders to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did not come
myself; concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship,
and that of his family; and sent me as a present seven
fine leopards' skins, which he had, it seems, received from
Africa, by some other ship that he had sent thither, and
who, it seems, had made a better voyage than 1. He sent
me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred
pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so much as moidores. By
the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me 1200
chests of sugar, 800 rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole
account in gold.

I might well say, now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was
better than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flut-
terings of my very heart, when I found all my wealth about me ;
for, as the Brazil ships come all in fleets, the same ships which
brought my letters brought my goods; and the efl'ects were safe
in the river before the letters came to my hand. In a word, I
turned pale and grew sick: and had not the old man run and
fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had
overset nature, and 1 had died upon the spot: nay, after that,
I continued very ill, and was so some hours, till, a physician
being sent for, and something of the real cause of my illness
being known, he ordered me to be let blood; after which I had
relief, and grew well: but, I verily believe, if I had not been
eased by a vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should
have died.

I was new master, all on a sudden, of above five teiousand

L
pounds sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well
call it, in the Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a year, as
sure as an estate of lands in England; and, in a word, I was
in a condition which I scarce knew how to understand, or how
to compose myself for the enjoyment of it. The first thing 1
did was to recompense my original benefactor, my good old
captain, who had been first charitable to me in my distress,
kind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at the end. I
showed him all that was sent to me; I told him that, next to
the Providence of Heaven which disposed all things, it was
owing to him; and that it now lay on me to reward him, which
I would do a hundred fold: so I first returned to him the
hundred moidores I had received of him; then I sent for a
notary, and caused him to draw up a general release, or dis-
charge, for the 470 moidores, which he had acknowledged he
owed me, in the fullest and firmest manner possible. After
which I caused a procuration to be drawn, empowering him to
be my receiver of the annual profits of my plantation, and
appointing my partner to account with him, and make the
returns, by the usual fleets, to him in my name: and a clause
in the end, being a grant of 100 moidores ayear to him, during
his life, out of the effects, and 50 moidores a year to his son,
after him, for his life: and thus I requited my old man.

I was now to consider which way to steer my course next,
and what to do with the estate that Providence had thus put
into my hands: and, indeed, I had more care upon my head
now, than I had in my silent state of life in the island, where
I wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing but what I
wanted; whereas, I had now a great charge upon me, and my
business was how to secure it. I had never a cave nowto hide
my money in, or a place where it might lie without lock or key,
till it grew mouldy or tarnished before anybody would meddle
with it: on the contrary, I knew not where to put it, or whom
to trust with it. My old patron the captain, indeed, was
honest, and that was the only refuge I had. In the next place,
my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon me thither; but
now, I could not tell how to think of going thither till I had
settled my affairs, and left my effects in some safe hands behind
me. At first, I thought of my old friend the widow, who I
knew was honest, and would be just to me: but then she was
in years, and but poor, and, for aught I knew, might be in debt;

so that, in a word, I had no way but to go back to England
myself, and take my effects with me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this-
and, therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to
his satisfaction, who had been my former benefactor, so I began
to think of my poor widow, whose husband had been my first
benefactor, and she, while it was in her power, my faithful
steward and instructor. So the first thing I did, I got a mer-
chant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London not
only to pay a bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in
money a hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her, and
comfort her in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I
lived, have a further supply ; at the same time, I sent my two
sisters, in the country, a hundred pounds each, they being,
though not in want, yet not in very good circumstances; one
having been married and left a widow, and the other having a
husband not so kind to her as he should be. But, among all
my relations or acquaintances, I could not yet pitch upon one
towhom I durst commit the gross of my stock, that I might go
away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me; and this
greatly perplexed me.

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have
settled myself there; for I was, as it were, naturalized to the
place; but I had some little scruple in my mind about religion,
which insensibly drew me back. However, it was not religion
that kept me from going there for the present; and, as I had
made no scruple of being openly of the religion of the country
all the while I was among them, so neither did Iyet; only,
that now and then having of late thought more of it than for-
merly, when I began to think of living and dying among them,
I began to regret my having professed myself a papist, and
thought it might not be the best religion to die with.

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept
me from going to the Brazils, but that really I did not know
with whom to leave my efl'ects behind me; so I resolved, at
last, to go to England with it, where, if I arrived, I concluded
I should make some acquaintance, or find some relations that
would be faithful to me; and accordingly, I prepared to go to
England with all my wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first (the
Brazil fleet being just going away) resolved to give answers suit-
able to the just and faithful account of things Ihad from thence;
and, first, to the prior of St. Augustine's I wrote a letter full of
thanks for the just dealings, and the offer of the 872 moidores
which were undisposed of, which I desired might be given, 500
to the monastery, and 372 to the poor, as the prior should
direct; desiring the good padre's prayers for me, and the like.
I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all
the acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty called
for; as for sending them any present, they were far above
having any occasion for it. Lastly, I wrote to my partner, ac-
knowledging his industry in improving the plantation, and
his integrity in increasing the stock of the works: giving him
instructions for his future government of my part, according
to the powers I had left with my old patron, to whom I de-
shed him to send whatever became due to me till he should
hear from me more particularly; assuring him that it was my
intention, not only to come to him, but to settle myself there
for the remainder of my life. To this I added a very handsome
present of some Italian silks for his wife and two daughters,
for such the captain's son informed me he had; with two
pieces of fine English broad cloth, the best I could get in
Lisbon, five pieces of black baize, and some Flanders lace of a
good value.

Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned
all my efl'ects into good bills .of exchange, my next difliculty
was, which way to go to England: I had been accustomed
enough to the sea, and yet I had a strange aversion to go to
England by sea at that time; and though I could give no
reason for it, yet the difliculty increased upon me so much,
that though I had once shipped my baggage in order to go, yet
I altered my mind, and that not once but two or three times.

It is true I had been very unfortunate bysea, and this might
be some of the reasons; but let no man slight the strong im-
pulses of his own thoughts in cases of such moment: two of
the ships which I had singled out to go in, I mean, more par-
ticularly singled out than any other, having, in one of them, put
my things on board, and, in the other, having agreed with the
captain; I say, two of these ships miscarried, viz., one was
taken by the Algerines, and the other was cast away on the
Start, near Torbay, and all the people drowned except three;
so that, in either of those vessels, I ad been made miserable.

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to
whom I communicated everything, pissed me earnestly not
to go by sea; but either to go by d to the Groyne, and
cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was
but an easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to
Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so all the way
by land through France. In a word, I was so prepossossed
against my going to sea at all, except from Calais to Dover,
that I resolved to travel all the way by land; which, as I was
not in haste, and did not value the charge, was by much the
pleasanter way; and, to make it more so, my old captain
brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant in
Lisbon, who was willing to travel with me; after which we

icked up two more English merchants also, and two young
f'ortuguese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that, in
all there were six of us, and five servants: the two merchants
and the two Portuguese contenting themselves with one ser-
\ant between two, to save the charge; and, as for me, I got an
English sailor to travel with me as a servant, besides my man
Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of supply-
ing the place of a servant on the road.
CHAPTER XXX.

DEPARTURE FRO! useox--xannm--runmn--wns IYRRNBKS--mn
wrrn WILD BWPTBOULOUSB--Pm. onus, DOVER.

IN this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our company being
very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof
they did me the honour to call me captain, as well because I
was the oldest man, as because I had two servants, and, indeed,
was the original of the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I
shall trouble you now with none of my land journal; but some
adventures that happened to us in this tedious and difficult
journey I must not omit.

When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to
Spain, were willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain,
and to see what was worth observing; but it being the latter

rt of the summer, we hastened away, and set out from

drid about the middle of October; but, when we came to
the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed at several towns on the
way, with an account that so much snow was fallen on the
French side of the mountains, that several travellers were
obliged to come back to Pampelona, after having attempted, at

an extreme hazard, to pass on.
When we came to Pampelona itself, we found it so indeed,

and to me that had been always used to a hot climate, and to
countries where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was
insufferable; nor, indeed, was it more painful than surprising,
to come but ten days before out of Old Castile, where the
weather was not only warm, but very hot, and immediately to
feel a wind from the Pyrenean mountains so very keen, so seveme
cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger benumbing and perish-
ing of our fingers and toes.

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the moun-
tains, all covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he
had never seen or felt before in his life. To mend the matter,
when we came to Pampelona, it continued snowing with so
much violence, and so ion that the people said winter was
come before its time; and t e roads, which were difiicult before
were now quite impassable : for, in a word, the snow lay in some
places too thick for us to travel, and, being not hard frozen, as
is the ease in the northern countries, there was no going with-
out being in danger of being buried alive every step. We
stayed no less than twenty days at Pampelona; when, seeing
the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better,
for it was the severest winter, all over Euro , that had been
known in the memory of man, I proposed t at we should all
go away to Fonterabia, and there take shipping for Bordeaux,
which was a very little voyage. But, while I was considering
this, there came in four French gentlemen, who having been
stopped on the French side of the passes, as we were, on the
Spanish, had found out a guide, who, traversing the country
near the head of Languedoc, had brought them over the moun-
tains by such ways, that they were not much inconnnoded with
the snow; for, where they met with snow in any quantity, they
said it was frozen hard enough to hear them and their horses.
We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake to
carry us the same way with no hazard from the snow, pro-
vided we were armed sufliciently to protect ourselves {tom
wild beasts; for, he said, upon these great snows it was fre-
quent for some wolves to show themselves at the foot of the
mountains, being made ravenous for want of food, the ground
being covered with snow. We told him we we're well enough
prepared for such creatures as they were, if he would insure us
from a kind of two-legged wolves, which, we were told, we
were in most danger from, especially on the French side of the
mountains. He satisfied us that there was no danger of that
kind in the way that we were to go; so we readily agreed to
follow him, as did also twelve other entlemen, with their
servants, some French, some S 'sh, w o, as I said, had at-
tempted to go, and were oblig to come back again.

Accordingly, we set out from Pampelona, with our guide, on
the 15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, in-
stead of going forward, he came directly back with us on the
same road that we came from Madrid, about twenty miles;
when, having passed two rivers, and come into the plain
country, we found ourselves in a warm climate again, where
the country was pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but, on a
sudden, turning to his left, he approached the mountains
another way; and though it is true the hills and precipices
looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such meanders,
and led us by such winding ways, that we insensibly passed
the heights of the mountains without being much encumbered
with the snow; and all on a sudden he showed us the pleasant,
fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gascony, all green and
flourishing, though, indeed, at a great distance, and we had
some rough way to pass still.

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed
one whole day and a night so fast that we could not travel;
but he hid us be easy; we should soon bepast it all: we found,
indeed, that we began to descend every day, and to come more
north than before; and so, depending upon our guide, we
went on.

It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being
something before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three
monstrous wolves, and after them, a bear out of a hollow way,
adjoining to a thick wood; two of the wolves made at the
guide, and, had he been far before us, he would have been de-
voured before we could have helped him; one of them fastened
upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with that
violence, that he had not time or presence of mind enough to
draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily.
My man Friday being next to me, I bade him ride up, and see
what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of the
man, he hallooed out as loud as the other, " 0 master! 0 mas-
ter 1" but like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man,
imd, with his pistol, shot the wolf that attacked him in the
read.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday:
for he having been used to such creatures in his country, he
had no fear upon him, but went close up to him and shot him,

   
 
  
    
 
 
 
 
   
    

'r.
WW

I" /
4.49

ix

v'"
A , I.

77/27 ' 1; _
fl '/ .

l

' , 1"!"
-'-/a)'7/
. - axe-5a
5,," /

 
 

.u
_ ,.,.

    

'. ":5, -' "firm," ' l 'I
' Lfir-532$!"'i')").'llwlll"u.,' o.

as above; whereas any other of us would bake fired at a far-
ther distance, and have, perhaps, either misse the wolf, or en-
dangered shooting the man.

L 3
But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man -than I;
and, indeed, it alarmed all our company, when, with the noise
of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides the most dismal
howling of wolves; and the noise, redoubled by the echo of
the mountains, appeared to us as if there had been a ro-
digious number of them; and, perhaps, there was not sue a
few as that we had no cause of apprehensions: however, as
Friday had killed this wolf, the other, that had fastened upon
the horse, left him immediately and fled, without doing him
any damage, having happily fastened upon his head, where the
bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth. But the man was
most hurt; for the raging creature had bit him twice, once in
the arm, and the other time a little above his knee; and,
though he had made some defence, he was just, as it were,
tumbling down by the disorder of his horse, when Friday came
up and shot the wolf.

It is easy to suppose, that, at the noise of Friday's pistol, we
all mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was
very diflicult, would give us leave, to see what was the matter.
As soon as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before,
we saw clearly what had been the case, and how Friday had
disengaged the poor guide, though we did not presently discern
what kind of creature it was he had killed.

But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a
surprising manner, as that which followed, between Friday and
the bear, which gave us all, though at first we were surprised
and afraid for him, the greatest diversion imaginable. As the
bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the
wolf does, who is swift and light, so he has two particular
qualities, which generally are the rule of his actions: first, as
to men, who are not his proper prey (he does not usually at-
tempt them, exeept they first attack him, unless he be exces-
sive hungry, which it is probable might now be the case, the
ground being covered with snow), if you do not meddle with
him he will not meddle with you; but then, you must take
care to be very civil to him, and give him the road, for he is a
very nice gentleman ; he will not go a step out of his way for
a rince; nay, if you are really afraid, your best way is to
100 ' another way, and keep going on: for, sometimes, if you
stop, and stand still, and look stedfastly at him, he takes it
for an afl'ront; but, if you throw or toss anything at him, and
it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big as your
finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all other business
aside to pursue his revenge, and will have satisfaction in point
of honour :--this is his first quality: the next is, if he be once
affronted, he will never leave you, night nor day, till he has
his revenge, but follows at a good round rate till he overtakes
you.
My-man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came
up to him, he was helping him ofi' from his horse, for the man
was both hurt and frightened, when, on a sudden, we espied
the bear come out of the wood, and a vast monstrous one it
was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. We were all a little
surprised when we saw him; but, when Friday saw him, it
was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's countenance:
"O, O, 0!" says Friday, three times, pointing to him; "0
master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand with him ;
me makee you good laugh."

I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased: "You
fool!" says I, "he will eat you up."--"Eatee me up! eatee
me up!" says Friday, twice over again; "me eatce him up;
me makes you good laugh; you all stay here, me show you
good laugh." So down he sits, and gets off his boats in a
moment, and puts on a pair of pumps (as we call the flat shoes
they wear, and which he had in his pocket), gives my other
servant his horse, and, with his gun, away he flew, swift like
the wind.

The hear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with
nobody, till Friday coming pretty near, calls to him, as if
the bear could understand him. " Hark ye, hark ye," says
Friday, "me speakee with you." We followed at a distance;
for now, being come dOWn on the Gascony side of the moun-
tains, we were entered a vast great forest, where the country
was plain and pretty open, though it had many trees in it
scattered here and there. Friday, who had, as we say, the
heels of the bear, came up with him quickly, and takes up a
great stone, and throws it at him, and hit him just on the
head, but did no more harm than if he had thrown it against
a wall; but it answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so
void of fear, that he did it purely to make the bear follow him,
and show us some laugh, as he called it. As soon as the bear
felt the blow, and saw him, he turns about, and comes after
him, taking very long strides, and shnmin on, at a strange
rate, so as would have put a horse to a mid ' g gallop; away
runs Friday, and takes his course, as if he ran towards us for
help; so weall resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and de-
liver my man: though I was angry at him, heartily, for
bringing the bear back upon us, when he was going about his
own business another way: and, especially, I was angry that
he had turned the bear upon us, and then run away; and I
called out, " You dog, is this your making us laugh? Come
away and take your horse, that we may shoot the creature."
He heard me, and cried out, "No shoot, no shoot; stand
still, and you get much laugh ;" and as the nimble creature
ran two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a sudden, on one
side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose, he
beckoned to us to follow: and doubling his pace, he gets
nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground, at
about five or six yards from the bottom of the tree. The bear
soon came to the tree, and we followed at a distance: the first
thing he did, he stopped at the gun, smelt to it, but let it lie,
and up he scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat, though
so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as I thought
it, of my man, and could not, for my life, see anything to
laugh at yet, till, seeing the bear get up the tree, we all rode
nearer to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the
small end of a large branch, and the bear got about half-way
to him. As soon as the bear got out to that part where the
limb of the tree was weaker,--" Ha 1" says he to us, "now
you see me teachee the bear dance :" so he falls a jumping and
shaking the bough, at which the bear began to totter, but
stood still, and began to look behind him, to see how he should
get back; then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. But Friday
had not done with him by a great deal; when seeing him stand
still, he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed the bear
could speak English, " What, you come no farther? pray you
come farther :" so he left jumping and shaking the tree; and
the bear, just as if he understood what he said, did come a
little farther; then he fell a jumping again, and the bear
stopped-again. We thought now was a good time to knock
him on the head, and called Friday to stand still, and we would
shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, " 0 pray! O pray!
no shoot, me shoot by-and-then ;" he would have said by-and-
by. However, to shorten the story, Friday danced so much,
and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing enough,
but still could not imagine what the fellow would do : for, first
we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off; and we
found the bear was too cunning for that too; for he would not
go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast with his
great broad claws and feet, so that we could not imagine what
would be the end of it, and what the jest would be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly: for, seeing the bear
cling fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded
to come any farther, " Well, well," says Friday, "you no come
farther, me go; you no come to me, me come to you ;" and,
upon this, he goes out to the smaller end of the bough, where
it would bend with his weight; and gently lets himself down
by it, sliding down the bough, till he came near enough to
jump down on his feet, and away he runs to his gun, takes it
up, and stands still. "Well," said I to him, "Friday, what
will you do now? Why don't you shoot him ?"--" No shoot,"
says Friday, "no yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me stay,
give you one more laugh :" and indeed so he did, as you will
see presently; for, when the bear saw his enemy gone, he
comes back from the bough where he stood, but did it mighty
cautiously, looking behind him every step, and coming back-
ward till he got into the body of the tree ;' then, with the same
hinder-end foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it with
his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely. At
this juncture, and just before he could set his hind-foot on the
ground, Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle of
his piece into his ear, and shot him dead. Then the rogue
turned about, to see if we did not laugh; and, when he saw
we were pleased, by,our looks, he falls a--laughin himself very
loud. "So we kill bear in our country," says SSriday. "So
you kill them P" says I: "why, you have no guns."---"No,"
says be, "but shoot great much long arrow. is was a
good diversion to us; but we were still in a wild place, and
our guide very much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew;
the howling of wolves ran much in my head; and, indeed,
except the noise I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which
I have said something already, I never heard anything that
filled me with so much horror.

These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or
else, as Friday would have had us, we should certainly have
taken the skin of this monstrous creature off, which was
worth saving; but we had near three leagues to go, and our
guide hastened us; so we left him, and went forward on our
journey. '

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so
deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous
creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come down into the
forest and plain country, pressed by hunger to seek for food,
and had done a great deal of mischief in the villages, where
they surprised the~country people, killed a great many of their
sheep and horses, and some people too. We had one dangerous
place to pass, which our guide told us, if there were more '
wolves in the country, we should find them there; and this
was a small plain, surrounded with woods on every side, and
a long narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pm to get
through the wood, and then we should come to the village
where we were to lodge. It was within half an hour of sun-
set when we entered the first wood, and a little after sunset
when we came into the plain: we met with nothing in the first
wood, except that in a little plain within the wood, which was
not above two furlongs over, we saw five great wolves cross
the road, full speed, one after another, as if they had been in
chase of some prey, and had it in view; they took no notice
of us, and were gone out of sight in a few moments. Upon
this our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-hearted fellow,
bid us keep in a ready posture, for he believed there were more

I
wolves a-coming. We kept our arms ready, and our eyes
about us; but we saw no more wolves till we came through
that wood, which was near half a league, and entered the plain.
As soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion enough to
look about us: the first object we met with was a dead horse,
that is to say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed, and
at least a dozen of them at work, we could not say eating of
him, but picking of his bones rather; for they had eaten up all
the flesh before. We did not think fit to disturb them at their
feast; neither did they take much notice of us. Friday would
have let fly at them, but I would not suffer him by any means ;
for I found we were like to have more business upon our hands
than we were aware of. We were not gone half over the plain,
when we began to hear the wolves howl in the wood on our
left in a frightful manner, and presently after, we saw about a
hundred coming on directly towards us, all inabody, and most
of them in a line, as regularly as an army drawn up by expe-
rienced oflicers. I scarce knew in what manner to receive
them, but found to draw ourselves in a close line was the only
way: so we formed in a moment: but that we might not have
too much interval, I ordered that only every other man should
fire, and that the others, who had not fired, should stand ready
to give them a second volley immediately, if they continued to
advance upon us; and then, that those who had fired at first
should not pretend to load their fusees again, but stand ready
every one with a pistol, for we were all armed with afusee and
a pair of pistols each man: so we were, by this method, able
to fire six volleys, half of us at a time: however, at present,
we had no necessity; for, upon firing the first volley, the enemy
made a full stop, being terrified as well with the noise as with
the fire: four of them being shot in the head, dr0pped;
several others were wounded, and went bleeding ofi', as We
could see by the snow. I found they stopped, but did not
immediately retreat: whereupon remembering that I had been
told that the fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a
man, I called all the company to halloo as loud as we could;
and I found the notion not altogether mistaken; for, upon our
shout they began to retire, and turn about. I then ordered a
second volley to be fired in their rear, which put them to the
gallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave us leisure
to charge our pieces again; and that we might lose no time,
we kept going: but we had but little more than loaded our
fusees and put ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible
noise in the same wocd, on our left, only that it, was farther
onward, the same way we were to go.

The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky,
which made it worse on our side; but the noise increasing,
we could easily perceive that it was the howling and yelling ofnosnvsos 030303. 231

those furious creatures: and, on a sudden, we perceived two
or three tr00ps of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and
one in our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with
them: however, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way
forward, as fast as we could make our horses go, which, the
way being very rough, was only a good hard trot. In this
manner we came in view of the entrance of a wood, through
which we were to pass, at the farther side of the plain; but we
were greatly surprised, when coming nearer the lane or pass,
we saw a confused number of wolves standing just at the
entrance. On'a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we
heard the noise of a gun, and looking that way, out rushed a
horse with a saddle and a bridle on him, flying like the wind,
and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him, full speed; indeed,
_ the horse had the heels of them, but as we supposed that he

could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they would
get up with him at last; no question but they did.

But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to the
entrance where the horse came out, we found the caresses of
another horse and two men, devoured by the ravenous crea-
tures; and one of the men was, no doubt, the same whom we
heard fire the gun, for there lay a gun just by him, fired ofi' ;
but as to the man, his head and the upper part of his body was
eaten up. This filled us with horror, and we knew not what
course to take: but the creatures resolved us soon, for they
gathered about us presently, in hopes of prey; and I verily
believe there were three hundred of them. It happened very
much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the wood,
but a very little way from it, there lay some large timber trees,
which had been cut down the summer before, and I suppose
lay there for carriage. I drew my little troop in among those
trees, and placing ourselves in a line beyond one long tree,
I advised them all to alight, and keeping that tree before us
for a breast-work, to stand in a t ' e, or three fronts,
inclosing our horses in the centre. We di so, and it was well
we did; for never was a more furious charge than the crea-
tures made upon us in this place. They cameon with a growl-
ing kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as
I said, was our breast-work, as if they were only rushing upon
their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally
occasioned by their seeing our horses behind us. I ordered our
men to fire, as before, every other man; and they took their
aim so sure, that they killed several of the wolves at the first
volley; but there was a necessity to keep a continual firing,
for they came on furiously, those behind pushing on those
before.

When we had fired a second volley of our fusees, we thought

they stepped a little, and I hoped they would have gone off;

$ g
l

O
but it was but a moment, for others came forward again: so
we'fired two volleys of our pistols; and I believe in these four
firings we had killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed
twice as many, yet they came on again. I was 10th to Spend

 

our last shot too hastily; so I called my servant, not my man
Friday, for he was better employed, for with the greatest dex-
terity imaginable, he had charged my fusee and his own while
we were engaged; but, as I said, I called my other man, and
giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all along
the piece of timber, and let it be a large train. He did so;
and had but just time to get away, when the wolves came up
to it, and some were got upon it, when I, snapping an undis-
eharged pistol close to the powder, set it on fire: those that
were upon the timber were scorched with it: and six or seven
of them fell, or rather jumped in among us, with the force and
fright of the fire; we despatched these in an instant, and the

'rest were so frightened with the light, which the night, for it
was now very near dark, made more terrible, that they~drew
back a little; upon which I ordered our last pistols to be fired
off in one volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon this
the wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near
twenty lame ones, that we found struggling on the ground, and
fell a cutting them with our swords, which answered our expec-
tation : for the crying and howling they made was better under-
stood 'by their fellows; so that they all fled and left us.
We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them: and
had it been daylight, we had killed many more. .The field of
battle being thus cleared, we made forward again, for we had
still near a league to go. We heard the ravenous creatures
howl and yell in the woods as we went, several times, and
sometimes we fancied we saw some of them, but the snow
dazzling our eyes, we were not certain: in about an hour more
we came to the town where we were to lodge, which we found
in a terrible fright, and all in arms; for it seems, the night
before, the wolves and some bears had broke into the village,
and put them in such terror, that they were obliged to keep
guard night and day, but especially in the night, to preserve
their cattle, and, indeed, their people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his leg swelled
so much with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go
no farther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and
go to Thoulouse, were we found a warm climate, a fruitful
pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, or anything like
them :'but, when we told our story at Thoulouse, they toldms
it was nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest at the
foot of the mountains, especially when the snow lay on the;
ground; but they inquired much what kind of a guide we W'
got, who would venture to bring us that way in such a severe;
season; and told us it was surprising we were not all devoureds
When we told them how we placed ourselves, and the horses
in the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was
fifty to one but we had been all destroyed; for it was the sight
of the horses which made the wolves so furious, seeing their
prey: and that, at other times, they are really afraid of a gun;
but being excessive hungry, and raging on that account, the
eagerness to come at the horses had made them senseless of
danger; and that if we had not, by the continued fire, and, at
last, by the stratagem of the train of powder, mastered them,
it had been great odds but that we had been torn to pieces:
whereas, had we been content to have sat still on horseback,
and fired as horsemen, they would not have taken the horses
so much for their own, when men were on their backs, as other-
wise; and withal, they told us, that at last, if we had stood
altogether, and left our horses, they would have been so sign! .,
to have devoured them, that we might have come am "
especially having our fire-arms in our hands, and gfio g
many in number. For my part, I was never so sensible of
danger in my life; for seeing above three hundred wolves
come roarin and open-mouthed to devour us, and having
nothing to s elter us, or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost:
and as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those moun-
tains gain: Ithink I would much rather go a thousand leagues
by sea, though I was sure to meet with a storm once a week.
I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my pmge
through France, nothint1r but what other travellers have
given an account of, with much more advantage than I can.
I travelled from Thoulouse to Paris, and without any consider-
able stay came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the 14th of
January, after having a severe cold season to travel in.

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had, in a
little time, all my new-discovered estate safe about me; the
bills of exchange which I brought with me having been very
currently paid. .

My principal guide and privy counsellor was my good
ancient widow; who, in gratitude for the money I had sent
her, thought no pains too much, or care too great, to employ
for me; and I trusted her so entirely with everything, that
I was perfectly easy as to the security of my effects: and,
indeed, I was very happy from the beginning, and now to the
end, in the unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman.

I now resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils,
if I could find means. For this purpose, I wrote to my old
friend at Lisbon; who having offered it to the two merchants,
the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they
accepted the offer, and remitted thirty-three thousand pieces
of eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.
Having signed the instrument of sale, and sent it to my old
friend, he remitted me bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand
eight hundred ieces of eight for the estate, reserving the pay-
ment of a bun moidores'a year to himself during his life,
and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for life, which I had
promised them.

Though I had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not
keep the country out of my head; nor could I resist the strong
inclination I had to see my island. My true friend, the widow,
earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me,
that, for almost seven years, she prevented me rtmning abroad;
during which time I took my two_ nephews, the children of one
of my brothers, into my care : the eldest having something of
his own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a settlement
of some addition to his estate, after my decease. The other
I put out to a captain of a ship: and, after five years, finding
him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I put him into
a good ship, and sent him to sea: and this young fellow after-
waiifrds drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures my-
se .

In the mean time, I, in part, settled myself here; for, first
of all, I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or
dissatisfaction, and had three children, two sons and one
daughter; but, my wife dying, and m nephew coming home
with good success from a voyage to pain, my inclination to
o abroad, and his importunity prevailed, and engaged me to
go in his ship, as a private trader, to the East Indies: this was
in the year 1694.

CHAPTER XXXI. '

nonmsox causoa's assaflnan msrosrrrox-- assume are run rowan or
mommox up APPABINORB--HB wan--rues A nan--burn or an
wrn--orvxs or ms mm as>> amazes mo Losnox--ms masw onus
so can! an: sac: 10 ms muse--Leeann ran mores".

Tm'r homely proverb, used on so many occasions in England,
viz., "That what is bred in the bone will not go out of the
fies ," was never more verified than in the story of my life.
Any one would think that after thirty-five years' amiction,
and a variety of unhappy circumstances, which few men, if any,
ever went through before, and after near seven years of peace
and enjoyment in the fulness of all things, grown old, and
when, if ever, it might be allowed me to have had experience
of every state of middle life, and to, know which was most
adapted to make a man completely happy; I say, after all this,
any one would have thought that the native propensity to
rambling, which I gave an account of, in my first setting out
in the world, to have been so predominant in my thoughts,
should be worn out, the volatile part be fully evaporated, or at
least condensed, and I might, at sixty-one years of age, have
been a little inclined to stay at home, and have done venturing
life and fortune any more.

Nay, farther, the common motive of foreign adventures was
taken away in me: for I had no fortune to make; I had
nothing to seek: if I had gained ten thousand pounds, Ihad -_~' '-
been no richer, for I had already sufficient for me, and for
those I had to leave itto: and that I hadwas visibly increasing;
for, having no great family, I could not spend the income of
what I had, unless I would set up for an expensive way of
living, such as a. great family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and
the like, which were things I had no notion of, or inclination
to; so that I had nothing, indeed, to do but to sit still, and fully
enjoy what I had got, and see it increase daily upon my hands.
Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or, at least, not
enough to resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad
again, which hung about me like a chronical distemper. In
particular, the desire of seeing my new plantation in the
island, and the colonyI left there, ran in my head continually.
I dreamed of it all night, and my imagination ran upon it all
day; it was uppermost in all my thoughts; and my fancy
worked so steadily and strongly upon it, that I talked of it in
my sleep; in short, nothing could remove it out of my mind;
it even broke so violently into all my discourses, that it made
my conversation tiresome, for I could talk of nothing else; all
my discourse ran into it, even toiinpertinence ; and I saw itin
myself.

I have often heard persons of good judgment say, that all the
stir people make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is
owing to the strength of imagination, and the powerful operations
of fancy in their minds; that there is no such thing as a spirit
appearing, or a ghost walking, and the like : that people's porin
affectionately upon the past conversation of their decease
friends, so realises it to them, that they are capable of fancying,
upon some extraordinary circumstances, that they see them, talk
to them, and are answered by them, when, in truth, there is
nothing but shadow and vapour in the thing, and they really-
know nothing of the matter.

For my part I know not to this hour whether there are any
such things as real apparitions, spectres, or walking of people
after they are dead; or whether there is anything in the
stories they tell us of that kind, more than the product of
vapours, sick minds, and wandering fancies :* but this I know,
that my imagination worked up to such a height, and brought
me into such excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that
I actually supposed myself often upon the spot, at my own
castle, behind the trees; saw my old Spaniard, Friday's father,
and the reprobate sailors I left upon the island: nay, I fancied
I talked with them, and looked at them so steadily, though I
was broad awake, as at persons just before me; and this I did
till I often frightened myself with the images my fancy repre-
sented to me. One time, in my sleep, I had the villany of the
three pirate sailors so lively related to me by the first Spaniard
and Friday's father, that it was s rising: they told me how
they barbarously attempted to mu er all the Spaniards, and

' 0n the subject of sppsrltions and spectres, the reader is referred to the
semen quoted before. page 139. The text of this semen is Luke xvi. 31. " if
they hear not Moses and the Prophets. neither will they be persuaded though one
rose from the dead." And the author. after explaining the circumstances of the
parable of the Rich Man and mar-ms. says, " Here. then. we see, that the wicked.
when dead, have no power of leaving their place of torment, and of revisiting the
earth. though for a purpose that is good. and of great consequence. He who,
while in this life. labours to convert many to righteousness, shall shine as the
stars for ever and ever.' (Daniel xii. 3.) Such is the importance and honour of
the work: but his "day for work' (John ix. 4) being past. the opportunity no more
remains to him. And the good, who are departed. and are in heaven and happi-
ness. neither have they the power nor the will to do it. Moses and the Prophets,
and Christ and the Apostles, the Old Testament and the how--rm: stats--are
given to us as the rule of our faith and of our lives. and he who hears not them

vould not be persuaded--motes oxs noes short run nun." P. e
that they set fire to the provisions they had laid u , on pur-
se to distress and starve them; things that I ad never
eard of, and that, indeed, were never all of them true in fact;
but it was so warm in my imagination, and so realised to me,
that to the hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but that
it was or would be true; also how I resented it, when the
Spaniard complained to me; and how I brought them to
'ustice, tried them before me, and ordered them all three to be
anged. What there was really in this, shall be seen in its
place; for, however I came to form such things in my dream,
and what secret converse of spirits injected it, yet there was,
I say, much of it true. I own, that this dream had nothing in
it literally and specifically true; but the general part was so
true, the base, villanous behaviour of these three hardened
rogues was such, and had been so much worse than all I can
describe, that the dream had too much similitude of the fact:
and, as I would afterwards have punished them severely, so,
if I had hanged them all, I had been much in the ri ht, and
even should have been justified both by the laws of 0d and
man. But to return to my story: In this kind of temper I
lived some years: I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant
hours, no agreeable diversion, but what had something or
other of this in it; so that my wife, who saw my mind wholly
bent u n it, told me very seriously, one night, that she
believetfihere Was some secret werful impulse of Providence
upon me, which had deter-min me to go thither again; and
that she found nothing hindered my going, but my being
engaged to a wife and children. She told me, that it was true
she could not think of parting with me; but, as she was
assured, that if she was dead, it would be the first thing I
would do; so, as it seemed to her the thing was determined
above, she would not be the only obstruction; for, if I thought
fit, and resolved to go------Here she found me very intent upon
her Words, and that I looked very earnestly at her, so that it
a little disordered her, and she sto ped. I asked her, why she
did not go on, and say out what e was going to say. But
I rceived that her heart was too full, and some tears stood
in er eyes. "Speak out, my dear," said I; " are you willing I
should go?" " N 0," says she, very affectionately, " I am far from
willin ; but, if you are resolved to go," says she, "and, rather
than fwould be the only hindrance, I will go with you: for,
though I think it a most preposterous thing for one of your
years, and in your condition, yet, if it must be," said she, again,
weeping, " I won't leave you; for, if it be of Heaven, you must
do it; and, if Heaven make it your duty to go, He will alsomake
it mine to go with you, or otherwise dispose of me, that I may
not obstruct it."
This afl'ectionate behaviour of my wife's brought me a little

I .
I...
out of the vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing:
I corrected my wandering fancy, and began to argue with my-
self sedately, what business I had, after threescore years, and
after such a life of tedious sufi'erings and disasters, and closed
in so happy and easy a manner; -I say, what business had I to
rush into new hazards, and put myself upon adventures fit only
for youth and poverty to run into.

With those thoughts, I considered my new engagement;
that I had a wife, one child born, and my wife then great with
child of another;'that I had all the world could give me, and
had no need to seek hazards for gain ; that I was declining in
years, and ought to think, rather, of leaving what I had
gained, than of seeking to increase it; that, as to what my
wife had said of its being an impulse from Heaven, and that
it should be my duty to go, I had no notion of that: so, after
many of these cogitations, I struggled with the power of my
imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as I believe people
may always do in like cases, if they will: and, in a word, I
conquered it ; composed myself with such arguments as occurred
to my thoughts, and which my present condition furnished me
plentifully with : and, particularly, as the most efi'ectual method
I resolved to divert myself with other things, and to engage in
some business that might effectually tie me up from any more
excursions of this kind; for I found that th' Iet'urn upon me
chiefly when I was idle, and had nothing PS56,")6r anything
of moment immediately before me. To this purpose, I bought
a little farm in the county of Bedford, and resolved to move
myself thither. I had a little convenient'heuse upon it ; and
the land about it, I found, Was capable of great improvement;
and it was many ways suited to my inclination, which delighted
in cultivatin ,managing, planting, and improving of land; and
particularly ing an inland country, I was removed from con-
versing with sailors, and things relating to the remote parts of
the world.

In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought
me ploughs, barrows, a cart, waggon, horses, cows, and sheep,
and, setting seriously to work, became, in one half-year, amere
country gentleman; my thoughts were entirely taken up in
managing my servants, cultivating the ground, inclosing, plant-
ing, &c.; and I lived, as I thought, the most agreeable life that
nature was capable of directing, or that a man always bred to
misfortunes was capable of retreating to.

I farmed upon my own land, I had no rent to pay, was limited
by no articles ; I could pull up or cut down as I pleased : what I
planted was for myself, and what I improved was for my family;
and having thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not
the least discomfort in any part of life as'to this world. Now
I theught, indeed, that I enjoyed the middle state of life, which
my father so earnestly recommended to me, and lived akind of
heaVenly life, something like what is described by the poet, upon
the subject of a country life-- '

" ---Free from vices. free from care,
Age has no pain. and youth no snare."

But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow from unseen
Providence unhinged me at once ; and not only made a breach
upon me inevitable and incurable, but drove'me, by its conse-
quences, into a deep relapse of the wandering disposition,
which, as I may say, being born in my very blood, soon
recovered its hold of me, and, like the returns of a violent
distemper, came on with an irresistible force upon me, so that
nothing could make any more impression upon me. This blow
was the loss of my wife. It is not my business here to write
an elegy upon my wife, give a character of her particular
virtues, and make my court to the sex by the flattery of a
funeral sermon.' She was, in a few words, the stay of all my
affairs, the centre of all my enterprises, the engine that, by her
prudence, reduced me to that happy compass I was in, from the
most extravagant and ruinous project that fluttered in my head
as above, and did more to guide my rambling genius than a
mother's tears, a father's instructions, a friend's counsel, or all
my own reasoning powers could do. I was happy in listening
to her tears, and in being moved by her entreaties; and to
tltiehlast degree desolate and dislocated in the world by the loss
0 er. . '

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me :
I was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in
the Brazils, when I first went on shore there; and as much
alone, exce t as to the assistance of servants, as I was in my
island. I ew neither what to think, nor what to do. I saw
the world busy around me, one part labouring for bread,
another part 3 uandering in vile excesses, or empty pleasures,
equally misera le because the end they proposed still fled from
them: for the men of pleasure every day surfeited of their
vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repentance; and the
men of labour spent their strength in daily strugglings for
bread to maintain the vital strength they laboured with: so,
living in daily circulation of sorrow, living but to work, and
working but to live, as if daily bread were the only end of
{yeaigsome life, and a wearisome life the only occasion of daily

rea .

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the
island; where I suffered no more com to grow, because I did
not want it; and bred no more goats, because I had no more
use for them ; where the money lay in the drawer till it grew;~
mouldy, and had scarce the favour to be looked upon in twenty

ears. '
y All these things, had I improved them, as I ought to have
done, and as reason and religion had dictated to me, would
have taught me to search farther than human enjoyments for
a full felicity: and that there was something which certainly
was the reason and end of life, superior to all these things
and which was either to be possessed, or at least hoped for, on
this side the grave.

But my sage counsellor was gone: I was like a ship without
a pilot, that could only run afore the wind: my thoughts ran
all away again into the old affair; my head was quite turned
with the whimsics of foreign adventures; and all the pleasant
innocent amusements of my farm, my garden, my cattle, and
my family, which before entirely possessed me, were nothing
to me, had no relish, and were like music to one who has no
car, food to one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved to
leave ofi' housekeeping, let my farm, and return to London;
and, in a few months after, I did so.

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was
before: I had no relish for the place, no employment in it,
nothing to do but to saunter about like an idle person, of
whom it may be said he is perfectly useless in God's creation,
and it is not one farthing's matter to the rest of his kind
whether he be dead or alive. This also was the thing which
of all circumstances of life, was the most my aversion, who
had beenall my days used to an active life; and I would often
say to myself, " A state of idleness is the very (lregs of life ;"
and, indeed, I thought I was much more suitably employed,
when I was twenty-six days making me a deal board. '

It wasnow the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew,
whom, as I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea,
and had made him commander of a ship, was come home from
a short voyage to Bilboa, being the first he made. He came
to me, and told me that some merchants of his acquaintance
had been pr0posing tohim to go a voyage for them to the East
Indies and to China, as private traders--"And now, uncle,"
says he, "if you will go to sea with me, I will engage to land
you upon your old habitation in the island, for we are to touch
at the Brazils."

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state,
and of the existence of an invisible world, than the concurrence
of second causes with the ideas of things which we form in our
minds, perfectly reserved, and not communicated to any in
the world.

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wander-
ing was returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had
in his thoughts to say, when, that very morning, before he
came to me, I had, in a great deal of confusion of thought,
and revolving every part of my circumstances in my mind,
come to this resolution, viz., that 1 would go to Lisbon, and
consult with my old sea-captain; and so, if it was rational and
practicable, I would go and see the island again, and see what
was become of my people there. I had pleased myself with
the thoughts of peopling the place, and carrying inhabitants
from hence, getting a patent for the possession, and I knew not
what; when, in the middle of all this, in comes my ne hew, as
I have said, with his project of carrying me thither in is way
to the East Indies.

I paused awhile at his words, and looking steadily at him,
"What," said I, "sent you on this errand?" My nephew
stared, as if he had been frightened, at first; but perceiving
that I was not much displeased with the proposal, he recovered
himself. "I hope it may not be an unlucky proposal, sir,"
says he: " I dare say you would be pleased to see your new
colony there, where you once reigned with more felicity than
most of your brother monarchs in the world."

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that
is to say, the prepossession I was under, and of which I have
said so much, that I told him in a few words, if he agreed with
the merchants, I would go with him ; but I told him I would
not promise to go any farther than my own island. " Why
sir," says he, " you don't want to be left there again, I hope '9"
"Why," said I, "can you not take me up again on your
return?" He told me it would not be possible to do so; that
the merchants would never allow him to come that way with
a laden ship of such value, it being a month's sail out of his
-way, and might be three or four. " Besides, sir, if I should
miscarry," said he, "and not return at all, then you would be
just reduced to the condition you were in before."

This Was very rational: but we both found out a remedy for
it: which was, to carry a framed sloop on board the ship,
which, beinv taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship,
might, by the help of some carpenters, whom we agreed to
carry with us, be set up again in the island, and finished fit to
go to sea in a few days.

I was not long resolving; for, indeed, the import-unifies of
my nephew joined so effectually with my inclination, that
nothing could oppose me: on the other hand, my wife being
dead, I had nobody concerned themselves so much for me as
to persuade me to one way or the other, except my ancient
good friend the widow, who earnestly struggled with me to
consider my years, my easy circumstances, and the needless
hazards of a long voyage; and, above all, my young children.
But it was all to no purpose :--I had an intense desire to the
voyage; and I told her I thought there was something sc

m
uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind for the
voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I
should attempt to stay at home: after which she ceased her
expostulations, and joined with me, not only in making pro-
vision for my voyage, but also in settling my family affairs for
my absence, and providing for the education of my children.

In order to this, I made my will, and settled the estate Ihad
in such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands,
that I was perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice
done them, whatever might befall me; and for their education,
1 left it wholly to the widow, with a suflicient maintenance to
herself for her care: all which she richly deserved, for no
mother could have taken more care in their education, or
understood it better; and as she lived till I came home, I also
lived to thank her for it.

CHAPTER XXXII.

PEBSOXS AX!) STORES CARRIED ocr--wmnnon'b AT GALWAY--GAIL AGAIN--A
SHIP ON FIRE AT SEA-IT BIDWB VIP--THE CREW SAVED m WATS, AND TAKES
INTO THE SHIP--EFFECTS OF THIS DELIVEBANCE OX mar--m nos: OF THE)!
0! SHORE AT XEWFOUNDLAXD.

MY nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January,
1694-5; and I, with my man Friday, went on board, in the
Downs, the 8th: having, besides that sloop which I mentioned
above, a very considerable cargo of all kinds of necessary things.
for my colony; which, if I did not find in good condition, I
resolved to leave so.

First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to
place there as inhabitants, or, at least, to set on work there,
upon my account, while I stayed, and either to leave them
there, or carry them forward, as they would a pear willin<Ir -
particularlyl carried two carpenters, a smith, an a very handy
ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by trade, and was also a
general mechanic; for he was dexterous at making wheels and
hand-mills to grind corn; was a good turner, and a good pot-
maker; he also made anything that was proper to make of
earth, or of wood; in a word, we called him our Jack of all
trades. \Vith these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself
to go a passenger. to the East Indies with my nephew, but
afterwards consented to stay on our new plantation; and proved
a most necessary, handy fellow as could be desired in many
other businesses besides that of his trade: for, as I observed
formerly, " Necessity arms us for all employment."
My cargo, as near as I can recollect, for I have not kept
account of the particulars, consisted of a suficient quantity of
linen, and some English thin studs, for clothing the Spaniards
that I expected to find there ; and enough of them, as, by my
calculation, might comfortably supply them for seven years.
If I remember right, the materials I carried for clothing them,
with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such things as they
could want for wearing, amounted to above two hundred '
pounds, including some beds, bedding, and household stuti',
particularly kitchen utensils, with pots, kettles, pewter, brass,
&c., and near a hundred pounds more, in ironwork, nails, tools
of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing
I could think of.

I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees;
besides some pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes,
three or four tons of lead, and two ieces of brass cannon;
and, because I knew not what time and) what extremities I was
providing for, I carried a hundred barrels of powder, besides
swords, cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and halberts:
so that, in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores :
and I made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns
more than he wanted for his ship, to leave behind, if there was
occasion; that, when we came there, we might build a fort, and
man it against all sorts of enemies: and, indeed, I at first
thought there would be need enough of all and much more, if
we hoped to maintain our possession of the island; as shall be
seen in the course of that story.

I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used
to meet with, and, therefore, shall have the less occasion to in-
terrupt the reader, who, perhaps, maybe impatient to hear how
matters went with my colony; yet some odd accidents, cross
winds, and bad weather, happened on this first setting out,
which made the voyage longer than I expected it at first; and
I, who had never made but one voyage, viz., my first voyage
to Guinea, in which I might be said to come back again, as the
voyage was at first designed, began to think it was still my lot
never tobe contented with being on shore, and yet to be always
unfortunate at sea.

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-
bound two-and-twenty days: but we had this satisfaction with
the disaster, that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and
in the utmost plenty; so that while we lay here, we never
touched the ship's stores, but rather added to them. Here,
also, I took in several live hogs, and two cows, with their
calves; which I resolved, if I had a good passage, to put on
shore in my island; but we found occasion to dispose otherwise

of them.
it 2
We set out on the fifth of February from Ireland, and had a
very fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it might
be about the twentieth of February, in the evening late, when
the mate having the watch, came into the round~house, and
told us he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired; and,
while he was telling us of it, a boy came in, and told us the
boatswain heard another. This made us all run out upon the
quarter-deck, where for a while we heard nothing; but in a
few minutes, we saw a. great light, and found that there was
some very terrible fire at a distance: immediately we had re-
course to our reckonings, in which we all agreed that there
could be no land that way in which the fire showed itself, no,
not for 500 leagues, for it appeared at VV.N.\V. Upon this we
concluded it must be some ship on fire at sea; and as, by our
hearing the noise of guns just before, we concluded that it could
not be far off, we stood directly towards it, and were presently
satisfied we should discover it; because the further we sailed,
the greater the light appeared; though the weather being hazy
we could not perceive anything but the light for a while. In
about half an hour's sailing, the wind being fair for us, though
not much of it, and the weather clearing up a little, we could

plainly discern that it was a great ship on fire in the middle of
the sea.

 

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not
at all acquainted with the persons engaged in it: I presently re-
collected my former circumstances, and what condition I was in,
when taken up by the Portuguese captain; and how much more
deplorable the circumstances of the poor creatures belonging
to that ship must be, if they had no other ship in company
with them. Upon this, I immediately ordered that five guns
should be fired, one soon after another; that, if possible, we
might give notice to them that there was help for them at hand,
and that they might endeavour to save themselves in their
boats; for, though we could see the flames of the ship, yet
they, it being night, could see nothing of us.

We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning
ship drove, waiting for daylight; when, on a sudden, to our
great terror, though we had reason to expect it, the ship blew
up into the air; and immediately, that is to say, in a few
minutes, all the fire was out: that is to say, the rest of the
ship sunk. This was a terrible, and indeed, an afflicting sight,
for the sake of the poor men, who I concluded must be either
all destroyed in the ship, or be in the utmost distress in their
boat, in the middle of the ocean: which at present, by reason
it was dark, I could not see. However, to direct them, as well
as I could, I caused lights to be hung out in all the parts of the
ship where we could, and which we had lanthoms for, and
kept firing guns all the night long: letting them know, by this,
that there was a ship not far 03'.

About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's
boats by the help of our perspective glasses; found there were
two of them, both thronged with people, and deep in the
water. We perceived they rowed, the wind being against
them; that they saw our ship, and did their utmost to make us
see them.

We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we
saw them, and hung a waft out, as a signal for them to come
on board; and then made more sail, standing directly to them.
In little more than half an hour, we came up with them;
and, in a word, took them all in, being no less than sixty-
four men, women, and children: for there were a great many
passengers.

Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant ship of
300 tons, homeward bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada.
The master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship;
how the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence of the
steersman; but, on his crying out for help, was, as_everybody
thought, entirely put out; but they soon found that some
sparks of the fire had gotten into some part of the ship so
difiicult to come at, that they could not efi'ectually quench it;
and afterwards, getting in between the timbers, and within the
ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and mastered all
the skill, and all the application they were able to exert
They had no more to do then but to get into their boats,
which, to their great comfort, were pretty large: being thei'.r
long boat, and a great shallop, besides a small skifl', which was
of no great service to them, other than to et some fresh
water and provisions into her, after they h secured their
lives from the fire. They had, indeed, small hope of their lives
by getting into these boats, at that distance from any land;
only, as they said well, that they were escaped from the fire,
and a possibility that some ship might happen to be at sea,
and might take them in. They had sails, oars, and a compass;
and were preparing to make the best of their way back to
Newfoundland, the wind blowing pretty fair, for it blew an
easy gale, at S.E. by E. They had as much provisions and
water, as, with sparing it, so as to be next door to starving,
might support them about twelve days; in which, if they had
no bad weather, and no contrary winds, the captain said he
hoped he might get to the Banks of Newfoundland, and might,
perhaps, take some fish, to sustain them till they might go on
shore. But there were so many chances against them in all
these cases, such as storms, to overset and founder them; rains
and cold, to benumb and perish their limbs; contrary winds,
to keep them out and starve them; that it must have been
next to miraculous if they had escaped.

In the midst of their consternation, every one being hope-
less and ready to despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes,
told me they- were on a sudden surprised with the joy of hear-
ing a gun fire, and after that four more: these were the five
guns which I caused to be fired at first seeing the light. This
revived their hearts, and gave them notice, which, as above, I
desired it should, viz., that there was a ship at hand for their
help. It was upon the hearing of these guns that they took
down their masts and sails: the sound coming from the wind-
ward, they resolved to lay by till morning. Some time after
this, hearing no more guns, they fired three muskets, one a
considerable while after another; but these, the wind being
contrary, we never heard.

Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably
surprised with seeing our lights, and hearing the guns, which,
as I have said, I caused to be fired all the rest of the night;
this set them to work with their oars, to keep their boats
ahead, at least, that we might the sooner come up with them;
and. at last, to their inexpressible joy, they found we saw
lhem.

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the
strange ewtasies, the variety of postures, which these poor de-
livered creatures ran into, to express the joy of their souls at
so unexpected deliverance. Grief and fear are easily dcscribed;
sighs, tears, groans, and a very few motions of the head and
hands, make up the sum of its variety; but an excess of joy,
a surprise of joy, has a thousand extravagances in it: there
were some in tears; some raging and tearing themselves, as if
they had been in the greatest agonies of sorrow; some stark
raving, and downright lunatic; some ran about the ship stamp-
ing with their feet, others wringing their hands; some were
dancing, some singing, some laughing, more crying ; many quite
dumb, not able to speak a word; others sick and vomiting;
several swooning and ready to faint; and a few were crossing
themselves, and giving God thanks.

I would not wrong them neither; there might be many that
were thankful afterwards, but the passion was too strong for
them at first, and they were not able to master it: they were
thrown into ecstasies, and a kind of frenzy; and it was but a
very few that were composed and serious in their joy.

Perhaps, also, the case may have some addition to it from
the particular circumstances of that nation they belonged to;
I mean the French, whose temper is allowed to be more vola-
tile, more passionate, and more sprightly, and their spirits
more fluid, than in other nations. I am not philosopher enough
to determine the cause; but nothing I had ever seen before
me up to it. The ecstasies poor Friday, my trusty savage,
was in, when he. found his father in the boat, came the nearest
to it; and the surprise of the master and his two companions,
whom I delivered from the villains that set them on shore in
the island, came a little way towards it; but nothing was to
compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or any one else in
m e.

yIt is further observable, that these extravagances did not
show themselves in that different manner I have mentioned,
in different persons only; but all the variety would appear, in
a short succession of moments, in one and the same person.
A man that we saw this minute dumb, and, as it were, stupid
and confounded, would, the next minute, be dancing and hal-
looing like an antic; and the next moment tearing his hair, or
pulling his clothes to pieces, and stamping them under his
feet, like a madman; in a few moments after that, we would
have him all in tears, then sick, swooning, and had not imme-
diate help been had, would in a few moments have been dead:
and thus it was, not with one, or two, or ten, or twenty, but
with the greatest part of them; and if I remember right, our
surgeon was obliged to let blood of about thirty of them.

There were two priests among them, one an old man, and
the other a young man; and that which was strangest was,
the old man was the worst. As soon as he set his foot on
board our ship, and saw himself safe, he dropt down' stone
dead, to all appearance; not the least sign of life could be
perceived in him; our surgeon' immediately applied proper
remedies to recover him, and was the only man in the ship that
believed he was not dead. At length he opened a vein in his
arm, having first chafed and rubbed the part, so as to warm it
as much as possible: upon this the blood, which only dropped
at first, flowing freely in three minutes after, the man opened
his eyes; and a quarter of an hour after that, he spoke, grew
better, and, in a little time, quite well. After the blood was
stopped, he walked about; told us he was perfectly well: took
a dram of cordial which the surgeon gave him, and was what
we called, "come to himself." About a quarter of an hour
after this, they came running into the cabin to the surgeon,
who was bleeding a French woman that had fainted, and told
him the priest was gone stark mad. It seems he had begun
to revolve the change of circumstances in his mind, and again
this put him into an ecstasy of joy; his spirits whirled about
faster than the vessels could convey them, the blood grew hot
and feverish, and the man was as fit for Bedlam as any creature
that ever was in it: the surgeon would not bleed him again in
that condition, but gave him something to doze and put him to
sleep, which, after some time, operated upon him, and he awoke
next morning perfectly composed and well. ~

The younger priest behaved with great command of his
passions, and was really an example of a serious, well-
governed mind: at his first coming on board the ship, he
threw himself flat on his face, prostrating himself in thank-
fulness for his deliverance, in which I unha pily and unseason-
ably disturbed him, really thinking he had) been in a. swoon:
but he spoke calmly, thanked me, told me he was giving God
thanks for his deliverance; begged me to leave him a few
moments, and that, next to his Maker, he would give me
thanks also. .

I was heartily sorry that I had disturbed him, and not only
left him, but kept others from interrupting him also. He
continued in that posture about three minutes, or little more,
after I left him; then came to me, as he had said he would,
and, with a great deal of seriousness and affection, but with
tears in his eyes, thanked me, that had, under God, given him,
and so many miserable creatures, their lives. I told him I had
no room to move him to thank God for it, rather than me, for
I had seen that he had done that already; but, I added, that
it was aothing but what reason and humanity dictated to all
men, and that we had as much reason as he to give thanks to
God, who had blessed us so far as to make us the instruments
of His mercy to so many of His creatures.

After this, the young priest applied himself to his country-
folks; laboured to compose them; persuaded, entreated, argued,
reasoned with them, and did his utmost to keep them within
the exercise of their reason; and with some he had success,
thlough others were for a time out of all government of them-
se ves.

I cannot help committing this to writing, as, perhaps, it may
be useful to those into whose hands it may fall, for the guiding
themselves in all the extravagances of their passions; for, if
an excess of joy can carry men out to such a length beyond
the reach of their reason, what will not the extravagances of
anger, rage, and a provoked mind carry us to? And, indeed,
here I saw reason for keeping an exceeding watch over our
passions of every kind, as well those of joy and satisfaction,
as those of sorrow and anger.

We were something disordered by these extravagances among
our new guests for the first day; but when they had been
retired, lodging provided for them, as well as our ship would
allow, and they had slept heartily--as most of them did, being
fatigued and frightened--they were quite another sort of people
the next day.

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the
kindness shown them was wanting: the French, it is known,
are naturally apt enough to exceed that way. The captain
and one of the priests came to me the next day, and desired to
speak with me and my nephew: the commander began to
consult with us what should be done with them; and, first,
they told us, that as we had saved their lives, so all they had
was little enough for a return to us for that kindness received.
Thecaptain said they had saved some money, and some things
of value in their boats, catched hastily out of the flames, and
if we would accept it, they were ordered to make an offer of it
all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere in
our way, where, if possible, they might get a passage to France.
My nephew was for accepting their money at first word, and
to consider what to do with them afterwards: but I overruled
him in that part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore in
a strange country; and if the Portuguese captain that took
me up at sea had served me so, and took all I had for my
deliverance, I must have starved, or have been as much a slave
at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary, the mere being sold
to a Mahometan' excepted: and perhaps a Portuguese is not
a much better master than a Turk, if not, in some cases, much
worse.

I, therefore, told the French ca tain, that we had taken them
up in their distress, it was true, ut that it was our duty to do
so, as we were fellow-creatures; and we would desire to be so
delivered, if we were in the like, or any other extremity; that
we had done nothing for them but what we behaved they would
have done for us, if we had been in their case, and they in ours;
but that we took them up to save them, not to plunder them;
and it would be a most barbarous thing to take that ligla from

M
them which they had saved out of the fire, and then set them
on shore and leave them: that this would be first to save them
from death, and then kill them ourselves: save them from
drowning, and abandon them to starving; and therefore
I would not let the least thing be taken from them. As to
setting them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an ex-
ceeding difficulty to us, for that the ship was bound to the
East Indies; and though we were driven out of our course to
the westward a very great way, and, perhaps, were directed by
Heaven on purpose for their deliverance, yet it was impossible
for us wilfully to change our voyage on their particular account;
nor could my nephew, the captain, answer it to the freighters,
with whom he was under charter-party to pursue his voyage
by the way of Brazil: and all I knew we could do for them
was, to put ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships
homeward-bound from the West Indies, and getting them a
passage, if possible, to England. or France.

The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind,
they could not but be very thankful for it; but they were in a
very great consternation, especially the passengers, at the
notion of being carried away to the East Indies; they then
entreated me that, seeing I was driven so far to the west-
ward before I met with them, I would, at least, keep on the
same course to the Banks of Newfoundland, where it was
probable I might meet with some ship or sloop, that they
might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence they
came.

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part,
and, therefore, I inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I con-
sidered, that to carry this whole company to the East Indies,
would not only be an intolerable severity upon the poor people,
but would be ruining our whole voyage, by devouring all our
provisions; so I thought it no breach of charter-party, but
what an unforeseen accident made absolutely necessary to us,
and in which no one could say we were to blame; for the laws
of God and Nature would have forbid that we should refuse
to take up two boatfuls of people in such a distressed con-
dition: and the nature of the thing, as well respecting our-
selves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on shore
somewhere or other for their deliverance; so I consented that
we would carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather
would permit; and if not, that I would carry them to Marti-
nico, in the West Indies.

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty
good; and as the winds had continued in the_ points between
N .E. and SE. a long time, we missed several 0 port'unities of
sending them to France; for we met several s ips bound to
Europe, whereof two were French, from St. Christopher's; but
they had been so long beating up against the wind, that they
durst take in no passengers, for fear of wanting provisions for
the voyage, as well for themselves, as for those they should
take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a week
after this that we made the Banks of Newfoundland; where,
to shorten my story, we put all our French people on board a
bark, which they hired at sea there, to put them on shore, and
afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get provisions
to vietual themselves with. When I say all the French went
on shore, I should remember that the young priest I spoke of,
hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired to go the
voyawe with us, and to be set on shore on the coast of Coro-
mandbl: which I readily agreed to, for l wonderfully liked the
man, and had very good reason, as will appear afterwards:
also four of the seamen entered themselves on our ship, and
proved very useful fellows.

From hence we directed our course to the West Indies,
steering aw'ay S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together,
sometimes little, or no wind at all; when we met with another
subject for our humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as

that before.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

"WEB 831? IN msmrss--rnursa--anmxrsrsn RELIEF--ARRIVAL AT THE
ISLAND.

IT was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, and the
19th day of March, 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course
S.E. and by S. : we soon perceived it was a large vessel, and
that she bore up to us, but could not, at first, know what to
make of her, till, after coming a little nearer, we found she
had lost her maintop-mast, foremast, and bowsprit; and,
presently, she fired a gun, as a signal of distress: the weather
was pretty good, wind at N .N .W. a fresh gale, and we soon
came to speak with her.

We found her a ship of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been blown out of the road at Barbadoes, a few days
before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, whilerthe
captain and chief mate Were both gone on share} so that,
besides the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent
case for good artists to bring the ship home. They had been
already nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible
storm, after the hurricane was over, which had blown them

nite out of their knowledge to the westward, and in which
any lost their masts, as above. They told us they expected
to have seen the Bahama islands, but were then driven away
again to the south-east, by a strong gale of wind at N .N .W.,
the same that blew now; and having no sails to work the
ship with, but a main-course, and a kind of square sail upon
a jury foremast, which they had set up, they could not lie
near the wind, but were endeavouring to stand away for the
Canaries.

But that which was worst of all was, that they were almost
starved for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had
undergone: their bread and flesh were quite gone; they had
not one ounce left in the ship, and had had none for eleven
days. The only relief they had was, their water was not all
spent, and they had about half a barrel of flour left; they had
sugar enough; some succades, or sweetmeats, they had at first,
but they were devoured; and they had seven casks of rum.

There was a youth and his mother, and a maid servant, on
board, who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was
ready to sail, unhappily creme on board the evening before the
hurricane began: and having no provisions of their own, they
were in a more deplorable condition than the rest: for the
seamen, being reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves,
had no compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers;
and they were, indeed, in a condition that their misery is very
hard to describe.

1 had, rhaps, not known this part, if my curiosity had not
led me (t e weather being fair, and the wind abated) to go on
board the ship. The second mate, who upon this occasion
commanded the ship, had been on board our ship, and he told
me, indeed, they had three passengers in the great cabin, that
were in a deplorable condition: nay, says he, I believe they are
dead, for I have heard nothing of them for above two days: and
I was afraid to inquire after them, said be, for I had nothing to
relieve them with.

We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief
we could spare: and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with
my nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we had
gone away to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of
America, to have supplied ourselves; but there was no neces-
sity for that.

But now they were in a new danger; for they were afraid
of eating too much, even of that little we gave them. The
mate, or commander, brought six men with him in his boat;
but the poor wretches looked like skeletons, and were so weak,
that they could hardly sit to their oars. The mate himself was
very ill, andhalf starved, for he declared he had reserved nothing
from the men, and went share--and-share alike with them in
every bit they ate.

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat before him
immediately: and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he
began to be sick, and out of order; so he stopped awhile, and
our surgeon mixed him up something with his broth, which
he said would be to him both food and physic: and after he
had taken it, he grew better. , In the mean time, I forgot not
the men; I ordered victuals to be given them; and the poor
creatures rather devoured than ate it; they were so exceeding
hungry, that they were, in a kind, ravenous, and had no com~
mand of themselves; and two of them ate with so much
greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the next
morning.

The sight of these people's distress was very moving to me,
and brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my
first coming on shore in my island, where I had never the least
mouthful of food, or any prospect of procuring any; besides the
hourly apprehensions I had of being made the food of other
creatures. But all the while the mate was thus relating to me
the miserable condition of the ship's company, I could not put
out of thought the story he had told me of the. three poor
creatures in the great cabin, viz., the mother, the hon, and the
maid servant, whom he had heard nothing of for two or three
days, and whom, he seemed to confess, they had wholly
neglected, their own extremities being so great: by which I
understood that they had really given them no food at all, and
that, therefore, they must be perished, and be all lying dead,
perhaps on the floor or deck of the cabin.

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain,
on board, with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not
the starving crew that were left on board, but ordered my own
boat to go on board the ship, and with my mate and twelve
men, to carry them a sack of bread, and four or five pieces of
beef to boil. Our surgeon charged the men to cause the meat
to be boiled while they stayed, and to keep guard in the cook-
room, to prevent the men takino it to eat raw, or taking it out
of the pot before it was well boiled, and then to give every man
but a very little at a time; and, by this caution, he preserved
the men, who would otherwise have killed themselves with
that very food that was given them on purpose to save their
lives.

At the same time I ordered the mate to go into the great
cabin, and see what condition the poor passengers were in;
and if they were alive, to comfort them, and give them what
refreshment was proper; and the surgeon gave him a large
pitcher, with some of the prepared broth which he had given the
mate that was on board, and which he did \not question would
restore him gradually. . ' '

I was not satisfied with this; but, as 'I said above, havin0 a
great mind to see the scene of misery, which I knew the ship
itself would present me with, in a more lively manner than 1
could have it by report, I took the captain of the ship, as we
now called him, with me, and went myself, a little alter, in
their boat. _

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get the
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate ob-
served his orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door
and the man he placcd there, after using all possrble persuaswn
to have patience, kept them off by force; however, he caused
some biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot, and softened With
the liquor of the meat, which they called brewis, and gave them
every one some, to stay their stomachs, and told them it was
for their own safetv that he was obliged to give them but little
at a time. But it was all in vain; and, had lnot come on board,
and their own commander and officers with me, and with good
words, and some threats also, of giving them no more, I believe
they would have broken into the cook-room by force, and tore
the meat out of the furnace; for words are, indeed, of very small
force to a hungry man: however, we pacified them, and led
them gradually and cautiously for the first, and the next time
gave them more, and at last, their appetites appeased, the men
did well enough.

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of
another nature, and far beyond the rest: for, as, first, the ship's
company had so little for themselves, it was but too true that
they had at first kept them very low, and at last totally
neglected them; so that, for six or seven days, it might be
said they had really no food at all, and for several days before,
very little. The poor mother, who, as the men reported, was
a woman of sense and good breeding, had spared all she could
so affectionately for her son, that, at last, she entirely sunk
under it; and when the mate of our ship went in, she sat
upon the floor, or deck, with her back up against the sides,
between two chairs, which were lashed fast, and her head sunk
between her shoulders, like a corpse, though not quite dead.
My mate said all he could to revive and encourage her, and
with a spoon put some broth into her mouth. She opened
her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak; yet she
understood what he said, and made signs to him, intimating
that it was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she
would have said, they should take care of' him. However,
the mate, who was exceedingly mow-d with the sight, endea-
voured to get some of the broth into her mouth, and, as he said,
got two or three spoonfuls down; though I question whether he
could be sure of it, or not: but it was too late, and she died the
same night.

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most afl'ec-
tionate mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a cabinitems SON causon 255

bed, as one stretched out, with hardly any life left in him. He
had a piece of an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the
rest of it : however, being young, and having more strength than
his mother, the mate got something down his throat, and he
began sensibly to revive; though by giving him some time after
but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and
brought it up again.

 

But the next care was the poor maid: she lay all along upon
the deck, hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen
down with an apoplexy, and struggled for life. Her limbs were
distorted; one of her bands was clasped round the frame of a
chair, and she griped it so hard, that we could not easily make
her let it go: her other arm lay over her head, and her feet lay
both together, set fast against the frame of the cabin table: in
short, she lay just like one in the agonies of death, and yet she
was alive too.

The poor creature was not only starved with hunger and
terrified with the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us
afterwards, was broken-hearted for her mistress, whom she saw
dying for two or three days before, and whom she loved most
tenderly.

We knew not what to do with this poor girl: for when our
surgeon, who was a man of very great knowledge and expe-
rience, had with great application recovered her as to life, he
had her upon his hands as to her senses; for she was little less
than distracted for a considerable time after, as shall appear
presently.

Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired
to consider that visits at sea are not like a journey into the
country, where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight
at a place; our business was to relieve this distressed ship's
crew, but not lie by for them; and though they were willing
to steer the same course with us for some days, yet we could
carry no sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts: how-
ever, as their captain begged of us to help him to set up a
main-topmast, and a kind of a topmast to his jury foremast,
we did, as it were, lie by him for three or four days; and then,
having given him the barrels of beef, 9. barrel of pork, two
hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, and what
other things we could spare; and, taking three casks of sugar,
some rum, and some pieces of eight from them for satisfaction,
we left them; taking on board with us, at their own earnest
request, the youth and the maid, and all their goods.

The young lad was about seventeen years of age; a pretty,
well-bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with the
loss of his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but. a
few months before at Barbadoes: he begged of the surgeon to
speak to me to take him out of the ship; for he said the cruel
fellows had murdered his mother: and, indeed, so they had,
that is to say, passively; for they might have Spared a small
sustenance to the poor helpless widow, that might have pre-
served her life, though it had been but just enough to keep
her alive; but hunger knows no friend, no relation, no justice,
no right; and therefore is remorseless. and capable of no com-
passion.'

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that it
would carry him away from all his friends, and put him, perhaps,
in as had circumstances almost as those we found him in, that
is to say, starving in the world. He said it mattered not
whither he went, if he was but delivered from the terrible crew
that he was among; that the captain (by which he meant me,
for he could know nothing of my nephew) had saved his life,
and he was sure would not hurt him; and, as for the maid, he
was sure, if she came to herself, she would be very thankful

' This is. probably. the general effect of hunger; but there have been no
doubt many and honourable exceptions to it. A remarkable instance of this
happened at the inundation of a cual~mlne. at East Ardley. near Wakefield. in
Yorkshire. on Friday, the 30m or J une. 1809. when two men and two boys. John
Hudson, Robert Kendrew, William Broad. and Joseph Goodear. escaped to a
higher art of the mine. where they were out of the reach of the water. and
where ey remained till the mine was drained. They had been three days and
nights without rest or sustenance, except a little bread which Kendrew happened
to have in his pocket. and which. with great generosity and sacrifice of self to the
love of his neighbour. be divided among his half-famished companions. supplying
his own wants with a quid of <<mecca--See Plumptre's Original Dramas. p. 90.
for it, let us carry them where we would. The surgeon repre-
sented the case so affectionately to me, that I yielded, and we
took them both on board with all their goods, except eleven
hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or come at;
and, as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made his
commander sign a writing, obliging himself to go as soon as he
came to Bristol, to one Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom
the youth said he was related, and to deliver a letter which
I wrote to him, and all the goods he had belonging to the
deceased widow; which I suppose was not done, for I could
never learn that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as is most
probable, lost at sea; being in so disabled a condition, and
so far from any land, that I am of opinion the first storm
she met with afterwards she might founder in the sea;
for she was leaky, and had damage in her hold when we met
with her.

I was now in the latitude of 19 degrees 32 minutes, and had
hitherto a tolerable voyage, as to weather, though at first the
winds had been contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the
little incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c., on the rest of
our voyage; but to shorten my story, for the sake of what is
to follow, shall observe, that I came to my old habitation, the
island, on the 10th of April, 1695. It was with no small
difficulty that I found the place; for, as I came to it, and
went from it, before, on the south and east side of the island,
as coming from the Brazils, so now coming in between the
main and the island, and having no chart for the coast, or any
landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether I
saw it or not. '

We beat about a great while, and went ashore on several
islands in the mouth of the great river Oronooque, but none
for my purpose; only this I learned by my coasting the shore,
that I was under one great mistake before, viz., that the conti-
nent which I thought I saw from the island I lived in, was
really no continent, but a long island, or rather a ridge of
islands, reaching from one to the other side of the extended
mouth of that great river; and that the savages who came to
my island, were not properly those which we call Caribees, but
islanders, and other barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited
something nearer to our side than the rest.

In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose;
some I found were inhabited, and some were not: on one of
them 1 found some Spaniards, and thought they had lived
there; but speaking with them, found they had a sloop lay in
a small creek hard by, and came thither to make salt, and to
catch some pearl mussels, if they could; but that they belonged
to the isle of Trinidad, which lay farther north, in latitude of

10 and 11 degrees.
Thus, coasting from one island to another, sometimes with
the ship, sometimes with the Frenchmen's shallop, which we
had found a convenient boat, and, therefore, kept her with
their very good will, at length I came fair on the south side
of my island, and presently knew the very countenance of the
place: so I brought the ship safe to an anchor, broadside with
the little creek where my old habitation was.

.'

CHAPTER XXXIV.

LANDIXG ON THE ISLAND--XEETIEG 0F FRIDAY AND ms FATHER--THE SPA.
NMRN--ACWUXT OF WHAT HAD RAPPER!) ON THE ISLAND AFTER THE

DEPARTURE OF 3031wa CRCSOE.

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him,
if he knew where he was; he looked about a little, and pre-
sently, clapping his hands, cried, "0 yes, 0 there, 0 yes,
0 there," pointing to our old habitation, and fell dancing and
capering like a mad fellow; and I had much ado to keep him
from jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the place.

"Well, Friday," says I, "do you think we shall find any-
body here or no? And do you think we shall see your father?"
The fellow stood mute as a stock a good while, but, when
I named his father, the poor affectionate creature looked
dejected, and I could see the tears run down his face very
plentifully. " What is the matter, Friday ?" says I; " are you
troubled, because you may see your father?" " No, no," says
he, shaking his head, " no see him no more: no, never more see
him again !"--" \Vhy so," said I, " Friday; how do you know
that ?"---"0 no, 0 no," says Friday: "he long ago die, long
ago; he much old man."--" Well, well," says 1, "Friday, you
don't know ; but shall we see any one else then ?" The fellow,
it seems, had better eyes than I, and he points to the hill just
above my old house: and, though we lay half a league off, he
cries out, " We see, we see; yes, yes, we see much man there,
and there, and there." I looked, but I saw nobody, no, not-
with a perspective glass, which was, I suppose, because I could
not hit the place; for the fellow was right, as I found, 11 n
inquiry the next day: and there were five or six men a to-
gether who stood to look at the ship, not knowing what to
think of us.

As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the
English ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them
notice we were friends; and in about half a quarter of an hour
after, we perceived a smoke arise from the side of the creek; so
I immediately ordered a boat out, taking Friday with me; and
hanging out a white flag, or flag of truce, I went directly on
. shore. taking with me the young friar I mentioned, to whom
I had told the story of my living there, and the manner of it,
and of every particular both of myself and those I left there,
and who \1 as, on that account, extremely desirous to o with
me. .We had, besides, about sixteen men, well arme' ,if we
had found any new guests there which we did not know of;
but we had no need of weapons.

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water,
we rowed directly into the creek; and the first man I fixed my

eyes upon was the Spaniard, whose life I had saved, and whom

I knew, by his face, perfectly well. as to his habit, I shall
describe it afterwards. I ordered nobody to 0 on shore at
first but myself; but there was no keeping Fri ay in the boat,
tor the afl'ectionate creature had spied his father at a distance,
a good way off the Spaniards, where, indeed, I saw nothing of
him, and, if they had not let him go ashore, he would have
jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but he flew
away to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. It would have
made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to
have seen the first transports of this poor fellow's oy when he
came to his father: how he embraced him, kissed stroked
hisface, tookhimupin his arms, set him down upon a tree,
and lay down by him, then stood and looked at him, as any
one would look at a strange picture, for a quarter of an hour
together, then lie down on the ground, and stroke his legs, and
kiss them, and then get up again and stare at him, one Owould
' have thought the fellow bewitched. But it would have made
a dog laugh the next day to see how his passion ran out
another way , in the morning he walked along the shore, to and
again, with his father several hours, always leading him by
the hand, as if he had been a lady ;and every now and then
he would come to the boat to fetch something or other for
him, either a lump of sugar, a dram, a biscuit-cake, or some-
thing or other that was good. In the afternoon his frolics
ran another way, for then he would set the old man down
upon the ground and dance about him, and make a thousand
antic postures and gestures, and all the while he did this, he
would be talking to him, and telling him one story or other of
his travels, and of what had happened to him abroad, to divert
him. In short, if the same filial afl'ection was to be found in
Christians to their parents, in our part of the world, one would
be tem ted to say there would hardly have been any need of
the fif commandment.

But this 18 a digression: I return to my landing. It would be
needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that
the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard, who, as
I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had sand; he
came towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying a flag
of truce also; and he not only did not know me at first, but he
had no thoughts, no notion of its being me that was com'e, till
I spoke to him. "Seignior," said 1, in Portuguese, "do you
not know me ?" At which he spoke not a word, but giving his
musket to the man that was with him, threw his arms abroad,
saying something in Spanish that I did not perfectly hear,
came forward and embraced me; telling me he was inexcusable
not to know that face again, that he had once seen as if an
angel from heaven sent to save his life; he said abundance of
very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard always knows
how, and, then beckoning to the person that attended him,
bade him go and call out his comrades. He then asked me, if
I would walk to my own habitation, where he would give me
possession of my own house again, and where I should see
they had made but mean improvements: so I walked along
with him; but, alas! Icould no more find the place again than
if I had never been there; for they had planted so many trees,
and placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to one
another, and in ten years time they were grown so big, that, in
short, the place was inaccessible, except by such windings and
blind ways as they themselves only who made them could find.

I asked them, what put them upon all these fortifications:
he told me, I would say there was need enough of it, when they
had given me an account how they had passed their time since
their arriving in the island, especially after they had the mis-
fortune to find that I was gone. He told me he could not but
have some satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard that
I was gone in a good ship, and to my satisfaction; and that he
had oftentimes a strong persuasion that, one time or other, he
should see me again: but nothing that ever befel him in his
life, he said, was so surprising and afliicting to him at first, as
the disappointment he was under when he came back to the
island and found I was not there.

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom, he said, he had a long story to tell me,
the Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the
savages, only that their number was so small; and, says he,
had they been strong enough, we had been all long ago in
purgatory; and with that he crossed himself on the breast.
"But, sir," says he, "I hope you will not be displeased when
I shall tell you, how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for
our own preservation, to disarm them, and, make them our
subjects, who would not be content with being moderately our
masters, but would be our murderers." I answered, I was
heartily afraid of it when I left them there, and nothing troubled
me at my parting from the island, but that they were not come

'
back, that I might. have put them in possessigmf everything
first, and left the others ina state of subjection htthey deserved;
but if they had reduced them to it, Iwas very lad, and should
be very far'from finding any fault with it; for knew that they
were a parcel of refractory ungoverned villains and were fit for
any manner of mischief.

While I was thus saying this, the man came whom he had
-sent back, and with him eleven men more. In the. dress they
were in, it was impossible to' guess what nation they were of:
but he made all clear both to them and me. First he turned
to me, and pointing to them, said, " These, sir, are some of the
gentlemen who owe their lives to you ;" and then, turning to
them, and pointing to me, he let them know who lwas ; upon
which they all came up, one by one, not as if they had been
sailors and ordinary fellows, and the like, but really as if they
had been ambassadors or noblemcn, and I a monarch or great
conqueror': their behaviour was to the last degree obliging and
courteous, and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which
very well became them; and, in short, they had so much more
manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their civili-
ties, much less how to return them in kind.

The history of their coming to, and conduct in, the island,
after my going away, is so very remarkable, and has so many
incidents, which the former part of my relation will help to
understand, and which will in most of the particulars, refer to
the account I have already given, that I cannot but commit
them, with great delight, to the reading of those that come
after me.

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first
person, which will put me to the expense of ten thousand said
Ps, and said he's, and he told me's, and I told him's, and the
like; but I shall collect the facts historically as near as I can
gather them out of my memory, from what they related to me,
' and from what I met with in my conversing with them and
with the place.

In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly- as I can, I
must go back to the circumstances in 'which I left the island,
and in which the persons were of whom I am to speak. And,
first, it is necessary to repeat, that I had sent away Friday's
father and the Spaniard (the two whose lives 1 had rescued
from the savages) in a large canoe, to the main, as I then
thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions that he left
behind him, in order to save them from the like calamity that
he had been in, and in order to succour them for the present;
and that, if possible, we might together find some way for our
deliverance afterwards.

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or
the least room to hope for, my own deliverance, any more

_.
.e'
I had twenty years before, much less had I any foreknowledge

of what afterwards happened, I mean of an English ship
coming on shore there to fetch me off; and it could not but

be a very great surprise to them, when they came back, not -
only to find that I was gone, but to find three strangers left on

the spot possessed of all that I had left behind me, which
would otherwise have been their own.

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might
begin where I left off, was of their own part; and I desired he
would give me a particular account of his voyage back to his
countrymen, with the boat, when I sent him to fetch them
over. He told me there was little variety in that part, for
nothing remarkable happened to them on the way, having had
very calm weather and a smooth sea. As for his countrymen,
it could not be doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed
to see him (it seems he was the principal man among them,
the captain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked in having
been dead some time); they were, he said, the more surprised
to see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the
hands of the savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour
him, as they did all the rest of their prisoners; that, when he
told them the story of his deliverance, and in what manner he
was furnished for carrying them away, it was like a dream to
them, and their astonishment, he said, was somewhat like that
of Joseph's brethren, when he told them who he was, and told
them the story of his exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but, when
he showed them the arms, the powder, the ball, and provisions
that he brought them for their journey, or voyage, they were
restored to themselves, took a just share of the joy of their de-
liverance, and immediately prepared to come away with him.

Their first business was to get canoes: and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to
trespass upon their friendly savages, and to borrow two large
canoes, or periaguas, on pretence of going out a-fishing or for
pleasure. In these they came away the next morning. It seems

. they wanted no time to get themselves ready; for they had no
baggage, neither clothes nor provisions, nor anything in the
world but what they had on them, and a few roots to eat, of
which they used to make their bread.

They were, in all, three weeks absent; and in that time, un-
luckily for them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I
mentioned before, and to get off from the island, leaving three
of the most impudent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable
Villains behind me, that any man could desire to meet with : to
gaze poor Spaniard's great grief and disappointment, you may

sure.

The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the Spam
iards came ashore, they gave my letter to them and gave them
provisions and other relief, as I had' ordered them to do; also
theyO cave them the long paper of directions which I had left
with them, containing athe particular methods which I took for
managing every part of my life there; the way how I baked
my bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my corn; how I
cured my grapes, made my pets, and in a word, everything
I did; all this being written down, theyg 0am to the Spaniards
(two of them understood English well enough): nor did they
refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with anything else, for
they agreed very w ell for some time. They gave them an equal
admission into the house, or cave, and they began to live very
sociably; and the head Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of
my methods, and Friday's father together, managed all their
affairs: but as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ram-
ble about the island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises; and
when they came home at night, the Spaniards provided their

suppers for them.
The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the

others but have let them alone; which, however, they could
not find in their hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the
manger, they would not eat themselves, neither would they
let the others eat. The differences, nevertheless, were at first
but trivial, and such as are not worth relating, but, at last, it
broke out into an open war; and it began with all the rudeness
and insolence that can be imagined, without reason, without
provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to common
sense: and though, it is true, the first relation of it came troni
the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet,

when I came to examine the f'ellow 5, they could not deny a

word of it.

CHAPTER XXXV.

RELATION 0' AN INCIDENT BEEORB m DEPAMURE 01' m SHIP FRO)! OFF
THE ISLAND, wm BOWEN CRUSOE L2H l'.\' lfiss--WN'HXUATION 01' 1'88
AWUNT 01' m TRASBACI'IONS ON THE ISLAND--FEM

BUT before I come to the particulars of this part, I must
supply a defect in my former relation; and this was, I forgot
to set down among the rest, that just as we were weighing
the anchor to set sail, there happened a little quarrel on board
of our ship, which I was once afraid would turn to a second
mutiny, nor was it appeased till the captain, rousing up his
courage, and taking us all to his assistance,p arted them by
force, and making two of the most refractory fellows prisoners,
he laid them in irons; and, as they had been active in the
former disorders, and let fall some ugly dangerous words, the
second time, he threatened to carry them in irons to England,
and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running away
with the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not in-
tend to do it, frightened some other men in the ship; and
some of them had put it into the heads of the rest, that the
captain only gave them good words for the resent, till they
should come to some English port, and that t en they should
all be put into gaol, and tried for their lives. The mate got
intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it ; upon which it
was desired, that I, who still passed for a great man among
them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy the men,
and tell them, that they might be assured, if they behaved
well the rest of the voyage, all they had done for the time
past should be pardoned. So I went, and after passing my
honour's word to them, they appeared easy, and the. more so
when I caused the two men that were in irons to be released
and forgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night;

ewind also falling calm the next morning, we found that our

wo men who had been laid in irons had stole each of them a
musket and some other weapons (what powder or shot they
had we knew not), and had taken the ship's pinnace, which was
not yet hauled up, and ran away with her to their companions
in roguery on shore. As soon as we found this, I ordered the
long-boat on shore, with twelve men and the. mate, and away
they went to seek the rogues; but they could neither find
them nor any of the rest, for they all fled into the woods when
they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was once re-
solved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their
plantations, burned all their household stuff and furniture, and
left them to shift without it; but, having no orders, he let it
all alone, left everything as he found it, and bringing the
pinnace away, came on board without them. These two men
made their number five: but the other three villains were so
much more wicked than they. that after they had been two or
three days together, they turned the two new comers out of
doors, to shift for themselves, and would have nothing to do
with them; nor could they, for a good while, be persuaded to
give them any food: as for the Spaniards, they were not yet
come.

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began
to go forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded the three
English brutes to have taken in their two countrymen again,
that, as they said, they might be all one family; but they
would not hear of it: so the two r fellows lived by them-
selves; and finding nothing butin ustry and application would
make them live comfortably, they pitched their tents on the
north shore of the island, but a little more to the west, to be
out of danger of the savages, who always landed on the east
parts of the island.

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other
to lay up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards
having given them some corn for seed, and, especially, some of
the peas which I had left them, they dug, planted, and enclosed,
after the pattern I had set for them all, and began to live pretty
well. The first crop of corn was on the ground ; and, though
it was but a little bit of land which they dug up at first, having
had but a little time, yet itwas enough to relieve them and
find them with bread and other eatables; and one of the fel-
lows being the cook's mate of the ship, was very ready in
making soup, puddings, and such other preparations, as the
rice and the milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished
him to do.

They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the
three unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere
humour and to insult them, came and bullied them, and told
them the island was theirs; that the governor, meaning me, 3,
had given them the possession of it, and nobody else had any
right to it; and that they should build no houses upon their
ground, unless they would pay rent for them.

The two men, thinking they were jesting at first, asked
them to come in and sit down, and see what fine houses they
were that they had built, and to tell them what rent they de-
manded: and one of them merrily said, if they were the
ground-landlords, he hoped if they built tenements upon their
land, and made improvements, they would, according to the
custom of landlords, grant a long lease: and desired they
would get a scrivener to draw the writings. One of the three,
cursing and raging, told them they should see they were not
in jest; and, going to a little place at a distance, where the
honest men had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a
firebrand, and claps it to the. outside of their hut, and very
fairly set it on fire; and it would have been all burnt down in
a few minutes, if one of the two had not run to the fellow,
thrust him away, and trod the fire out with his feet, and that
not without some dimculty too.

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting
him away, that he returned upon him with a pole he had in his
hand, and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and
run into the hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade,
seeing the danger they were both in, am in after him, and im--
mediawa they came both out with their muskets, andithe man
that was first struck at with the pole mocked the fellow down
that had began the quarrel with the stock of his musket, and

that before is other, two could come to help him; and then,
1!
seeing the rest come at them, they stood together, and, pre-
senting the other ends of their pieces at them, bade them stand
off.

The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the
two honest men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate
hy his dander, told them, if they offered to move hand or foot,
they were dead men, and boldly commanded them to lay down
their arms. They did not, indeed, lay down their arms, but
seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a parley; and they
consented to take their wounded man with them and be gone;
and, indeed, it seemed the fellow was wounded sufficiently with
the blow. However, they were much in the wrong, since they
had the advantage, that they did not disarm them effectually,
as they might have done, and have gone immediame to the
Spaniards, and given them an account how the rogues had
treated them; for the three villains studied nothing but re-
venge, and every day gave them some intimation that they
did 80.

But, not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser
part of their rogueries, such as treading down their corn,
shooting three young kids and a she-goat which the poor
men had got to breed up tame for their store; and, in a word,
plaguing them night and day in this manner, it forced the two
men to such a desperation, that they resolved to fight them all
three the first time they had a fair opportunity. In order to
do this, they resolved to go to the castle, as they called it, that
was my old dwelling, where the three rogues and the Spaniards
all lived together at that time, intending to have a fair battle.
and the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play: so they cot
up in the moraine before day, and came to the place, and called
the Englishmen y their names, telling a Spaniard that an-
swered, that they wanted to speak with them.

It hap ned that the day before two of the Spaniards having
been in t e Woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom,
for distinction, I called the honest men, and he had made a sad
complaint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had
met with from their three countrymen, and how they had
ruined their plantation, and destroyed their corn, that they had
laboured so hard to bring forward, and killed the milchwoat
and their three kids, which was all they had rovided for t eir
sustenance; and that, if he and his frien s, meaning the
Spaniards, did not assist them again, they should be starved.
When the Spaniards came home at night, and they were all at
supper, one of them took the freedom to reprove the three
Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms, and
asked them how they could be so cruel, they being harmless,
in )ii'ensive fellows: that they were putting themselves in a way
to subsist by their labour, and that it had cost them a great

3}
31:81 of pains to bring things to such perfection as they were
en m.

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, What had they
to do there? that they came on shore without leave; and that
they should not plant or build upon the island; it was none or
their ground. " Why," says the Spaniard, very calmly, " Seig-
nior Inglese, they must not starve." The Englishman replied,
like a true rough-hewn tarpauling, They might starve and be
d----d; they should not plant nor build in that place. " But
what must they do then, Seignior P" said the Spaniard. Another
of the brutes returned, " Do? d-----n them, they should be
servants, and work for them." " But how can you expect that
of them P" says the Spaniard; " they are not bought with your
money; you have no right to make them servants." The
Englishman answered, the island was theirs; the governor
had given it to them, and no man had anything to do there
but themselves: and, with that, swore by his Maker, that
they would go and burn all their new huts; they should build
none upon their land. "Why, Seignior," says the Spaniard,
"by the same rule, we must be your servants too."--"Ay,"
says the bold dog, "and so you shall too, before we have done
with you" (mixing two or three shocking imprecations in the
intervals of his speech). The Spaniard only smiled at that,
and made him no answer. However, this little discourse had
heated them; and starting up, one says to the other, I think
it was he they called Will Atkins, " Come, Jack, let's go, and
have t'other brush with 'em: we'll demolish their castle, I'll
warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our dominions."

Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a
gun, a pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things
among themselves, of what they would do to the Spaniards
too, when opportunity ofl'ered; but the Spaniards, it seems,
did not so perfectly understand them as to know all the para
ticulars, only that, in general, they threatened them hard for
taking the two Englishmen's part.

Whither they went, or how they bestowed their time that
evening, the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems
they wandered about the country part of the night, and then,
lying down in a place which I used to call my bower, they were
weary, and overslept themselves. The case was this: they had
resolved to stay till midnight, and so to take the two poor men
when they were asleep, and, as they acknowledged afterwards,
intended to set fire to their huts while they were in them, and,
either burn them there, or murder them as they came out: as
malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was very strange they
should not have been kept awake. f

However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as

I have said, though a much fairer one than that of burr12ing and
x
murdering, it happened, and very luckily for them all, that
they were up and gone abroad before the bloody-minded rogues
came to their huts.

When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins,
who, it seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his com-
rades, " Ha, Jack, here's the nest, but d--n them, the birds are
flown." They mused awhile, to think what should be the
occasion of their being gone abroad so soon, and suggested
presently that the Spaniards had given them notice of it: and,
with that, they shook hands, and swore to one another that
they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they
had made this bloody bargain, they fell to work with the poor
men's habitation; they did not set fire, indeed, to anything,
but they pulled down both their houses, and pulled them so
' limb from limb, that they left not the least stick standing, or
scarce any sicn .on the ground where they stood: they tore all
their little collected household stuff in pieces, and threw every-
thing about in such a manner, that the poor'men afterwards
found some of their things a mile of? their habitation. When
they had done this, they pulled up all the young trees which
the poor men had planted; pulled up an enclosure they had
made to secure their cattle and their corn; and, in a word,
sacked and plundered everything as completely as a horde of
'l'artars would have done.

The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them out,
and had resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though
they were but two to three; so that, had they met, there cer-
tainly would have been bloodshed among them; for they were
all very stout resolute fellows, to give them their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than
they themselves could do to meet; for, as if they had dogged
one another, when the three were gone thither, the two were
here; and, afterwards, when the two went back to find them,
the three were come to the old habitation again : we shall see
their different conduct presently. When the three came back
like furious creatures, flushed with the rage which the work
they had been about had put them into, they came up to the
Spaniards, and told them what they had done, by way of scoff
and bravado; and one of them stepping up to one of the
Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at play, takes
hold of his hat, as it was upon his head, and giving it a twirl
about, fleering in his face, says to him, "And you, Seignior
Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do not mend
your manners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil man,
was as brave a man as could be, and withal a strong, well--made
man, looked at him for a good while, and then, having no
weapon in his hand, stepped gravely up to him, and with one
blow of his fist knocked him down, as an ox is felled by a
Ede-axe; at which one of the rogues, as insolent as the first,
red his pistol at the Spaniard immediately : he missed his body,
indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but one of them
touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much. The
blood made the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he
really was, and that put him into some heat, for, before, he
acted all in a perfect calm; but now, resolving to go through
with his work, he stooped, and took the fellow's musket whom
he had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the man
who had fired at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being
in the cave, came out, and calling to him not to shoot, they
stepped in, secured the other two, and took their arms from
them.

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made
all the Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own count -
men, they began to cool, and giving the Spaniards better worg,
would have their arms again; but the Spaniards,.considering
the feud that was between them and the other two Englishmen,
and that it would be the best method they could take to keep
them from killing one another, told them they would do them
no harm, and, if they would live peaceably, they would be very
willing to assist and associate with them, as they did before;
but that they could not think of giving them their arms again,
while they appeared so resolved to do mischief with them to
their own countrymen, and had even threatened them all to
make them their servants.

The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than
to act with reason: but being refused their arms, they went
raving away, and raging like madmen, threatening what they
,would do though they had no fire-arms. But the Spaniards,
despising their threatening, told them' they should take care
how they ofi'ered any injury to their plantation or cattle, for,
if they did, they would shoot them as they would ravenous
beasts, wherever they found them; and if they fell into their
hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. However, this
was far from cooling them, but away they went raging and
swearing. As soon as they were gone, the two men came back,
in passion and rage enough, also, though of another kind; for
having been at their plantation, and finding it all demolished
and destroyed as above, it will easily be supposed they had
provocation enough. They could scarce have room to tell their
tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them theirs, and it
was strange enough to find that three men should thus bully
nineteen, and receive no punishment at all.

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having
thus disarmed them, made light of their threatenings; but the
two Englishmen resolved to have their remedy against them,
what pains soever it cost to find them out. But the Spaniards
interposed here, too, and told them, that as they had disarmed
them, they could not consent that they the two) should pursue
them with fire-arms, and perhaps kill t em. "But," said the
grave Spaniard, who was their governor, " we will endeavour
to make them do you justice, if you will leave it to us: for there
is no doubt but they will come to us again, when their passion
is over, being not able to subsist without our assistance: we
promise you to make no peace with them, without having a full
satisfaction for you; and, upon this condition, we hope you
will promise to use no violence with them, other than in your
own defence." The two Englishmen yielded to this very
awkwardly, and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards pro<<
tested, that they did it only to keep them from bloodshed, and
to make all easy at last. "For," said they, " we are not so
many of us; here is room enough for us all, and it is a great
pity we should not be all good friends." At length they did
consent, and waited for the issue of the thing, living for some
days gith the Spaniards; for their own habitation was de-
stroye .

CHAPTER XXXVI.

RETURN 1'0 ORDER, AND BELAPSB-TWO LARGE PART!" OF SAVAGES ON THE
ISLAND--A BAITLE--THREE REFUGEES TAKES--THE WNQUZRORS DEPART--
IXPROVRXBXTS 08' THE ISLAND.

In about five days' time, the three vagrants, tired with wander-
ing and almost starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on
turtles' eggs all that while, came back to the grove; and, finding
my Spaniard, who, as I have said, was the governor, and two
more with him, walking by the side of the creek, they came up
in a very submissive, humble manner, anduzcgiged to be received
again into the family. The Spaniards them civilly, but
told them they had acted so unnaturally by their countrymen,
and so very grossly by them (the Spaniards), that they could
not come to any conclusion without consulting the two
Englishmen and the rest: but, however, they would go to
them, and discourse about it, and they should know in half an
hour. It may be guessed that they were very hard put to it ;
for, it seems, as they were to wait this half-hour for an answer.
they begged they would send them out some bread in the mean
time, which they did, sending, at the same time, a large piece of
goat'sfiesh, and a boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily,-
for they were hungry enough.

After an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a long
debate ensued; their two countrymen charging them with
the ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder them ; all
which they owned before, and, therefore, could not deny now.
_ Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the moderator between

them; and, as they had obliged the two Englishmen not tohurt
the three while they were naked, and unarmed, so now they
obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one
to be of the same, and the other of larger dimensions, than
they were before; to fence their ground again where they had
pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room of those pulled
up, dig up the land again for planting corn, where they had
spoiled it, and, in a word, to restore everything in the same
state as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it
could not be, the season of the corn, and the growth of the
trees and hedges, not being possible to be recovered.

Well, they submitted to all this; and, as they had plenty of
provisions given them all the while, they grew very orderly,
and the whole society began to live pleasantly and agreeably
together again: only, that these three fellows could never be
persuaded to work, I mean for themselves, except now and then
a little, just as they pleased; however, the Spaniards told them
plainly, that, if they would but live sociably and friendly to-
gether, and study the good of the whole plantation, they would
be content to work for them, and let them walk about and be
as idle as they pleased; and thus having lived pretty well for
a month or two, the Spaniards gave them arms again, and gave
them liberty to go abroad with them as before.

It was not above a week after they had their arms, and went
abroad, but the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent
and troublesome as before: but, however, an accident happened
presently upon this, which endangered the safety of them all ;
'and they were obliged to lay by all private resentments, and
look to the preservation of their lives.

It happened one night that the Spanish governor, as I call
him, that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who
was now the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found
himself very uneasy in the night, and could by no means get
any sleep; he was perfectly well in body, as he told me the
story, only found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon
men fighting and killing one another, but was broad awake,
and could not, by any means, get any sleep; in short, he lay a
great while; but growing more and more uneasy, he resolved
to rise. As they lay, being so many of them, upon goats' skins
laid thick upon such couches and pads as they had made for
themselves, and not in hammocks, and ship-beds, as I did, who
was but one, so they had little to do, when they were willing
to rise, but to get u n their feet, and perhaps put on a coat,
such as it was, and t eir pumps, and they were ready for going
any way that their thoughts guided them. Being thus got up,
he looked out; but, being dark, he could see little or nothing;
and, besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my former
account is described, and which were now grown tall, inter-
cepted his sight, so that he could only look up, and see that it
was a clear starlight night, and hearing no noise he returned
and laid him down again: but it was all one; he could not
sleep, nor could he compose himself to anything like rest, but
his thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and he knew not
for what.

Having made some noise with rising and walking about,
going out and coming in, another of them waked, and calling,
asked who it was that was up? T he governor told him how it
had been with him. " "ay you so P" says the other Spaniard :
"such things are not to be slighted, I assure you; there is
certainly some mischief Working near us :" and presently he
' asked him, " Where are the Englishmen P"----" They are all in
their huts," says he, "safe enough." It Seems the Spaniards had
kept [)OSSt'SSlon of the main apartment, and had made a place
for the three Englishmen, who, since their last mutiny, were
always quartered by themselves, and could not come at the
rat. "Well," says the Spaniard, "there is something in it,
I am persuaded from my own experience. I am satisfied our
spirits embodied have a converse with, and receive intelligence
from the spirits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible world ;
and this friendly notice is given for our advantage, if we knew
how to make use of it. Come," says he, "let us go and look
abroad; and if we find nothing at all in it to justify the trouble,
I'll tell you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you of
the justice of my proposing it."

In a word, they went out, to go up to the top of the hill,
where I used to go; but they being strong, and a good com-
pany, not alone, as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up
by the ladder, and pulling it up after them, to go up a second
stage to the top, but were going round through the grove,
unconcerned and unwary, when they were surprised with
seeing a light, as of a fire, a very little way off from them, and
hearing the voices of men, not of one, or two, but of a great
number.

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on
the island, it was my constant care to prevent them making the
least discovery of there being any inhabitant upon the place;
and when, by any occasion, they came to know it, they felt it
so efl'ectually, that they that got away were scarce able to give
any account of it; for we disappeared as soon as possible ; nor
did ever any that had seen me escape to tell any one else,
except it was the three savages in our last encounter, who
jumped into the boat; of whom. I mentioned, I was afraid they
should go home and bring more help. Whether it was the
consequences of the escape of those men, that so great a
number came now together, or whether they came ignorantly,
and by accident, on their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards
could not, it seems, understand; but whatever it was, it had
been their busiuCSS, either to have concealed themselves, or
not to have seen them at all, much less to have let the savages
have seen that there were any inhabitants in the place; or to
have fallen upon them so effectually, as that not a man of them
should have escaped, which could only have been by getting
between them and their boats ; but this presence of mind was
wanting to them, which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a
great while.

We need not doubt, but that the governor and the man with
him, surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised
their fellows, giving them an account of the imminent danger
they were all in, and they again, as readily took the alarm,
but it was impossible to persuade them to stay close within,
whgge they were, but they must all run out to see how things
sto . '

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they
had Opportunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the
light of three fires they had made at a distance from one
another; what they were doing they knew not, and what to do
themselves they knew not. For, first, the enemy were too
many; and, secondly, they did not keep together, but were
divided into several parties, and were on shore in several places.

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight;
and, as they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the
shore, they made no doubt but, first or last, some of them
would chop in upon their habitation, or upon some other place
where they would see the token of inhabitants, and they were
in great perplexity, also, for fear of their flock of goats, which
would have been little less than starving them, if they'should
have been destroyed; so the first thing they resolved upon
was, to despatch three men away before it was light, We
Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats away to
the great valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to drive
them into the very cave itself. Could they have seen the
savages all together in one body, and at a distance from their
canoes, they resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to
have attacked them; but that could not be obtained; for they
were some of them two miles off from the other: and,;as it
appeared afterwards, were of two different nations. '

After havingmused a great while on the course they should
take, and beating their brains in considering their present
circumstances, they resolved, at last, while it was still dark, to
send the old savage, Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if
possible, something concernfiig them ; as what they came for,

" is 3

"K
what they intended to do, and the like. The old man readily
undertook it; and stripping himself quite naked, as most of
the savages were, away he went. After he had been gone
an hour or two, he brings word, that he had been among
them undiscovered; that he found they were two parties, and
of two several nations, who had war with one another, and had
a great battle in their own country: and that both sides having
had several prisoners taken in the fight, they were, by mere
chance, landed all on the same island, for the devouring their
prisoners and making merry, but their coming so by chance to
the same place had spoiled their mirth: that they were in a
great rage at one another, and were so near that he believed
they would fight again as soon as daylight began to appear:
but he did not perceive that they had any notion of anybody
being on the island but themselves. He had hardly made an
end of telling his story, when they could perceive, by the
unusual noise they made, that the two little armies were
engaged in a bloody fight.

Friday's father used all the arguments he could to persuade
our people to lie close, and not be seen; he told them their
safety consisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie
still, and the savages would kill one another to their hands,
and then the rest would go away; and it was so to a tittle.
But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon the English-
men; their curiosity was so importunate upon their pruden-
tials, that they must run out and see the battle; however,
they used some caution too, viz., they did not go openly, just
by their own dwelling, but went farther into the woods, and
placed themselves to advantage, where they might securely
see them manage the tight, and, as they thought, not to be
seen by them; but it seems the savages did see them, as we
shall find hereafter. *

The battle was very fierce: and, if I might believe the
Englishmen, one of them said he could perceive that some of
them were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of
great policy in guiding the fight. The battle, they said, held
two hours before they could guess which party would be
beaten; but then, that party which was nearest our people's
habitation began to appear weakest, and, after some time
more, some of them began to fly; and this put our men again
into a great consternation, lest any one of those that fled
should run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and
thereby involuntarily discover the place; and that by conse-
quence the pnrsuers would do the like in search of them.
Upon this, they resolved that they would stand armed within
the wall, and whoever came into the grove, they resolved to
sally out over the wall and kill them: so that if possible, not
one should return to give an account of it: thev ordered also.
that it should be done with their swords, or by knocking them
down with the stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting
them, for fear of raising an alarm by the noise.

Asthey expected, it fell out: three of the routed army fled
for life, and, crossing the creek, ran directly into the place, not
in the least knowing whither they went, but running as into a
thick wood for shelter. The scout they kept to look abroad
gave notice of this within, with this addition, to our men's
great satisfaction, viz.. that the conquerors had not pursued
them, or seen which way they were gone; upon this, the
Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, Would not suffer them
to kill the three. fugitives, but, sending three men out by the
top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in behind them,
and surprise and take them prisoners, which was done. The
residue of the conquered people fled to their canoes, and got
off to sea; the victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little,
but drawing themselves into a body together, gave two great
screaming shouts, which they supposed was by way of triumph,
and so the fight ended; and the same day about three o'clock
in the afternoon, they also marched to their canoes. And thus
the Spaniards had their island again, free to themselves, their
t'itiight was over, and they saw no savages in several years
a ter.

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their
den, and viewing the field of battle, they found about two and
thirty men dead on the spot: some were killed with great long
arrows, some of which were found sticking in their bodies;
but most of them were killed with great wooden swords, six-
teen or seventeen of which they found on the field of battle,
and as many bows, with a great many arrows. These swords
were strange, great unwieldy things, and they must be very
strong men that used them: most of those men that were
killed with them had their heads smashed to pieces, as we may
say, or as we call it in English, their brains knocked out, and
several their arms and legs broken; so that it is evident they
fight with inexpressible rage and fury. We found not one man
that was not stone dead, for either they stay by their enemy
till they have quite killed him, or they carry all the wounded
men that are not quite dead away with them.

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while;
the sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences
appeared terrible to the last degree, especially upon supposing .
that some time or other they should fall into the hands of these
creatures, who would not only kill them as enemies, but kill
them for food, as we kill our cattle; and they professed to me,
that the thoughts of .being eaten up like beef or mutton,
though it was supposed it was not to be till they were dead.
had something in it so' horrible, that it nauseated their very
stomachs, made them sick when they thought of it, and filled
their minds with such unusual terror, that they were not them-
selves for some weeks after. This, as I said, tamed even the
three English brutes I have been speaking of z and, for a great
while after, they werestractable, and went about the common
business of the whole society well enough; planted, sowed,
reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the country. But,
some time after this, they fell into such simple measures again,
as brought them into a great deal of trouble.

They had taken three prisoners, as I observed; and these
three being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them ser-
vants, and taught them to work for them; and as slaves they
did well enough; but they did not take their measures with
them as I did by my man Friday, viz., to begin with them upon
the principle of having saved their lives, and then instruct
them in the rational principles of life: much less of religion,
civilizing, and reducing them by kind usage and affectionate
arguings; but as they gave them their food every day, so they
gave them their work too, and kept them fully employed in
drudgery enough; but they failed in this by it, that they never
had them to assist them and fight for them, as I had my man
Friday, who was as true to me as the very flesh upon my
bones.

But to come to the family part. Being all now good friends,
for common danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled
them, they began to consider their general circumstances; and
the first thing that came under their consideration was, whether,
seeing the savages particularly haunted that side of the island,
and that there were more remote and retired parts of it equally
adapted to their way of living, and manifestly to their advan-
tage, they should not rather move their habitation, and plant
in some more proper place for their safety, and especially for
the security of their cattle and corn.

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they
would not remove their habitation; because that some time or
other they thought they might hear from their governor again,
meaning me; and if I should send any one to seek them,
I should be sure to direct them to that side; where, if they
should find the place demolished, they would conclude the
savages had killed us all, and we were gone; and so our sup-
ply would go too. But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed
to remove them into the valley where my cave was, where the
land was as proper for both, and where, indeed, there was land
enough : however, upon second thoughts, they altered one part
of that resolution too, and resolved only to remove part of
their cattle thither and plant part of their corn there; and so, if
one part was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one.
part of prudence they used, which it was very well they did,
viz., that they never trusted those three savages which they
had prisoners with knowing anything of the plantation they
had made in that valley, or of any cattle they had there, much
less of the cave there, which they kept in case of necessity, as
a safe retreat; and thither they carried also the two barrels
of powder which I had sent them at my coming away. But,
however, they resolved not to change their habitation ; yet
they agreed, that, as I had carefully covered it first with a wall
or fortification, and then with a grove of trees, so, seeing their
safety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of which they
were now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and con-
ceal the place as yet more effectually than before. For this
purpose, as I had planted trees, or rather, thrust in stakes,
which in time all grew up to be trees, for some good distance
before the entrance into my a artments, they went on in the
same manner, and filled up t e rest of that whole space of
ground, from the trees 1 had set quite down to the side of the
creek, where, as I said, I landed my floats, and even into the
very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leaving any
place to land, or any sign that there had been any landing
thereabout; these stakes, also, being of a wood very forward
to grow, as I have noted formerly, they took care to have them
generally much larger and taller than those which I had
planted; and, as they grew apace, so they planted them so
very thick and close together, that, when they had been three
or four years grown, there was no piercing with the eye any
considerable way into the plantation: and as for that part
which I had planted, the trees were grown as thick as a man's
thigh, and among them they placed so many other short ones,
and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisado a quarter
of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it
but with a little army to cut it all down; for a little dog could
hardly get between the trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all; for they did the same by all the ground
to the right hand and to the left, and round even to the top of
the hill, leaving no way, not so much as for themselves to come
out, but by the ladder placed up to the side of the hill, and then
lifted up, and placed again from the first stage up to the top:
and when the ladder was taken down, nothing but what had
wings to assist it could come at them.

This was excellently well contrived; nor was it less than M
what they afterwards found occasion for; which served to 00113 .,
Vince me, that as human prudence has the authority of Provi-' '7 -.
dence to justify it, so it has doubtless the direction of Pro; "f;
vidence to set it at work; and if we listened carefully to the 7" "'
voice of it, I am persuadedwe might prevent man of the dis-
asters which our lives are now, by our own neg 'gence, sub-

jected to; but this by the way.
CHAPTER XXXVII.

ASUI'IIER ALARM--ANOTHER HUTLVY--TIIE MCTINEERS DISMISED FROM THE
SOCIETY--AND DEPART FROM THE ISLAXD FOR THE COXTISEST--RETL'RN WITH
THREE NE)" AND FIVE WOMEN, SAVAGES, PRISONEltS--ACLDCXT OF THEIR
VOYAGE.

I RETURN to the storv.--'l'hcy lived two years after this in
perfect retirement, and had no more visits from the savages.
They had, indeed, an alarm given them one morning, which
put them into a great consternation ; for some of the Spaniards
being out early one morning on the west side, or rather end, of
the island (which was that end where I never went, for fear
of being discovered), they were surprised with seeing above
twenty canoes of Indians just coming on shore. They made
the best of their way home in hurry enough; and giving the
alalm to their comrades, they kept close all that day and the
next, going out only at night to make observation: but they
had the good luck to be mistaken: for wherever the savages
went, they did not land that time on the island, but pursued
some other design. .

And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen;
one of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at. one
of the three slaves, which I mentioned they had taken, because
the fellow had not done something right, which he bid him do,
and seemed a little untractable in his showing him, drew a
hatchet out of a frog-belt, in which he wore it by his side, and
fell upon the poor savage, not. to correct him, but to kill him.
One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow
a barbarous cut with a hatchet, which he aimed at his head,
but struck into his shoulders, so that he thought he had cut the
poor creature's arm off, ran to him, and entreating him not to
murder the poor man, placed himself between him and the
savage to prevent the mischief. The fellow being enraged the
the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet, and
swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage;
which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with a
shovel which he had in his hand (for they were all working in
the field about their corn land), knocked the brute down.
Another of the Englishmen, running at the same time to help
his comrade, knocked the Spaniard down ; and then two Span-
iards more came in to help their man, and a third Englishman
fell in upon them. The had none_of them any fire-arms, or
any other weapons but hatehets and other tools, except- this
third Englishman; he had one of my rusty cutlasses, with
which he made at the two last Spaniards, and wounded them
both. This fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners.

 

The next question was, what should be done with them?
They had been so often mutinous, and were so very furious, so
desperate and so idle withal, they knew not what course to
take with them, for they were mischievous to the highest de-
gree, and valued not what hurt they did to any man; so that,
in short, it was not safe to live with them.

The Spaniard, who was governor, told them in so many
words, that if they had been of his own country, he would
have hanged them; for all laws and all governors were to pre-
serve society, and those who were dangerous to the society
ought to be expelled out of it; but, as they were Englishmen,
and that it was to the generous kindness of an Englishman
that they all owed their preservation and deliverance, he would
use them with all possible lenity, and would leave them to the
judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were their coun-
trymen.

One of the two honest'Englishmen stood up, and said they
desired it might not be left to them; "for," says he, "I am
sure we ought to sentence them to the gallows :" and, with
that he gives an account how Will Atkins, one of the three,
had proposed to have all the five Englishmen join together,
apd murder all the Spaniards when they were in their
3 eep.

\Vhen the Spanish govemor heard this, he calls to Will
Atkins, "How, Seignior Atkins, would you murder us all?
What have you to say to that?" The hardened villain was so
far from denying it, that he said it was true; and they would
do it still before they had done with them. " Well, but, Seignior
Atkins," says the Spaniard, "what have we done to you that
you will kill us? And what would you get by killing us? And
what must we do to prevent you killing us? Must we kill you,
or you kill us? Why will you put us to the necessity of this,
Seignior Atkins ?" says the Spaniard, very calmly, and smiling.
Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's making
a jest of it, that, had he not been held by three men, and
withal had no weapon near him, it was thought he would have
attempted to have killed the Spaniard in the middle of all the
company. This hair-brained carriage obliged them to con-
sider seriously what was to be done: the two Englishmen
and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were of opinion
that they should hang one of the three, for an example to the
rest; and that, particularly, it should be he that had twice
attempted to commit murder with his hatchet; and, indeed,
there was some reason to believe he had done it, for the poor
savage was in such a miserable condition with the wound he
had received, that it was thought he could not live. But the
governor Spaniard still said, "No;" it was an Englishman
that had saved all their lives, and he would never consent to
put an Englishman to death, though he had murdered half of
them ; nay, he said, if he had been killed himself by an English-
man, and had time left to speak it, it should be that they should
pardon him.

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard,
that there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful counsels are
most apt to prevail, where they are so earnestly pressed, so
they all came into it; but then it was to be considered what
should be done to keep them from doing the mischief they
designed; for all agreed, governor and all, that means were to
be used for preserving the society from danger. After a long
debate, it was agreed, first, that they should be disarmed, and
not permitted to have either gun, powder, shot, sword, or any
weapon; and should be turned out of the society, and left to
live where they would, and how they would, by themselves ; but
that none of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should con-
verse with them, speak with them, or have anything to do
with them : that they should be forbid to come within a certain
distance of the place where the rest dwelt; and, if they ofi'ered
to commit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy
any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle belong-
ing to the society, they should die without mercy, and they
would shoot them wherever they could find them.

The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the
sentence, considered a little upon it: and, turning to the two
honest Englishmen, said, " Hold! you must reflect that it will
be long ere they can raise corn and cattle of their own, and
they must not starve; we must, therefore, allow them pro-
visions :" so he caused to be added, that they should have a
proportion of corn given to them to last them eight months, and
for seed to sow, by which time they might be supposed to
raise some of their own; that they should have six milch-
goats, four he-goats, and six kids given them, as well for pre-
sent subsistence as fora store; and that they should have tools
given them for their work in the fields, such as six hatchets,
an adze, a saw, and the like; but they should have none of
those tools, or provisions, unless they would swear solemnly
that they would not hurt, or injure, any of the Spaniards with
them, or of their fellow-Englishmen.

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out
to shift for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory,
as neither content to go away, nor to stay; but as there was
no remedy, they went, pretending to go and choose a place
where they would settle themselves; and some provisions were
given them, but no weapons.

About four or five days after they came again for some
victuals, and gave the governor an account where they had
pitched their tents, and marked themselves out a habitation
and plantation; and it was a very convenient place, indeed,
on the remotest part of the island, N .E., much about the place
where I providentially landed in my first voyage, when l was
diiivecp out to sea, in my foolish attempt to sail round the
is an .

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and con-
trived them in a manner like my first habitation, being close
under the side of the hill, having some trees growing already
on three sides of it, so that, by lanting others, it would be
very easily cOVered from the sig t, unless narrowly searched
for. They desired some dried goats' skins for beds and
covering, which were given them; and upon giving their
words that they would not disturb the rest, nor injure any of
their plantations, they gave them hatchets, and what other
tools they could spare: some peas, barley, and rice, for
sowing; and, in a word, anything they wanted, except arms
and ammunition.

They lived in this separate condition about six months, and
had got in their first harvest, though the quantity was but
small, the parcel of land they had planted being but little,-
for, indeed, havinc all their plantation to form, they had a
great deal of worlr upon their hands; and when they came
to make boards, and pots, and such things, they were quite out
of their element, and could make nothing of it; and when the
rainy season came on, for want of a cave in the earth, they
could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great danger cf
spoiling; and this humbled them much: so they came and
begged the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily
did; and in four days worked a great hole in the side of the
bill for them, big enough to secure their corn and other things
from the rain; but it was but a poor place, at best, compared
to mine, and especially as mine was then, for the Spaniards had
greatly enlarged it, and made several new apartments in it.

About three quarters of a year after this separation, a new
frolic took these rogues, which, together with the former
villany they had committed, brought mischief enough upon
them, and had very near been the ruin of the whole colony.
The three new associates began, it seems, to be weary of the
laborious life they led, and that without hope of bettering their
circumstances; and a whim took them, that they would make
a voyage to the continent, from whence the savges came, and
would tr if they could seize upon some prisoners among the
natives there, and bring them home, so to make them do the
laborious part of their work for them.

The project was not so preposterous if they had Gone no
farther: but they did nothing, and proposed nothing, lbut had
either mischief in the design, or mischief in the event: and, if
I may give my opinion, they seemed to be under a blast from
Heaven; for, if we will not allow a visible curse to pursue
visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the events of things with
the divine justice? It was certainly an apparent vengeance
on their crime of mutiny and piracy that brought them to the
state they were in; and they showed not the least remorse for
the crime, but added new villanies to it, such as the piece of
monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave because he did not,
or perhaps could not, understand to do what he was directed, and
to wound him in such a manner as to make him a cripple all
his life, and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be
had for his cure; and, what was still worse, the murderous
intent, or, to do justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for
such to be sure it was, as was afterwards the formed design
they all laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold blood, and in
their sleep.

But I leave observing, and return to the story :--The three
fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very
humble terms desired to be admitted to speak with them: the
Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say, which was
this :--That they were tired of living in the manner they did:
and that they were not handy enough to make the necessaries
they wanted; and that, having no help, they found they should
be starved: but if the Spaniards would give them leave to take
one of the canoes which they came over in, and give them arms
and ammunition proportioned to their defence, they would go
over to the main and seek their fortunes, and so deliver _
them from the trouble of supplying them with any other
provisions.

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but
very honestly represented to them the certain destruction they
were running into; told them they had sufl'ered such hardships
.upon that Very spot, that they could without any spirit of
prophecy, tell them they would be starved, or murdered, and
bade them consider of it.

The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they
stayed here, for they could not work, and would not work, and
they could but be starved abroad; and if they were murdered;
there was an end of them; they had no wives or children to
cry after them: and, in short, insisted importunately upon their
demand; declaring they would go, whether they would give
them any arms or no.

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they
were resolved to go, they should not go like naked men, and
be in no condition to defend themselves; and that, though
they could ill spare their fire-arms, having not enough for
themselves, yet they would let them have two muskets, a
pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet, which they
thought was suflicient for them. In a word, they accepted the
offer; and having baked them bread enough to serve them a
mouth, and given them as much goat's flesh as they could eat
while it was sweet, and a great basket of dried grapes, a pot of
fresh water, and a young kid aliVe, they boldly set out in the
canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty
miles broad.

The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well have
carried fifteen or twenty men, and, therefore, was rather too
big for them to manage; but, as they had a fair breeze, and
flood-tide with them, they did well enough. They had made a
mast of a long pole, and a sail of four large goats' skins dried,
which they had sewed or laced together; and away they went
merrily enough; the Spaniards called after them Ban nge;
and no man ever thought of seeing them anymore.

The Spaniards were often saying to one another, and to the
two honest Englishmen who remained behind, how uietly and
comfortably they lived, now these three turbulent fe lows were
gone; as for their coming again, that was the remotest thing
from their thoughts that could be imagined; when, behold
after two-and-twenty days' absence, one of the Englishmen,
being abroad upon his planting work, sees three strange men
coming towards him at a distance, with guns upon their
shoulders.

Away runs the Englishman, comes frightened and amazed to
the governor Spaniard, and tells him they were all undone,
for there were strangers landed upon the island, but could not
tell who. The Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to him. "How
do you mean, you cannot tell who P They are the savages, to
be sure."--"No, no," says the Englishman: "they are men
in clothes, with arms."--" Nay, then," says the Spaniard,
"why are you concerned? If they are not savages, they must
be friends; for there is no Christian nation upon earth, but will
do us good rather than harm."

While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen,
and standing without the wood, which was new planted, hallooed
to them : they presently knew their voices, and so, all the wonder
of that kind ceased. But now the admiration was turned upon
another question, viz., What could be the matter, and what
made them come back again?

It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring
where they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave
them a full account of their voyage in a few words, viz., That
they reached the land in two days or something has; but,
finding the people alarmed at their coming, and preparing with
bows and arrows to fight them, they durst not go on shore,
but sailed on to the northward six or seven hours, till they
came to a great opening, by which they perceived that the land
they saw from our island was not the main, but an island;
upon entering that opening of the sea, they saw another island
on the right hand, north, and several more west; and, being
resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of the islands
which lay west, and Went boldly on shore: that they found
the peeple very courteous and friendly to them: and that they
gave them several roots and some dried fish, and appeared
very sociable; and the women, as well as the men, were
very forward to supply them with anything they could get
{pr them to eat, and brought it to them a great way upon their

eads.

They continued here four days: and inquired, as well as they
could, of them, by signs, what nations were this way, and that
way: and were told of several fierce and terrible people that
lived almost every way, who, as they made known by signs to
them, used to eat men; but, as for themselves, they said they
never eat men or women, except only such as they took in the
wars; and then, they owned, they made a great feast, and ate
their prisoners.
The Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of that
kind; and they told them about two moons ago, pointing to
the moon, and to two fingers; and that their great king had
two hundred prisoners now, which he had taken in his war,
and they were feeding them to make them fat for the next
feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous of seeing those
prisoners; but the others mistaking them, thought they were
desirous to have some of them to carry away for their own
eating; so they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting of
the sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify that the
next morning at sun-rising they would bring some for them ;
and accordingly, the next morning they brought down five
women and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen to
carry with them on their voyage, just as we would bring
so many cows and oxen down to a seaport town to victual a.
ship.

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home,
their stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know
what to do. To refuse the prisoners would have been the
highest afiront to the savage gentry that could be ofi'ered them,
and what to do with them they knew not. However, after
some debate, they resolved to accept of them; and in return
they gave the savages that brought them one of their hatchets,
an old key, a knife, and six or seven of their bullets; which,
though they did not understand their use, they seemed par-
ticularly pleased with; and then, tying the poor creatures'
hands behind them, they dragged the prisoners into the boat
for our men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they
had them, or else they that gave them this noble present would
certainly have expected that they should have gone to work
with them, have killed two or three of them the next morning,
and perhaps have invited the donors to dinner. But having
taken their leave, with all the respect and thanks that could
well pass between people, where, on either side, they under-
stood not one word they could say, they put off with their
boat, and came back towards the first island; where, when
they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at liberty, there
being too many of them for their occasion.

In their voyage they endeavoured to have some communi-
cation with their prisoners, but it was impossible to make them
understand anything; nothing they could say to them, or
give them, or do for them, but was looked upon as going to
murder them. They first of all unbound them ; but the poor
creatures screamed at that, especially the women, as if theyhad
just felt the knife at their throats; for they immediately con-
cluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed. If they
gave them anything to eat, it was the same thing; they then
concluded it was for fear they should sink in flesh, and so nrt
be fat enough to kill. If they looked at one of them more
particularly, the party presently concluded it was to see
whether he or she was fattest and fittest to kill first: nay,
after they had brought them quite over and began to use them
kindly, and treat them well, still they expected every day in
make a dinner or supper for their new masters.

CHAPTER XXXVI"
rus axcLisum-zx anom- "rm: BLACK worms as \\'l\'F.~'--Dll.lul>'..\'Cl-2 up sLo'ru.

\VllES the three wanderers had given this unaccountable his-
tory, or journal, of their voyage, the Spaniards asked them
where their new family was; and being told that they had
brought them on shore, and put them into one of their huts,
and were come up to beg some victuals for them, they (the
Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen, that is to say, the
whole colony, resolved to go all down to the place, and see
them; and did so, and Friday's father with them.

When they came into the hut, there they all sat bound; for
when they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands
that they might not take the boat, and make their escape;
there, I say, they sat, all of them stark naked. First, there
were three men, lusty, comely fellows, well shaped, straight and
fair limbs, about thirty to thirty-five years of age; and five
women, whereof two might be from thirty to forty; two more
not above four or five and twenty ; and the fifth a tall, comely
maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The women were well
favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape and features, only
tawny; and two of them, had they been perfect white, would
have passed for very handsome women, even in London itself,
having pleasant, agreeable countenances, and of a very modest
behaviour -, especially when they came afterwards to be clothed
and dressed, as they called it, thouoh that dress was very in-
different, it must he confessed; of w ich hereafter.

The sight, you may be sure, was something uncouth to our
Spaniards, who were, to give them a just character, men of
the best behaviour, of the most calm, sedate tempers, and per-
fect good humour, that ever I met with; and, in particulfi';.of
the utmost modesty, as Will presently appear: I say, the 3%
was very uncouth, to see three naked men and five " '-
womefi all together bound, and in the most miserable circum- ,
stances that human nature could be supposed to be, viz., to beuoaixsox cruiser-z. 287

expecting every moment to be dragged out, and have their
brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up like a call that is
killed for a dainty.

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's
father, to go in, and see first if he knew any of them, and
then if he understood any of their speech. As soon as the
old man came in, he looked seriously at them, but kne none ,
of them; neither could he make any of them understand"
word he said, or a sign he could make, except one of the
women. However, this was enough to answer the end, which
was to satisfy them that the men into whose hands they were
fallen were Christians: that they abhorred eating men or
women: and that they might be sure they would not be killed.
As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such a joy,
and by such awkward gestures, several ways, as is hard to de-
scribe ; for it seems they were of several nations.

The woman who was their interpreter was bid in the next
place to ask them if they were willing to be servants, and to
work for the men who had brought them away to save their
lives: at which they all fell a-dancing; and presently one fell
to take up this, and another that, anything that lay next, to
carry on their shoulders, to intimate that they were willing to
war '.

The governor, who found that the having women among
them would presently be attended with some inconvenience,
and might occasion some strife, and perhaps blood, asked the
three men what they intended to do with these women, and
how they intended to use them, whether as servants, or as
women? One of the Englishmen answered very boldly and
readily, that they would use them as both: to which the
governor said, " I am not going to restrain you from it; you
are your own masters as to that; but this I think is but just,
for avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it
of you for that reason only, viz., that you will all engage, that
if any of you take any of these women as a woman or wife,
that he shall take but one; and that, having taken one, none
else shall touch her; for though we cannot marry any one of
you, yet it is but reasonable, that, while you stay here, the
woman any of you takes should be maintained by the man that
takes her, and should be his wife; I mean," says he, "while he
continues here, and that none else should have anything to do
with her." All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to
it without any diflioulty.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards,,if they designed
to take any of them? But every one of them answered "No.1" .
Some of them said they had wives in Spain, and the othezp'did
not like women that were not Christians; and all 'ther
declared that they would not touch one of them; whic Was
an instance of such virtue as I have not met with in all my
travels. 0n the other hand, to be short, the five Englishmen
took them eVery one a wife, that is to say, a temporary wife:
and so they Set up a new form of living: for the Spaniards and
Friday's father lived in my old habitation, which they had
enlarged exceedingly within. The three servants which were
taken in the late battle of the savages lived with them; and
these carried on the main part of the colony, supplied all the
rest with food, and assisted them in anything as they could, or
as they found necessity required.

But the wonder of this story was, how five such refractory,
ill-matched fellows, should agree about these women, and that
two of them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially
seeing two or three of them were, without comparison, more
agreeable than the others: but they took a good way enough
to, prevent quarrelling among themselves; for they set the five
women by themselves in one of their huts, and they went all
into the other but, and drew lots among them who should choose
first.

He that drew to choose first went away by himself to the
hut where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her he
chose; and it was worth observing, that he that chose first,
took her that was reckoned the homeliest and oldest of the five,
which made mirth enough among the rest ; and even the
Spaniards laughed at it; but the fellow considered better than
any of them, that it was application and business they were to
expect assistance in, as much as in anything else ; and she proved
the best wife of all the parcel.

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row, thus,
and fetched out one by one, the terrors of their condition re-
turned upon them again, and they firmly believed they were
now going to be devoured. Accordingly, when the English
sailor came in, and fetched out one of them, the rest set up a
most lamentable cry, and hung about her, and took their
leave of her with such agonies and afl'ection as would have
grieved the hardest. heart in the world; nor was it possible
for the Englishmen to satisfy them that they were not to be
immediately murdered, till they fetched the old man, Friday's
father, who immediately let them know, that the five men
who had fetched them out one by one, had chosen them for
their wives.

When they had done, and the fright the women were in was
a little over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came
and helped them ;. and in a few hours they had built them every
one a new hut, or tent, for their lodging apart: for those they
had already were crowded with their tools, household stuff, and
provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched farthest ofi', arid
the two honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore of the
island, so that they continued separated as before : and thus my
island was peopled in three places; and, as I might say, three
towns were begun to be built.

And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it often
happens in the world (what the wise ends of God's providence
are in such a disposition of things, I cannot say), the two
honest fellows had the two worst wives; and the three re-
probates, that were scarce worth hanging, that were tit for
nothing and neither seemed born to do themselves good nor
any one else, had three clever, diligent, and ingenious wives;
not that the two first were bad wives, as to their temper or
humour, for all the five were most willing, quiet, passive and
subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives, but my mean-
ing is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or
alike cleanly and neat.

Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent
application, on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothl'ul,
negligent, idle temper, on the other; that when I came to the
place, and viewed the several improvements, plantings, and
management of the several little colonies, the two men had so
far out-gone the three, that there was no comparison. They
had, indeed, both of them as much ground laid out for com as
they wanted, and the reason was, because, according to my rule,
nature dictated that it was to no purpose to sow more com than
they wanted; but the difference of the cultivation, of the plant-
ing, of the fences, and, indeed, of everything else, was easy to
be seen at first view.

The two men had innumerable young trees planted about
their huts, so that when you came to the place nothing was
to be seen but a wood; and though they had twice had their
plantation demolished, once by their own countrymen, and
once by the enemy, as shall be shown in its place, yet they
had restored all again, and everything was thriving and
flourishing about them: they had grapes planted in order,
and managed like a vineyard, though they had themselves
never seen anything of that kind; and by their good order-
ing their vines, their grapes were as good again as any of the
others. They had also found themselves out a retreat in the
thickest part of the woods; where, though there was not a
natural cave, as I had found, yet they made one with incessant
labour of their hands, and where, when the mischief which
followed happened, they secured their wives and children, so as
they could never be found, they, having, by sticking innumerable
stakes and poles of the wood, which, as I said, grew so readily,
made the grove unpassable, except in some places where they
climbed up to get over the outside part, and then went on by
ways of their own leaving. ' '

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though

0
they 11'oie much ei1ili2ed by their settlement compared to
what the3 "ere before, and were not so quarrelsome, having
not the same opportunity; yet one 01 the certain companions
of a prolligate mind never lett them, and that was tho-1' idle-
11ess.lt is true, they planted corn, and made fences, but
Solomon's 11o1'ds new never better verified than in them,
" 1 "mt b3' the vineyard oi the slothful, and it 11118 all 01' er-
<<101111 with thorns". 'l'or, when the Spaniards came to 1"ie11
their crop, they could not see it in some places for weeds: the
hedge had several gaps in it, where the mid goats had got in
11nd: eaten up the corn , perhaps, here and there, 11 deadg bush
was crammed in, to stop them out for the present, but it was
111111 shutting the stablo~door after the steed was stolen:
11 hereas 11 hen they looked on the colon3 ot the other t11o,
there was the vo 1'3' face of industry and success upon all thev
did; thete 11as not a 11 ood to be seen in all their corn, or a gap
i1111113' 01 their hedges, and they, on the other hand, 1e1'ilied
Solomons words in another place, "that the diligent hand
maketh rich, "' lor e1er3' thing grew and thrived, and the3 had
1 1lent3' within and without: they had more tame cattle than the
others, more utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more
pleasure and diversion too.

it is true the 11"iVes of the three were very handy and
1:11 1111l3' within doors, and, 11.11 111" learned the English 11 .11s ol
dressing and cooking 1min one at the other Englishmen, who,
as 1 said, 11as a ecoks mate on board the ship, they dresSed
then husbands victuals ver3 nicely and well: whereas the
utheis could not be brought to understand it; but then the
husband, who, as l 5113', had been cooks mate, did it himsoit.
But as for the husbands of the three wives, they loitered about,
letching turtles eggs, and caught fish and birds; in a word,
11113' thing but labour, and they land accordingly. '1 he diligent
lived 11ell and comfortably, and the slothlul li1ed hard cand
beggarly , and so, lbelievo, generally speaking, it is allover the
\\ Ul'iti.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

1111111>>: SAVAGES ON THE ISLAND--THREE LEFT 3511130 AND CAPTURE--083
MAKES ms ESCAPE--ARRIVAL OF A STROSGER FORCE OF SAVAGE--CON-
FLAGRA'IION OF SOME OF 'ras tiers--50m: OF THE SAVAGE KILLED. "HE
TAKEN museum. S033 ESCAPE--THE DESIBOYED BUTS "DE GOOD AGAIX.

BUT I now come to a scene different from all that had hap-
pened before, either to them or to me; and the original ol the
story was thiS' . Early one morning, there came 011 shore five
or six canoes of Indians or savages, call them which you please,
and there is no room to doubt they came upon the old errand
of feeding upon their slaves: but that part was nowso familiar
to the Spaniards, and to our men, too, that they did not con-
cern themselves about it, as I did; but having been made sen-
sible, by their experience, that their only business was to lie
concealed, and that if they were not seen by any of the savages,
they would go off again quietly, when their business was done,
having as yet not the least notion of there being any inhabit-
ants in the island; I say, having been made sensible of this,
they had nothing to do but give notice to all the three planta-
tions to keep within doors, and not show themselves, only
placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice when the
boats went to sea again.

This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled
all these measures, and made it known among the savages that
there were inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the deso-
lation of almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the
savages were gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again ; and
some of them had the curiosity to go to the place where they
had been, to see what they had been doing. Here, to their
great surprise, they found three savages left behind, and lying
fast asleep upon the ground. It was supposed they had either
been so gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they
were fallen asleep, and would not stir when the others went,
or they had wandered into the woods, and did not come back
in time to be taken in.

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and per-
fectly at a loss what to do. The Spaniard governor, as it hap-
pened, was with them, and his advice was asked, but he pro-
fwsed he knew not what to do. As for slaves, they had enough
already: and, as to killing them, they were none of them
inclined to that: the Spaniard governor told me, they could
not think of shedding innocent blood; for, as to them, the poor
creatures had done them no wrong, invaded none of their pro-
perty, and they thought they had no just quarrel against them,
to take away their lives. And here I must, in justice to these
Spaniards, observe, that let the accounts of Spanish cruelty
in Mexico and Peru bewhat they will, I never met with seven-
teen men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country,
who were so universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very
good humoured, and so courteous, as these Spaniards: and,
as to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their very nature: no
inhumanity, no barbarity, no outrageous passions, and yet all
of them men of great courage and spirit. Their temper and
calmness had appeared in their bearing the insufferable usage
of the three Englishmen: and their justice and humanity

appeared now in the case of the savages as above. After some
0 2>>--~------.

292 mvxsrunris or

_ consultation, thev resolved upon this; that they would lie still

a while longer, till, if possible, these three men might be gone.
But then, the Spaniard governor recollected, that the three
savages had no boat: and if they were left to rove aoout the
island, they would certainly discover that there were inhabit-
ants in it: and so they should be undone that way. Upon
this they went back again, and there lay the fellows fast asleep
still: and so they resolved to waken them, and take them
prisoners: and they did so. The poor fellows were strangely
frightened when they were seized upon and bound; and afraid,
like the women, that they should be murdered and eaten; for
it seems those ple think all the world does as they do,
eating men's fies ; but they were soon made easy as to that,
and away they carried them. .

It was very happy for them that they did not carry them
home to their castle, I mean to my palace under the hill; but
they carried them, first, to the bower, where was the chief of
their country work; such as keeping the goats, the planting
the corn, &c.; and afterwards they carried them to the habita-
tion of the two Englishmen.

Here they were set to work, though it was not much they had
for them to do; and, whether it was by negligence in guarding
them, or that they thought the fellows could not mend them-
selves, I know not, but one of them ran away, and, taking
to the woods, they could never hear of him any more.

They had good reason to believe he got home again soon
after, in some other boats, or canoes, of savages, who came on
shore three or four weeks afterwards; and who, carrying on
their revels as usual, went off in two days' time. This thought
terrified them exceedingly; for they concluded, and that not
without good cause, indeed, that if this fellow came home safe
among his comrades, he would certainly give them an account
that there were people in this island, and also, how few and
weak they were; for this savage, as I had observed before,
had never been told, and it was very happy he had not, how
many there were, or where they lived: nor had he ever seen
or heard the fire of any of their guns, much less had they
shown him any of their other retired places; such as the cave
in the valley, or the new retreat which the two Englishmen
had made, and the like.

The first testimony they had that this fellow had given
intelligence of them was, that about two months after this,
six canoes of savages, with about seven, eight, or ten men in
a canoe, came rowing along the north side of the island, where
they never used to come before, and landed about an hour
after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a mile from the
habitation of the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had
hem kept. As the Spaniard governor said. had they been all
there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man
of them would have escaped: but the case difl'ered now very
much, for two men to fifty was too much odds. The No men
had the happiness to discover them about a league off, so that
it was above an hour before they landed; and as they landed
a mile from their huts, it was some time before they could
come at them. Now, having great reason to believe that they
were betrayed, the first thing they did was to bind the two
slaves which were left, and cause two of the three men whom
they brought with the women (who it seems proved very faith-
ful to them) to lead them, with their two wives, and whatever
they could carry away with them, to their retired places in the
wood, which I have spoken of above, and there to bind the
two fellows hand and foot, till they heard farther.

In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore,
and that they had bent their course directly that way, they
Opened the fences where the milch-goats were kept, and drove
them all out; leaving their goats to straggle in the woods,
whither they pleased, that the savages might think they were
all bred wild: but the rogue that came with them was too
cunning for that, and gave them an account of it all, for they
went directly to the place.

When the two poor frightened men had secured their wives,
and goods, they sent the other slave they had, of the three
who came with the women, and who was at their place by
accident, away to the Spaniards with all speed, to give them
the alarm, and desire speedy .help; and, in the mean time,
they took their arms, and what ammunition they had, and
retreated towards the place in the wood where their wives were

sent; keeping at a distance, yet so, that they might see, if

possible, which way the savages took.

They had not gone far, but that, from a rising ground, they
could see the little army of their enemies come on directly to
their habitation, and in a moment more, could see all their
huts and household stufl' flaming up together, to their great
grief and mortification ; for they had a very great loss, to them
irretrievable, at least for some time. They kept their station
for a while, till they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread
themselves all over the place, rummaging every way, and every
place they could think of, in search of prey; and, in particular,
for the people, of whom, now it plainly appeared, they had
intelligence.

The two Englishmen, seeing this, thinking themselves not
secure where they stood, because it was likely some of the wild
people might come that way, and they might come too many
together, thought it proper to make another retreat about half
a mile farther; believing, as it afterwards happened, that the
farther they strolled, the fewer would be together.
Their next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-grown
part of the woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood,
which was hollow and vastly large; and in this tree they both
took their standing, resolving to see there what might ofl'er.
They had not stood there long, before two of the savages
appeared running directly that way, as if they had already
had notice where they stood, and were coming up to attack
them ; and, a little way farther, they espied three more coming
after them, and five more beyond them, all coming the same
way: besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a dis-
tance, running another way; for, in a word, they ran every
way, like sportsmen heating for their game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they
should stand and keep their posture, or fly; but, after a very
short debate with themselves, they considered that, if the
savages ranged the country thus before help came, they might,
perhaps, find out their retreat in the woods, and then all would
be lost; so they resolved to stand them there; and, if they
were too many to deal with, then they would get up to the top
of the tree, from whence they doubted not to defend them-
selves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition lasted, though
all the savages that were landed, which was near fifty, were
to attack them. . -

Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether
they should fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so
take the middle party, by which the two and the five that fol-
lowed would be separated; at length they resolved to let the
first two pass by, unless they should spy them in the tree, and
come to attack them. The first two savages confimied them,
also, in this regulation, by turning a little from them towards
another part of the wood; but the three, and the five after
them, came forward directly to the tree, as if they had known
the Englishmen were there. Seeing them come so straight
towards them, they resolved to take them in a line as they
came; and, as they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps
the first shot might hit them all three; for which purpose, the.
man who was to fire put three or four small bullets into his
piece; and, having a fair loophole, as it were, from a broken
hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen, wait-
ing till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so that
he could not miss.

While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on,
they plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway
savage that had escaped from them; and they both knew him
distinctly, and resolved that, if possible, he should not escape,
though they should both fire, so the other stood ready with his
piece, that, if he did not drop at the first shot, he should be
sure to have a second. But the first was too good a marksman
to miss his aim; for, as the savages kept near one another, a
little behind in a line, he tired, and hit two of them directly :
the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the head; the

 

second, which was the runaway Indian, was shot through tin-
body, and fell, but was not quite dead; and the third had a
little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that
went through the body of the second; and, being dreadfully
frightened, though not so much hurt, sat down upon the ground,
screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.

The five that were behind, more frightened with the noise
than sensible of the danger, stood still at first; for the woods
made the sound a thousand times bigger than it really was,
the echoes rattling from one side to another, and the fowls
rising from all parts, screaming, and every sort making a
different noise, according to their kind: just as it was when l
fired the first gun that perhaps was ever shot off in the island.

However, all being silent gain, and they not knowing what
the matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the
place where their companions lay, in a condition miserable
enough; and here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible
that they were within reach of the same mischief, stood all of a
huddle over the wounded man, talking, and, as may be sup~
posed, inquiring of him how he came to be hurt; and who, it
is very rational to believe, told them, that a flash of fire first,
and immediately after that, thunder from their gods, had killed
those two and Wounded him: this, I say, is rational, for
nothing is more certain than that, as t.'h113 saw no man near
them, so the3 had 11111 er heard a gun in all their li1'1',s nor so
much as heard 01 :1 gun; neither knew they 11113 thing ol kill;
ing and wounding at a distance with fire and bullets? , it they
had, one might r111so1111bl1 believe they would noth1'11e stood so
unconcerned 1n viewing the fate ol theit fellows, without some
apprehensions of their own.

Our two men, though, as they confessed to 1111-, it grieved
1111111 to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the
same time, 11111151111 notion of theii danger; yet, ha1i11g them
all thus in their power, 111111 the first 1111111111 loaded his piece
again, resolved to let fly both together among them; and
singliiig out, by agieement, which to aim at, they shot together,
and killed or'1'ery much wounded, four of them; the fifth,
frightened 1111111 to death, though not hurt, fell with the rest;
so that our 1111111, seeing them all fall together, thought the3 had
killed them all.

The beliet that the savages were all killed, made our two
men come boldly out from the tree, before they had charged
their guns, which was a wrong step; and they Were under
some surprise when they came to the place and found no less
than four of them alive, and two of them very little hurt, and
one not at all: this obliged them to fall 11 1011 them with the
stocks of their muskets: 111111 first, they ma e sure of the run-
away savage, that had been the cause of all the mischief, and
of another that was hurt in the knee, and put them out of
their pain: then the 1111111 that was hurt not at all came and
kueeled down to them, with his two hands held up, and made
piteous moans to them, by gestures and signs, for his life, but
could not say one. word to them that they could understand.
llowev er, they made signs to him to sit do11n at the foot of a
tree hard by; and one ol the Englisl1mcn,\1ith 11 piece 0! rope
twined, which he had by great chance 111 his pocket, tied his
two hands behind him, and there they lelt him; and, with
11 hat speed they could, made after the other two, which were
<<one betore, fearing they, or any more oi them, should find
the way to their 001 e1 ed place 111 the woods, where their wives,
and the few goods they had lett, lay. They came once in
sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance; however,
they had the satisfaction to see them cross over a valley towards
the sea, quite the contrary way from that which led to their
retreat, which they were afraid of; and, being satisfied with
that, they went back to the tree where they left their prisoner,
who, as they supposed, was delivered by his comrades, for he
was gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn, with which they had
bound him, lay just at the foot of the tree.

They were now in as great a concern as before, not knowing
what course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in
what numbers; so they resolved to go away to the place where
their wives were, to see if all was well there, and to make them
easy, who were in fright enough to be sure; for though the
savages were their own country-folk, yet they were most terribly
afraid of them, and, perhaps, the more for the knowledge they
had of them.

When they came there, they found the savages had been in
the wood, and very near that place, but had not found it; for
it was indeed inaccessible, by the trees standing so thick, as
before, unless the persons seeking it had been directed by
those that knew it, which these did not: they found, therefore,
everything very safe, only the women in a terrible fright.
While they were here, they had the comfort to have seven of
the Spaniards come to their assistance: the other ten, with
their servants, and old Friday, 1 mean Friday's father, were
gone in a body to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle
that were kept there, in case the savages should have roved
over to that side of the country; but they did not spread so
far. With the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages,
who, as I said, were their prisoners formerly: and with them
also came the savage whom the Englishmen had left bound
hand and foot at the tree; for, it seems, they came that way,
saw the slaughter of the seven men, and unbound the eighth,
and brought him along with them ; where, however, they were
obliged to bind him again, as they had the two others who
were left when the third ran away.

The prisoners began now to be a burthen to them; and they
were so afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving
to kill them all, believing they were under an absolute necessity
to do so, for their own preservation. However, the Spaniard
governor would not consent to it; but ordered, for the present,
that they should he sent out of the way, to my old cave in
the valley, and be kept there, with two Spaniards to guard
them, and give them food for their subsistence, which was
dong; and they were bound there hand and foot for that
nig t.

When the Spaniards came, the two Englishmen were so
encouraged, that they could not satisfy themselves to stay any
longer there: but, taking five of the Spaniards and themselves,
with four muskets and a pistol among them, and two stout
quarter-staves, away they went in quest of the savages. And,
first, they came to the tree where the men lay that had been
killed; but it was easy to see that some more of the savages
had been there, for they had attempted to carry their dead men
away, and had dragged twc of them a good way, but had given
it over. From thence they advanced to the first rising ground,

where they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and where
c 3
they had the mortification still to see some of the smoke; but
neither could they here see any of the savages. They then
resolved, though with all possible caution, to go forward to-
wards their ruined plantation; but, a little before they came
thither, coming in sight of the sea-shore, they saw plainly the
savages all embarked again in their canoes, in order to be gone.
They seemed sorry, at first, that there was no way to come at
them, to give them a parting blow; but, upon the whole, they
were very well satisfied to be rid of them.

The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined, and all their
improvements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and help
them to rebuild and to assist them with needful supplies.
Their three countrymen, who were not yet noted for having
the least inclination to do any good, yet, as soon as they heard
of it (for they, living remote, eastward, knew nothing of the
matter till all was over), came and offered their help and assist-
ance, and did very friendly work for several days, to restore
their habitation, and make necessaries for them. And thus, in
a little time, they were set upon their legs again.

About two days after this, they had the farther satisfaction
of seeing three of the savages' canoes come driving on shore,
and, at some distance from them, two drowned men: by which
they had reason to believe that they had met with a storm at
sea, which had overset some of them; for it had blown very
hard the night after they went off.

However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand,
enough of them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what
they had done, as of what had happened to them, and to whet
them on to another enterprise of the same nature: which they,
it seems, resolved to attempt, with sufficient force, to carry all
before them: for, except what the first man had told them of
inhabitants, they could say little of it of their own knowledge,
for they never saw one man; and the fellow being killed that
hard affirmed it, they had no other witness to confirm it to
t em.

CHAPTER XL.

A FLEET 0P TWES'I'Y-EIGBT CANOBS INVADE THE lSLAXD--AX Altll'Y OF ABOUT
TWO HUSDRED AND FIFTY -- VARIOUS EXCOCNTBRS AND BATTLES -- ALI.
DESTROYED BUT THIRTY-SEVES, W80 SURRENDER, AND HAVE A SETTLEMENT
GIVEN THEM ON THE ISLAND--111213 LVGEXUITY.

IT was five or six months after this before they heard any
more of the savages, in which time our men were in hopes
they had either forget their former bad luck, or given over their
hopes of better; when, on a sudden, they were invaded with a
most formidable fleet of no less than eight-and-twenty canoes,
full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs,
wooden swords, and such like engines of war: and they brought
such numbers with them, that, in short, it put all our people
into the utmost consternation.

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the eastern-
most side of the island, our men had that night to consult and
consider what to do; and, in the first place, knowing that their
being entirely concealed was their only safety before, and
would be much more so now, while the number of their enemies
was so great, they therefore resolved, first of all, to take down
the huts which were built for the two Englishmen, and drive
away their goats to the old cave; because they supposed the
savages would go directly thither, as soon as it was day, lt-
play the old game over again, though they did not new land
within two leagues of it. In the next place, they drove away
all the flock of goats they had at the old bower, as I called it,
which belonged to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little
appearance of inhabitants anywhere as was possible: and the
next morning early they posted themselves, with all their force,
at the plantation of the men, to wait for their coming. As
they guessed, so it happened: these new invaders leaving their
canoes at the east end of the island, came ranging along the
shore, directly towards the place, to the number of two hundred
and fifty, as near as our men could judge. Our army was but
small, indeed; but that which was worse, they had not arms
for all their number either. The whole account, it seems,
stood thus: first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five English-
men, old Friday, or Friday's father, the three slaves taken with
the women, who proved very faithful, and three other slaves
who lived with the Spaniards. To arm these, they had
eleven muskets, five pistols, three fowling-pieces, five mus-
kets or fowling-pieces, which were taken by me from the
mutinous seamen whom I reduced, two swords, and three old
halberds.

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee, but
they had every one a halberd, or a long stafi', like a.quarter-
staff, with a great spike of iron fastened into each end of it,
and by his side a hatchet; also erery one of our men
had a hatchet. Two of the women could not be prevailed
upon but they would come into the fight, and they had bows
and arrows, which the Spaniards had taken from the savages
when the first action ha pened, which I have spoken of, where
the Indians fought with one another; and the women had
hatchets too.

The Spaniard governor, whom I described so often, com-
manded the whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful
fellow for wickedness, was a most daring, bold fellow, com-
manded under him. The savages came forward like lions;
and our men, which was the worst, had no advantage in their
situation; only that Will Atkins, who now proved a most
useful fellow, with six men, 11' as planted] ust behind a small
thicket of bushes, as an advance guard, with orders to let the
first of them pass by, and then fire into the middle of them,
and as soon as he had fired, to make his retreat as nimbly as
he could round a part of the wood, and so come in behind
the Spaniards, where they stood, having a thicket of trees
before them.

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every
way in heaps, out 50f all manner ot order, and Will Atkins let
about fifty of them pass by him; then, seeing the rest come
in a ray thick throng, he orders thiee of his men to fire,
having loaded their muskets with six 01' seven bullets a piece,
about: as big as large pislol-bullets. How many they killed
or wounded, they knew not, but the consternation and surprise
were inexpressible among the savages; they were fiightened
to the last degree to hear such a dreadlul noise, and see their
men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody that did it: when,
in the middle of their fright, Will Atkins and his other three
let fly again among the thickest of them, and in less than
a minute, the first three being loaded again, gave them a third
v0 ley

Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon
as they had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest
of the body been at hand, to pour in their shot continually,
the savages had been effectually routed; for the terror that
was among them came principally from this, viz., that they
were killed, by the gods with thunder and lightning and could
see nobody that hurt them; but Will Atkins staying to load
again, discovered the cheat: some of the savages, who were
at a distance, spying them, came upon them behind: and
though Atkins and his men fired at them also, two or three
times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as they could,
yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow
Englishmen with their arrows, as they did afterwards one
Spaniard and one ot the Indian slaves who came with the
women. This slave was a most gallant fellow, and fought
most desperately, killing five of them with his own hand,
having no weapon but one of the armed staves and a
hatchet.

Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two
other men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood:
and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon them, re-
treated also: for their number was so great, and they were so
desperate, that, though above fifty of them were killed, and
more than as many wounded, yet they came on in the teeth
of our men, fearless of danger, and shot their arrows like a
cloud; and it was observed, that their wounded men, who were
not quite disabled, were made outrageous by their wounds, and
fouaht like madmen.

When our men. retreated, they left the Spaniard and the
Englishman that were killed behind them: and the savages,
when they came up to them, killed them over again in a
wretched manner, breaking their arms, legs, and heads, with
their clubs and wooden swords, like true savages; but finding
our men were gone, they did not seem to pursue them, but
drew themselves up in a ring, which is, it seems, their custom,
and shouted twice, in token of their victory ; after which the
had the mortification to see several of their wounded men 1' ,
dying with the mere loss of blood.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up
together upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded,
would have had them march, and charge again altogether at
once; but the Spaniard replied, " Seignior Atkins, you see how
their wounded men fight, let them alone till morning; all the
wounded men will be stifi' and sore with their wounds, and
faint with the loss of blood; and so we shall have the fewer
to engage." This advice was good; but Will Atkins replied
merrily, " That is true, Seignior, and so shall I too: and that
is the reason I Would go on while I am warm,"--" Well,
Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, " you have behaved gal-
lantly, and done your part; we will fight for you, if you cannot
come on; but I think it best to stay till morning ;" so they
waited

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the
savages in great disorder about their dead and wounded men,
and a great noise and hurry among them where they lay, they
afterwards resolved to fall upon them in the night; especially
if they could come to give them but one volley before they
were discovered, which they had a fair opportunity to do; for
one of the two Englishmen in whose quarter it was where the
fight began, led them round between the woods and the sea-
side, westward, and then, turning short south, they came so
near where the thickest of them lay, that before they were
seen or heard, eight of them fired in among them, and did
dreadful execution upon them: in half a minute more, eight
others fired after them, pouring in their small shot in such a
(giantity, that abundance were killed and wounded; and all
t is while they were not able to see who hurt them, or which
way to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition,
and then divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to
fall in among them altogether. They had in each body eight

1.,

~ A 'a .'
persons, that is to say, twenty-two men, and the two women,
who, by the way, fought desperately. They divided the fire-
arms equally in each party, and so the halberds and staves.
They would have had the women kept back, but they said they
were resolved to die with their husbands. Having thus formed
their little army, they marched out from among the trees, and
came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting and hallooing as
loud as they could : the savages stood altogether, but were in
the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting
from three quarters together: they would have fought if they
had seen us; for as soon as we came near enough to be seen,
some arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded,
though not dangerously; but our men gave them no time, but
running up to them, fired among them three ways, and then
fell in with the butt-end of their muskets, their swords, armed
staves, and hatchets, and laid about them so well, that, in a
word, they set up a dismal screaming and howling, flying to save
their lives which way soever they could.

Our men were tired with the execution, and killed, or mor-
tally wounded, in the two fights, about 180 of them; the rest
being frightened out of their wits, scoured through the woods over
the hills with all the speed that fear and nimble feet could help
them to do; and as we did not trouble ourselves much to pursue
them, they got altogether to the sea~side, where they landed,
and where their canoes lay. But their disaster v N'- not at an
end yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from
the sea, so that it was impossible for them to go off; nay, the
storm continuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes
were most of them driven by the surge of the sea so high upon
the shore that it required infinite toil to get them 05; and
some of them were even dashed to pieces against the beach, or
against one another.

Our men, though glad of their victory, yet got little rest
that night; but having refreshed themselves as well as they
could, they resolved to march to that part of the island where
the savages were fled, and see what posture they were in.
This necessarily led them over the place where the fight had
been, and where they found several of the poor creatures not
quite dead, and yet past recovering life; a sight disagreeable
enough to generous minds; for a truly great man, though
obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no de-
light in his misery. However, there was no need to give any
orders in this case; for their own savages, who were their ser-
vants, despatched these poor creatures with their hatchets.

At length they came in view of the place where the more
miserable remains of the savages' army lay, where there ap-
peared about an hundred still; their posture was, generally,
sitting upon the ground, with their knees up towards theirDestroying the canoes : the Indians making pitiful gestm'wr--I'age 303.
mouths, and the head put between the two hands, leaning
down upon the knees.

When our men came within two musket shots of them, the
Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be fired, without
ball, to alarm them: this he did, that by their countenance,
he might know what to expect, viz., whether they were still in
heart to fight, or were so heartily beaten as to be dispirited and
discouraged, and so, he might manage accordingly. This stra-
tagem took: for as soon as the savages heard the first gun,
and saw the flash of the second, they started up upon their
feet in the greatest consternation imaginable: and as our men
advanced swiftly towards them, they all ran screaming and
yelling away, with a kind of howling noise, which our men did
not understand, and had never heard before; and thus they
ran up the hills into the country.

At first our men had much rather the weather had been
calm, and they had all gone away to sea; but they did not
then consider, that this might probably have been the occasion
of their coming again in such multitudes as not to be resisted,
or, at least, to come so many, and so often, as would quite
desolate the island, and starve them. Will Atkins, therefore,
who, notwithstanding his wound, kept always with them,
proved the best counsellor in this case: his advice was to take
the advantage that ofl'ered, and clap in between them and their
boats, and so deprive them of the capacity of ever returning
any more to plague the island.

They consulted long about this: and some were against it,
for fear of making the wretches fly to the woods, and live there
desperate, and so they should have them to hunt like wild
beasts, be afraid to stir out about their business, and have their

-plantation continually rifled, all their tame goats destroyed,
and, in short, to be reduced to a life of continual distress.

Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with an
hundred men than with an hundred nations: that, as they
must destroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be
all of them destroyed themselves. In a word, he showed them
the necessity of it so plainly, that they all came into it; so
they went to work immediately with the boats, and getting
some dry wood together from a dead tree, they tried to set
some of . them on fire, but they were so wet that they would
not burn; however, the fire so burned the upper part, that it
soon made them unfit for swimming in the sea as boats. When
the Indians saw what they were about, some of them came
running out of the woods, and coming as near as they could to
our men, kneeled down and cried, "0a, oa, Waramokoa," and
some other words of their language, which none of the others
understood anything of: but as they made pitiful gestures and
strange noises, it was easy to understand they begged to have
their boats spared, and they would be gone, and never come
there again. But our men were now satisfied that they had no
way to preserve themselves or to save their colony, but efl'ect-
ually to prevent any of these people from ever going home
again: depending upon this, that, it" even so much as one of
them got back into their country to tell the story, the colony
was undone : so that, letting them know that they should not
have any mercy, they fell to work with their canoes, and de-
stroyed them every one that the storm had not destroyed
before; at the sight of which the savages raised a hideous cry
in the woods, which our people heard plain enough, after
which they ran about the island like distracted men ; so that,
in a word, our men did not really know at first what to do with
them. Nor did the Spaniards, with all their rudence, con-
sider, that while they made these people thus esperate, they
ought to have kept a good guard at the same time upon their
plantations; for though it is true they had driven away their
cattle, and the Indians did not find out their main retreat, I
mean my old castle at the hill, nor the cave in the valley, yet
they found out my plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to'
pieces, and all the fences and planting about it; trod all the
corn under foot, tore up the vines and grapes, being just then
almost ripe, and did our men an inestimable damage, though,
to themselves, not one farthing's worth of service.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions,
yet they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up
and down; for as they were too nimble of foot for our men,
when they found them single, so our men durst not go abroad
single, for fear of being surrounded with their numbers. The
best was, they had no weapons; for though they made bows,
they had no arrows left, nor any materials to make any : nor
had they any edged tool or weapon among them.

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great,
and, indeed, deplorable; but at the same time our men were
also brought to very bad circumstances by them; for though
their retreats were preserved, yet their provision was destroyed,
and their harvest spoiled; and what to do, or which way to
turn themselves, they knew not. The only refuge they had
now was the stock of cattle they had in the valley by the cave,
and some little corn which grew there, and the plantation of
the three Englishmen, Will Atkins and his comrades, who were
now reduced to two; one of them being killed by an arrow,
which struck him on the side of his head, just under the
temples, so that he never spoke more; and it was very remark-
able that this was the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor
savage slave with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to
have murdered the Spaniards.

I looked upon their case to have been worse, at this time,
than mine was at any time, after I first discovered the grains
of barley and rice, and got into the manner of planting and
raising my corn and my tame cattle: for now they had, as I
may say, an hundred wolves upon' the island, which would
devour everything they could come at, yet could be hardly

come at themselves. .
When they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing

they concluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up
to the farther part of the island, south-west, that if any more
savages came on shore, they might not find one another: then
that they would daily hunt and harass them, and kill as many
of them as they could come at, till they had reduced their
number; and if they could at last tame them, and bring them
to anything, they would give them corn, and teach them how
to plant, and live upon their daily labour.

In order to do this, they so followed them, and so terrified
them with their guns, that, in a few days, if any of them fired
a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, yet he would fall
down for fear; and so dreadfully frightened they were, that they
kept out of sight farther and farther; till at last, our men fol-
lowing them, and almost every day killing or wounding some
of them, they kept up in the woods or hollow places so much,
that it reduced them to the utmost misery for want of food;
and many were afterwards found dead in the woods, without
any hurt, absolutely starved to death.

When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and
pity moved them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was
the most gentleman-like, generous-minded man, that ever
I met with in my life; and he proposed, if possible, to take
one of them alive, and bring him to understand what they
meant, so far as to be able to act as interpreter, and go among
them, and see if the might be brought to some condition
that might be depen ed upon, to save their lives and do us
no harm. - a

It was some while before any of them could be taken; but
being weak and half starved, one of them was at last surprised
and made a prisoner. He was sullen at first, and would neither
eat nor drink; but finding himself kindly used and victuals
given him, and no violence offered him, he at last crew tract-
able, and came to himself. They brought old Friday to him,
who talked often with him, and told him how kind the others
would be to them all; that they would not only save their
lives, but would give them part of the island to live in, ro-
vided they would give satisfaction that they would keep in eir
own bounds, and not come beyond it to injure or prejudice
others; and that they should have corn given them to plant,
and make it grow, for their bread, and some bread given them
for their present subsistence: and old Friday bade the fellow
go and talk with the rest of his countrymen, and see what they
said to it; assuring them, that if they did not agree imme-
diately they should be all destroyed.

The poor \vretches thoroughly humbled, and reduced in
number to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the
first offer, and begged to have some food given them: upon
which twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed, with
three Indian slaves and old Friday, marched to the place where
they were. The three Indian slaves carried them a large
quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to cakes and dried in the
sun, and three live goats; and they were ordered to go to the
side of a hill, where they sat down, ate their provisions very
thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to their words
that could be thought of : for, except when they came to beg
victuals and directions, they never came out of their bounds:
and there they lived when I came to the island, and I went to
see them.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed
tame goats, and milk them : they wanted nothing but wives,
and they soon would have been a nation. They were confined
to a neck of land, surrounded with high rocks behind them,
and lying plain towards the sea before them, on the south-east
corner of the island. They had land enouah, and it was very
good and fruitful; about a mile and a half broad, and three.
or four miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I
made for myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and
three or four knives; and there they lived the most subjected,
innocent creatures that were ever heard of.

After this the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity with
respect to the savages till 1 came to revisit them, which was
about two years after; not but that now and then some canoes
of savages came on shore for their triumphal, unnatural feasts;
but as they were of several nations, and, perhws, had never
heard of those that came, before or the reason of it, they did
not make any search or inquiry after their countrymen ; and,
if they had, it would have been very hard to have found them
out.

Thus I think I have given a full account of all that happened
to them till my return, at least that was worth notice. The
Indians, or savages, were wonderfully civilized by them, and
they frequently went among them; but forbade, on pain of
death, any one of the Indians coming to them, because they
would not have their settlement betrayed again. One thing was
very remarkable, viz., that they taught the savages to make
wicker-work, or baskets, but they soon outdid their masters; for
they made abundance of most ingenious things in wicker-work,
particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-cages, cupboards,
Sic. ; as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches, and abundance
of other things ; being very ingenious at such work, when they
were once put in the way of it.

CHAPTER XLI.

RVEXTS ON THE RETURN OF ROBINSON Clll'SOE TO ms ISLAXD--AWEI'TABLB
TOOLS--WILL ATKIXS'S liL'T--RELIGIOX OF THE wWSlS'I'S--Tflfi SI'ANIARDS--
THEIR LIFE AMONG THE SAVAGE--TREATY 0P PRIBl'DaHlP BETWEEN THE
ENGLISH LSD SPASIAIIDS--L FEAST--"HIS mittens INTRODUCED.

MY coming was a particular relief to these people, because we
furnished them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pick-
axes, and all things of that kind which they could want.
With the help of those tools they were so very handy, that they
came at last to build up their huts, or houses, Very hand-
somely, raddling or working it up like basket-work, all the
way round; which was a very extraordinary piece of inge-
nuity, and looked very odd, but was an exceeding good fence,
as well against heat as against all sorts of vermin; and our
men were so taken with it, that they got the wild savages to
come and do the like for them; so that when I came to see
the two Englishmen's colonies, they looked at a distance as if
they all lived like bees in a hive. As for Will Atkins, who was
now become a very industrious, useful, and sober fellow, he
had made himself such a tent of basket-work as I believe was
never seen; it was 120 paces round on the outside, as 1
measured by my steps; the walls were as close worked as a
basket, in panels, or squares, of thirty-two in number, and
very strong, standing about seven feet high: in the middle was
another, not above twenty-two paces round, but built stronger,
being octagon in its form, and in the eight corners stood eight
very strong posts; round the top of which he laid strong
pieces, pinned together with wooden pins, from which he
raised a pyramid for a roof, of eight rafters, very handsome, I
assure you, and joined together very well, though he had no
nails, and only a few iron 8 ikes, which he made himself too,
out of the old iron that I ha left there; and, indeed, this fellow
showed abundance of ingenuity in several things which he
had no knowledge of : he made him a forge, with a pair of
wooden bellows to blow the fire; he made himself charcoal
for his work; and he formed out of the iron crows a middling
good anvil to hammer upon: in this manner he made many
things, but especially hooks, staples, and spikes, bolts and
hinges. But to return to the house: after he had pitched the
roof of his innermost tent, he worked it up between the rat'-
ters with basket-work, so firm, and thatched that over again so
ingeniously with rice straw, and over that a large leaf of a tree,
which covered the top, that his house was as dry as if it had
been tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the savages had
made the basket-work for him. The outer circuit was covered
as a lean-to, all round this inner apartment, and long rafters
lay from the thirty~two angles to the top posts of the inner
house, being about twenty feet distant; so that there was a
space like a walk, within the outer wicker-wall and without the
inner, near twenty feet wide.

The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-
work, but much fairer, and divided it into six apartments,
so that he had six rooms on a floor, and out of every one of
these there was a door; first into the entry, or coming into
the main tent, and another door into the space, or walk, that
was round it; so that walk was also divided into six equal
parts, which served not only for a retreat, but to store up any
necessaries which the family had occasion for. These six
spaces not taking up the whole circumference, what other
apartments the outer circle had were thus ordered :~--as soon
as you were in at the door of the outer circle, you had a short

ge straight before you to the door of the inner house;
ut on either side was a wicker partition, and a door in it, by
which you went, first into a large room or store-house, twenty
feet wide, and about thirty feet long, and through that into
another not quite so long; so that in the outer circle were
ten handsome rooms, six of which were only to be come at
through the apartments of the inner tent, and served as closets
or retiring rooms, to the respective chambers of the inner
circle, and four large warehouses or barns, or what you please
to call them, which went through one another, two on either
hand of the passage, that led through the outer door to the
inner tent.

Such a piece of basket-work,I believe, was never seen in the
world, nor a house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so
built. In this great bee-hive lived the three families, that is
to say, Will Atkins and his companion; the third was killed,
but his wife remained with three children, for she had, it
seems, home a child after he died: and the other two were
not at all backward to give the widow her full share of every-
thing, Imean as to their corn, milk, grapes, &c., and when they
killed a kid, or found a turtle on the shore; so that they all
lived well enough; though it was true they were not so in-
dustrious as the other two, as has been observed already.

One thing, however, cannot be omitted, viz., that as for re-
ligion, I do not know that there was anything of that kind
among them: they often, indeed, put one another in mind
there was a God, by the very common method of seamen, viz.,
swearing by His name: nor were their poor ignorant savage
wives much better for having been married to Christians, as
we must call them: for as they knew very little of God them-
selves, so they were utterly incapable of entering into any dis-
course with their wives about a God, or to talk anything to
them concerning religion.

The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the
wives had made from them was, that they had taught them
to speak English pretty well; and most of their children,
which were near twenty in all, were taught to Speak English
too, from their first learning to speak, though they at first
spoke it in a very broken manner, like their mothers. There
was none of these children above six years old when I came
thither, for it was not much above seven years that they had
fetched these five savage ladies over; but they had all been
pretty fruitful, for they had all children, more or less: I think
the cook's mate's wife had borne no less than six;and the
mothers were all a good sort of well-governed, quiet, laborious
women, modest and decent, helpful to one another, mighty
observant and subject to their masters (I cannot call them
husbands), and wanted nothing but to be well instructed in the
Christian religion, and to be legally married; both of which
were happily brought about afterwards by my means, or at
least in consequence of my coming among them.

Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and
pretty much of my runagate English, I must say something
of the Spaniards, who were the main body of the family,
and in whose story there are some incidents also remarkable
enough.

I had a great many discourses with them about their cir-
cumstances when they were among the savages. They told
me readily, that they had no instances to give of their appli-
cation or ingenuity in that country; that they were a poor,
miserable, dejected handful of people ; that if means had been
put into their hands, yet they had so abandoned themselves
to despair, and so sunk under the weight 02 their misfortune,
that they thought of nothing but starving. One of them, a
grave and sensible man, told me he was convinced they were
in the wrong; that it was not the part of wise men to give
themselves up to their misery, but always to take hold of the
helps which reason offered, as well for present support as for
future deliverance: he told me that grief was the most sense~
less, insignificant passion in the world, for that it regarded
only things past, which were generally impossible to be
recalled, or to be remedied, but had no views of things to
come, and had no share in anything that looked like deliver-
ance, but rather added to the afiiction, than proposed a
remedy; and, upon this, be repeated a Spanish proverb, which,
though I cannot repeat in just the same words that he spoke it,
yet I remember I made it into an English proverb of my own,
thus:

In trouble to be troubled.
is to have your tmuble doubled.

He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improve-
ments I had made in my solitude; my unwearied application,
as he called it, and how I had made a condition, which, in its
circumstances, was at first much worse than theirs, a thousand
times more happy than theirs was, even now, when they were
altogether. He told me, it was remarkable that Englishmen
had a greater presence of mind in their distress than any
people that ever he met with : that their unhappy nation, and
the Portuguese, were the worst men in the world to struggle
with misfortunes; for that their first step in dangers, after the
common efl'orts were over, was to despair, lie down under it,
and die, without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies
for escape.

I told him their case and mine differed exceedingly; that
they were cast upon the shore without necessaries, without
supply of food, or present sustenance, till they could provide;
that it was true I had this disadvantage and discomfort, that
l was alone; but then, the supplies I had providentially
thrown into my hands by the unexpected driving of the ship
on shore, was such a help as would have encouraged any
creature in the world to have applied himself as I had done.
" Seignior," says the Spaniard, "had we poor Spaniards been
in your case, we should never have got half those things out
of the ship, as you did: nay," says he, "we should never
have found means to have got a raft to carry them, or to have
got the raft on shore without boat or sail : and how much less
should we have done if any of us had been alone P" Well,
I desired him to abate his compliment, and go on with the
history of their coming on shore, where they landed. He
told me they unhappily landed at a place where there were
people without provisions; whereas, had they had the common
sense to have put off to sea again, and gone to another island
a little farther, they had found provisions, though without
people: there being an island that way, as they had been told,
where there were provisions, though no people; that is to say,
that the Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently been there, and
had filled the island with goats and hogs, at several times,
where they had bred in such multitudes, and where turtles
and sea-fowls were in such plenty, that they could have been
in no want of flesh, though they had found no bread; whereas,
here, they were only sustained with a few roots and herbs,
which they understood not, and which had no substance in
them, and which the inhabitants gave sparingly enough; and
who could treat them no better, unless they would turn canni-
bals, and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of their
country.

They gave me an account how mdhy ways they strove to
civilize the savages they were with, and to teach them rational
customs in the ordinary Way of living, but in vain; and how
they retorted it upon them as unjust, that they who came
there for assistance and support, should attempt to setup for
instructors of those that gave them food; intimating, it seems,
that none should set up for the instructors of others, but those
who could live without them.

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were
driven to ; how, sometimes, they were many days without any
food at all, the island they were upon being inhabited by a
sort of savages that lived more indolent, and, for that reason,
were less supplied with the necessaries of life, than they had
reason to believe others were in the same part of the world:
and yet they found out that these savages were less ravenous
and voracious than those who had better supplies of food.
Also, they added, they could not but see with what demonstra-
tion of wisdom and goodness the governing providence of God
directs the events of things in the world; which, they said,
appeared in their circumstances: for i." pressed by the hard-
ships they were under, and the barrenness of the country where
they were, they had searched after a better to live in, they had
then been out of the way of the relief that happened to them
by my means.

. They then gave me an account how the savages, whom they
lived among, expected them to go out with them into their
wars; and it was true that, as they had fire-arms with them,
had they not had the disaster to lose their ammunition, they
should have been serviceable not only to their friends, but
have made themselves terrible both to friends and enemies;
but, being without powder and shot, and yet in a condition
that they could not, in reason, deny to go out with their land-
lords to their wars, so when then they came into the field of
battle, they were in a worse condition than the savages them-
selves ; for they had neither bows nor arrows, nor could they
use those the savages gave them; so they could do nothing
but stand still, and be wounded with arrows, till they came up
to the teeth of their enemy; and then, indeed, the three hal-
berds they had were of use to them; and they would often
drive a whole little army before them with those halberds, and
sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their muskets: but,
that, for all this, they were sometimes surrounded with multi-
tudes, and in great danger from their arrows, till at last they

6-

'35
found the way to make themselves large targets of wood,
which they covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names
they knew not, and these covered them from the arrows of the
savages: that, notwithstanding these, they were sometimes in
great danger; and five of thorn were once knocked down
together with the clubs of the savages, which was the time
when one of them was taken prisoner, that is to say, the
Spaniard whom I had relieved: that at first, they thought
he had been killed; but, when they afterwards heard he was
taken prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable,
and would willingly have all ventured their lives to have
rescued him.

They told me, that, when they were so knocked down, the
rest of their cmnpany rescued them, and stood over them
lighting till they were come to themselves, all but him whom
they thought had been dead ; and then, they made their way
with their halberds and pieces, standing close together in

line, through a body of above a thousand savages, and,
beating down all that came in their way, get the victory
over their enemies, but, to their great sorrow, because it was
with the loss of their friend, whom the other party, finding
him alive, carried otf, with some others, as I gave an account
before.

They described most affectionately, how they were surprised
with joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery,
who, they thought, had been devoured by wild beasts of the
worst kind, viz., by wild men; and yet how, more and more,
they were surprised with the account he gave them of his
errand, and that there was a Christian in any place near, much
more one that was able, and had humanity enough to contribute
to their deliv'erance.

They described how they were astonished at the sight of
the relief I sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread,
things they had not seen since their coming to that miserable
place; how often they blessed it as bread sent from Heaven;
and what a reviving cordial it was to their spirits to taste it,
as also the other things 1 had sent for their supply ; and after
all, they would have told me something of the joy they were
in at the sight of a boat and pilots, to carry them away to the
person and place from whence all these new Comforts came;
but it Was imwssible to express it by words, for their exces-
sive joy naturally driving them to unbecoming extravagances,
they had no way to describe them, but by telling me they bor-
dered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their pas-
sions suitable to the sense that was upon them : that in some
it worked one way, and in some another; and that some of
them, through a surprise of joy, would burst into tears, others
be stark mad, and others immediately faint. This discourse
extremely affected me, and called to my mind 1" IIiday's ecstasy
when he met his father, and the poor people's ecstasy when
1 took them up at Sea after their ship was on fire ; the joy of
the mate of the ship, when he found himself deliI'eIed, in the
place where he expected to perish; and my own jov, when,
alter twenty-eight years' captivity, [ found a good ship rank
to carry me to my own country. All these things made me
more sensible of the relation of these poor men, and more
affected with it.

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found
them, I must relate the heads of what I did for these people,
and the condition in which I left them. it was their opinion,
and mine too, that they would be troubled no more with the
savages, or if they were, they would be able to cut them on,
if they were twice as many as before ; so they had no Concern
about that. Then I entered into a serious discourse with the
Spaniard, whom i call governor, about their stay in the island:
for, as l was not come to carry auv of them oll, so it would
not he just to carry oll some and leave others, who peI,Ihaps
would be unwilling to stay if their strength II'asdiIninished.
()n the other hand, i told them I came to establish them there,
not to remove them: and then I let them know that 1 had
brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them ; that I had
been at a great charge to supply them with all things neces-
sary, as "on for their convenience as their defence; and that
1 had su. and such particular persons with me, as well to
increase and recruit their number, as by the particular neces-
sary employ ments which they were bred to, beinyr artiliccrs,
to assist them in those things, of which, at present, they
were in want.

They Were all together when I talked thus to them; and,
before I delivered to them the stores Ihad brought, Iasked
them, one by one, if they had entirely lorgot and buried the
first animosities that had been among them, and \I ould shake
hands with one another, and engage in a strict lriendship and
union of interest, that so there might be no more misunder-
standings or jealousies.

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour,
said they had met with affliction enough to make them all
sober, and enemies enough to make them all friends; that, for
his part, he would live and die with them: and was so far
from designing anything against the Spaniards, that he had
owned they had done nothing to him but what his 0" II bad
humour made necessary, and what he would have done, and
perhaps worse, in their case: and that he would ask them
pardon, if I desired it, for the foolish and brutish things he
had done to them, and was I'erv willing and desirous of living
in terms of entire lriendship and union with them; and would

P
do anything that lay in his power to convince them of it:
and, as for going to England, he cared not if he did not go
thither these twenty years.

The Spaniards said they had indeed, at first, disarmed and
excluded Will Atkins :md his two countrymen, for their ill
conduct, as they had let me know, and they appealed to me for
the necessity they were under to do so; but that: \\"ill Atkins
had behaVed himself so bravely in the great light they had
with the savages, and on several occasions since, and had
showed himSelf so faithful to, and concerned for, the general
interest of them all, that. they had forgotten all that was past,
and thought he merited as much to be trusted with arms, and
supplied with neCessaries, as any of them : and they had testi-
ilt'tl their satislaction in him by committing the counnand
to him, next to the governor himself; and, as they had entire
confidence in him, and all his countrymen, so they acknow-
ledged they had merited that contidenee by all the methods
that honest men could merit to be valued and trusted; and
they most heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this
assurance, that. they would never have any interest separate
from one another.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we
appointed the next. day to dine altogether; and indeed, we
made a splendid feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate
to come on shore and dress our dinner, and the old cook's mate
we had on shore assisted. We brought on shore siflpieces of
good beef, and four pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision,
with our punch-bowl, and materials to till it; and, in particular,
1 gave them ten bottles of French claret, and ten bottles of
English beer; things, that neither the Spaniards nor the
English had tasted for many years, and which, it may be
supposed, they were very glad of. The Spaniards added to our
feast tive whole kids, which the cooks roasted; and three of
them were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the
Seatnen, that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as
we did with their salt meat from on board.

After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry,
I brought out my cargo of goods; wherein, that there might
be no dispute about dividing, I showed them that there was a
sufficiency for them all, desiring that they might all take an
equal quantity of the goods that were for wearing ; that is to
say, equal when made up. At first, I distributed linen sufficient
to make every one of them four shirts, and at the Spaniards'
request, afterwards made them up six; these were exceeding
comfortable to them, having been what, as I might say, they
had long since forgot the use of, or what it was to wear them
I allotted the thin English stuti's, which I mentioned before,
to make every one a light coat like a frock, which I judged
fittest for the heat of the season, cool and loose : and
ordered that, whenever they decayed, they should make more,
as they thought lit; the like for pumps, shoes, stockings,
hats, (to.

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction sat upon
the countenances of all these poor men, when they saw the
care I had taken of them, and how well I had furnished them.
They told me I was a father to them ; and that, having such
a correspondent as I was in so remote a part of the world, it
would make them forget that they were left inadesoiate place;
and they all voluntarily engaged to me not to leave the place
without my consent.

Then I presented to them the people I had brought with me,
particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all
of them most necessary people; but, above all, my general
artificer, than whom they could not name anything that was
more useful to them: and the tailor, to show his concern for
them, went to work immediately, and with my leave, made
them every one a shirt, the first thing he did; and, which
was still more, he taught the women, not only how to sew and
stitch, and use the needle, but made them assist to make the
shirts for their husbands, and for all the rest.

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they
were; for they took to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things,
and made them clever, convenient tables, stools, bedsteads,
cupboards, lockers, shelves, and everything they wanted of
that kind. But, to let them see how nature made artificers at
first, I carried the carpenters to see Will Atkins's basket-house,
as I called it ; and they both owned they never saw an instance
of such natural ingenuity before, nor anything so regular and
so handily built, at least of its kind; and one of them, when
he saw it, after musing a good while, turned about to me,
" I am sure," says he, " that man has no need of us; you need
do nothing but give him tools."

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave
every man a digging-simde, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no
barrows nor ploughs; and to every separate place a pick-axe,
a crow, a broad-axe, and a saw; always appointing, that as
often as any were broken or worn out they should be supplied,
without grudging, out of the general stores that I left behind.
Nails, staples, hinges, hammers, chisels, knives, scissors, and
all sorts of iron-work, they had without tale, as they required;
for no man would take more than he wanted, and he must be
a fool that would waste or spoil them upon any account what-
ever: and for the use of the smith I left two tons of unwrought
iron for a supply.

My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them
was such, even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice

P 2
at them, . for now tlIeI' could IIIarI'h, as I used to do IIith a
musket upon each shoulIlIr, it there "as occasion, and new
ahle Io Ii ght a thousand saIagIIs, iI the_I had hut. some little
IIdIaIIIIIgI-s oI situation, \Ihich also IhIII could not miss if

"II II' hail occasion.

 

I I'aIriI-d on shore with IIIII the young IIIIIII whose IIII "III"
was starved to IleaIlI, and the maid also: sho was a sober,
II'I-ll-edIIeated, religious I'oung Woman, and hIIhaI'I-d so inoII'eII-
siI'I-lI' that every one gave her II good word : she. had, indeed.
an unhappy life with us, there being no woman in the ship but
herself, hut she horII it. with patience. After a while, seeing
things so "'I'" ordered, and in so I'IIIII II way of thriving upon
my island, and considering that they had neither hnsiness nor
aeIpI: IiIItance in the. Last Indies. nor reason tor taking so long
:I I',o_I':Ige . I say, considering all this, both oI them came to IIIII
and desired l IIoIIld give them leaIII. to remain on the island,
and he entered among my IaInilI', as they called it. I agreed
to this readily; and they had II little. plot. oI ground allotted
them, \IhIIIe they had three tents or houses set. up, surrounded
with a basket work, pallisadoed like Atkins's, adjoining to his
plantation. 'l'heir tents \I'IIro contrivIId so, that they had e ac]:
ot them II room apart to lodge in, and a middle tent likI
great store-house, to lay their goods iII, and to eat. and IlrinlI
in. .\-IId now the other two lI.II<<IlislIIIIIIII removed their hahi-
IzIIiIIII to thIIs same place . and so the island was divided into
three Colonies and no more, I'iz., the Spaniards, with old
Friday, and the first servants, at my old habitation under the
hill, which Was, in a Word, the capital city ; and where they had
so enlarged and extended their Works, as well under as on the
outside of the hill, that they lived, though perfectly Concealed,
yet full at large. Never was there such a little city in a "'Uutl,
and SH hid, in any part of the world, for l verily believe a
thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and, if
they had not known there was such a thing, and looked on
purpose for it, they Would not have found it; for the trees
stood so thick and so close, and grew so fast woven one into
another, that nothing but. cutting them down first could dis-
cover the place, except only the two narrow entrances where
Ibey went in and out could be found, which was not very easy ;
one. of them was close down to the water's edge, on the side of
the creek, and it was afterwards about two hundred yards to
the place; and the other was up a ladder at twice, as l han-
already formerly described it; and they had also a large wood
thick planted on the top of the hill, containing above an acre,
which grew apacc, and concealed the place from all discovery
there, with only one narrow place between two trees, not easil y
to be discovered, to enter on that side.

The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there were
four families of Englishmen, 1 mean those I had left there,
with their wives and children ; three savages that were slaves;
the. widow and the children of the Englishman that was killed;
the young man and the maid ; and, by the way, we made a wife
of her before we. Went away. There Were also the two carpen-
tors and the tailor, whom I brought with me for them; also
the smith, who was a very necessary man to them, especially
as a gunsmith, to take care of their arms; and my other man
whom I called Jack-otlall-Trades, who was in himself as good
almost as twenty men ; for he was not only a very ingenious
fellow, but a very merry fellow; and before I went away we
married him to the honest maid that came with the youth in
the ship I mentioned before.

 

0

CHAPTER XLII.

THE FRENCH rmrsus'uc--m AKle FOR THE "1113 OF 1'"! INRABITAN'KS
--.\GREl-'.S TO BE LEI-'1' 1'0 EXDl-ZAVOL'R 1'0 CONVERT I'll".

Asa now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say
something of the French ecclesiastic that I had brought with
me out of the ship's crew whom I took up at sea. It is true
this man was a Roman, and, perhaps, it may give 09221209 tow'r'

318 anvnxrunns or

some hereafter, if I leave anything extraordinary upon record
of a man whom, before I begin, 1 must (to set him out in just
colours) represent in terms very much to his disadvantage, in
the account of Protestants: as, first, that he was a I'apist;
secondly, a I'opish priest; and, thirdly, a h'renc I'opish priest.
But justice demands of me to give him a due character; and
I must say he was a grave, sober, pious, and most religious
person: exact in his life, extensive in his charity, and exem-
plary in almost everything he did. What then can any one
say against being very sensible of the value of. such a man,
notwithstanding his profession? though it may be my 0 inion,
perhaps, as Well as the opinion of others who shall rea this,
that he was mistaken.

The first hour that I began to converse with him, after he
had agreed to go with me to the East Indies, I found reason to
delight exceedingly in his conversation, and he first began
with me about religion in the most obliging manner imagin-
able. " Sir," says he, "you have not only, under God, (and
at that he crossed his breast,) sawed my life, but you have ad-
mitted me to go this voyage in your ship, and by your obliging
civility have taken me into your family, giving me an opportu-
nity of free conversation. Now, sir, you see by my habit what
my profession is, and I guess by your nation what yours is;
I may think it is my duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my
utmost endeavours on all occasions to bring all the souls I can
to the knowledge of the truth, and to embrace the Catholic
doctrine ; but as I am here under your remission, and in your
family, 1 am bound in justice to your 1kindness, as well as in
decency and good manners, to be under your government, and
therefore I shall not, without your leave, enter into any debate
on the points of religion in which we may not agree, farther
than you shall give me leave."

I told him his carriage was so modest, that I could not but
acknowledge it; that it was true we were such people as they
called heretics, but that he was not the first Catholic 1 had con-
versed with, without falling into inconveniences, or carrying
the question to any height in debate; that he should not find
himself the worse used from being of a different opinion from
us: and that if we did not converse without any dislike on
either side, it should be his fault, not ours.

He replied, that he thought all our conversation might be
easily separated from disputes; that it was not his business
to cap principles with every man he eonversed with ; and that
he rather desired me to converse with him as a gentleman than
as a rcligionist. , and that if i would give him leave at any time
to discourse upon religious subjects, he would readily comply
with it, and that he did not doubt but I would allow him also
to defend his own opinions as well as he could ; but that with
out my leave he would not break in upon me with any such
thing. He told me, farther, that he would not cease to do all
that became him in his office as a priest, as well as a private
Christian, to procure the good of the ship and the safety of all
that was in her; and though, perhaps, we would not join with
him, and he could not pray with us, he hoped he might pray
for us, which he would do upon all occasions. In this manner
we oeuversed ; and as he was of the most obliging, gentleman-
like behaviour, so he was, if I may be allowed to say so, a
man of good sense, and, as I believe, of great learning. He
gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of the many
extraordinary events of it; of many adventures which had
befallen him in the few years that he had been abroad in the
world; and, particularly, this was very remarkable, viz., that
in the voyage he was now engaged in, he had had the misfor-
tune to be five times shipped and unshipped, and never to go
to the place whither any of the ships he was in were at first
designed. That his first intent was to have gone to Martinico,
and that he went on board a ship bound thither, at St. Male;
but being forced into Lisbon by bad weather, the ship received
some damage by running aground in the mouth of the river
'l'agus, and was obliged to unload her cargo there; but finding
a Portuguese ship there, bound to the Madeiras, and ready to
sail, and supposing he should easily meet with a vessel there
" bound to Martinico, he went on board in order to sail to the
" --Madeims; but the master of tlmlontuguese .ship, [king but
' an indifferent mariner, had been out of his reckoning, and they
drove to Fyal, where, however, he happened to find a very good
market for his cargo, which was corn, and, therefore, resolved
not to go to the Madeiras, but to load salt at the isle of May,
and go away to Newfoundland. He had no remedy in this
exigence but to go with the ship, and had a pretty good voyage
as far as the Banks, (so they called the place where they catched
the 6511,) where, meeting with a French ship bound f rom
France to Quebec, in the river Canada, and from thence to
Martinico, to carry provisions, he thought he should have an
opportunity to complete his first design; but when he Came
to Quebec the master of the ship died, and the vessel proceeded
no farther: so the next voyage he shipped himself for France
in the ship that was burned when we took them up at sea; and
then shipped with us for the East Indies, as I have already
said. Thus he had been disappointed in five voyages, all, as I
may call it, in one voyage, besides what I shall have occasion
to mention farther of the same person.

But I shall not make digressions into other men's stories,
which have no relation to my own: I return to what concerns
our affairs in the island. He came to me one morning, for be
lodged among us all the while we were u} an the island, and itl

 

320 ADVENTURES or-

happened to be just when I was going to visit the Englishmen's
colony at the farthest part of the island; I say, he came to
me, and told me, with a very grave countenance, that he had
for two or three days desired an opportunity of some discourse
with me, which he hoped would not be diSpleasing to me,
because he thought it might, in some measure, correspond
with my general design, which was the prosperity of my new
colony, and, perhaps, might put it, at least more than he yet
thought it was, in the way of God's blessing.

i looked a little surprised at the last part of his discourse,
and, turning a little short, " llow, sir," said I, "can it be said
that we are not in the way of God's blessing, after such visible
assistances and Wonderful deliverances as we have seen here,
and of which 1 have given you a large account?"----" Ifyou had
pleased, sir," said he with a world of modesty, and yet with
great readiness, "to have heard me, you would have found
no room to have been displeased, much less to think so hard of
me, that I should suggest that you have not had wonderful
:issistances and deliverances; and I hope on your behalf, that
you are in the way oftiod's blessing, as your design is exceeding
good, and will prosper: but, sir, though it were more so than
is even possible to yell, yet there may be some among you that
are not equally right in their actions: and you know that in
the story of the children of Israel, one Achan in the camp
removed God's blessing from them, and turned His hand so
against them, that six-and-thirty of them, though not concerned
in the crime, were the objects of divine vengeance, and bore the
weight of that punishment."

1 was sensibly touched with this discourse, and told him his
inference Was so just, that the whole design seemed so sincere,
and was really so religious in its own nature, that I was very
sorryl had interrupted him, and begged him to go on: and,
in the mean time, because it seemed that what we had both to
say might take up some time, I told him I was going to the
Englishmen's plantations, and asked him to go with me, and we
might discourse of it by the way. He told me he would the
more willingly wait on me thither, because there, partly, the
thing was acted which he desired to speak to me about; so we
walked on, and I pressed him to be free and plain with me in
what he had to say.

" Why, then, sir," says he, "be pleased to give me leave to
lay down a few propositions as the foundation of what I have
to say, that we may not differ in the general principles, though
we may be of some differing Opinions in the practice of par-
ticulars.---First, sir, though we difl'er in some of the doctrinal
articles of religion, and it is very unhappy it is so, especially
in the case before us, as 1 shall show afterwards, yet there are
some' general principles in which we both agree, viz., that there
is a God; and that this God having given us some stated
general rules for our service and obedience, we ought not wil--
lingly and knowingly to offend llim, either by neglecting to do
what He has commanded, or by doing what He has expressly
forbidden: and let our diti'erent religions be what they will,
this general principle is readily owned by us all, that the
blessing of God does not ordinarily lollow presumptuous sin-
ning against His command: and every good Christian will be
affectionately concerned to prevent. any that are under his care
living in a total neglect of God and His commands. It is not
your men being Protestants, whatever my opiniou'may be of
such, that discharges me from being concerned for their souls,
and from endeavouring, if it lies before me, that they should
live in as little distance from enmity with their Maker as pos-
sible, especially if you give me leave to meddle so far in your
circuit."

I could not yet imagine what he aimed at, and told him I
granted all he had said, and thanked him that he would so far
concern himself for us; and begged he would explain the par-
ticulars of what he had observed, that, like Joshua, to take his
own parable, I might put away the accursed thing from us.

" Why, then, sir," says he, " 1 will take the liberty you gave;
and there are three things which, if I am right, must stand in
the way of God's blessing upon your endeavours here, and
which I should rejoice for your sake and their own, to see re-
moved: and, sir, I promise myself that you will fully agree
with me in them all as soon as I name them; especially because
I shall convince you that every one of them may with great
ease, and very much to your satisfaction, be remedied. First,
sir," says he, "you have here four Englishmen, who have
fetched women from among the savages, and have taken them
as their wives, and have had many children by them all, and
yet are not married to them after any stated legal manner, as
the laws of God and man require; and, therefore, are yet in
the sense of both no less then fornicators, if not living in
adultery. To this, sir, I know you will object that there was
no clergyman nor priest of any kind, or of any profession, to
perform the ceremony; nor any pen and ink, or paper, to write
down acontract of marriage, and have it signed between them;
and I know also, sir, what the Spaniard governor has told you,
I mean of the agreement that he obliged them to make when
they took those women, viz., that they should choose them out
by consent, and keep separately to them; which, by the way,
is nothing of a. marriage, no agreement with the women as
wives, but only an agreement among themselves to keep them
from quarrelling. But, sir, the essence of the sacrament of
matrimony (so he called it, being a Roman) consists, not only
in the mutual consent of the parties to take one another as

P3
man and wife, but in the formal and legal obligation that there
is in the contract, to compel the man and woman at all times
to own and acknowledge each other; obliging the man to ab-
stain from all other women, to engage in no other contract
while these subsist, and on all occasions, as ability allows, to
provide honestly for them and their children: and oblige the
woman to the same, or like conditions, mututis mutamlt's, on
their side. Now, sir," says he, "these men may, when they
please, or when occasion presents, abandon these women,
disown their children, leave them to perish, and take other
women, and marry them while these are living :" and here he
added with some warmth, "how, sir, is God honoured in this
unlawful liberty, and how shall a blessing succeed your endea-
vours in this plaCe, however good in themselves, and however
sincere in your design, while these men, who at present are
your subjects, under your absolute govermnent and dominion,
are allowed by you to live in open adultery '2"

I confess I was struck with the thing itself, but much more
with the convincing arguments he supported it with; for it
was certainly true that, though they had no clergyman upon
the spot, yet a formal contract on both sides, made before wit-
nesses, and continued by any token which they had all agreed
to be bound by, though it had been but breaking a stick
between them, engaging the men to own these women for
their wives upon all occasions, and never to abandon them nor
their children, and the women to the same with their husbands,
had been an etl'eetual lawful marriage in the sight of God; and
it was a great neglect that it was not done. But I thought to
have got off my young priest, by telling him that all that part
was done when l was not here, and they had lived so many
years with them now, that if it was adultery it was past re--
medy : they could do nothing in it now.

" Sir," says he, "asking your pardon for such freedom, you
are right in this, that, it being done in your absence, you could
not be charged with that part of the crime, but 1 beseech you
tlatter not yomself that you are not, therefore, under an obli-
gation to do your utmost now to put an end to it. How can
you think but that, let the time past lie on whom it will, all
the guilt. for the future will lie entirely upon you? Because it
is certainly in your power now to put an end to it, and in no-
body's power but yours."

1 was so dull still that 1 did not take him right; but I im: -
gined that, by putting an end to it he meant that I should part
them, and not sufl'er them to live together any longer: and
i said to him 1 could not do that by any means, for that it
would put. the whole island into confusion. He seemed sur-
prised that I should so far mistake him. "No, sir," says he,
" I do not mean that you should now separate them, but legally
and eil'ectually marry them now; and as, sir, my way of mar-
rying them may not be easy to reconcile them to, though it
will be efl'ectual, even by your own laws, so your way may be as
. well before God, and as valid among men; 1 mean by a written
.contract signed by both man and woman, and by all the witnesses
present, which all the laws of Europe would decree to be valid."

I was amazed to see so much true piety, and so much sin-
cerity of zeal, besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse,
as to his own party or church, and such true warmth for pre-
serving the people that he had no knowledge of or relation
to; I say, for preserving them from transgressing the laws of
God, the like of which I had, indeed, not met with anywhere:
but recollecting what he had said of marrying them by a
written contract, which I knew he would stand to, I returned it
back upon him, and told him I granted all that he had said to
be just, and on his part very kind; that I would discourse
with the men upon the point now when 1 came to them, and I
knew no reason why they should scruple to let him marry
them all, which I knew well enough would be granted to be as
authentic and valid in England as if they were married by one
of our own clergymcn: what was afterwards done in this matter
I shall speak of by itself.

I then pressed him to tell me what was the second complaint
which he had to make, acknowledging that l was very much
his debtor for the first, and thanked him very heartily for it.
He told me he would use the same freedom and plainness in
the second, and hoped I would take it as well: and this was,
that, notwithstanding these English subjects of mine, as he
called them, had lived with these women for almost seven
years, had taught them to speak English and even to read it,
and that they were, as he perceived women of tolerable under-
standing, and capable of instruction, yet they had not, to this
hour, taught them anything of the Christian religion, 110, not
so much as to know that there was a God, or a worship, or in
what manner God was to be served, or that th ' own idolatry
and worshipping they knew not whom, was fa se and absurd.
This, he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and what God
would certainly call them to account for, and, perhaps, at last,
take the work out of their hands--he spoke this very afl'ec-
tionately and warmly. "I am persuaded," says he, "had those
men lived in the savage country whence their wives came, the
savages would have taken more pains to have brought them to
be idolaters, and to worship the devil, than any of these men,
so far as I can see, have taken with them to teach them the
knowledge of the true God. Now, sir," said be, "though I
do not acknowledge your religion, or you mine, yet we would
be glad to see the devil's servants, and the subjects of his king-
dom, taught to know the general principles of the Christian
religion; that they might, at least, hear of God and of a Re.
deemer, and of the resurrection, and of a future statc,--things
which we all believe ; they had, at least, been so much nearer
coming into the bosom of the true Church than they are now in
the public profession of idolatry and de1 11-1101ship.

I could hold no longer. 1 took him in my arms, and em-
braced him 11ith an e.\Cess of passion. "How far," said I to
him, "have I been from understanding the most essential part
of a Christian ! viz., to love the interest of the Christian
chuich, and the good of other men's souls; l scarce have
known what belongs to the being a Christian." --"Ul1, si1, do
not say so,' 'replied he; " this thing is not 3'0111 fault. '-----".1\'0,:
says I; "but why did 1 nevei la3 it to heart as well as 3.0111'

--"It is not too late y e,t" said he: "be not too forward to
condemn 3"ouiself."-- "But what can be done now P" said I;
" as you see I 1 11 going a11'a3'."--" Will you give me leave to talk
with these poor men about it?"---" Yes, with all my heart,"
said 1: "and will oblige them to give heed to what you say,
too."--"As to that," said he, "we must leave them to the
mercy of Christ; but it is your business to assist them, en-
courage them, and instruct them: and if you give me leave,
and God His blessing, ldo not doubt but the poor ignorant
souls would be brought home to the great circle of Christianity,
if not into the particular faith we all embrace, and that, even
while you stay here." Upon this 1 said, " 1 shall not only give
you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it." What fol-
lowed on this account I shall mention also again in its place.

1 now pressed him for the third article in which we were to
blame. " Why, really," says be, "it is of the same nature:
and 1 will prOCeed, asking your leave, with the same plainness
as before: it is about your poor savages, who are, as I may
say, your conquered subjects. it is a maxim, sir, that is or
ought to be received among all Christians, of what church or
pretended church soever, viz.--the Christian knowledge ought
to be propalgged by all possible means, and 011 all possible
occasions. s on this principle that 0111' church sends mis-
sionaries into Persia, India, China; and that our clei g3, even
of the superior sort, willingly engage in the most hazardous
vo3ages, and the most dangerous 1esidence among murdereis
and ba1 barians, to teach them the knowledge ot the true God,
and to hunt7 them 01' e1 to embrace the Christian faith. \'ow,
sir, 3ou have such an opportunity heie to have six 01 seven-
and--thirty poor savages brought over from idolatiy to the
knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that I wonder
how you can pass such an occasion of doing good, which is really
wo th the expense of a man's whole life."

I was now struck dumb, indeed, and had not one word to say.
I had here a spirit of true Christian zeal for God and mligion
before me, let his particular principles be of what kind soever:
as for me, I had not so much as entertained a thought of this
in mv heart before, and I believe I should not have thought of
it; for I looked upon these savages as slaves, and peelile, who,
had we had any work for them to do, we would have used as such,
or would have been glad to have transported them toany other
part of the world; for our business was to get rid of them,
and we would all have been satisfied if they had been sent to
any country, so they had never seen their own. But to the
case :--1 say I was confounded at his discourse, and knew not
what answer to make him.

He looked earnestly at me, seeing me in some disorder :--
"Sir," said he, "I shall be very sorry if what I have said gives
you any ofl'ence."--" No, no," says I, " I am offended with no-
body but myself; but I am perfectly confounded, not only to
think that I should never take any notice of this before, but with
reflecting what notice I am able to take of it now. You know,
sir," said I, "what circumstances I am in; 1 am bound to the
East Indies, in a ship freighted by merchants, and to whom it
would be an insufferable piece of injustice to detain their ship
here, the men lying all this while at victuals and wages on the
owner's account. It is true I agreed to be allowed twelve days
here, and if I stay more I must pay three pounds sterling per
diem demurrage, nor can. 1 stay upon demurrage above eight
days mere, and I have been here thirteen already; so that I
am perfectly unable to engage in this work, unless I would
suffer myself to be left behind here again; in which case, if
this single ship should miscarry in any part of her voyage,
I should be just in the same condition that l was left in here
at first, and from which I have been so Wonderfully delivered."
He owned the case was very hard upon me as to my voyage;
but laid it home upon my conscience, whether the blessing of
saving thirty-seven souls was not worth venturing all I had in
the world for. I was not so sensible of that as he was. I re--
turned upon him thus : " Why, sir, it is a valuable thing,
indeed, to be an instrument in God's hands to convert thirty-
seven heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an
ecclesiastic, and are given over to the work, so that it seems so
naturally to fall into the way of your profession, how is it then
that you do not rather offer yourself to undertake it, than press
me to do it ?"

Upon this he faced about just before me, as we walked
along, and putting me to a full stop, made me a very low bow.
" I most heartily thank God and you, sir," said he, " for
giving me so evident a call to so blessed a work; and, if you
think yourself discharged from it, and desire me to undertake
it, I will most readily do it, and think it a happy reward for
all the hazards and difficulties of such a broken, disappointed
voyage as I have met with, that I am dropped at last into
so glorious a work."

I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while he spoke
this to me; his eyes sparkled like fire, his face glowed, and
his colour came and went, as if he had been falling into fits;
in a word, he was fired with the joy of being embarked in such
a. work. I paused a considerable while before I could tell what
to say to him ; for I was really surprised to find a man of such
sincerity and zeal, and carried out in his zeal beyond the ordi-
nary rate of men, not of his profession only, but even of any
profession whatsoever. But after I had considered it awhile,
I asked him seriously, if he was in earnest, and that he would
venture, on the single consideration of an attempt on them:
poor people, to be locked up in an unplanted island for perhaps

is life, and at last might not know whether he should be able
to do them good or not?

He turned short upon me, and asked me what I called a
venture? "Pray, sir," said be, "what do you think I con-
sented to go in your ship to the East Indies for P"--" Nay,"
said I, "that I know not, unless it was to preach to the
Indians."--" Doubtless it was," said he: "and do you think,
if I can convert these thirty-seven men to the faith of Jesus
Christ, it is not worth my time, though I should never be
fetched of? the island again; nay, is it not infinitely of more
worth to save so many souls, than my life is, or the life of
twenty more of the same profession? Yes, sir," says he,
"I would give God thanks all my days, if I could be made the
least happy instrument of saving the souls of those poor men,
though I was never to set my foot off this island, or see my
native country any more. But since you will honour me with

utting me into this work, for which 1 will pray for you all the
ys of my life, lhave one humble. petition to you besides."--
"What is that?" said I. "Why," says be, "it is, that you
will leave your man Friday with me, to be my interpreter to
them, and to assist me; for, without some help, I cannot speak
to them or they to me."

I was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday, because
I could not think of parting with him, and that for many
reasons: he had been the companion of my travels; he was
not only faithful to me, but sincerely affectionate to the last
degree, and I had resolved to do somethimr considerable for
him, if he outlived me, as it was probable he would; then I
knew that, as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, it
would quite confound him to bring him to embrace another
profession: and he would never, while his eyes were open,
believe that his old master was a heretic, and would be damned:
and this might in the end, ruin the poor fellow's principles,
and so turn him back again to his first idolatry. However, a
sudden thought relieved me in this strait, and it was this:
I told him I could not say that l was willing to part with
Friday, on any account whatever, though a work that, to him,
was of more value than his life, ought to be to me of much
more value than the keeping, or )arting with a servant. But,
an the other hand, I was persua ed that Friday would by no
means agree to part with me, and I could not force him to it
without his consent, without manifest injustice; because I had
promised I would never put him away, and he had promised
and engaged to me, that he would never leave me, unless I put
him away. _

He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no rational
access to these poor people, seeing he did not understand one
word of their language, nor they one word of his. To remove
this difficulty, I told him Friday's father had learned Spanish,
which I found he also understood, and he should serve him as
an interpreter. So he was much better satisfied; and nothing
could persuade him but he would stay and endeavour to convert
them; but Providence gave another very happy turn to all
this.

CHAPTER XLIII.

HABRIAOm--WNVEBS'IOR 01' ATM AX!) was--mm IN A MIA!
CATIIOLIO.

1 com-1 back now to the first part of his objections. When we
came to the Englishmen, I sent for them altogether, and, after
some account given them of what I had done for them, viz.,
what necessary things I had provided them, and how they were
distributed, which they were very sensible of, and very thank-
ful for, I began to talk to them of the scandalous life they led,
and gave them a full account of the notice the clergyman had
taken of it; and arguing how unchristian and irreligious a life
it was, I first asked them, if they were married men, or bache-
lors. They soon explained their conditions to me, and showed
that two of them were widowers, and the other three were
single men, or bachelors. I asked them with what conscience
they could take those women, and lie with them, as they had
done, call them their wives, and have so many children by them,
and not be lawfully married to them?

, They all gave me the answer I expected, viz., that there was
nobody to marry them; that they agreed before the governor
to keep them as their wives, and to maintain them, and own
them as their wives; and they thought, as things stood with
them, they were as legally married as if they had been married
y a parson, and with all the formalities in the world.

I told them that, no doubt, they were married in the sight
of God, and were bound in conscience to keep them as their
wives; bttt that the laws of men being otherwise, they might
desert the poor women and children hereafter: and that, their
wives being poor, desolate women, friendless and inoneyless,
would have no way to help themselves: I therefore told them
that, unless I was assured of their honest intent, I could do
nothing for them but 11 ould take care that 11 hat I did should
be for the women and children 11ithout the 11:1 and that, unless
they would gi1e me some assurances that they would marry
the women, I could not think it was convenient they should
continue together as man and wife; for that it was both scan-
dalous to men, and offensive to God, who they could not think
would bless them, if they went 011 thus.

All this went on as I expected; and they told 111e, especially
\Vill Atkins, who now seemed to speak for the rest, that they
loved their wives as well as if they had been born in their own
native country, and would not leave them upon any account
whatever; and they did verily believe their wives were. as
virtuous and modest, and did to the utmost of thei1 skill, as
much for them and for their children, as any women could
possibly do: and the1 would not part with them 011 any
account . and \\ ill Atkins, for his own parliculm, added, that
it anv man would take him an 11), and ofler to carry him home
to England, and make him captain of the. best 111a11-ot-war 111
the na1 1', he would not go with him if he might not car1y his
wife and children with him ; and, it there was a cle1g1 man in
the ship, he would be married to her now with all his heart.

This was just as I would have it: the priest was not with
me at that moment, but was not far off; so, to try him farther,
I told him I had a clergyman with me, and if he was sincere,
I would have him married next morning, and badehini consider
of it, and talk with the rest. He said, as for himse,lf he need
not consider of it' at all, for he was 1er1-' ready to do it, and was
glad I had a minister with me, and he believed they would be
all willing also. I then told him, that mv f11end the minister,
was asa l1 renehman, and could not speak English, but Iwould
act as the clerk between them. He never so much as asked me
whethe1 he was a lapist, or Protestant, which "as, indeed,
what I was afraid of; so we parted. I went back to my clergy-
man, and Will Atkins went in to talk with his companions.
I desired the French gentleman not to say any thing to them,
till the business was thorough ripe; and I told him what
answer the men had given me.

Before I went 110m their quarter, they all came to me, and
told me they had been considering what I had said; that they

 

._..__ .m. aw."nonmsox CBFBOE. 329

were glad to hear I had a clergyman in my com any, and they
were very willing to give me the satisfaction 1 esired, and to
be formally married as soon as I pleased; for they were far
from desiring to part with their wives, and that they meant
nothing but what was very honest, when they chose them.
So I appointed them to meet me the next morning ; and, in the
meantime, they should let their wives know the meaning of
the marriage law; and that it was not only to prevent any
scanda'l, but also to oblige them that they should not forsake
them, whatever might happen.

The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the
thing, and were very well satisfied with it, as indeed they had
reason to be: so they failed not to attend, altogether, at my
apartment, next morning, where I brought out my clergyman ;
and though he had not on a minister's gown, after the manner
of England, or the habit of a priest, after the manner of France,
yet having a black vest, something like a cassock, with a sash
round it, he did not look very unlike a minister; and as for his
language, I was his interpreter. But the seriousness of his
behaviour to them, and the scruples he made of marrying
the women, because they were not baptiZed and professed
Christians, gave them an exceeding reverence for his person,
and there was no need after that to inquire whether he tvas a
clergyman or not. Indeed I was afraid his scruples would
have been carried so far, as that he would not have married
them at all; nay, notwithstanding all I was able to say to him,
he resisted me, though modestly, yet very steadily; and at
last refused absolutely to marry them, unless he had first
talked to the men and the women too; and though at first I
was a little backward to it, yet at last I agreed to it with a
good will, perceiving the sincerity of his design

When he came to them, he let them know that I had
acquainted him with their circumstances, and with the present
design; that he was very willing to perform that part of
his function, and marry them, as I had desired ; but that,
before he could do it, he must take the liberty to talk with
them. He told them, that in the sight of all indifferent men,
and in the sense of the laws of society, they had lived all this
while in open fornication; and that it was true, that nothing
but the consenting to marry, or effectually separating them
from one another, could now put an end to it : but there was
a difiiculty in it too, with respect to the laws of Christian
matrimony, which he was not fully satisfied about, viz., that of
marrying one that is a professed Christian to a savage, an
idolater, and a heathen, one that is not baptized: and yet, that
he did not see that there was time left for him to endeavour to
persuade the women to be baptized, or to profess the name of
Christ, whom they had, he doubted, heard nothing of, and
without which they could not be baptized. He told them, he
doubted they were but indifferent Christians themselves; that
they had but little knowledge of God or of His ways, and
therefore he could not expect that they had said much to their
wives on that head yet: but that, unless they would promise
him to use their endeavours with their wives to persuade them
to become Christians, and would, as well as they could, insrruct
them in the knowledge and belief of God that made them, and
to worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not
marry them; for he would have no hand in joining Christians
with savages ; nor was it consistent with the principles of the
1Christian religion, and was indeed expressly forbidden in God's
aW'.

They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very
faithfully to them from his mouth, as near in his own words
as I could; only sometimes, adding something of my own, to
convince them how just it was, and how I was of his mind;
and I always very faithfully distinguished between what I said
from myself, and what were the clergyman's words. They told
me, it was very true what the gentleman said, that they were
Very indifferent Christians themSelves, and that they had never
talked to their wives about religion. "Why, sir," says Will
Atkins, "how should we teach them religion P why, we know
nothing ourselves: and besides, sir," said he, "should we
talk to them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell, it
would make them laugh at us, and ask us what we believe
ourselves. And if we should tell them that we believe all
the things we speak of to them, such as of good peOple going
to heaven, and wicked people to the devil, they would ask us,
where we intend to go ourselves, that believe all this, and are
such wicked fellows as we indeed are? Why, sir, 'tis enough
to give them a surfeit of religion at first hearing; folks must
have some religion themselves before they pretend to teach
other people."--" Will Atkins," said I to him, "though I am
afraid that what you say has too much truth in it, yet can you
not tell your wife she is in the wrong? That there is a God,
and a religion better than her own: that her gods are idols;
that they can neither hear nor speak; that there is a great
Being that made all things, and that can destroy all that He
has made; that He rewards the good and punishes the bad;
and that we are to be judged by Him, at last, for all we do here ;
you are not so ignorant, but even nature itself will teach you,
that all this is true; and I am satisfied you know it all to be
true, and believe it yourself."--" That is true, sir," said Atkins ;
" but with what face can I say anything to my wife of all this,
when sue will tell me immediately it cannot be true ?"--" Not
true," said I; "what do you mean by that ?"---" Why. sir,"
said he, "she will tell me it cannot be true, that this God
I shall tell her of can he just, or can punish, or reward, since
I am not punished and sent to the devil that have been such
a wicked creature as she knows I have been, even to her, and
to everybody else, and that 1 should be sutl'ered to live, that
have been always acting so contrary to what I must tell her
is good, and to what I ought to have done."--"\\'hy, truly,
Atkins," said l, "I am almid thou speakest too much truth ;"
and with that l informed the clergyman of what Atkins had
said, for he was impatient to know. "0h," said the priest,
" tell him there is one thing will make him the best minister in
the world to his wife, and that is, repentance; for none teach
repentance like true penitents. He wants nothing but to
repent, and then he will be so much the better qualified to
instruct his wife; he will then be able to tell her that there is
not. only a God, and that He is a just rewarder of good and
evil, but that He is a merciful Being, and, with infinite goodness
and long-sutl'eriug, t'orbears to punish those that offend, wait-
ing to be gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but
rather that he should repent and live: that oftentimes he suffers
wicked men to go a long time, and even reserves damnation to
the general day of retribution; that it is a clear evidence of
God, and of a future state, that righteous men receive not
their reward, or wicked men their punishment, till they come
into another world; and this will lead him to teach his wife
the doctrine of the resurrection and of the last judgment. Let
him but repent for himself; he will be an excellent preacher of
repentance to his wife."

I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all
the while, and who, we could easily perceive, was more than
ordinarily aflected with it; when, being eager, and hardly
suffering me to make an end--"I know all this, master,"
says he, "and a great deal more; but I have not the impu-
dence to talk thus to my wife, when God and my conscience
know, and my wife will be an undeniable evidence against me,
that I have lived as if I had never heard of a God, or a future
state, or anything about it; and to talk of my repeating, alas!
(and with that he fetched a deep sigh, and 1 could see that the
tears stood in his eyes,) 'tis past all that with me."--" Past it,
Atkins P" said I; "what dost thou mean by that?"--"I know

well enough what I mean," says he: "I mean 'tis too late, and
that is too true 1"

I told the clergyman, word for word, what he said; the poor
zealous priest,--I must call him so, for, be his opinion what it
will, he had certainly a most singular affection for the good of
other men's souls, and it would be hard to think he had not the
like for his own,--I say, this afl'ectionate man could not refrain
from tears; but, recovering himself, said to me, "Ask him but
one question : is he easy that it is too late, or is be troubled,
and wishes it were not so .9" 1 put the question fairly to
Atkins: and he answered with a great deal of passion, how
could any man be eas\ in a condition that must certainly end
in eternal destruction ? that he was far from being easy: but
that, on the contrary, he believed it would, one time or other,
ruin him. " What do you mean by that .9" said 1. "Why,"
he said, "he believed he should, one time or other, out his
throat, to put an end to the terror of it."

The clergyman shook his head, with great concern in his
face, when I told him all this; but turning quick to me upon
it, says, " If that be his case, we may assure him it is not too
late; Christ will give him repentance. But pray," says he,
"explain this to him; that, as no man is saved but by Christ,
and the merit of His passion procuring divine mercy for him,
how can it be too late for any man to receive mercy ? Does he
think he is able to sin beyond the power or reach of divine
mercy P Pray tell him, there may be a time when provoked
mercy will no longer strive, and when God may refuse to hear,
but that it is never too late for men to ask mercy; and we,
that are Christ's servants, are commanded to preach mercy at
all times, in the name ot'Jesus Christ, to all those that sin-
cerely repent; so that it is never too late to repent."

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnest-
ness; but it seemed as it' he turned oil the discourse to the
rest, for he said to me he would go and have some talk with
his wife; so he went out awhile, and we talked to the rest.
I perceived they were all stupidly ignorant as to matters of
religion, as much as I was when 1 went rambling away from
my father; and yet there were none of them backward to hear
what had been said: and all of them seriously promised that
they would talk with their wives about it, and do their endea-
vours to persuade them to turn Christians.

The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer
they gave, but said nothing a good while: but at last, shaking
his head, " We that are Christ's servants," says he, "can go
no farther than to exhort and instruct: and when men comply,
submit to the reproof, and promise what we ask, it is all we
can do; we are bound to accept their good works; but believe
me, sir," said he, " whatever you may have known of the life
of that man you call Will Atkins, I believe he is the only sin-
cere convert among them ; I take that man to be a true peni-
tent: I will not despair of the rest; but that man is apparently
struck with the sense of his past life, and I doubt not, when he
comes to talk of religion to his wife, he will talk himself efl'ec-
tually into it; for, attempting to teach others, is sometimes
the best way of teaching ourselves. I know a man, who
having nothing but a summary notion of religion himself, and
being wicked and profligate to the last degree in his life, made
a thorough reformation in himself by labouring to convert a
Jew. If that poor Atkins begins but once to talk seriously of
Jesus Christ to his wife, my life for it, he talks himself into a
thorough convert, makes himself a penitent, and who knows
what may follow P"

Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, as above,
to endeavour to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity,
he married the other two couple; but Will Atkins and his wife
were not yet come in. After this, my clergyman, waiting
awhile, was curious to know where Atkins was gone; and,
turning to me, said, "I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of
yonr labyrinth here, and look; I dare say we shall find this
poor man, somewhere or other, talking seriously to his wife,
and teaching her already something of religion." I began to
be of the same mind ; so we went out together, and I carried
him a way which none knew but mySelf, and where the trees
were so very thick, that it was not easy to see through the
thicket of leaves, and far harder to see in, than to see out;
when coming to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins and his
tawny savage wife sitting under the shade of a bush, very eager
in discmirse; I stopped short till my clergyman came up to
me, and then, having showed him where they were, we stood
and looked very steadily at them a good while. We observed
him very earnest with her, pointing up to the sun, and toevery
quarter of the heaVens, and then down to the earth, then out
to the sea, then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the
trees. " Now," says my clergyman, "you see my words are
made good; the man preaches to her; mark him, now; he is
telling her, that our God has made him and her, and the
heaVens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, &c."----
"I believe he is," said I. Immediately we perceived Will
Atkins start upon his feet, fall down on his knees, and lift up
both hands. We supposed he said something, but we could
not hear him: it was too far for that. He did not continue
kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again by his
wife, and talks to her again; we perceived then the woman
verv attentive, but whether she said anything to him we could
not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees, I could
see the tears run plentifully down my clergyman's cheeks, and
I could hardly forbear myself; but it was a great affliction to
us both, that we were not near enough to hear anything that
passed between them. Well, however, we could come no
nearer, for fear of disturbing them; so we resolved to see an
end of this piece of still conversation, and it spoke loud enough
to us without the help of voice. He sat down again as I have
said, close by her, and talked again earnestly to her, and two
or three times we could see him embrace her most passionately;
another time we saw him take out his handkerchief and wipe
her eyes, and then kiss her again, with a kind of transport very
unusual; and, after several of these things, we saw him on a
sudden, jump up again, and lend her his hand to hold her up,
when, immediately leading her by the hand, a step or two,
they both kneeled down together, and continued so about two
minutes.

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud,
"St. Paul! St. Paul! behold he prayeth." I was afraid Atkins
would hear him, therefore 1 entreated him to withhold himself
awhile, that we might. see an end of the scene, which, to me,
I must confess was the most affecting that ever I saw in my
life. Well, he strove with himself for a while, but was in such
raptures to think that the poor heathen woman was become a
Christian, that he was not able to contain himself; he wept
several times, then throwing up his hands, and crossing his
breast, said over several things ejaculatory, and by way of
giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of the suc-
cess of our endeavours; some he spoke softly, and I could not
well hear others; some in Latin, some in French; then two
or three times the tears would interrupt him that he could not
speak at all; but I begged that he would contain himself, and
let us more narrowly and fully observe what was before us,
which he did for a time, the scene not being near ended yet,
for after the poor man and his wife had risen again from their
knees, we observed he stood talking still eagerly to her, and
we observed her motion, that she was greatly afl'ected with
what he said, by her frequently lifting up her hands, laying her
hand to her breast, and such other postures as express the
greatest seriousness and attention: this continued about half
a quarter of an hour, and then they walked away; so we could
see no more of them in that situation. I took this interval to
talk with my clergyman ; and first, I was glad to see the par-
ticulars we had both been witnesses to, that though I was
hard enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began to think
it was all Very sincere here, both in the man and his wife, how-
ever ignorant they might both be, and I hoped such a beginning
would yet have a more happy end: " And who knows," says I,
" but these two may, in time, by instruction and example, work
upon some of the others ?"--" Some of them?" says he, tuming
quick upon me; "ay, upon all of them: depend upon it, if
those two savages, for he has been but little better, as you
relate it, should embrace Jesus Christ, they will never leave it
till they work upon all the rest; for true religion is naturally
communicative, and he that is once made aChristian will never
leave a pagan behind him, if he can help it." I owned it was
a most Christian principle to think so, and a testimony of true
zeal, as well as a generous heart, in him. " But, my friend."
said I, "will you give me leave to start one difficulty here?
I cannot tell how to object the least thing against that affec-
tionate concern which you show for the turning the poor
people freni their paganism to the Christian religion : but how
does this comfort you, while these people are, in your account,
out of the pale of the catholic church, without which you be-
lieve there is no salvation? so that you esteem these but
heretics for other reasons, as etl'ectually lost as the pagans
themselves."

To this he answered with abundance of candour, thus: " Sir,
I am a catholic of the Roman church, and a priest of the order
of St. Benedict, and I embrace all the principles of the Roman
faith ; but yet, if you will believe me, and that I do not speak
in compliment to you, or in respect to my Circumstances and
your civilities; I say, nevertheless, I do not look upon you,
who call yourselves reformed, without some charity: I dare
not say (though I know it is our opinion in general) that you
cannot be saved; 1 will by no means limit the mercy of Christ
so far as to think that lie cannot receive you into the bosom of
His church in a manner to us unperceivable: and I hope you
have the same charity for us; I pray daily for your being all
restored to Christ's church by whatsoever method He, who is
all-wise, is pleased to direct. In the mean time, sure you will
allow it consists with me, as a Roman, to distinguish far be-
tween a Protestant and a pagan: between one that calls on
Jesus Christ, though in a way which I do not think is according
to the true faith, and a savage or a barbarian that knows no
God, no Christ, no Redeemer; and if you are not within the
pale of the catholic church, we hope you are nearer being re-
stored to it than those that know nothing of God or of His
church: and l rejoice, therefore, when I see this poor man,
who you say has been a profligate and almost a murderer,
kneel down and pray to Jesus Christ, as we supposed he did,
though not fully enlightened; believing that God, from whom
every such work proceeds, will sensibly touch his heart, and
bring him to the farther knowledge of that truth in His own
time: and if God shall influence this poor man to convert and
instruct the ignorant savage, his wife, I can never believe that
he shall be cast away himself. And have I not reason, then, to
rejoice the nearer any are brought to the knowledge of Christ,
though they may not be brought quite home into the bosom of
the catholic church, just at the time when I may desire it,
leaving it to the oodness of Christ to perfect His work in His
own time and in is own way ? Certainly I would rejoice if all
the savages in America were brought, like this poor woman,
to pray to God, though they were all to be Protestants at. first,
rather than they should continue pagans or heathens; firmly
believing, that He that had bestowed the first light to them,
would farther illuminate them with a beam of His heavenly
grace, and bring them into the pale of the church 11he11 He
should see good?"

I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this pious
Papist, as much as I was oppressed by the power of his
reasoning; and it presently occurred to my thought that it such
11 temper was 1111i1' ersal, wem might be called catholic Christians,
whatever church or particular protession we joined in; that
11 spirit of charity would soon 1101!: us all 11p into right prin-
ciples; and as he thought that the like charity would make
11s all Catholics, so I told him I believed had all the members
111 his church the like moderation, they would Soon all be I'm-
testants. And there we left that part; for we never disputed
at all.

Ilo11'e1',e1' I talked to him another wa1, and, taking him
b1 the hand," M1' 1riend, " s111's I, "I wish all the el1-1'g1 of the
Roman church we re blessed with such 1110deration, and had an
equal share 01 1our cha1it1'. I 11111 entirel1 oi 1'11111 opinion ,
but I must tell1ou, that if you should p1 each sneh doctrines 111
Spain or 111-111', they 11 ould 111111011 into the Inquisition.' " It
maybe so, said he, "I know not what they 11 ould do 111 Spain
and Italy; but I will not say they will be the be -'tte1 t hristians

for that se1e11t1, 1or I 11111 suie there 15 no heres1 111 abounding
with charity"

CHAPTER XLIV.

DIALOGUE BETWEE)' nomxsox CRCSOE A.\'D WILL ATKINS--8133 AGAIXS'I
PARENTS--MARRIAGE--DIALOGL'E BETWEEN WILL ATKIXS AND ms "'le
v--TIIE BAD LIVES OF CKRISTLLVS A STCHBLIXG'BLOCK T0 IIEAIIIIISS--
GOD--THE BIBLE-PRAYEB--BAHISK 0F ATKIXS'S WIFE--AND HIS MARRIAGE
WITH HER.

WELL, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business
there 11 as 01 er, so we went back our own way , and 11 hen we
came back, we found them waiting to be called in: observing
this, Iasked my clergyman if he should discover to him that
we had seen him under the bush or not; and it was his Opinion
we should not, but that he should talk to him first, and hear
what he would say to us; so we called him in alone, nobody
being' In the place but oursel1es, and I began with him thus .

\V 111 Atkins, saidl, prithee what education had 1';ou what
was your hither?

W. A. A better man than ever I shall be, sir: my father was
a clerg'man.

 

i
l
R. 0'. \Vhat education did he give you?

W. A. He would have taught me well, sir; but I (leapised all
education, instruction, or correction, like a beast, as I was.

R. (I. It is true, Solomon says, He that despises reproof is
; ; brutish.
I"; W. A. Aye, sir, I was brutish, indeed, for I murdered my
'5'? father: for God's sake, sir, talk no more about that; sir, I
murdered my poor father.
1." Br. Ha! a murderer!
P-g Here the priest started (for I interpreted every word as he
"is? spoke) and looked pale: it seems he believed that Will had
"4" really killed his father.
,. It. 0. No, no, sir ; I do not understand him so: Will Atkins
explain yourself; you did not kill your father, did you, with
:'e your own hands ?
L4" W. A. No, sir; I did not cut his threat; but I cut the
3'? thread of all his comforts, and shortened his days; I broke his
heart by the most ungrateful, unnatural return, for the most
tender and affectionate treatment that father ever gave, or child
could receive.
,. It. 0. Well, I did not ask about your father to extort this
.5.- oonfession: I pray God give you repentance for it, and forgive
1"; you that, and all your other sins; but I asked you because
;; I see that, though you have'not much learning, yet you are
y" not so ignorant as some are in things that are good; that
SS~ you have known more of religion, a great deal, than you have
Lie. practised.
?.

 

\-

, W. A. Though you, sir, did not extort the confession that
.. I make about my father, conscience does; and whenever we
. come to look back upon our lives, the sins against our indul-
" gent parents are certainly the first that touch us; the wounds
_3l they make lie deepest; and the weight they leave will lie
r} heaviest upon the mind of all the sins we can commit.
R. 0'. You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, Atkins: l
. >> cannot hear it.
, W. A. You cannot hear it, master! I dare say you know
it. nothing of it.
"-'-' B. 0. Yes, Atkins; every shore, every hill, nay, I may say,
8; every tree in this island, is witness to the anguish of my soul
for my ingratitude and bad usage of a good, tender father; a
father much like yours, by your description; and I murdered
my father as well as you yours, Will Atkins; but I think, for
, all that, my repentance is short of yours too, by a great deal.
p I would have said more, if I could have restrained my pas-
f: sions, but I thought this poor man's repentance was so much
5 sincerer' than mine, that I was going to leave off my discourse
l and retire: for I was surpnsed with what he had said, and
thought, that instead of my gomg about to teach and instruct

Q
him, the man was made a teacher and instructor to me in a most
a rising and unexpected manner.

laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly
affected with it, and said to me, " Did 1 not say, sir, that when
this man was converted he would preach to us all? I tell you,
sir, if this one man be made a true penitent, here will be no
need of me; he will make Christians of all in the island."--
But, having a little composed mdyself, I renewed my discourse
with Atkins. "But, Will," sai I, "how comes the sense of

this matter to touch you just now ?"
W. A. Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck a

dart through my very soul; 1 have been talking about God
and religion to my wife, in order, as you directed me, to make
a Christian of her, and she has preached such a sermon to me
as I shall never forget while I live.

R. C'. No, no, it is not your wife has preached to you; but
when you were moving religious arguments to her, conscience
has flung them back upon you.

W. A. Ay, sir, with such force as is not to be resisted.

R. 0. Pray, Will, let us know what passed between you and
your wife; for I know something of it already.

W. A. Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it; I
am too full to hold it, and yet have no tongue to express
it: but let her have said what she will, and though I cannot
give you an account of it, this I can tell you, that I have re-
solved to amend and reform my life.

.R. 0. But tell us some of it: how did you begin, Will?
For this has been an extraordinary case, that is certain. She
has preached a sermon, indeed, if she has wrought this upon you.

W. A. Why, I first told her the nature of our laws about
marriage, and what the reasons were that men and women
were obliged to enter into such compacts, as it was neither
in the power of one nor the other to break; that, otherwise,
order and justice could not be maintained, and men would
run from their wives, and abandon their children, mix con-
fusedly with one another, and neither families he kept entire,
nor inheritances be settled by legal descent.

R. 0. You talk like a civilian, Will: could you make her
understand what you meant by inheritance and families? They
know no such things among savages, but marry any how, with-
- out regard to relation, consanguinity, or family; brother and
sister; nay, as I have been told, even the father and the daugh-
ter, and the son and the mother.

W. A. I believe, sir, you are misinformed, and my wife
assures me of the contrary, and that they abhor it 3 perhaps for
any farther relations they may not be so exact as we are; but
she tells me they never touch one another in the near relation-l

ship you speak of.

. ~\".' -,- a
R. 0'. Well, what did she say to what on told her?

W. A. She said she liked it very weli and it was much
better than in her country.

R. 0'. But did you tell her what marriage was P

W. A. Ay, ay, there began our dialogue. I asked her, if
she would be married to me our way P She asked me what way
that was; I told her marriage was appointed by God; and here
we had a strange talk together, indeed, as ever man and wife
had, I believe.

. N. B. This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife 1
took down in writing, just after he had told it me, which was
as follows:

Mfe. Appointed by your God. Why, have you a God in
your country?

W. A. Yes, my dear. God is in every country.

Wife. No your God in my country; my country have the
great old Benamuckee God. .

W. A. Child, I am very unfit to show you who God is; God
is in heaven, and made the heaven and the earth, the sea, and
all that in them is.

Wife. No makee de earth; no you God makee all earth; no
makes my country.

Will Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not
making her country.

Wife. No laugh; why laugh me? This nothing to laugh.

He was justly reproved by his wife, for she was more serious
than he at first.

d W. A. That's true, indeed: I will not laugh any more, my
ear.

sze. Why you say you God makee all P

W. A. Yes, child, our God made the whole world, and you
and me, and all things; for He is the only true God, and there
is no God but Him; He lives for ever in heaven.

Mfe. Why you no tell me long ago?

W. A. That's true, indeed; but I have been a wicked
wretch, and have not only forgotten to acquaint thee with any-
thlifng before, but have lived without God in the world my-
se .

. Wife. What, have you a t God in your country, you no
know Him? No sayO to. 15:16? No do goodthing forHimP
That no possible.

W. A. It is too true; though for all that, we live as if there
was no God in heaven, or that He had no fin on earth.

Wife. But why God let you do so? yHe no makes
you ood live P

W? A. It is all our own fault.

Wye. But you say me, He is great, much great, have much
great power, can makes kill when He will: why He no makes

0 2
kill when you no serve Him; no say 0 to Him, no be good
mans ?

W. A. That is true; He might strike me dead; and I ought
to expect it, for I have been a wicked wretch, that is true; but
God is merciful, and does not deal with us as we deserve.

Wife. But, then, do you not tell God thankee for that too?

W. A. No, indeed, I have not thanked God for His mercy,
any more than I have feared God for His p0\ver.

Wt' e. Then you God no God; me no think believe He be
such one, great much power, strong; no makee kill you, though
you make Him much angry.

W. A. What, will my wicked life hinder you from believing
in God? What a dreadful creature am I! and what a sad
truth is it, that the horrid lives of Christians hinder the con-
version of heathens!

Wife. How me think you have great much God up there
(she points up to heaven), and yet no do well, no do good
thing? Can He tell? Sure He no tell what you do P

W. A. Yes, yes, He knows and sees all things; He hears us
speak, sees what we do, knows what we think, though we do
not speak.

lVg'fe. What! He no hear you curse, swear, speak de great
damn ?

W. A. Yes, yes ; He hears it all.

Wife. Where be, then, the much great power strong?

W. A. He is merciful, that is all we can say for it; and this
proves Him to be the true God: He is God, and not man, and,
therefore, we are not consumed.

Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror, to think
how he could tell his wife so clearly that God sees, and bears,
and knows the secret thoughts of the heart, and all that we
do, and yet that he had dared to do all the vile things he had
done.

Wefe. Merciful! What you call that?

W. A. He is our Father and Maker, and He pities and spares us.

Wg'fe. So, then, He never makee kill, never angry when you
do wicked: then He no good Himself, or no great able. '

W. A. Yes, yes, my dear, He is infinitely good and infinitely
great, and able to punish too; and sometimes to show His jus-
tice and Vengeance, He lets fly His anger to destroy sinners and
make examples; many are cut ofl' in their sins.

Wife. But no makee kill you yet; then He tell you, may
be, that He no makee you kill ; so you makee de bargain
with Him, you do bad thing, He no be angry at you when He
be angry at other mans.

W. A. No, indeed; my sins are all presumptions upon His
goodness; and He would be infinitely just if He destroved me
as He has done other men.
W'fe. Well, and yet no kill, no makee you dead; what you
say ?to Him for that? You no tell Him thankee ior all that
too

W. A. I am an uuthankfui, ungrateful dog, that 18 true.

W fe. Why He no makee you much good better? You say
He makes you.

W. A. He made me as He made all the world. It is I have
deformed myself and abused His goodness, and made myself an
abominable ~wretch.

Wife. I wish you makes God know me: I no make Him
angry ,I no do bad wicked thing.

Here, Will Atkins said, his heart sunk within him, to hear a
Ego: untaught creature desire to be taught to know God, and

uch a wicked wretch that he could not say one word to her
about God, but what the reproach of his own carriage would
make most irrational to her to believe; nay, that, already she
had told him that she could not believe in God, because he,
that was so wicked, was not destroyed.

W. A. My dear, you mean you wish I could teach you to
know God, not God to know you; for He knows you already,
and every thought 1n our heart.

W fe Why then, eknow what I say to you now; He know
me wish to know Him; how shall me know who makee me?

W. A. Poor creature! He must teach thee, I cannot teach
thee; I will pray to Him to teach thee to know Him, and for-
give me, that am unworthy to teach thee.

The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him to
make her know God, and her wishing to know Him, that he
said he fell down on his knees before her, and pray yed to God
to enlighten her mind with the saxing knowledge of Jesus
Christ, I,and to pardon his sins, and accept 01 his being the un-
worthy instrument of instructing her 1n the principles of re-
ligion: after which he sat down by her again, and their
dialogue went on. This was the time when we saw him kneel
down, and hold up his hands.

Mf f.e What on ut down the knee for? What you hold
- up the hand for t you say? Who you speak to P What
is all that?

W. A. My dear, I bow my knees' in token of my submission
to Him that made me: I said O to Him, as you call it, and
as your old men do to their idol, Benamuckee; that is, I
prayed to Him.

Wafe. What you say 0 to Him for?

W. A. I prayed to Him to open your eyes, and your under-
standing, that ou may know Him, and be accepted by Him.

W1] 1,f.e g'Can e do that too?

W. A. Yes, He can; He can do all things.

Wife. But now He hear what you say?
W. A. Yes; He has bid us pray to Him, and promised to
hear us.

Wffe. Bid you pray ? When He bid you? How He bid you P
What you hear Him speak ?

W. A. No, we do not hear Him speak ; but He has revealed
Himself in many ways to us.

Here he was at a great loss to make her understand that God
has revealed Himself to us by His word, and what His word
was : but at last he told her it thus:

W. A. God has Spoken to some good men in former days,
even from heaven, by plain words; and God has inspired good
men by His Spirit; and they have written all His laws down in
a book.

Wife. Me no understand that; where is book ?

W. A. Alas! my poor creature, l have not this book; but I
hope I shall, one time or other, get it for you, and help you to
read it.

Here he embraced her with great afl'ection; but with inex-
pressible grief that he had not a Bible.

Wife. But how you makee me know that God teachee them
to write that book.

W. A. By the same rule that we know him to be God.

Wife. What rule? What way you know Him?

"7. A. Because He teaches and omnmands nothing but what
is good, righteous and holy, and tends to make us perfectly
good, as well as perfectly happy; and because He forbids and
commands us to avoid all that Is wicked, that is evil in itself,
or evil in its consequence.

Wife. That me would understand, that me fain see; if He
teachee all good thing, He makee all good thing, He give all
thing, He hear me when 1 say 0 to Him, as you do just now;
He makee me good, if I wish to be good; He spare me, no
makee kill me when 1 no be good; all this you say He do, yet
He be great God : me take, think, believe Him to be great God:
me say U to Him with you, my dear.

Here the poor man could forbear no longer, but raised her
up, made her kneel by him, and he prayed to God aloud to in-
struct her in the knowledge of Himself by His Spirit; and
that, by some good providence, if possible, she might, some
time or other, come to have a Bible, that she might read the
Word of God, and be taught by it to know Him. This was the
time that we. saw him lift her up by the hand, and saw him
kneel down by her, as above.

They had several other discourses, it seems, after this, too
long to be set down here: and, particularly, she made him
promise, that since he confessed his own life had been a wicked,
abominable course of provocations against God, he would
reform it, and not make God angry any more ; lost He should
make him dead, as she called it, and then she would be left
alone, and never be taught to know this God better: and, lest
he should be miserable, as he had told her wicked men would
be after death.

This was a strange account, and very affecting to us both,
but particularly to the young clergyman: he was, indeed,
wonderfully surprised with it, but under the greatest amiction
imawinable that he could not talk to her, that he could not
speSS English to make her understand him: and, as she spoke
but very broken English, he could not understand her; how-
ever, he turned himself to me, and told me that he believed
that there must be more to do with this woman than to marry
her. I did not understand him at first, but at length he ex~
plained himself, viz., that she ought to be baptized. I agreed
with him in that part readily, and was for going about it
presently. "No, no; hold, sir," said he; "though I would
have her be baptized by all means, yet I must observe that
Will Atkins, her husband, has indeed brought her, in a won-
derful manner, to be willing to embrace a religious life, and
has given her just ideas of the being of a God; of His power,
justice, and mercy: yet I desire to know of him, if he has said
anything to her of Jesus Christ, and of the salvation of sin-
ners; of the nature of faith in Him, and redemption by Him;
of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment, and
a future state.

I called Will Atkins again, and asked him; but the poor
fellow fell immediately into tears, and told us he had said some-
thing to her of all those things, but that he was himself so
wicked a creature, and his own conscience so reproached him
with his horrid, ungodly life, that he trembled at the appre-
hensions that her knowledge of him should lessen the attention
she should give to those things, and make her rather contemn
religion than receive it; but he was assured, he said, that her
mind was so disposed to receive due impressions of all those
things, and that, if I would but discourse with her, she would
make it appear to my satisfaction that my labour would not
be lost upon her.

AccordinglyI called her in, and placing myself as interpreter
between my religious priest and the woman, I entreated him
to begin with her; but, sure, such a sermon was never preached
by a popish priest in these latter ages of the world ; and, as I
told him, I thought he had all the zeal, all the knowledge, all
the sincerity of a Christian, without the error of a Roman
Catholic; and that I took him to be such a clergyman as the
Roman bishops were before the church of Rome assumed
spiritual sovereignty over the consciences of men. In a word,
he brought the poor woman to embrace the knowledge of Christ,
and of redemption by Him, not with wonder and astonishment
only, as she did the first notion of a God, but with joy and
faith; with an affection and a surprising degree of under-
standing, source to be imagined, much less to be expressed;
and, at her own request, she was baptized.

When he was preparing to baptize her, I entreated him that
he would perform that office with some caution, that the man
might not perceive he was of the Roman church, if possible,
because of other ill consequences which might attend a differ-
ence among us in that very religion which we were instructing
the other in. He told me.that, as he had no consecrated
chapel, nor proper things for the office, I should see he would
do it in a manner that I should not know by it that he was a
Roman Catholic myself, if I had not known it before; and so
he did: for, saying only some words over to himself in Latin,
which I could not understand, he poured a whole dishl'ul of
water upon the woman's head, pronouncing in French very
loud, "Mary," (which was the name her husband desired me
to give her, for Iwas her godfather,) "1 ba tize thee in the
name of the Father, and of the Son, and of t 1e Holy Ghost,"
so that none could know anything by it what religion he was
of. He gave the benediction afterwards in Latin, but either
Will Atkins did not know but it was French, or else did not
take notice of it at that time.

As soon as this was over we married them; and after the
marriage was over, he turned to Will Atkins, and, in a very
affectionate manner, exhorted him not only to persevere in
that- good disposition he was in, but to support the convictions
that were upon him by a resolution to reform his life: told
him it was in vain to say he repented, if he did not forsake his
crimes: represented to him how God had honoured him with
being the instrument of bringing his wife to the knowledge of
the Christian religion, and that he should be careful he did not
dishononr the grace of God; and that, if he did, he would see
the heathen a better Christian than himself; the savage con-
verted, and the instrument cast away. He said a great many
good things to them both: and then, recommending them to
God's goodness, gave them the benediction again, I repeating
everything to them in English: and thus ended the ceremony.
I think it was the most pleasant and agreeable day to me that
ever I passed in my whole life.

But my clergyman had not done yet: his thoughts hung
continually upon the conversion of the thirty-seven savages,
and fain he would have stayed upon the island to have under-
taken it: but I convinced him, first, that his undertaking was
impracticable in itself; and secondly, that perhaps I would

put it into a way of being done in his absence to his satisfac--
tion; of which by-and-by.
CHAPTER XLV.

IRE YOUNG IAN 330' THE SHIP IN amazes--llamas: 0" THE JACK-Olf-
ALLJI'IADI! WITH THE IA") BUSAN--fiflTLBIKRT 01' THE PLANTATIOXS
---BOBL\'GON "UNIT PBIPAMTIONS T0 DEPABT--INJONCI'ION RESPECTIRG
RILIGIOUS DWU'I'IS--LRAVH A NILE--THE YOUNG. WOIAN 7110' THE SHIP
IN DIflBm--Kn DUCRII'TIOX OF WHAT n W" 1'0 B'l'ABVR--BOBIRMS
08050! DOES NOT LEAVE 1'83 3100? AT Till ISL \XD.

HAVING thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow
compass, I was mpreparing to go on board the ship, when the
young manI h taken out of the famished ship's company came
to me, and told me he understood I had a clergyman with me,
and that I had caused the Englishmen to be married to the
savages; that he had a match, too, which he desired mioht be
finished before I went, between two Christians, which heuhoped
would not be disagreeable to me.

I knew this must be the young woman who was his mother's
servant, for there was no other Christian woman on the island:
so I began to persuade him not to do anything of that kind
rashly, or because he found himself in this solitary circum-
stance. I represented to him that he had some considerable
substance in the world, and good friends, as I understood by
himself, and the maid also: that the maid was not only poor,
and a servant, but was unequal to him, she being six or seven
and twenty years old, and he not above seventeen or eighteen;
that he might, very probably, with my assistance, make a
remove from this wilderness, and come into his own country
again; and that then it would be a thousand to one but he .
would repent his choice, and the dislike of that circumstance
might be disadvantageous to both. I was going to say more,
but he interru ted, smiling, and told me, with a great deal of
modesty, that mistook in my guesses; that he had nothing
of that kind in his thoughts; and he was very glad to hear
that I had an intent of putting them in a way to see their own
country again; and nothing should have put him upon staying
there, but that the voyageI was going was so exceeding long
and hazardous, and would carry him quite out of the reach of
all his friends; that he had nothing to desire of me but that
I would settle him in some little property in the island where
he was, give him a servant or two, and some few necessaries,
and he would settle himself here like a planter, waiting the
good time, when, if ever I returned to England, I would
redeem them; and hoped I would not be unmindful of him
when I came to England: that he would give me some; letters

Q
to his friends in London, to let them know how good I had
been to him, and in what. part of the world, and what circum-
stances 1 had left him in ; and he promised me that, whenever
I redeemed him, the plantation, and all the improvements he
had made upon it, let the value be what it- would, should be
wholly mine.

His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his
youth, and was the more agreeable to me, because he told me
positiveiy the match was not for himself. I gave him all
possible assurances, that if 1 lived to come safe to England,

would deliver his letters, and do his business effectually;
and that he might depend 1 should never forget the circum-
stances I had left him in: but still I was impatient to know
who was the person to be married; upon which he told me it
was my Jack-of~all-Trades and his maid Susan. I was most
agreeably surprised when he named the match, for, indeed,
I thought it very suitable. The character of that man I have
given already: and, as for the maid, she was a very honest,
modest, sober, and religious young woman; had a very good
share of sense, was agreeable enough in her person, spoke
very handsomely, and to the purpose, always with decency and
good manners, and neither too backward to speak when requi-
site, nor impertinently forward when it was not her business;
very handy and house-wifely, and an excellent manager; tit,
indeed, to have been governess to the whole island, and she
knew very well how to behave in every respect.

The match being proposed in this manner, we married them
the same day; and as l was father at the altar, as I may say,
and gave her away, so I gave her a portion; for I appointed
her and her husband a handsome large space of ground for
their plantation; and indeed, this match, and the proposal the
young gentleman made to give him a small property in the
island, put me upon parcelling it out amongst them, that they
might not quarrel afterwards about their situation.

l'his sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins, who
was now grown a sober, grave, managing fellow, perfectly
reformed, exceedingly pious and igligious, and, as far as I may
be allowed to speak positively in such a case, I verily believe
he was a true penitent. He divided things so justly, and so
much to every one's satisfaction, that they only desired one
general writing under my hand for the whole, which I caused
to be drawn up, and signed and sealed to them, setting out the
bounds and situation of every man's plantation, and testifying
that I gave them thereby, severally, a right to the whole pos-
session and inheritance of the respective plantations, or farms,
with their improvements. to them and their heirs, reserving all
the rest of the island as my own property, and a certain rent
for every particular plantation after eleven years, if I or any
one from me, or in my name, came to demand it, producing an
attested copy of the same Writing.

As to the government and laws among them, I told them
I was not capable of giving them better rules than they were
able to give themselves: only i made them promise me to live
in love and good neighbourhood with one another; and so, 1
pre )aer to leave them.

he thing 1 must not omit, and that is, that being now
settled in a kind of commonwealth among themselves, and
having much business in hand, it was but odd to have seven-
and-thirty lndians live in a nook of the island, independent,
and indeed Unemployed; for, excepting the providing them-
selves food, which they had difficulty enough to do sometimes,
they had no manner of business or property to manage. 1
proposed, therefore, to the governor Spaniard, that he should
go to them, with Friday's father, and propose to them to
remove, and either plant for themselves, or take them into
their several families'as servants to be maintained for their
labour, but without being absolute slaves; for I would not
admit them to make them slaves by force, by any means;
because they had their liberty given them by capitulation, as
it were articles of surrender, which they ought not to break.

They most willingly embraced the proposal, and came all
very cheerful along with him ; so we allotted them land, and
plantations, which three or four accepted of, but all the rest
chose to be employed as servants in the several families we
had settled; and thus my colony was in a manner settled, as
follows z--The Spaniards possessed my original habitation,
which was the capital city, and extended their plantations all
along the side of the brook, which made the creek that I have
so often described, as far as my bower: and as they increased
their culture, it went always eastward. The English lived in
the north-east part, where Will Atkins and his comrades
began, and came on, southward, and south-west, towards the
back part of the Spaniards; and every plantation had a great
addition of land to take in, if they found occasion, so that they
need not jostle one another for want of room. All the east
end of the island was left uninhabited, that, if any of the
savages should come on shore there, only for their usual
customary barbarities, they might come and go; it' they dis-
turbed nobody, nobody would disturb them; and no doubt
but they were often ashore, and went away again; for I never
heard that the planters were ever attacked, or disturbed any
more.

It now came into' my thoughts, that I had hinted to my
friend, the clergyman, that the work of converting the savages
mi ht perhaps he set on foot in his absence to his satisfaction,
an told him, that now I thought it was put in a fair way;
for the savages being thus divided among the Christians, if
they .would but every one of them do their part with those
which came under their hands, I hoped it might have a very
good effect.

He agreed, presently, in that, if they did their part: " but
how," sa '3 he, "shall we obtain that of them?" I told him
we woul call them altogether, and leave it in charge with
them, or go to them, one by one, which he thought best: so
we divided it, he to speak to the Spaniards, who were all l'apists,
and l to the English, who were all Protestants; and we recom-
mended it earnestly to them, and made them promise that they
would never make any distinction of l'apist, or Protestant, in
their exhorting the savages to turn Christians, but teach them
the general knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour
Jesus Christ; and they likewise promised us, that they would
never have any differences, or disputes, one with another about
religion.

When I came to Will Atkins's house, (1 may call it so, for
such a house, or such a piece of basket-work,l believe, was
not standing in the world again,) there 1 found the young
womanl have mentioned above, and Will Atkins's wife, were
become intimates: and this prudent, religious young woman
had perfected the work Will Atkins had begun; and, though it
was not above four days after what I have related, yet the
new-baptized savage woman was made such a Christian as l
have seldom heard of in all my observation, or conversation, in
the world.

It came next into my mind, in the mornimr before I went to
them, that, amongst all the needful things land to leave with
them, I had not left them a Bible, in which I SIIOWed myself
less considering for them, than my good friend, the widow,
was for me, when she sent me the cargo of an hundred pounds
from Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles and a prayer-
book. However, the good woman's charity had a greater
extent than ever she imagined, for they were reserved for the
comfort and instruction of those that made much better use of
them than I had done.

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and, when I came
to Will Atkins's tent, or house, and found the young woman
and Atkins's baptized wife had been discouising of religion
together, for Will Atkins told it me with a great deal of joy,
1 asked, if they were together now, and he said yes; so I went
into the house, and he with me, and we found them together
very earnest in discourse. " O, sir," says Will Atkins, " when
God has sinners to reconcile to Himself, and aliens to bring
home, He never wants a messenger; my wife has got a new
instructor; I knew I was as unworthy as I was incapable of
that work; that young woman has been sent hither from
Heaven: she is enough to convert a whole island of savages."

The young woman blushed, and rose up to go away, -but I
desired her to sit still; I told her she had a good work upon
her hands, and I hoped God would bless her in it.

We talked a little, and I did not perceive they had any book
among them, though I did not ask; but I ut my hand into
my pocket, and pulled out my Bible; " ere," says I to
Atkins, "I have brought you an assistant that, perhaps, you
had not before." The man was so confounded, that he was not
able to speak for some time; but, recovering himself, he takes
it with both his hands, and, turning to his wife, " Here, my
dear," says he, " did not I tell you our God, though He lives
above, could hear what we said P Here's the book I prayed for,
when you and I kneeled down under the bush; now God has
heard us, and sent it." When he had said so, the man fell
into such transports of passionate joy, that between the joy of
havinur it, and iving God thanks for it, the tears ran down his
face like a child that was crying.

The woman was surprised, and was like to have run into a
mistake that none of us were aware of, as she firmly believed
God had sent the book upon her husband's petition. It is
true that, providentially, it was so, and might be taken so in a
consequent sense ; but I believe it would have been no difficult
matter, at that time, to have persuaded the poor woman to
have believed, that an express messenger came from Heaven
on purpose to bring that individual book; but it was too
serious a matter to suffer any delusion to take place; so I
turned to the young woman, and told her we did not desire to
impose upon the new convert, in her first and more ignorant
understanding of things, and begged her to explain to her that
God may be very properly said to answer our petitions, when,
in the course of His providence, such things are in a-partieular
manner brought to pass as we petitioned for; but we did not
expect returns from Heaven in a miraculous and particular
manner, and it is our mercy that it is not so.

This the young woman did afterwards efi'ectually, so that
there was, I assure you, no priestcraft used here; and I should
have thought it one of the most unjustifiable frauds in the
world to have had it so. But the surprise of joy upon Will
Atkins is really not to be expressed; and there, we may be
sure, was no delusion. Sure no man was ever more thankful
in the world for anything of its kind than he was for the
Bible; nor, I believe, never any man was glad of a Bible from
a better principle; and, though he had been a most profligate
creature, headstrong, furious, and desperately wicked, yet this
man is a standing rule to us all for the well-instructing chil-
dren, viz., that parents should never give over to teach, and
instruct, nor ever despair of the success of their endeavours,

it'v .
team
let the children be ever so refractory, or, to appearance, insen-
sible to instruction; for, if ever God in His providence touches
the conscience of such, the force of their education returns
upon them, and the early instruction of parents is not lost,
though it may have been many years laid asleep, but, some
time or other, they may find the benefit of it. Thus it was with
this poor man; however ignorant he was of religion and
Christian knowledge, he found he had some to do with, now,
more ignorant than himself, and that the least part of the
mstruetion of his good father that now came to his mind, was
of use to him.

Among the rest it occurred to him, he said, how his father
used to insist so much on the inexpressible. value of the Bible,
the privilege and blessing of it to nations, families, and per-
sons; but he never entertained the least notion of the worth
of it till now, when, being to talk to heathens, savages and
barbarians, he wanted the help of the written oracle for his
assistance.

The young woman was glad of it, also, for the present ocea-
sion, though she had one, and so had the youth, on hoard our
ship, among their goods, which were not yet brought. on shore.
And, now, having said so many things of this young woman,
I cannot omit telling one. story more of her and myself, which
has something in it very informing and remarkable.

I have related to what extremity the poor young woman
was reduced ; how her mistress was starved to death, and died
on hoard that unhappy ship we met at sea, and how the whole
ship's company was reduced to the last extremity. The gen-
tlewomau and her son, and this maid, were first hardly used
as to provisions, and, at last, totally neglected and starved;
that is to say, brought to the last extremity of hunger.---Um-
day, being discoursing with her on the extremities they sufl'ered,
I asked her if she could describe, by what she had felt. what
it was to starve, and how it appeared? She told me She
believed she eonld, and she told me her tale very distinctly,
thus:

" First, sir," said she, " we had for some days fared exceed-
ingly hard, and suffered very great hunger; but at last, we
were wholly without food of any kind, except sugar, and a
little wine and water. The first day, after I had received no
food at all, I found myself, towards evening, first empty and
sick at the stomach, and, nearer night, much inclined to yawn-
ing and sleep. llay down on a couch in the great cabin to
sleep, and slept about three hours, and awakcd a little refreshed,
having taken a glass of wine when I lay down: after being
about three hours awake, it being about five o'clock in the
morning, I found myself empty and my stomach sickish, and
lay down again, but could not sleep at all, being very faint and
ill; and thus I continued all the second day, with a strange
variety, first hungry, then sick a ain, with retchings to vomit.
The second night, being oblige to go to bed avain without
any food, more than a draught of fresh water, and heing asleep,
I dreamed I was at Barbadoes, and that the market was
mightily stocked with revisions; that I bought some for my
mistress, and went an dined very heartily. I thought my
stomach was as full after this as it would have been after a
good dinner; but, when I awaked, I was exceedingly sunk in
my spirits to find myself in the extremity of famine. The last
glass of wine we had, I drank, and put sugar in it, because of
its having some spirit to sup ly nourishment; but, there being
no substance in the steamer for the digesting oflice to work
upon, I found the only effect of the wine was, to raise dis-
mreeable fumes from the stomach into the head: and I lay, as
they told me, stu id and senseless, as one drunk, for some time.
The third day in t re morning, aftera night of strange, confused,
and inconsistent dreams, and rather dozing than sleeping, I
awaked ravenous and furious with hunger: and I question,
had not my understanding returned and conquered it, whether,
if I had been a mother, and had had a little child with me, its
life would have been safe, or not. This lasted about three
hours: during which time I was twice raging mad, as any
creature in Bedlam, as my young master told me, and as he
can now inform you.

"In one of these fits of lunacy, or distraction, I fell down,
and struck my face against the corner of a pallet bed, in
which my mistress lay, and with the blow the blood gushed
out of my nose; and the cabin-boy bringing me a little basin,
I sat down and bled into it a great deal; and as the blood
came from me, I came to myself, and the violence of the flame,
or fever, I was in abated, and so did the ravenous part of the
hunger. Then I grew sick, and retehed to vomit, but could
not, for I had nothing in my stomach to bring up. After I had
bled some time, I swooned, and they all believed I was dead;
but I came to myself soon after, and then had a most dreadful
pain in my stomach, not to be described, not'like the cholic,
but a gnawing, eager pain for food; and, towards the night,
it went off with a kind of earnest wishing or longing for food;
something like, as I suppose, the longing of a woman with
child. I took another draught of water, with sugar in it ; but
my stomach loathed the sugar, and brought it all up again:
then I took a draught of water without sugar, and that stayed
with me; and I laid me down upon the bed, praying most,
heartily that it would please God to take me away ; and com-
posing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered awhile, and then,
waking, thought myself dying, being light with vapours from
an empty stomach; I recommended my soul then to God,
apd earnestly wished that somebody would throw me into
t no sea.

" All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought,
expiring, but bore it with much more patience than I: gave the
last bit of .bread she had left to her child, my young master,
who would not have taken it, but she obliged him to eat it;
and I believe it saved his life.

"'I'owards the morning I slept again; and when I awoke
I fell into a violent passion of crying, and after that had a
second fit of violent hunger: 1 got up ravenous, and in a most
dreadful condition: had my mistress been dead, as much as
I loved her, I am certain I should have eaten a piece of her
flesh with as much relish, and as unconcerned, as ever I did eat
the flesh of any creature appointed for food; and once or
twice, 1 was going to bite my own arm; at last, I saw the
lush: in which was the blood I had bled at my nose the day
before; I ran to it, and swallowed it with such haste, and such
a greedy appetite, as if I wondered nobody had taken it before,
and afraid it should be taken from me now. Afterit was down,
though the thoughts of it filled me with horror, yet it checked
the tit of hunger, and I took another draught of water, and
was composed and refreshed for some hours after. This was
the fourth day; and thus I held it till towards night; when
within the compass of three hours,l had all the several cir-
cumstances over again, one after another, viz., sick, sleepy,
eagerly hungry, pain in the stomach, then ravenous again;
then sick, then lunatic, then crying, then ravenous a in, and
so, every quarter of an hour: and my strength was exceed-
ingly: at night I laid me down, having no comfort but in the
hope that 1 should die before morning.

" All this night lhad no sleep, ut the hunger was now
turned into a disease; and I had a terrible cholic and griping.
by wind, instead of food, having found its way into the bowels .
and in this condition I lay till morning, when l was surprised
with the cries and lamentations of my youn master, who
called out to me that his mother was dead: I li ted myself up
a little, for I had not strength to rise, but found she was not
dead, though she was able to give Very little signs of life.

"Iliad then such convulsions in my stomach for want of
some sustenance, that I cannot describe; with such frequent
throes and pangs of ap tite, that nothing but the tortures of
death can imitate; an in this condition I was when I heard
the seamen cry out, 'A sail! a sail l' and halloo and jump
about as if they were distracted.

" I was not able to get 011' from the bed, and my mistress
much less; and my young master was so sick, that I thought
he had been expiring; so we could not open the cabin door,
or get any account what itwas that occasioned such confusion;
nor had we any conversation with the ship's company for
two days, they having told us that they had not a mouthful
of anything to eat in the ship; and this they told us after-
wards, they thought we had been dead.--lt was this dreadful
condition we were in, when you were sent to save our lives:
and how you found us, sir, you know as well as l, and better
too."

This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of
starving to death, as I confess I never met with, and was
exceeding entertaining to me. I am the rather apt to believe
it to be a true account, because the youth gave me an account
of a good part of it; though I must own, not so distinct and
so feeling as the maid; and the rather, because it seems his
mother fed him at the price of her own life: but the poor
maid, though her constitution being stronger than that of her
mistress, who was in years, and a weakly woman too, she
might struggle harder with it: 1 say, the poor maid might be
supposed to feel the extremity something sooner than her
mistress, who might be allowed to keep the last bit something
longer than she parted with any to relieve the maid. No queso
tion, as the case is here related, if our ship, or some other,
had not so providentially met them, a few days more would
have ended all their lives, unless they hadrprevented it by
eating one another; and even that, as their case stood, would
have served them but a little while, they being five hundred
leagues from any land, or any possibility of relief, other than
in the wonderful manner it happened: but this is by the way;
I return to my disposition menu the people.

And, first, it is to be observed here, that, for many reasons,
ldul not think fit to let them know anything of the sloop
I had framed, and which I thought of setting up amono them;
for I found, at least at my first coming, such seeds of 'visions
among them, that I saw plainly, had I set up the 3100p, and
left it among them, they would, upon every light disgust,
. have separated, and gone aWay from one another, or, perhaps,
have turned pirates, and so made the island a den of thieves,
instead of a plantation of sober and religious people, as I
intended it: nor did I leave the two pieces of brass cannon
that I had on board, or the two quarter-deck guns, that my
nephew took extraordinary, for the same reason: I thought it
was enough to qualify them for a defensive war against any
that should invade them, but not to set them u for an offen-
sive war, or to go abroad to attack others: whic , in the end,
would only bring ruin and destruction upon them ; I reserved
the 3100 , therefore, and the guns for their service another way,
as I s l observe in its place.
CHAPTER XLVI.

"Jinx-VON cursor; LEAVES 'Nll': "LAND--ARRIVE." AT Till-I llllAleS-.\D\'ENTL'RJE
ll\' Tllh'. WAY--ARMY 0|" SAVAGFS X.\' CANOl'S--Tlll'. DEATH 0F PRIDAY--TIIK
ARMY ltt'l'TlfiD--Sllll' AXL'IIOR.' ("'1' THE IIAY UP ALL sarx'rs-- I)Il-'Fl('l'l.'l'Y
UP "FETISH 0.\' Slluuli- Ill.' PARTNER--THE SLUUI' I'ISISIIIZI) AND FRI-ZlhllTI-ZD
FOR Till-2 ISLAND'SAI-'E ARRIVAL.

llavixa now done with the island, l left. them all in good cir-
cumstances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board
in)" ship again the tith of May, having been about twenty-tire
days among them ; and as they were all resolved to stay upon
the island until 1 came to remove them, I promised to send
them farther relief from the lirazils, if I could possibly find an
cplwrtunity; and particularly, I promised to send them some
cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and cows; as to the two cows and
calves which I brought. from England, we had been obliged by
the length of our Voyage to kill them at sea, for want of hay to
iced them.

The next day, giving them a salute of five guns at parting,
we set sail, and arrived at the bay of All Saints, in the Brazils,
in about twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarkable in our
passage but this: that about three days after we had sailed,
being becalmed, and the current setting strong to the I'LNJ'I.
running, as it were, into a bay, or gulf, on the land side, we
were driven something out of our course, and once or twiCe our
men cried out, "Land to the eastward ;" but whether it was
the continent or islands, we could not tell by any means. But
the third day, towards evening, the sea smooth, and the
weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered towards the
land with something Very black; not being able to discover
what it was, till after some time, our chief mate going up the
main-shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a perspec-
tive, cried out it was an army. 1 could not imagine what he
meant by an army, and th\varted him a little hastily. " Nay,
sir," says he, " don't be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet too;
for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see
them paddle along, for they are coming towards us apace."

l was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my nephew
the captain ; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in
the island, and having never been in those seas before, that he
could not tell what to think of it, but said two or three times
we should all be devoured. I must confess, considering we
were becalmed, and the current set strong towards the shore,
i liked it the worse: however, I bade them not to be afraid,
but bring the ship to an anchor as soon as we came so near
as to know that we must. engage them.

 

The weather continued calm, and they came on apace to-
wards us; so I gave order to come to an anchor, and furl all
our sails: as for the savages, I told them they had nothing to
fear but fire, and, therefore, they should get their boats out,
and fasten them, one close by the head, and the other by the
stern, and man them both well, and wait the issue in that pos-
ture: this I did that the men in the boats might be ready with
sheets and buckets to put out any fire these savages would
endeavour to fix to the outside of the ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they
came up with us; but never was such a horrid sight seen by
Christians: though my mate was much mistaken in his calcula-
tion of their number, yet, when they came up, we reckoned about
a hundred and twenty-six; some of them had sixteen or seven-
teen men in them, and some more, and the least six or seven.

When they came nearer to us they seemed to be struck with
wonder and astonishment, as at a sight which, doubtless, they
had never seen before; nor could they at first, as we after-
wards understood, know what to make of us: they came
boldly up, however, very near to us, and seemed to go about
to row round us ; but we called to our men in the boats not to
let them come too near to them. This very order brought us356 .IIIVIIIITUIIss or

to an m ,zagement \Iith them, IIitlIout onr designing it; for
live or si.\ ot the large canoes e IIIIIII so near our loIIII~lIIIIIt that
our IIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIId with their hands to keep them hack. Which
thIII understood IIIry well and went hack; but, at. their re-
that, about tittI- arrows came on board us IrIIIII those heats.
IIIIII one el our men in the long-heat was very IIIIIeh wounded.
lIIIII'III'IgII I I alled to them not to tire hy aIII' IIIIIaIIs: hut Ive
handed down some III III-hoards into the heat and tlIeI Iar-
penter preseIItlI' set up a kind of tence, like II-IIstII-IIIIarIls, to
own them trom the arrows of the saIagIIs, if they should
shoot- again.

About. half an hour afterwards they all came up in a IIIIII_I
asteIn of us. and so II M as that we could asily discern IIhIIt
they \I',IIrII though IIII could not tell their design . and l easilv
tIIIIIId they were. some of 111) old ftiends, the same sort ot
savages that I had been used to eugaIIe with; and in II short.
time more thIII' rowed a little farther out to sea, till they came
directly lIIIIadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon
us, till thev came so near that thIII could hear us I; IIIak: upon
this I ordered all my IIIIIII to keep close, lest they 5 IIIIIlIl shoot
any more arrows, and make all our "tins ready, . hut lIIIiIIIr so
near as to he within IIIIIIIiIIg, I made lI'riIIIII go out upon the
deck, and call out. aloud to them III his lanI_:IiaI'e,t to know what
tlIIII' meant: IIhich, accordinglv, he did. \\ hether thI under-
stood him III not, th It I knew not; but iInIIIediatIIly lI'Iida}
eried out theI Iv'eIII going to shoot: and unhappilv tor him,
poor fellow, they let tl_v alIIIut three hundred ot theiI arrows
IIIIII to my inexpressihle inIII, killed poor Friday, IIII other
man heing in their sight. The poor fellow was shot with IIII
less than three arrows, and alIIIut three more fell very II Iar
him: such unluckv marksmen the y IIIII'II!

I was so enra-Ied at the loss ot IIII' old trusty servant and
companion, that I iInnIIIdiIIteII' IIIdered tive guns to be loaded
with small shot, and tour with <<mat, and "me. them such a
hroadside as they had never heard in theiI lives hetore to he
sure. 'l'hev were not above. halt a cable lI-IIIvtlI otl when are
tired- , and our IIIIIIneI s took their aim so well, that three III
four of their canoes were III erset as we had reason to IK'IIL' II
lIy one shot only.

'l'heir ill-manners to Its gave us no IIIII It offence; IIIIitheI
did I know for certain IIhIItIIIIr that which would pass for
the greatest contempt among us IIIiIIht he understood so by
them or not; theIeforII, in return, I had only resolved to haIe
tired tour or live guns at them with powder only, which I
knew would friwht them sufficiently; but when thev shot at
us directly with all the fury they were capable of, and espe-
cially as they had killed my poor lI'ridaI', whom I so entirely
loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserved it, I thought
myself not only justified before God and man, but would have
been very glad if I could have overset every canoe there, and

drowned every one of them.

        
    
 
   
         

i l' T3- . ' -
. " -|- 513-2. . II "
..l.;" _u;l_~',gl'q'.r: 1 ._ J".

1-->>

it 1.

ll;

lire;- , -

ll-'ell 'l :1:

2'5"". " : i' ,.
Lfi ('W )' (g " 41'1"" .' I...

. ".30. "Tim 3 ill"

   

/ .

   

     

a

I "" '1. - ..
SS\. - ' ' x \.l -_-.';. -
' \\ \

'1 ."~\ \ \ [wt-3 ' ~ 'fi' .
it;\ :7 .r
\\ \fly- ' ~33 \ \

I can neither tell how many we killed, nor how many we
wounded at this broadside, but sure such a fright and hurry
never was seen among such a multitude; there were thirteen
or fourteen of their canoes split and overset in all, and the men
all set a swimming; the rest, frightened out of their wits,
scoured away as fast as they could, taking but little care to
save those whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot; so
I suppose that many of them were lost: and our men took up
one poor fellow swimming for his life above an hour after they
were all gone.

The small shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound
a great many; but, in short, we never knew anything how it
went with them, for they fled so fast, that in three hours or
thereabouts we could not see above three or four straggling
canoes, nor did we ever see the rest any more; for a breeze of
wind springing up the same evening, we weighed, and set sail
for the Brazils. _

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen
that he would neither cat nor speak, and we all fancied he
would starve himself to death: but I took a way to cure him:
858 .wvns'rvass or

for I made them take him and turn him into the long-boat, and
make hint believe they would toss him into the sea again, and
so leave him where they found him, if he would not speak:
nor would that do, but they any did throw him into the sea,
and came away from him; and then he followed them, for he
swam like a cork, and called to them in his tongue, though
they knew not one word of what he said: however, at last,
they took him in again, and then he began to be more tractable;
nor did I ever design they should drown him.

We were now under sail again: but. I was the most discou-
solate creature alive for want of my man Friday, and would
have been very glad to have gone back to the island to have
taken one of the rest from thence for my occasion ; but it could
not. be ; so we went on. We had one prisoner, as l have said,
and it. was a long time before we could make him understand
anything: but in time our men taught him some English, and
he began to be a little tractable. Afterwards, we inquired
what country he came from, but could make nothing of what
he said; for his speech was so odd, all gntturals, and he
SpUke in the throat in such a hollow, odd manner, that We
could chel' form a word after him; and we were all of opinion,
that they might speak that language as well if they were
gagged as otherwise: nor could we perceive that they had any
occasion either for teeth, tongue, lips, or palate, but formed
their words just as a hunting-horn forms a tune, with an e um
throat. He told us, however, some time after, when we had
taught him to speak a little English, that they were going with
their kings to tight a great battle. When he said kings, we
asked him how many kings? 110 said they were five nation
(we could not make him understand the lural s), and that
they all joined to go against two nation. \ e asked him what
made them come up to us? He said, "To makee to great.
wonder look." Here it is to be observed, that all those natives,
as also those of Africa, when they learn English, always add
two e's at the end of the words where we use one; and they
place the accent upon them, as makee, takee, and the like; and
we could not break them of it; nay, I could hardly make
Friday leave it 00', though at last he did.

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take m
last leave of him: Poor honest Friday! We buried him wi
all the decency and solemnity ible, by putting him into a
coffin and throwing him into t e sea; and I caused them to
fire eleven guns for him: and so ended the life of the m ISl
grateful, faithful, honest, and most afl'cctionate servant that.
ever man had.

We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil ; and in about
twelve days' time, we made land in the latitude of five degrees
south of the line, being the north-easternmost land of all that
part of America. We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore,
four days, when we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three
days came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old
place of my deliverance, from whence came both my good
and evil.

Never ship come to this port that had less business than I
had, and yet it was with great dilliculty that we were admitted
to hold the least correspondence on shore: not my partner
himself, who was aliVe, and made a great figure among them,
not my two merchant trustees, not the fame of my wonderful
preservation in the island, could obtain me that fawur; but
my partner, remembering that I had given five hundred
moidores to the.prior of the monastery of the Augustines, and
mo hundred am seventy-two to the poor, went to the monas~
tery and obliged the prior that then was to go to the governor,
and get leave for me personally, with the captain and one
more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no more;
and this, upon condition absoiutcly capitulated for, that we
should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, nor to carry
any person away without any licence. They were so strict with
us as to landing any goods, that it was with extreme difliculty
that i got on shore three bales of English goods, such as fine
broad-cloths, stuffs, and some linen which I had brought for a
present to my partner.

lie was a very generous, open-hearted man; though, like
me, he came from little at first: and though he knew not that
i had the least design of giving him anything, he sent me on
board a present of fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmeats,
Worth above thirty moidores, including some tobacco, and
three or four fine medals of gold: but I was even with him in
my resent, which, as I have said, consisted of fine broad-cloth,
English stuffs, lace, and fine hollands; also I delivered him
about the value of 1001. sterling in the same goods, for other
uses: and I obli ed him to set up the sloop which I had
brought with me lgrom England, as l have said, for the use of
my colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended to my
plantation.

Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very
few days, for she was already framed; and I gave the master
of her such instructions, as he could not miss the place: nor
did he miss them, as I had an account from my partner after-
wards. I got him soon loaded with the small cargo I sent
them; and one of our seamen that had been on shore with me
there ofi'ered to go with the sleep and settle there, upon my
letter to the governor Spaniard to allot him a suflicient quan-
tity of land for a plantation, and giving him some clothes and
tools for his planting work, which he said he understmd,
having been an old planter at Maryland, and a hueeaneer into
the bargain. l encounigml the fellow, by granting all he
desired; and, as in the condition, 1 gave him the savage
whom we had taken prisoner of war to be his slaw, and
ordered the governor Spaniard to give him his share of every-
thin r he wanted with t. It' rest.

W hen we came to tit this man out, my ohl iartner told me,
there was a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter, of his
acquaintance, who had fallen into the displeasure ol' the church.
"1 know not. what the matter is with him," an 11 he, "hut
l think he is an heretie in his heart, and he has lieeu obliged
to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition; that he would
be Very glad of such an opportunity to make his escape, with
his wife and two daughters; and, it' 1 would let them go to
my island, and allot them a plantation, he would give them a
small stock to begin with; for the otlieers ol' the lnquisition
had seized all his ell'eets and estate, and he had nothing left. hat
a little household stall, and two shows: and," adds he, " though
I hate his principles, yet I would not haVe him fall into their
hands, for he will he assuredly hurned alive it' he does."

1 granted this presently, and joined my l'lnglishman with
them; and we Concealed the man, and his wife and daughters,
on board our ship, till the sloop put. out to go to sea; and
then, having put all their minds on hoard some. time before,
we put them on board the sloop after she. was got out of the hay.

Our seamau was mightily pleased with this new partner;
and their stocks, indeed, were. much alike, rich in tools, in
preparations, and a farm; hut nothing to begin with, except
as abOVe: howm'er, they carried over with them, which was
worth all the rest, some materials for planting sugar-canes,
with some. plants of canes, which he, 1 mean the Portugal man,
understood very well.

Among the rest of the supplies sent my tenants in the
island, I sent them hy the. sloop three milch cows and live
calves, about twenty-tun hogs among them, threesows big
with pig, two mares, and a stone horse. For my Spaniards,
according to my promise, I engaged three Portugal women to
go, and recommended it. to them to marry them, and use them
kindly. i could have procured more women, but 1 remem-
bered that the poor persecuted man had two daughters, and.
that there were but tive of the Spaniards that wanted: the
rest had wives of their own, then h in another country.

All this cargo arrived safe, an , as you may easily suppose,
were very welcome to my old inhahinmts, who were now, with
this addition, between sixty and seventy people, besides little
children of which there were a great many. 1 found lttters
at London from them all by way of Lisbon, when I came
back to England, of which I shall also take some notice

immediately.

~M

CHAPTER. XLVII.

run Vol-LII. 0' AN OLD NAN~VOYAOI 1'0 Tlll IA" "Dill--'30)") connect
'A warm T0 'I'IIF. "LAND--LAST LCTTKIHI 'ltOl 'flfltNCl--'I'fll 1'0"!"
(EWWYIAfl--OAI'I 0' (100!) norm--lanaoucau "TRANMBNION AGAIN"
TH' "ATIVKS. AND DflflAIWUL "counts Wl'fll 'fllll--lnlmlll 0' 10M
JIV'IY--CI'I "0'"'0 A "VIN--'1'". UAWCRI 0' IAIMOADC'I.

l luvs now done with the island, and all manner of course
about it; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums
would do well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect
to read of the follies of an old man, not warned by his own
harms, much less by those of other men, to beware of the like;
not cooled by almost forty yeans' miseries and disappoint-
ments; not satisfied with prosperity beyond expectation, or
made cautious by afflictions and distress beyond imitation.

1 had no more business to go to the East Indies, than a man
at full liberty has to go to the turnkey at Newgate, and desire
him to lock him up among the prisoners there, and starve him.
Had I taken a small vessel from England, and went directly to
the island; had I loaded her, as I did the other vessel, with all
the necessaries for the plantation, and for my people; took a
patent from the overnment here to have secured my property,
in subjection on y to that of England; had I carried over
cannon and ammunition, servants, and people to plant, and
taken possession of the place, fortified and stren hencd it, in
the name of England, and increased it with peep e, as I might
easily have done; had I then settled myself there, and sent the
ship back loaded with good rice, as I might also have done in
six months' time, and ordered my friends to have fitted her
out again for our supply; had I done this, and stayed there
myself, I had at least acted like a man of common sense; but
I was possessed with a wandering spirit, and seemed all advan-
tages; I pleasedm self with being the tron of the people
I placed there, and ( oing for them in a kin of haughty, majestic
way, like an old patriarchal monarch, providing for them as if
1 had been father of the whole family, as well as of the planta-
tion: but I never so much as pretended to plant in the name
of any government or nation, or to acknowledge any prince,

or to call my people subject to any one nation more than
a

I
another; nay, I never so much as gave the place a name, but
left it, as 1 found it, belonging to nobody, and the mople under
no discipline, or government, but my own : who, though 1 had
inlluence over them as a father and benelitctor, had no autho~
rity, or power, to act, or command, one way or other, farther
than voluntary consent moved them to comply : yet even this,
had I stayed there, would have done well enough; but, as l
nunbled from them, and eame there no more, the last letters
I had from any of them was by my partner's nu-ans, who after-
wards sent. another sloop to the place, and who sent me word,
though l had not the letter till l got. to London, several years
alter it was written, that they went. on but. poorly, were mal-
content with their long stay there; that \\'ill Atkins was dead ;
that. tive of the Spaniards were eome away: and. though they
had not been nmeh molested by the savages, yet they had some
skirmishes with them ; aml that. they beggml of him to write
to me, to think of the promise. I had made to fetch them away,
that they might see their country again before they died.

But I was gone. a wild-goose, chase indeed: and they that
will have. any more of me must be content. to follow me into a
new variety of follies, hardships, and wild adVentnl'es, wherein
the justice of Providence may be duly observed; and we may
see how easily Heaven can gorge us with our own desires,
make the stron est of our wishes be our atllictiou, and punish
us most severe y with those very things which we think it
would be our utmost happiness to be allowed in. Whether I
had business, or no business, away i went; it is no time now
to enlarge upon the reason, or absurdity, of my own conduct,
but to come to the histor '; l was embarked for the Voyage, and
the voyage. 1 went.

1 shall only add a word or two concerning my honest l'opish
clergyman; for, let their opinion of as, and all other heretics
in general, as they call us, be as uncharitable. as it may, I verily
beliOVc this man was very sinCere, and wished the good of all
men: )'et I believe he was upon the res'erVe in many of his
expressions, to prevent giving me otl'ence: forl scarce heard
him once call upon the blessed Virgin, or mention St. Jago, or
his guardian angel, though so common With the rest of them :
however, I say, 1 had not the least doubt of his sincerity and
pious intentions on his own put; and i am tirmly of opinion,
it' the rest of the l'opish missionaries were like him, they
would strive to visit even the poor 'l'artars and Laplanders,
where they have nothing to give them, as well as covet toflock
to india, Persia, China, 820., the most wealthy of the heathen
countries; for, it' they expected to bring no gains to their
church by it, it may well be inquired how the came to admit

the Chinese Confucius into the calendar of the hristian saints?
But this by-the-by.
A ship being ready to sail for Lislmn, my pious priest. asked
my leave to go thither; being still, as he oliservi-d, hound
never to finish any voyage he began. llow happy had it been
for me il' I had gone with himl llut it was too late now; all
things IleaVen aplmiuts for the host: had I gene with him,
I had "erer had so many things to he thankful for, and the
reader had. "UVUI' heard of the second part of the travels and
adVentm-es of Itohiuson Cmsoe; so I mttst here here exclaim-
ing at myself, and go on with my voyage. From the lh'azils
we made directly over the Atlantic sea to the Cape of (intul
llolm, and had a tolerahly good voyage, our course generally
south-east, now and then a storm, and some contrary winds,
but my disasters at. Sea were at end : my future rubs and cross
events Were to befall me on slun'e, that it might appear the land
was as well prepared to he our scourge as the sea.

()ur ship was on a trading Voyage, and had a supercargo on
hoard, who was to direct all her motions after she arriVed at
the Cape, only being limited to a certain number of days for
stay, by charter-party, at the SUVcl'al ports she was to go to.
This was none of my business, neither did 1 meddle with it;
my nephew the captain, and the supercargo adjusting all those
things between them as they thought fit.

We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needl'ul to take
in fresh water, but made the best of our way for the coast of
(Yoromandel. We were indeed informed that a French man-
ot'-war of fifty guns, and two large merchant-ships, \vere gone
for the ladies; and, as I knew we were at war with France,
I had some apprehensions of them; but they \vent their own
way, and we heard no more of them.

I shall not pester the reader with a tedious description of
places, journals of our voyages, variations of the Compass, lati-
tudes, trade-winds, &c.; it is enough to name the ports and
places which We touched at, and what occurred to us upon our
mssing from one to another. We touched first at the island of

hulagascar, where, though the people are tierce and treache-
rous, and very well armed with lances and bows, which they
use with inconceivable dexterity, yet we fared Very well with
them awhile; they treated us very civilly ; and, for some triflcs
which we gave them, such as knives, scissors, &e., they brought
us eleven aood fat bullocks ot' a middling size, which we took
in, partly for fresh provisions for our present spending, and the
rest to salt for the ship's use.

We were obliged to stay here for some time after we had tur-
mshed ourselves with provisions: and I, who was always too
curious to look into every nook of the world wherever I came,
was for oing on shore as often as I could. It was on the east
side of die island that we went on shore one evenin": and the
people, who, by the way, are very numerous, came tleronging

B
about us, and stood gazing at us at a distance: but, as we had
traded freely with them, and had been kittdly used, we thought
ourselves in no danger; but when we saw the people, we cut
three boughs ottt of a tree, and stuck tltetn up at a distance from
us; which, it. seems, is a mark in that cottntry, not only of a trttce
and friendship, bttt, when it is accepted, the other side. sets up
three poles, or boughs, which is a signal that they accept
the truce, too: but then, this is a known condition of the
trttce, that you are not to paw beyond their three miles,
towards them, nor they to come past- your three poles, or
bonghs, towards you ; so that you are perfectly secure within
the three poles, and all the space between yottr poles and
theirs is allowed like a market for free Converse, trailic, and
commerce. When you go there, yott tnust not carry your
weapons with you; aml if they come into that space, they
stick up their javelins attd lances all at their first poles, and
eonte. on unarmed; bttt if any violence is otl'ered them, and
the truce therefore broken, away they rtttt to the poles, and lay
hold of their weapons, and the trttce is at an end.

It happened one evening when we went on shore, that a
greater number of their )eeplc came down than usual, but.
all very friendly and civil; and they brought several kinds
of provisions, for which we satistied them with such toys as
we had; their women, also, brought as milk and rents, and
several things very acceptable to its, and all was quiet; and
we made us a little tent, or but, of sotne boughs of trees, and
lay on shore all night.

1 know not what was the occasion, but I was not so Well
satisfied to lie on shore as the rest: and the beat, riding at
an anchor about. a stone-cast from the land, with tWo men in
her to take care of her, 1 made one of them come on shore;
and, getting some bonghs of trees to cover us, also, in the
boat, I spread the sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay
under the cover of the branches of tlte trees all night in the
boat.

About two o'clock in the morning, we heard one of our
men make a terrible noise on the shore, calling out, for God's
sake, to bring the boat in, and cotnc and help them, for they
were all like to be mttrdered; at. the same time I heard the tire
of five tnnskets, which was the ntttnber of the guns they had,
and that three times over; for it seems the natives here were
not so easily frightened with guns as the savages were in
America, where 1 had to do with them. All this while, I
knew not what was the tnatter, but, rousing immediately from
slee ) with the noise, I caused the boat to be thrust in, and
resolved, with three fnzees We had on board, to land and assist
our men.

We got the beat soon to the shore, but our men were in too
much haste; for, being come to the shore, they plunged into
the water to et to the boat with all the expedition-they could,
being pursue by hetvvecn three and four hundred men. Our
men were but nine in all, and only live of them had fuzees
with them: the rest had pistols and swords, indeed, but they
were of small use to them.

We took it) seven of our men, and with difficulty enough,
tm, three of t iem being very ill wounded; and that which was
still worse was, that while we stood in the boat to take our
men in, we were in as much danger as they were in on shore;
for they poured their arrows in upon us so thick, that we were
glad to barricade the sides of the boat up with the beaches, and
two or three loose boards, which, to our great satisfaction, we
had by mere accident in the boat. And yet, had it been day-
light, they are, it seems, such exact marksmen, that, if they
could have seen but the deast )art of any of us, they would
have been sure of us. We h , by the light of the moon, a
little sight of them as they stood pelting us from the shore
with darts and arrows; and, havin r got ready our tire-arms, we
gavethem a volley that, we could car, by the cries of some of
them, had wounded several ; however, they stood thus in battle
army on the shore till break of day, which we suppose was
that they might see the better to take their aim at us.

In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our
anchor, or set our sail, because we must need stand up in the
boat, and they were as sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird
in a tree with small shot. We made signals of distress to the
ship, which, though she rode a league off, yet my nephew, the
captain, hearing our tiring, and by glasses, perceiving the
posture we lay in, and that we tired towards the shore, pretty
well understood us; and, weighing anchor with all speed, he
stood as near the shore as he durst with the ship, and then
sent another boat with ten hands in her to assist us ; but we
called to them not to come too near, telling them what con-
dition we were in; however, they stood in near to us, and one
of the men takinw the end of a tow-line in his hand, and
keeping our boat metwecn him and the enemy, so that they
can d not perfectly see him, swam on board us, and made fast
the line to the boat; upon which we slipped out a little cable,
and, leaving our anchor behind, they towed us out of reach of
the arrows; we all the while lying close behind the barricade
we had made.

As soon as we were got from between the ship and the
shore, that we could lay her side to the shore, she ran alon
just by them, and poured in a broadside among them load
with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets and such stuff,
rides the great shot, which made a terrible havoc among

em.
When we were got on board, and out of danger, we had
time to examine into the occasion of this fIav, - and, indeed, our
supeIcargo, who had often been in those parts, put me upon
it; foI he said he II Is sure the inhabitants would not haIe
touched us after we had made a truce it we had not done some-
thing to pIoIoke them to it. At length it came out that an old
woman who had come to sell us some milk, had brought it
\Iithin ouI poles, and a young woman with her, who also
brought some roots or herbs; and while the old Woman
(IIhethI-I she was mother to the young woman or no, they
could not tell) was selling as the milk, one 01 our men otl'ered
some Iudeness to the II each that was with her, at which the
old woman made a gII-at noise; howeIer, the seaman would
not quit his prize, but carried her out of the old woman's
sight among the trees, it. being almost dark; the old woman
went away without her, and, as we may suppose, made an out-
cry among the people she came from; who upon notice raised
this gIeat 8.1111) upon us in three 01 four hours: and it was
gIeat t,odds but we had all been destoned.

One ol our men was killed with a lance thrown at him,
just at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent
they had madI : the rest came oti' free, all but the fellow who
was the occasion of all the mischief, who paid dear enough for
his black mistress, for we could not hear what became of him
a great while. We lay upon the shore two days after, though
the wind presented, and made signals for him, and made our
boat sail up shore and down shore several leagues, but in vain;
so we were obliged to give him over; and if he alone had
sIItl'eI-ed for it the loss had been less.

I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on
show once more, to try if [could learn anything of him or
them; it II as the tidal night alter the action that 1 had a great
mind to leaIn, il 1 could by any means, what mischief we chad
done, and how the game stood on the Indians' side. I Was
eaIelul to do it in the dad; lest we should be attacked again ,
but I ought, indeed, to law been sure that the men I went
with had been undeI my connnand belore I engaged In a thing
so hazardous and mischievous, as I II'as brought into it without
design.

\\ 0 took twenty as stout fellows with us as any in the ship,
besides the supeiflcaugo and my self, and we landed two hours
before midnight, at the same place where the Indians stood
drawn up on the m ening before: I landed here. because my
design, as l have said, Was chiefly to see if they had quittee
the field, and if they had lett any marks behind them of the
mischief IIe had done them; and I thought if we could sur-
prise one or two of them, perhaps we might get our man again
by way of exchange.
We landed without any noise, and divided our men into two
bodies, whereof the boatswain commanded one, and I the
other. We neither saw nor heard any body stir when we
landed : and we marched up, one body at a distance from the
other, to the place; but at first could see nothing, it being very
dark; till, by-and-by, our boatswain, who led the first party,
stumbled and fell over a dead body. This made them halt
awhile ; for, knowing by the circumstances that they were at
the place where the Indians had stood, they waited for my
coming up there. We concluded to halt till the moon began
to rise, which we knew would be in less than an hour, when
we eould easily discern the havoc we had made among them.
\Ve told thirty-two bodies upon the ground, whereof two were
not quite dead ; some had an arnfi and some a leg, shot ofl', and
one his head ; those that were wounded, we suppose they had
carried away. '

When we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all we
could come to the knowledge of, I was resolved for going on
board; but the boatswain and his party sent me word that
they were resolved to make a visit to the Indian town, where
these dogs, as they called them, dwelt, and asked me to go along
with them; and if they could find them, as they still fancied
they should, they did not doubt of getting a good booty ; and
it might be they might find 'l'om Jefi'ry there; that was the
man's name we had lost.

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough
what answer to have given them; for I should have com-
manded them instantly on board, knowing it was not a hazard
fit for us to run, who had a ship and ship-loadiugin our charge,
and a voyage to make which depended very much upon the
lives of the men; but as they sent me word they were resolved
to go, and only asked me and my company to go along with
them, I positively refused it, and rose up, for I was sitting on
the ground, in order to go to the boat. One or two of the men
began to importune me to go; and when I refused, began to
grumble, and say that they were not under my command, and
they would go. "Come, Jack," says one of the men, " will
you go with me P--I'll go for one." J aek said he would,---and
then another,--and, in a word, they all left me but one, whom
I persuaded to stay, and a boy left in the boat. So the super-
cargo and l, with the third man, went back to the boat, Where
we told them we would stay for them, and take in as many of
them as should be left; for I told them it was a mad thing they
were going about, and supposed most of them would run the
fate of Tom Jeffry.

They told me, like seamen, they would warrant it they would
come off again, and they would take care, &e. ; so away they
Went. I entreated them to consider the ship and the voyage,
that their lives were not their own, and that they were In-
trusted with the voyage in some measure; that if they mil-
carried the ship mightho lost for want of their help, and that
they could not answer for it to God or man. But I might as
well htth talked to the mainmast of the ship; they were mad
upon their journey, only they gave me good words, and begged
I would not be angry; that they did not doubt but they would
be back again in about an hour at farthest; for the Indian town,
they said, was not above half a mile off, though they found it
above two miles before they got to it.

Well, they all went away; and though the attempt was
desperate, and such as none but madmeu would have gone
about, yet, to give them their due, they went about it as
warily as boldly; they won gallantly armed, for they had
every man a fuzee, or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol : some
of them had broad cutlasses, some of them had hangers, and the
boatswain and two more had pole-axes: besides all which, they
had among them thirteen hand-grenadoes: bolder fellows and
better provided never went about any wicked work in the world.

When they went out their chief design was plunder, and
they were in mighty hopes of finding gold there: but a circum-
stance which some of them Were aware of, set them on the with
revenge, and made devils of them all. When they came to
the few Indian houses which they thought had been the town,
which was not above half a mile off, they were under a great
disappointment, for there were not above twelve or thirteen
houses; and where the town was, or how big. they knew
not. They consulted, therefore, what to do, and were some
time before they could resolve; for if they fell upon these they
must cut all their throats, and it was ten to one but some
of them might escape, it being in the night, though the
moon was up; and if one escaped, he would run away and
raise all the town, so they should have a whole army upon
them: again, on the other hand, if they went away and eft
those untouched, for the people were all asleep, the could not
tell which way to look for the town; however, the net was the
best advice; so they resolved to leave them, and look for
the town as well as they could. They went on a little way,
and found a cow tied to a tree; this they presently concluded
would be a good guide to them; for they said the cow certainly
belonged to the town before them or the town behind them;
and if they untied her they should see which way she went;
if she went back, they had nothing to say to her; but if she
went forward, they would follow her: so they cut the cord,
which was made of twisted flags, and the cow went on before
them, directly to the town ; which, as they reported, consistcd
of above two hundred houses or huts, and in some of these they
found several families living together.
Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as sleep
could make them: and first they called another council to con-
sider what they had to do; and, in a word, they resolved to
divide themselves into three bodies, and to set three houses en
tire in three parts of the town; and as the men came out, to
seize them and bind them, (if any resisted they need not be
asked what to do then,) and so to search the rest of the houses
for plunder: but they resolved to march silently first through
the town, and see what dimensions it was of, and if they might
venture upon it or no.

They did so, and desperately resolved that they would ven-
ture upon them: but while they were animating one another
to the work, three of them who were a little before the rest
called out aloud to them, and told them that they had found
'l'om Jeffry : they all ran up to the place, where they found the
nor fellow hanging up naked by one amt, and his throat cut.
l'here was an lndian house just by the tree, where they found
sixteen or seventeen of the principal Indians who had been
concerned in the fray with us fore, and two or three of them
wounded with our shot; and our men found they were awake,
and talking one to another in that house, but knew not their
number.

This sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them,
as before, that they swore to one another they would be
revenged, and that not an Indian that came into their hands
should have any quarter; and towork they went immediately,
and yet not so madly as might be expected from the rage and
fury they were in. Their first care was to get something that
would soon take fire, but after a little search they found that
would be to no purpose; for most of the houses were low, and
thatched with flags and rushes, of which the country is full; so
they presently made some wild-tire, as we call it, by wetting a
little powder in the palm of their hands: and in a quarter of
an hour they set the town on fire in four or five places, and
particularly that house where the Indians were not gone to bed.

As soon as the tire began to blaze, the poor frightened
creatures began to rush out to save their lives, but met with
their fate in the attempt; and, especially at the door, where
they drove them back, the boatswain himself killing one or
two with his pole-axe: the house being large, and many in it,
he did not care to go in, but called for a hand-grenade, and
threw it among them, which at first frightened them, but when
it burst, made such a havoc among them that they cried out in
a hideous manner. In short, most of the Indians who were
in the open part of the house were killed or hurt with the
grenade, except two or three more who pressed to the door,
which the boatswain and two more kept, with their bayonets

on the muzzles of their pieces, and despatoned all that came
. a 3
in their way: but there was another apartment in the house,
where the prince, or king, or whatever he was, and several
others were; and these were kept in till the house, which was
by this time all in a light flame, fell in upon them, and they
were smothered together.

All this while they fired not a gun, because they would not
waken the people faster than they could master them: but the
fire began to waken them fast enough, and our fellows were
glad to keep a little together in bodies; for the fire grew so
raging, all the houses being made of light combustible stuff,
that they could hardly bear the street between them : and their
business was to follow the fire, for the surer execution; as
fast as the fire either forced the people out of those houses
which were burning, or frightened them out of others, our
people were ready at their doors to knock them on the head, still
calling and hallooing one to another to remember 'l'om Jeffry.

While this was doing, I must confess I was very uneasy,
and especially when I saw the flames of the town, which, it
being night, seemed to be just by me. My nephew, the
captain, who was roused by his men, seeing such a fire, was
very uneasy, not knowing what the matter was, or what danger
l was in, especially hearing the guns, too, for. by this time,
they began to use their fire-arms; a thousand thoughts op-
pressed his mind concerning me and the supercargo, what
would become of us; and, at last, though he could ill spare
any more men, yet, not knowing what exigence we might be
in, he takes another boat, and, with thirteen men and himself,
comes on shore to me.

He was surprised to see me and the supercargo in the boat,
with no more than two men : and, though he was glad that we
were well, yet he was in the same impatience with us to know
what was doing; for the noise continued, and the flame in-
creased; in short, it was next to an impossibility for any man
in the world to restrain his curiosity to know what had hap-
pened, or his concern for the safety of the men: in a word,
the captain told me, he would go and help his men, let what
would come. I argued with him, as I did before with the men,
the safety of the ship, the danger of the voyage, the interests of
the owners and merchants, &c., and told him 1 and the two
men would go, and only see, if we could, at a distance, learn
what was like to be the event, and come back and tell him. '
it was all one to talk to my nephew, as it was to talk to the
rest before: he would go, he said; and he only wished he had
left but ten men in the ship ; for he could not think of having
his men lost for want of help; he had rather lose the ship, the
voyage, and his life, and all; and away he went.

I was no more able to stay behind now than I was to per~
made them not to go; so, in short, the captain ordered two
men to row back the pinnace, and fetch twelve men more, leav-
ing the long-boat at an anchor: and that, when they came back,
six men should keep the two boats, and six more come after us:
so that he had left only sixteen men in the ship; for the whole
ship's company consisted of sixty-five men, whereof two were
lost in the late quarrel which brought this mischief on.

Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt little of
the ground we trod on; and, being guided by the fire, we kept
no path, but went directly to the place of the flame. If the
noise of the guns was surprising to us before, the cries of the
poor people were now quite of another nature, and filled us
with horror. I must confess I was never at the sacking of a
city, or at the taking a tOWn by storm; I had heard of Oliver
Cromwell taking Drogheda, in Ireland, and killing man, woman,
and child! and I had read of Count Tully sacking the city of
Magdebourg, and cutting the throats of twenty-two thousand
of all sexes; but I never had an idea of the thing itself before,
nor is it possible to describe it, or the horror that was upon
our minds at hearing it. However, we went on, and at length
came to the town, though there was no entering the streets of
it for the fire. The first object we met with was the ruins of
a hut, or house, or rather the ashes of it, for the house was con-
sumed, and just before it, plain now to be seen by the light of
the fire, lay four men and three women killed, and, as we
thought, one or two more lay in the heap among the fire: in
short, there were such instances of a rage altogether barba-
rous, and of a fury something beyond what was human, that
we thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it; or, if
they were the authors of it, we thought they ought to be every
one of them put to the worst of deaths. But this was not all:
we saw the fire increase forward, and the cry went on just as
the fire went on; so that we were in the utmost confusion.
We advanced a little way farther; and, behold to our astonish-
ment, three naked women, and crying in a most dreadful
manner, came flying, as if they had wings, and after them,
sixteen or seventeen men, natives, in the same terror and
consternation, with three of our English butchers' in the rear;
who, when they could not overtake them, fired in among them,
and one that was killed by their shot fell dOWn in our sight.
When the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and
that we would murder them, as well as those that pursued
them, they set up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women,
and two of them fell down, as if already dead with the fright.

0 This is an llllberal reflection upon a very useful body of men. to whom we

are under at obligations, and who, generally speaking are not gullty of greater,
or so greatgcrlfuelty, as many other descriptions of raons'. who do not labour under

such obloqny. See this matter discussed at [@3ch in The Elma-fenced Butcher. a
work calculated to promote humanity in general. as well as towards the brute

creation.
My very soul shrunk within me, and my blood ran chill in
my veins, when I saw this: and I believe bad the three English
sailors that pursued them come on, I had made our men kill
them all: hoWover, we took some ways to let the poor tlying
creatures know that we would not. hurt them : and immediately
they came up to us, and, kneeling down, with their hands lifted
up, made piteous buueutations to us to save them, which we
let. them know we would; whereupon they crept. altogether in
a huddle close behind us, as for protection. 1 left tny men
drawn up together, and charging them to hurt nolxuly, but if
possible to get at some of our lieople, and see what devil it
was [kisses-zed them, and what they intended to do, and to
command them ofl' ; assuring them, that it' they stayed till day-
light, they would have an utudred thousand men about. their
ears: 1 say I left them, and went among those tlying wo )lt',
taking only tWo of our men with me; and there was, indeed, a
piteous spectacle among them; some of them had their feet
terribly burned, with trampling and running through the tire;
others their hands burned; one of the women had fallen down
in the tire, and was very much burned before she could get out
again; and two or three of the men had cuts in their backs
and thighs from our men pursuing; and another was shot
through the body, and died while 1 was there.

I would l'ain have learned what the occasion of all this was,
but I could not understand one Word they said; though, by
signs, I perceived some of them know not what was the
mansion t iemselws. l was so terrified in my thoughts at this
outrageous attempt that 1 could not stay there, but went back
to my own men, and resolved to go into the middle of the
town, through the tire, or whatever might be in the way, and
int an end to it, cost what it would ; accordingly, as 1 came

ck to my men, I told them my resolution, and couunandul
them to follow me; when, at the very moment, came four of
our men, with the boatswain at their head, roving over heaps
of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as if
they wanted more people to massacre, when our men hallooed
to them as loud as they could halloo: and with much ado, one
of them made them hear, so that they knew who we were, and
came up to us.

As soon as tho bmtswaiu saw us, he set up a halloo like a
shout of triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come:
and without. waiting to hear me, " Captain," says he, "noble
captain! 1 am glad you are come: we are not half done yet:
villanous hell-hound do ! I'll kill as many of theta as poor
Tom has hairs upon his fiend: we have sworn to spare none of
them: we'll root out the very) nation of them from the earth :"
and thus he ran on, out of reath too with action, and would
not give us leave to speak a word.
At last, raising my voice that I might silence him a little,
"llarbarous dogl" said I, "what are you doing? I 'won't
haVe one creature touched more, a )on pain of death : I charge
you, upon your life, to stop your hands, and stand still here,
or you are a dead man this minute."--" Why, sir," says he,
" do you know what you do, or what they have done? If you
want a reason for what they have done, come hither ;" and with
that he showed me the poor fellow hanging, with his throat
cut.

I confess I was urged then, myself, and, at another time,
Would haVo been forward enough: but I thought they had
carried their rage too far, and remembered Jacob's words to
his sons Simeon and Levi--" Cursed be their anger, for it was
fierce ; and their wrath, for it was cruel." But I had now a new
task upon my hands; for, when the men I carried with me saw
the sight, as I had done, I had as much to do to restrain them
as I should have had with the others: nay, my nephew himself
fell in with them, and told me in their hearing, that he was
only concerned for fear of the men being overp0\vercd; and, as
to the people, he thought not one of them ought to live; for
they had all gluttcd themselves with the murder of the poor
man, and that they ought to he used like murderers; upon
these Words, away ran eight of my men, with the boatswain
and his crew, to complete their bloody work ; and I, seeing it
quite out of my power to restrain them, came away pensive
and sad ; for I could not bear the sight, much less the horrible
noise and cries of the poor wretchcs that fell into their hands.

I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and
two men, and with these walked back to the boat. It was a
very great piece of folly in me, I confess, to Venture back as it
were alone; for, as it began new to be almost day, and the
alarm had run over the country, there stood about forty men,
armed with lances and bows, at the little place where the twelve
er thirteen houses stood, mentioned before; but, by accident, I
missed the place, and came directly to the sea-side, and by the
time I got to the sea-side, it was broad day : immediatelyl took
the pinnace, and went on board, and sent her back to assist
the men in what might happen.

1 observed, about the time that I came to the boat-side, that
the fire was retty well out, and the noise abated; but, in
about half an our after I got on board, I heard a volley of our
men's fire-arms, and saw a cat smoke : this, as I understood
afterwards, was our men fal 'ng upon the men, who, as I said,
stood at the few houses on the way, of whom they killed six-
teen or seventeen, and set all the houses on fire, but did not
meddle with the women or children.

By the time the men gotto the shore again with the pinnace,

our men began to appear: they came dropping in, not in two
bodies as they went, but straggling here and there, in such a
manner, that a small force of resolute men might have cut them
all off. But the dread of them was upon the whole country;
and the men were surprised, and so frightened, that l bt'llcVU
an hundred of them Would have fled at the sight of but tire of
our men; nor, in all this terrible action, was there a man that
made any considerable defence : they were so surprised betWeen
the terror of the fire, and the sudden attack of our men in the
dark, that they knew not which way to turn themselves; for
if they fled one way, they Were met by one party; it' back
again by another; so that they were everywlwre knocked
down: nor did any of our men l'cccch the least. hurt, exec-pt
one that sprained his foot, and another that had one of his
hands burned.

l was Very angry with my nephew the captain, and, indeed,
with all the men, in my mind, but with him in particular, as
Well for his acting so out of his duty, as connnander oi the
ship, and having the charge of the voyage upon him, as in his
prompting, rather than Cooling, the rage of his blind men, in
so bloody and cruel an enterprise. My nephew answered me
very resimctl'ully, but told me that when he saw the body of
the poor seaman whom they had murdered in so cruel and
barbarous a manner, he was not master of himself, neither
eould he gorern his passion: he owned he should not hare
done so, as he was commander of the shi ); but as he was a
man, and nature moved him, he could not la-ar it. As for the
rest of the men, they were not subject to me at all, and they
knew it Well enough; so they took no notice of my dislike.

CHAPTER XLVllI.

fllB OCLI' UP I'Rllsu--l-'IVK or "flu: CREW no ()N shuns. AND ARE NOT HEARD
OI Ammo--DIFFERENCE "RTWEHN ROBINSON CINE-0K AN!) Till: BOATSWMN--
rm: uoau Ar BENGAL-'WHHNNDN ('1:qu 00:12! on Bllulut--TIIB cuw in:-
some 10 LEAVE inn--m: sUulfl'S.

'l'nn next day we set sail, so we never heard any more of it.
Our man (littered in the account of the numbers they had
killed; but, according to the best of their accounts, put-all
together, they killed or destroyed about one hundred and fifty
people, men, women, and children, and left not a house standth
111 the town. As for the poor fellow, 'l'om Jefl'ry, as he was
quite dead, for his throat was so cut that his head was half
03,) it weal do him no service to bring him away; so they
only took him down from the tree, where he was hanging by
one hand.

IIoweVer just our men thought this action, Iwas against
them in it, and I always, after that time, told them God
Would blast the voyage; for I looked upon all the blood they
shed that night to lie nmrder in them: for though it is true
that they had killed 'l'om Jeffry, yet Jeffry was the aggressor,
had broken the three, and had violated or debauched a young
Woman of theirs, who came down to them innocently, and on
the faith of the public capitulatiou.

'l'hc boatswain defended this quarrel, when we were after-
wards on board. lle said it was true that we seemed to
break the truce, but really had not; and that the war was
begun the night. before by the natives themselves, who had
shot at us, and killed one of our men without any just provo-
cation; so that, as we Were in a capacity to tight them now,
we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves justice upon
them in an extraordinary manner; that, though the peer man
had taken a little liberty with the Wench, he oughtnot to have
been murdered, and that in such a villainous manner; and that
they did nothing but what was just, and what the laws of God
allowed to be done to murderers.

Une Would think this should have been enough to have
warned us against going- on shore amongst lieathens and bar-
barians; but it is impossible to make mankind wise but at
their own expense ; and their experience seems to be always of
most use to them when it is dearest bought.

\Ve were now bound to the Gulf of Persia, and from thence
to the coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the
chief of the supercargo's design lay at the bay of Bengal;
where, if he missed his business outward-bound, he was to go
up to China, and return to the coast as he came home.

The tirst disaster that befel us was in the gulf of Persia,
where five of our men Venturing on shore, on the Arabian side
of the gulf, were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all
killed, or carried away into slavery; the rest of the boat's crew
were not able to rescue them, and had but just time to get of?
their boat. I began to upbraid them with the just retribution
of Heaven in this case: but the boatswain very warmly told
me, he thought I went farther in my censures than I could show
any warrant for in Scripture: and referred to Luke xiii. 4,
where our Saviour intimates, that those men on whom the
tower of Siloam fell were not sinners above all the Galileans:
but that which put me to silence in the case was, that not one
of these five men who were now lost, were of those who went
on shore to the mmzcre of Madagascar, so I always called it,
though our men could not bear to hear the word massacre with
any patience.
But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had
Worse consequences than I expected : and the boatswain, who
had been the head of the attempt, ezmie up boldly to me one
time, and told me he found that I had brought that ati'air eon-
tinually upon the stage; thatl made unjust reflections upon
it, and had used the men very ill on that account, and himself
in inirticular; that, as [was but a messenger, and had no
command in the ship, or concern in the voyage, they were
not obliged to bear it; that they did not know but I might
have some ill design in my head, and, perha Is, to call them to
an account for it when they came to Englan ; and that, there-
fore, unless I would resolve to have done with it, aml also not
to concern myself any farther with him, or any of his affairs,
he Would leave the ship: for he did not think it was safe to
sail with me among them.

I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told
him that l Confessed 1 had all along opposed the massacre of
Madagascar, and that I had, on all occasions, spoken my mind
freely about it, though not more upon him than any of the
rest: that as to my having no command of the ship, that was
true: nor did 1 exercise any authority, only took the liberty
of speaking my mind in things which publicly concerned as
all: and what concern 1 had in the voyage was none of his
business; that l was a considerable owner in the ship ; in that
claim I conceived 1 had a right to speak oVen farther than I had
done, and Would not be accountable to him, or any one else ;
and began to be a little warm with him. lie made but little
reply to me at that time, and I thought the atl'air had been
over. We were at this time in the road at Bengal; and, being
willing to see the place, 1 went on shore with the supercargo,
in the ship's boat, to divert myself; mid, towards evening, was
preparing to go on board, when one of the men came to me,
and told me he would not have me trouble myself to come
down to the beat, for they had orders not to carry me on board
any more. Any one may guess what a surprise 1 was in at
so insolent a message; and l asked the man, who bade
him (lt'liVL'l' that message to me? He told me the cockswaiu.
I said no more to the fellow, but bade him let them know he
had delivered his message, and that I had given him no answer
to it.

I immediately went and found out the super-cargo, and told
him the story; adding, what I presently foresaw, that there
Would be a mutiny in the ship; and entreated him to go
immediately on board the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint
the captain of it. But I might be spared this intelligence, for,-
before I had spoken to him on shore, the matter was efl'eotod
on board. The bostswain, the gunner, the carpenter, and all
the inferior officers, as soon as I was gone off in the best, came
up, and desired to speak with the captain ; and there the boat-
swain, making a long harangue, and relxeating all he had said
to me, told the captain in a few words, that as I was now gone
peaceably on shore, they Were loath to use any violence with
me, which if 1 had not gone on shore they would otherwise
have done, to oblige me to have gone; they, therefore, thought
fit to tell him that, as they shipped themselves to serve in the
shi under his command, they would perform it well and faith-
ful y; but if I would not uit the ship, or the captain oblige
me to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther
with him; and at that word all, he turned his face towards
the mainmast, which was, it seems, the signal agreed on betWeen
them, at which all the seamen, being got together, they cried
out, one and all! one and all!

My nephew the ca itain was a man of spirit, and of great
presence of mind -, an , though he was surprised, you may be
sure, at the thing, yet he told them calmly that he would con-
sider of the matter; but that he could do nothing in it till he
had spoken to me about it. He used some arguments with
them, to show them the unreasonableness and injustice of the
thing; but it was all in vain; they swore, and shook hands
round before his face, that they would all go on shore, unless
he would engage to them not to suffer me to come any more on
board the ship.

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation
to me, and did not know how I might take it: so he began to
talk smartl to them; told them that I was a very considerable
owner of tie ship, and that, in justice, he could not put me
out of my own house ; that this was next door to serving me
as the famous pirate Kidd had done, who made a mutiny in
the ship, set the captain on shore on an uninhabited island,
and ran away with the ship; that let them go into what ship
they would, if ever they came to England again, it would cost
them very dear; that the ship was mine, and that he could not
put me out of it ; and that he would rather lose the ship, and
the voyage too, than disoblige me so much; so they might do
as they )leased: howevar, he would go on shore, and talk with
me, an invited the boatswain to go with him, and perhaps
they might accommodate the matter with me. But they all
rejected the proposal, and said they would have nothing to do
with me any more; and if I came on board, they would all go
on shore. " Well," said the captain, "if you are all of this
mind, let me go on shore and talk with him." So away he
came to me with this account, a little after the message had
been brought to me from the cockswain.

I was very glad to see my nephew, I must confess; for
I was not without apprehensions that they would confine him
by violence, set sail, and run away with the ship; and then
I had been stripped naked in a remote country, having nothing
to help myself; in short, I had been in aworse case than when
I was alone in the island. But they had not come that length,
it seems, to my satisfaction: and when my nephew told me
what they had said to him, and how they had sworn and
shook hands that they would, one and all, leave the ship,
if I was sufl'ered to come on board, I told him he should
not be concerned at it at all, forI would stay on show:
I only desired he would take care and send me all my neces-
sary things on shore, and leave me a suflicient sum of
money, and I would find my way to England as well as
I could.

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there
was no way to help it but to comply : so, in short, he went on
board the ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had
yielded to their impertunity, and had sent for his goods from
on board the ship; so that the matter was over in a few hours,
the men returned to their duty, and I began to consider what
course I should steer. ,

I was now alone in the most remote part of the world, as
I think I may call it, for lwas near three thousand leagues
by sea farther off from England than I was at my island;
only, it is true, I might travel here by land over the Great
Mogul's country to Surat, might go from thence to Bassora
by sea, up the Gulf of Persia, and take the way of the caravans,
over the desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and Seanderoon; from
thence by sea again to Italy, and so overland into France; and
this put together might at least be a full diameter of the globe,
or more.

I had another way before me, which was to wait for some.
English ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the
island of Sumatra, and get passage on heard them for England.
But as I came. hither without any concern with the English
East-India Company, so it would be difficult to go from hence
without their licence, unless with great. favour of the captains
of the ships, or the Company's factors, and to both [was an
utter stranger.

Here 1 had the misfortune to see the ship set sail Without
me: a. treatment .1 think a man in my circumstances scarce
ever met with, Except when with pirates, running away with the
ship, and setting those that would not agree with their villany
on shore. Indeed, this was next door to it, both ways; how-
ever, my nephew left me two servants, or rather, one com-
panion and one servant; the first was clerk to the parser, whom
he engaged to go with me, and the other was his own servant.
I took me also a good lodging in the house of an English-
woman, where several merchants lodged, some French, two
Italians, or rather Jews, and one Englishman; here I was
handsomely enough entertained: and, that I might not be said
to run rashly upon anything, I stayed here above nine months
considering what course to take, and how to manage myself.
I had some English goods with me of value, and a considerable
sum of money, my nephew furnishing me with a thousand
pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for more, if I had occa-
sion, that I might not be straitencd, whatever might happen.

I quickly dispoSed of my goods to advantage, and, as I
originally intended, I bought here some very good diamonds,
which, of all other things, was the most proper for me, in my
present circumstances; because I could always carry my whole
estate about me.

CHAPTER XLIX.

PWI'OSAL POI! A FINISH VOYAGE--ACIIIN, SIAM, SCsKAN--RETURN 1'0 BENGAL-
ASO'I'IIEII VOYAGE, AND llHTUIIN--IIIHIINEON CIIUB'OE AND HIS PARTNER PL'IICIIADK
A Sllll'~'flh\l)B AMONG Tllh'. PHILIPPINE AND NOLUCCA ISLE--PUTS INTO 'rus
RIVER GAMMDIA--TAKKN FOB PIRATES, AND CIIASIID--VAXQUIEH THEIR
PUIISUKILB.

Arm-m a long stay here, and many proposals made for my
return to England, but none falling out to my mind, the
English merchant who lodged with me, and whom I had con-
tracted an intimate acquaintance with, came to me one mom-
ing: "Countryman," says he, "I have a project to commu-
nicate to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts, may,
for aught I know, suit with yours also when you shall have
thoroughly considered it. Here we are posted, you by acci-
dent, and Iby my own choice, in a part of the world very
remote from our own country; but it is in a country where,
by us who understand trade and business, a great deal of
money is to be got. If you will put 10001. to my 1000!. we
will hire a ship here, the first we can get to our mind; you
shall be captain, I'll be merchant, and we'll go a trading voyage
to China : for what should we stand still for P The whole world
is in motion, rolling round and round: all the creatures of
God, heavenly bodies, and earthly, are busy and diligent; why
should we be idle? There are no drones in the world but men;
why should we be of that number?"

I liked this proposal very well, and the more because it
seemed to be expressed with so much good will, and in so
friendly a manner. I will not say but that I might by my
loose unhinged circumstances, be the fitter to embrace a pro
posal for trade, or indeed anything else: whereas, otherwise,
trade was none of my element. However, 1 might rhaps
say with some truth, that if trade was not my e ement,
rambling was, and no proposal for seeing any part of the
world which I had never seen before could possibly come
amiss to me.

It was, however, some. time before we could get a ship to
our minds, and when we had got a vessel it was not easy'to
get English sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary
to govern the voyage and manage the sailors which we should
pick up there. After some time we got a mate, a boatswain,
and a gunner, English ; a Dutch carpenter, and three l'oremast
men. With these we found we could do well enough, having
Indian seamen, such as they were, to make. up.

There are so many travellers who have written the history of

their voyages and travels this way, that. it would be very little
diversion to anybody to give a long account of the places we
went to, and the peo ile who inhabit there: these things 1 leave
to others, and refer t 1e reader to those journals and travels of
Englishmen, of which many, 1 find, are published, and more
promised every day; it is enough for me to tell you that we
made this voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from
thence to Sizun, where we exchanged seine of our wares for
Opium and some arrack; the first a commodity which 1 ms :1
grant price among the Chinese, and which at that time was
much wanted there. In a word, we went up to Suskan, made
a very great voyage, were eight months out, and returned to
Bengal; and l was very well satisfied with my adventure.
I observe that our people in England often admire how oflicers
which the Company send into India, and the merchants which
generally stay there, get such very great estates as they do,
and sometimes come home worth sixty or seVenty thousand
pounds at a time ; but it is no wonder, or at least we shall see
so much farther into it, when we consider the innumerable
ions and places where they have a free commerce, that it will
he none: and much less will it be so when we consider that at
those places and ports where the English ships come, there is
such great and constant demands for the growth of all other
countries, there is a certain vent for the returns, as well as a
market abroad for the goods carried out.

In short, we made a very good voyage, and 1 got- so much
money by my first adventure, and such an insight into the
method of getting more, that had I been twenty years younger,
I should have been tempted to have stayed here, and sought
no further for making my fortune ; but what was all this to a
man upwards of threesoore, that was rich enough, and came
abroad more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the
world than a oovetous desire of gaining by it ? And, indeed,
I think it is with great justice I now call it restless desire, for
it was so. When I was at home I was restless to go abroad;
and when I was abroad I was restless to be at home. I say,
what Was this gain to me? IWas rich enough already, nor
had I any uneasy desires about getting more money; and
therefore the profit of the voyage to me was of no great force
for the prompting me forward to farther undertakings: hence
I thought that by this voyage I had made no progress at all,
because I was come back, as I might call it, to the place from
whence I came, as to a home: whereas my eye, which, like
that which Solomon speaks of, was never satisfied with seeing,
was still more desirous of Wandering and seeing. I was come
into a part of the world which I Was never in before, and that
part in particular which I had heard much of, and was resolved
to see as much of it as I could; and then i thought I might
say I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.

But my fellow-traveller and I had different notions : I do not
name this to insist on my own, for I acknowledge his were the
most just, and the most suited to the end of a merchant's
life, who, when he is abroad 11 ion adventures, it is his wisdom
to stick to that, as the best t ring for him, which he is like to
get the most money by. My new friend kept himself to the
nature of the thing, and would have been content to haVe gone,
like a carrier's horse, always to the same inn, backward and
forward, provided he could, as he called it, find his account
in it. ()n the other hand, mine was the notion of a mad
rambling boy that never cares to see a thing twice over.
llut this was not all: I had a kind of impatience upon me to
be nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution imagin-
able which way to go. In the interval of these consultations,
my friend, who was always upon the search for business, pro-
posed another voyage to me among the Spice Islands, and to
bring home a loading of cloves from the Manillas, or there-
abouts; places, indeed, where the Dutch trade, but islands
belonging partly to the Spaniards; though we went not so far,
but to Some other, where they have not the whole power, as
they haVe at Batavia, Ceylon, &c.

We were not long in preparing for this voyage: the chief
difficulty was in bringing me to come into it; however, at last,
nothing else offering, and finding that really stirring about and
trading, the profit being so great, and, as I may say, certain,
had more pleasure in it, and had more satisfaction to my mind
than sitting still, which to me especially was the unhappiest
part of my life, I resolved on this voyage, too, which we made
Very successfully, touching at Borneo, and several islands
whose names I do not remember, and came home in about five
months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves and
some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away to the Gulf; and making near tive of one, we really got.
a great deal of money.

My friend, \\'ilt'l.\\'t'. made up this account, smiled at. me:
" Well now," said he, with a sort of agreeable insult. upon my
indolent tennier, " is this not better than walking about here
like a man of nothing to do, and awarding our time in staring
at. the nonsense and ignorance of the l'agzms ?"----" \\'hy,
truly," says i, "my friend, 1 think it is, and l begin to be a
convert to the principles of merchamlisiug; but I must tell
you," said l, "by the way, you do not know what. I am doing:
for.if 1 once conquer my backwardness, and embark heartily,
as old as I am, I shall harass you up and down the world till I
tire you ; for I shall pursue it so eagerly, 1 shall never let you
lie still."

But, to be short with my speculations, a little. while after
this, there came in a Dutch ship from liatavia; she was a
coaster, not an European trader, of about two hundred tons
burthen _: the men, as they pretended, having been so sickly,
that the captain had not hands enough to go to sea with,
he lay by at llengal ; and having, it seems, got money enough,
or being willing, for other reasons, to go for l'iurope, he "are
public notice he would sell his ship. This came to my ears be-
fore my new partner h and of it, and I had a great mind to buy
it; so lwent to him, and told him of it. He considered awhile.
for he was no rash man neither; but nursing some time, he
replied, "She's a little too big; but, howeVer, we. will hare
her." Accordingly, he bought the ship, and, agreeing with the
master, we paid for her, and took [Kissessiom When we had
done so, we resolved to entertain the men, if we could, In join
them with those we had for the pursuing our business: but on
a sudden, they having received, not their wages, but their share
of the money, as we afterwards learnt, not one of them was to
be found: we inquired much about them, and at length were
told that they were all gone together by land, to Agra, the
great city of the Mogul's residence, and from thence. to travel
to Surat, and go by sea to the gulf of Persia.

Nothing had so nmch troubled me a good while as that
[should miss the opportunity of going with them; for such
a ramble, I thought, and in such Company as u'ould both have
guarded and diverted me, would have suited mightily with my
great dEsign; and 1 should have both seen the World and gone
homewards too: but I was much better satisfied, a few days
after, when I came to know what sort of fellows they were;
for, in short, their history was, that this man they called cap-
tain was the gunner only, not the commander ; that they had
been a trading voyage, in which they were attacked on shore
by some of the Malays, who had killed the captain and three
of his men; and that, after the captain Was killed, these men,
eleven in number, had resolved to run awa with the ship,
which they did, and brought her to Bengal, caving the mate
and fire men more on shore; of whom hereafter.

Well, let thorn get the ship how they would, we came
honestly by her, as We thought, though we did not, I confess,
examine into things so exactly as we ought; for we never in-
quired anything of the seamen, who would certainly have
faltered in their account, contradicted one another, and per-
haps contradicted themselves; or one how or other we should
have had reason to have suspected them; but the man showed
us a bill of sale for the ship to one Emanuel Clostershoven, or
mum such name, for I suppose it was all a forgery, and called
himself by that name, and we could not contradict him; and
withal having no suspicion of the thing, we went through with
our bargain.

We picked up some more English sailors here after this, and
some Dutch: and now we resolved for a second voyage to the
south-east for cloves, &c., that is to say, among the Philippine
and Molueca isles; and, in short, not to till up this part of my
story with trilles, when what is to come is so remarkable, I
spent from first to last. six years in this country, trading from
port. to port, backward and forward, and with very good sue-
et-ss, and was now the last year with my new partner going in
the ship above mentioned on a voyage to China, but designing
first to Siam, to buy rice.

in this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up
and down a great while in the straits of Malacca, and among
the islands, We were no sooner got clear of those difficult seas,
but We found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were not
able, by all our industry, to find out where it was. This forced
us to make some port; and my partner, who knew the country
better than 1 did, directed the captain to put into the river of
Cambodia: for 1 had made the English mate, one Mr. Thomp-
son, captain, not being willing to take the charge of the
ship upon myself. This river lies on the north side of the
great bay, or gulph, which goes up to Siam. While we were
here, and going often on shore for refreshment, there. comes to
me one day an Englishman, and he was, it seems, a gunner's
mute on board an English East India ship which rode in the
same river up at, or near the city of Cambodia; what brought
him thither, we knew not; but he comes to me, and speaking
English, "Sir," says he, " you are a stranger to me, and I to
you; but] have something to tell you that very nearly con~
come you."

I looked stedfastly at him a good while, and thought at first
I had known him, but I did not : "If it very nearly concerns
me, said I, "and not yourself, what moves you to tell it to
me P"---" I am move " says he, " by the imminent danger you884 sermons or

are in, and, for aught I see, you have no knowledge of it."--
"I know no danger I am in," says I, " but that my ship is
leaky, and lcannot find it out; hat I intend to lay her aground
to--morrow, to see if I can tiud it."---" llut, sir," says he, " leaky
or not leaky, lind it or not tind it, you will he wiser than to
lay your ship on shore to-morrow, when you hear what I have
to say to you: do. you know, sir," said he, " the town of Cam-
bodia lies about fifteen leagues up this river, aml there are. No
large English ships about live leagues on this side, aml three
Dutch."--" Well,' said I, "and what is that to me P"--" Why,
sir," said he, " is it for a man that is upon such adventures as
you are, to come into a port, and not examine first what ships
there are there, and whether he is able to deal with them?
I suppose you do not think you are a match for them .9"
I was amused very much at his discourse, hut not amazed at
it, for 1 could not eoueeive what he meant; and turned short
upon him, and said, " Sir, I wish you would esplain yourself;
I cannot imagine what reason I have to he afraid of any of tile
Company's ships, or Dutch ships : I am no interloper. What
can they have to say to me?' He looked like a man half
angry and half ileased, and pausing awhile, but smiling,
"\i'ell, sir," ays lhe, "if you think yourself secure, you must
take your chalice; I am sorry your fate. should blind you
against good advice; but assure yourself if you do not put to
sea innnulialely, you will, the very next tide, he attacked by
live long-heats full of men, and perhaps if you are taken you
will be hanged for a pirate, and the particulars ho estunined
afterwards. I thought, sir," added he, "I should have met
with a better reception than this, for doing you a piece of sev-
Vice of such importance."--" I can never _be ungrateful," said
I, " for any service, or to any man that offers me any kindness ;
but it is past my comprehension what they should have such a
design upon me for: however, since you say there is no time
to be lost, and that there is some. villauous design on halal
against me, I will go on hoard this minute, and put to sea im-
mediately, if my men can stop the leak, or if we can swim
without stepping it; hut, sir," said i, "shall I go away ignorant
of the cause of all this? Can you give. me no further light into
it P"--"l can tell you but part of the story, sir," says he; "hilt
I have a Dutch seaman here with me, and I believe I could
persuade him to tell you the rest; but there. is scarce time for
it: but the short of the story is this, the. first part of which I
suppose you know well enough, viz., that you were with the
ship at Sumatra; that there your captain was murdered by the
Malays, with three of his men; and that you, or some of
those that were on board with you, ran away with the ship,
and are since turned pirates. This is the sum of the story,
and you will all be seized as pirates, I can assure you, and
errocuted with very httlo ceremony; for you know merchant-
ships show but little law to pirates, if they get them into their
power."---"Now you speak plain English," said I, " and I
thank you: and though I know nothing that we have done
like what you talk of, for 1 am sure we came honestly and
fairly by the ship; yet seeing such a work is doing, as you
say, and that you seem to mean honestly, I will be upon my
guard."--" Nay, sir," says he, " do not talk of being upon
your guard ; tho best dol'onco is to be out of the danger ; if you
rave any regard for your life, and the lives of all your men,
put to sea, without fail, at high Water ; and as you havea whole
tide before you, on will be gone too far out before they can
come down; for t my will come away at high water, and as they
have twenty miles to come, you will get near two hours of
them by the dill'erence of the tide, not reckoning the length of
the way ; besides, as they are only boats, and not ships, they
will not venture to follow you arr out to am, especially if it
hiows."--" Well," said I, " you have been Very kind in this;
what shall ldo for you to make you amends P"--" Sir," says
he, " you may not be willing to make me any amends, because
you may not be convinced of the truth of it: .I will make an
offer to you; I have nineteen months' pay due to me on board
the ship , which I came out of England in; and the
Dutchman that is with me has seven months' y due to him ;
if you will make good our pay to us, we wil go along with
you: if you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more ;
but if we do convince you that we have saved your lives, and
the ship, and the livm of all the men in her, we will leave the
rest to you."

l consented to this readily, and went immediately on board,
and the two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's
side, my partner, who was on board, came out on the quarter-
deck, and called to me with a great deal of joy. " 0 ho! 0 he!
we have stopped the leak! we have stopped the leak I"--
"Say you so 2" said I, " thank God: but wei h anchor, then,
immediately."--" Weigh l" says he, "What 0 you mean by
that? What is the matter P" " Ask no questions,' said I, " but
all hands to work, and weigh without losing a minute." He
was surprised, but, however, he called the captain, and he
immediately ordered the anchor to he got up; and, though
the tide was not quite down, yet a little land-breeze blowing,
We stood out to sea. Then Icalled him into the cabin, and told
him the story; andwe called in the men, and they told us the
rest of it: but as it took up a great deal of time, before we had
done, a seamen comes "K to the cabin door, and called out to
us that the captain bade im tellus we were chased. " Chased,"
said I; "by what P"---" By five sloopa or boats," says the
fellow, "full of men."--" Very well," said I; " then it isappa-

s_. w.'~

386 anvssruass or

rent there is something in it." In the next place, I ordere'l all
our men to be called up, and told them there was a design to
seize the ship, and to take us for pirates, and asked them if
they would stand by us, and by one another: the men answered
cheerfully, one and all, that they would live and die with us.
Then I asked the captain what way he thought best for us to
manage a tight with them; for, resist them, I was resolved we
Would, and that to the. last drop. He said readily that the wav
was to keep them oil' with our great shot as long as we could,
and then to tire at them with our smallarms, to keep them from
boarding us ; but, when neither of these would do any longer,
we should retire to our close quarters; perhaps they had not
materials to break open our bulk-heads, or get in upon us.

The gunner had, in the meantime, orders to bring two guns
to bear fore and aft, out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and
load them with musket-bullets and small pieces of old iron,
and what came next to hand; and thus we made ready for
light : but. all this while we kept out to sea, with wind enough,
and Could see the boats at. a distance, being tire large long-
boats, following us with all the sail they eonld make.

Two of those boats (which by our glasses, we Could see Were
English) outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of
them, and gained upon us considembly, so that we found they
would come up with us; upon which we tired a gun without
hall, to intimate that. they should bring to: and we put out a
tlag of truce as a signal for parley; but they came crowding
after us, till they came within shot, when we took in our white
tlag, they having made no tulsWt'l' to it, and hung out. our red
flag, and tired at them with a shot. Notwithstanding this,
they came on till we were near enough to call to them with a
speaking trumpet which we had on board; so we called to
them, and bade. them keep oil, at their peril.

It was all one; they crowded after us, and endeavoured to
come under our stern, so as to board as on our quarter; upon
which, seeing they were resolute for mischief, and depended
upon the strength that followed them, I ordered to bring the
ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside, when immediately
we Iired five guns at them, one of which had been levelled So
true as to carry away the stern of the hindemiost boat, and
bring them to the necessity of taking down their sail, and
running all to the head of the boat to keep her from sinking;
so she lay by, and had enough of it; but seeing the foremost
boat crowd on after us, we made ready to tire at her in parti~
cular. While this was doing one of the three boats that was
behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up to the
boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see
her take out the men: we ealled again to the foremost boat,
and ofl'ercd a truce, to parley again, and to know what her
business was with us; hut had no answer, only she crowded
close under our stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a Very
dexterous fellow, run out his two chase-guns, and tired again
at her, but the shot missing, the men in the boat shouted,
waved their caps, and came on; but the gunner getting quickly
ready aeain, tired among them a second time, one shot of
which, though it mime the boat itself, vet fell in among the
men, and we could easily see had done a great deal of mischief
among them; but we took no notice of that, weared the ship
again, and brought our quarter to bear upon them, and firing
three guns more, we found the boat was almost split to pieCes;
in particular, her rudder, and a piece of her stern were shot
quite away; so they handed her sail immediately, and were in
great disorder. But to complete their misfortune, our gunner
let fly two guns at them again: where we hit them we could
not tell, but we found the boat was sinking, and some of the
men already in the water: upon this 1 immediately manned
out our pinuaee, which We had kept close to our side, with
orders to pick up some of the men, if they could, and saw
them from drowning, and immediately come on board the ship
with them, because we saw the rest of the boats began to come
up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took
up three men, one of whom was just drowning, and it was
a good while before we could recover him. As soon as
they were on lmard, we crowded all the sail we could make,
and stood further out to sea; and we found that, when
the other three boats came up to the first, they gave over their
chase.

Being thus delivered from a danger which, though I knew
not the reason of it, yet seemed to he much greater than 1
apprehended, I resolved that we should change our course, and
not let any one know whither we were going; so we stood out
to sea eastwm-d, quite out of the course of all European ships,
whether they were bound to China or anywhere else, within
the commerce of the European nations.

 

CHAPTER L.

318703? 0? ml "HP--VOYAGE '10 CHINA--"ALL mus NEAR 'flII BAY OF
EXQUIN--Tfll CHIP LAID ON ON! BIDR 1'0 33 RIPAIIID--A'I'I'ACIID I!" I'll
MHW-flllfihflfi--Wfll' our Paul-Imam

WHEN we were at sea, we began to consult with the two

seamen, and inquire what the meaning of all this should be;

and the Dutchman let us into the secret at once, telling us that
s 2
the fellow that sold us the. ship, as we said, was no more than
a thief, that run away with her. Then he told us how the
captain, whose mune he told us, though i do not remember it
now, was treacherously murdered by the natives of the coast
of Malacca, with three of his men; and that ho, this Dutch-
man, and four more, get into the woods, where they wanderul
about a great. while, till at length he, in particular, in a
wonderful manner, made his escape, and swam oil' to a Dutch
ship, which, sailing near the shore on its way from China, had
sent their boat on shore for fresh water: that ho durst. not.
come to that part of the shore where the boat was, but made
shift in the night to take the water farther oil', and swinuning
a great while, at last the ship's boat took him up.

He then told us that he Went to llatavia, where two of the
seamen belonging to the ship arrived, having deserted the rest
in their travels, and gum: an account that the fellow who had
run away with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates,
which were gone a cruizing in her; and that they had already
taken an English ship and two Dutch ships Very richly laden.

This latter part was found to concern us directly. though we
knew it to be false; yet, as my partner said, very justly, if We.
had fallen into their hands, and they had such a prepossession
against us beforehand, it had been vain for us to have defended
ourselves, or to hope for any good quarter at their hands; and,
especially considering that our accusers had been our judnes,
and that we could have expected nothing from them but w rat
rage would have dictated, and an ungoverned passion have
executed; and, therefore, it was his opinion We should go
directly back to Bengal, from whence we came, without putting
in at any port whatevar; because there we could give an
account of ourselves, could prove where we were when the
ship put in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and, which
was more than all the rest, if we were put 11 ion the necessity
of bringing it before the proper judges, we should be sure to
haveis some justice, and not to be hanged first and judged after-
\\'lll' .

l was some time of my partner's o inion; but, after a little
more serious thinking, I told him thought it was a very
great hazard for us to attempt returning to Bengtl, for that
we were on the wrong side of the straits of Malacca, and
that, if the alarm was given, we should be sure to be waylaid
on every side, as well by the Dutch of Batavia, as the English
elsewhere; that, if we should be taken, as it were, runnin
away, we should even condemn ourselves, and there would
want no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the
English sailor's opinion, who said he was of my mind, and
that we should certainly be taken. This danger a little
startled my partner, and all the ship's company, and we
immediately resolved to go away to the coast of Ten uin, and
so on to the coast of China; and, pursuing the first esign as
to trade, find some way or other to dispose of the ship, and
come back in some of the vessels of the Country, such as we
could get. This was ap ll'OVCd of as the best method for our
security; and, accordingly, We steered away N.N.E., keeping
above iifty leagues oil" from the usual course to the eastward.
This, however, put us to some inconvenience; for, first, the
winds, when we came that distance from the shore, seemed
to be more steadily against us, blowing almost trade, as We
call it, from the 1'}. and E.N.l*}., so that we were a long while
upon our voyage, and we were but ill provided with victuals
for so long a rttn; and, which was still worse, there was some
danger that those English and Dutch ships, whose boats
pursued us, whereof some were bound that way, might be got
in before us, and, if not, some other ship bound to China might
have information of us from them, and pursue us with the
same vigour.

1 must confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself,
including the late escape from the long-boats, to have been in
the most dangerous condition that ever I was through my past
life; for whatever ill circumstances 1 had been in, 1 was never
pursued for a thief before; nor had I ever done anything that
merited the name of dishonest, or fraudulent, much less
thievish; 1 had chiefly been tny own enemy, or, as I may
rightly say, I had been nobody's enemy but my own :"' but

' 0n the proverbial expression of a person's being deg' no one's enemy but his
own." Dr. R. Hey. in his Disserultion on the Pendulum; I'Zfl'ects of Gaming. has
the following excellent remarks: Speaking of idleness and extravagance. he
says. " to excuse. or so tnuch as to pa iiate. those vices. under an idea that they
are hurtful to none but hitn who is guilty of them. is an ill-Judged lenitv. And
it deserves the more to be noticed here. because the same lenity may perhaps by
some be extended to gaming itself. as well as those two vices which are in the
train of its pernicious effects. The plea is fake: a man cannot be idle and
extravagant without. littering others as well as himself. Not to mention singly
the several niischlei's which such an one must brin ' upon those with whom he has
eonnexions (as that would carry me too far from in immediate subject that i am
upon). it may be observed that habitual idleness and extravagance unfit a person
entirely for the discharge of his duty to mankind. It is not enough for a man to
have a few vague ieelllnzs of good-will towards his friends. and to have an any
and sociable turn in conversation: there is required in the discharge of every
duty some degree of labour and attention. And it is not to be expected that he.
whom his own imnttsliate concerns cannot rouse to action or restrain within
bounds. should exert or restrain himself for the sake of others; although certainly
to a well-dhlciplincd mind there is nothing in the discharge of ordinary duties
which may not be amply repaid by the [ensures of benevolence. or by the con-
sciousnem of doing what is right." (|-' it. 1734. p. 54. Edit. 1812, p. 0. See
also i'lumptre's English llmrna Purified. vol. ill. p. sol.)

This mode of reasoning will apply to all other vices. as well as to idleness and
"my-game. Dr. Conn . in his hlhiml Treatise on the Passions (part ii. p. 130),
says. " t must, howwer, be observed. than-in a state of society. nal virtues
and vices have always an immediate or remote influence. of a sec al and relative
nature: in consequence of which. every private vice partskes of an immorality.
and every private virtue has a moral effect. it is. for example. acutely possible
tor an :utemperate or an indolent man to injure himself alone; and. as the
now I was embarrassed in the worst condition imaginable;
for though lwas perfectly innocent, l was in no 00ndition to
make that innocence appear: and it' I had been taken, it had
been under a supposed guilt of the worst kind. This made
me very anxious to make an escape, though which way to do
it I knew not, or what port or place we could go to. My
partner seeing me thus dejected, though he was the most
concerned at tirst, began to encourage me, and describing to
me the several ports of that coast, told me he would put in on
the Coast of tbchin-tlhina, or the hay ot' '.l'onquin, intending to
go ufterwanls to Macao, a town once in the possession of the
Portuguese, and where still a great many European families
resided, and iarticularly the missionary iriests usually went
thither, in on er to their going forward to (Illina.

Hither, then, we resolved to go; and, accordingly, though
after a tedious and irregular course, and very much straiteued
for provisions, we came within sight of the coast very early
in the morning; and, upon reflection of the past circum-
stances we were in, and the danger if we had not esca red, we
resolved to put into a small river, which, however, had depth
enough of water for us, and to see if we could, either oVerlaud,
or by the ship's pinnace, come to know what ships were in
any port thereabonts. 'l'his happy step was, indeed, our
deliverance; for, though we did not immediately see any
European ships in the bay of 'l'onquin, yet the next morning
there came into the hay two Dutch ships; and a third, without
any colours spread out, but which we believed to be a
Dutchman, passed by at about two leagues' distance, steering
for the coast of China; and, in the afternoon, went by two
English ships steering the same course; and thus we thought
we saw ourselves beset with enemies, both one way and the
other. The place we were in was wild and barbarous, the
peOple thieves, even by occupation, or profession; and, though
it is true, we had not much to seek of them, and, exce )t
getting a few provisions, cared not how little we had to o
with them, yet it was with much difficulty that we ke it our-
selves from being insulted by them several ways. \ e Were
in a small riVer of this country, within a few leagues of its
utmost limits northward; and, by our boat we coasted north-
east, to the point of land which opens the great bay of Ten-
quin; and it was in this beating up along the shore that we

phrase is. to he ' nobody'a enemy but his own.' For should he not. have depen-
dents to suii'er by his vices. his example may prove injurious. As ccntentmant,
patience, resignation, are respectable, thus are they exemplary virtues. and they
often shame Others into an imitation; while the contrary Vices of discontent and
impatience are discovered by a peevishncss oi' temper, irksoma and distressing to
every amoeiate. Thus they cannot be separatist in a practical point of View, but
they still remain distinct ideas; and an attention to these is at the greatest
importance in philosophical investigations."
discovered we were surrounded by enemies. The peo lo we
were among were the most barbarous of all the inha itants
of the coast, having no correspondence with any other nation,
. and dealing only in fish and oil, and such gross commodities;
and it may be particularly seen, that they are the most barba-
rous of any of the inhabitants. Among other customs, they
haVe this one, viz., that, if any vessel has the misfortune to be
shipwrecked upon their coast, they presently make the men
all prisoners, or slaves; and it was not long before we found a
piece of their kindness this way on the occasion following:

I have obserVed aboVe, that our shi ) sprung a leak at sea,
and that we could not had it out; and it happened that, as l
have said, it was stopped unexpectedly, in the happy minute
of our being to be seized by the Dutch and English ships in
the bay of Siam; yet, as we did not find the ship so perfectly
tight and sound as we desired, we resolved, while we were at
this place, to lay her on shore, and take out what heavy things
we had on board, and clean her bottom; and, if possible, to
find out where the leaks were. Accordingly, having lightened
the ship, and brought all our guns and other moveables to one
side, we tried to bring her down, that we might come at her
bottom ; but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her on
dry ground, neither could we find out a proper place for it.

The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such
a sight, came wondering down the shore to look at us; and,
seeing the ship lie down on one side in such a manner, and
heeling in towards the shore, and not seeing our men, who
were at work on her bottom with stages, and with their boats
on the off side, they presently Concluded that the ship was
cast away, and lay so fast on the ground. On this supposition,
they all came about us, in two or three hours' time, with ten
or twelve large boats, having some of them eight, some ten
men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have come on board and
plundered the ship; an , if they had found us there, to have
carried us away tor slaves to their King, or whatever they call
him, for we knew nothing of their governor.

When they came up to the ship, and began" to row round
her, they discovered us all hard at work on the outside of the
ship's bottom and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as
every seafaring man knows how. They stood for a while

' gazing at us, and we, who were a little surprised, could not
imagine what their design was; but, being willing to be sure,
we took this 0 portunity to get some of us into the ship, and
others to ham down arms and ammunition to those that were
at work, to defend themselves with, if there should be occasion;
and it was no more than need: for, in less than a quarter of an
hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship was
really a wreck ; and that we were all at work endeavouring to
save her, or to save our lives by the. help of our boats; and.
when we handed our arms into the boats, they concluded, by
that motion, that we were endeavouring to save some of our
goods; upon this. theI took it for gIaIIteIl we all belonged to
them, and sum theI came diIIIctly upon our men, as it it had
been in a linI.I III battle.

Our IIIIIII seeing so many of them, began to be frightened,
for we. lay but III an ill postIIIII to tight, and elied out to us to
know IIIIIIt theI should do: I immediately called to tho IIIIIII
that worked upon the stages to slip them down, and get up
the side into the ship: and bade those. in the boat to row
round and come on board: and those tow of us who were IIII

board II orked with all the. strength and hands II II had to lIIing
the ship to Iights; but, how'eIer, neither the men upon the
stages, nor those in the boats, could do as they wIIIe IIIIleIIIIl
helore the Cochin-Chinese IIere upon them; and two of then
boats boarded our long-boat, and beI'I van to lay hold ot the me II
as their prisoners.

The first man they laid hold of was an English seamau, a
stout, strong fellow, who, having a musket in his hand, never
otfcred to tire it, but laid it. down in the boat, like a fool, as
I thought ; but he IIndeIstood his business better than 1 could
teach him, for he grappled the Pagan, and dIIIggI-d hinI lII
main force out of then boat into ours, II here taking him lII'
the ems, he beat his head so IIIvainst the boats "llllllt'l, thal
the fellow died in his hands, and, in the mean time, a
Dutclunan, who stood next, took up the musket, and with the
butt-end of it so laid about him, that he knocked down tive of
them who attempted to enter the boat. llut this was doinII
little towards resisting thirtv or forty men, who fearless,
because ignorant III their danIIeI, lIeI'au to thIIIw themselIes
into the loner-boat, where we had "hut live men in all to defend

:but the: following accident, which deserved our l.Iuwhter,
gave our men II complete victory :--

0ur carpenter, being prepared to grave the outside of the
ship, as well as to pay the s Ialns where he had caulked her to
stop the leaks, had got two kettles just let down into the boat,
one filled with boiling pitch, and the other with resin, tallow,
and oil, and such stuff as the ship" rights use for that work;
and the man that attended the carpenter had II Inc It iron
ladle in his hand, with which he supplied the men I"that were
at work with the hot stuff; two 01 the enemy a men entered
the boat just where this fellow stood, mm' in the lore-sheets
he immediately saluted them with a ladle-full of the stuff,
boiling hot, which so burned and scalded them, being half
naked, that they roared out like bulls, and, enraged at the fire,
leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried
out, "Well done, Jack; give them some more of it!" and
stepping forward himself, takes one of the mops, and dipping
it in the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among them so
plentifully, that, in short, of all the men in the three boats,

 

there was not one that escaped being scalded and burned with
it, in a most frightful, pitiful manner, and made such a howling
and crying, that I never heard a worse noise; for it is worth
observing, that though pain naturally makes all people cry
out, yet every nation has a particular way of exclamation, and
make noises as different from one another as their speech.
I cannot give the noise these creatures made a better name
than howling, nor a name more proper to the tone of it; for I
never heard anything more like the noise of the wolves, which,
as I have said, I heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of
Languedoc.

[was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not.
only as it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger
was imminent before, but, as we got this victory without any
bloodshed, except of that man the fellow killed with his
.naked hands, and which I was very much concerned at, for I
was sick of killing such poor savage wretclies, even though it
was in my own defence, knowing they came on errands which
they thought just, and knew no better; and that, though it
may be a just thing, because necessary (for there is no
necessary wickedness in nature), yet I thought it was a sad

8 3
life, when we must be always obliged to be killing our fellow-
creatures to preserve ourselves: and, indeed, I think so still,
and I would, even now, suffer a great deal rather than I would
take away the life even of the worst person injuring me; and
I believe all considering people, who know the value of life,
would be of my opinion, if they entered seriously into the -
consideration of it.

But to return to my story :---All the while this was doing,
my partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board,
had with great dexterity brought the ship almost to rights,
and having got the guns into their places again, the gunner
called to me to bid our boat get out of the way, for he would
let fly among them. I called back again to him, and bid him
not offer to fire, for the carpenter would do the work without
him, and bid him heat another pitch-kettle, which our cook,
who was on board, took care of: but the enemy was so terrified
with what they had met with in their first attack, that they
would not come on again; and some of them who were the
farthest of}, seeing the ship swim, as it were upright, began, as
we suppose, to see their mistake, and ive over the enterprise,
finding it was not as they expected. ' 'hus we got clear of this
merry fight, and having got some rice and some roots and
bread, with about sixteen hogs on board, two days before, we
resolved to stay here no longer, but to go forward, whatever
came of it; for we made no doubt that we should be surrounded
the next day with rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch-
kettle would dispose of for us. We, therefore, got all our
things on board the same evening, and the next morning were
ready to sail : in the mean time, lying at anchor at some dis-
tance from the shore, we were not so much concerned, being
now in a fighting posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if any
enemy had presented. The next day, having finished our work
within board, and finding our ship was perfectly healed of all
her leaks, we set sail. We would have gone into the bay of
Tonquin, for we w anted to inform ourselves of what was to be
known concerning the Dutch ships that had been there, but we
durst not stand in there, because we had seen several ships go
in, as we supposed, but a little before; so we kept on N.E.
towards the island of Formosa, as much afraid of being seen
by a Dutch or English merchant-ship, as a Dutch or English
merchant, in the Mediterranean, is of an Algerine man-of-war.
CHAPTER LI.

ISLAND OF PORNO'M--EPPECI" OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION --THEI SAIL NORTH
--TAKE A PORTUGUBE PILOT 0N "AND--THE GULPH 0P NANQUIS--QL'IN-

CHANG--THE DRBADI-'UL STATE OF LIVING IN PEAR--GO ON SHORE.

\Vurzx we were thUs got to sea, we kept on N.E., as if we
would go to the Manillas, or the Philippine islands, and this
we did, that we might not fall into the way of any European
ships; and then we steered north, till we came to the latitude
of 22 deg. 30 min., by which means we made the island of
Formosa directly, where we came to an anchor, in order to
get water and fresh provisions, which the people there, who
are very courteous and civil in their manners, supplied us with
willingly, and dealt very fairly and punctually with us in all
their agreements and bargains, which is what we did not find
among other people, and may be owing to the remains of
Christianity which was once planted here by a Dutch mission~
ary of Protestants, and is a testimony of what I have often
observed, viz., that the Christian religion always civilizes the
people, and reforms their manners, where it is received, whether
it works saving effects upon them or no.

From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China
at an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports
of China where our European ships usually come; being re~
solved, if possible, not to fall into any of their hands, especially
in this country; where, as our circumstances were, we could
not fail of being entirely ruined.

Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we resolved
to put into the first trading port we should come at: and,
standing in for the shore, a boat came off two leagues to us,
with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who knowing us to be
an European ship, came to offer his service, which, indeed, we
were glad of, and took him on board; upon which, without
asking us whither we would go, he dismissed the boat he came
in, and sent- it back.

I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old
man carry us whither we would, that I began to talk to him
about carrying us to the gulph of Nanquin, which is the most
northern part of the coast of China. The old man said he
knew the gulph of Nanquin very well, but, smiling, asked us
what we would do there? I told him we would sell our
cargo, and purchase China wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea,
wrought silks, &c., and so would retum by the same course we
came. lie told us our best port had been to have put in at
Macao, where we could not have failed of a market for our
opium to our satisfaction, and might for our money have
uprchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we could at
l auqum.

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which
he was very opinionated, or conceited, I told him We were
gentlemen, as well as merchants, and that we had a mind to
go and see the great city of l'ekin, and the famous court of the
monarch of China. " Why, then," said the old man, " you
should go to Ningpo, where, by the. river which runs into the
sea there, you may go up within five lea *ues of the great
canal." This canal is a navigable stream, w llCll goes through
the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers,
passes some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates,
and goes-up to the city of Pekin, being in length near 270
leagues.

"Well," said I, "Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our
business now: the great question is, if you can carry us up to
the city of Nanquin, from whence we can traVel to Pekin after-
wards ?" He said we could do so very well, and that there was
a great Dutch ship gone up that Way just before. This gave
me a little shock, for a Dutch ship was now our terror: and we
depended upon it that a Dutch ship would be our destruction,
for we were in no condition to fight them; all the ships they
trade with in those parts being of great burthen, and of much
greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some
concern when he named a Dutch ship, and said to me, "Sir,
you need be under no apprehensions of the Dutch : I suppose
they are not now at war with your nation ?"--" No," says i,
"that's true; but I know not what liberties men may take
when they are out of the reach of the laws of their own
country."--" Why," says he, " you are no pirates, what need
you :3"? They will not- meddle with peaceable merchants,
sure

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my
face at that word, it was hindered by some stop in the vessels
appointed by nature to circulate it, for it put me into the
greatest disorder and confusion imaginable: nor was it possible
for me to conceal it so but the old man easily perceived it.

"Sir," says he, "I find you are in some isorder in your
thoughts at my talk; pray be leased to go which way you
think fit, and, depend upon it, I'lfdo you all the service I can."
--" Why, Seignior," said I, "it is true, I am a little unsettled
in my resolution at this time, whither to go in particular; and
I am something more so for what you said about pirates; I hope
there are no pirates in these seas; we are but in an ill condition
to meet with them, for you see we have but a small force, and
but very weakly manned."----" 0, Sir," says he, "don't be con-
cerned ; I do not know that there has been any pirates in these
seas these fifteen years, except one, which was seen, as I hear,
in the bay of Siam, about a month since; but, you may be
assured, she is gone to the southward; nor was she a ship of
any great force, or fit for the work; she was not built for a
privateer, but was run away with by a reprobate crew that was
on board, after the captain and some of his men had been
murdered by the Malayans, at or near the island of Sumatra."
---" What! said I, seeming to know nothing of the matter,
"did they murder the ca )tain?"---"No," said he, "I don't
understand that they mur cred him; but, as they afterwards
ran away with the ship, it is generally believed that they
betrayed him into the hands of the Malayans, who did murder
him: and perhaps, they procured them to do it."--" Why,
then," said , " they deserve death as much as if they had done
it themselves."--" Nay," says the old man, "they do deserve
it, and they will certainly have it, if they light u ii any
English or Dutch ship: for they have all agreed toget 101', that
if they meet that rogue, they'll give him no quarter."--" But,"
said I to him, " you say the pirate is gone out of these seas;
how can they meet with him, then P"--" Why, that's true,"
says he, " they do say so ; but he was, as I tell you, in the bay
of Siam, in the river Cambodia, and was discovered there by
some Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and who were left
on shore when they ran aWay with her; and some English and
Dutch traders being in the river, they were within a little of
taking him: nay," said he, "if the foremost boats had been
well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him ; but,
he, finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about
and fired at those two, and disabled them before the others
came u and then, standing of? to sea, the others were not
able to follow, and so he got away; but they have all so exact
a descri tion of the ship, that they will be sure to know her, ,
and, w ercver they find her, they have vowed to give no
quarter either to the captain or seamen, but to hang them all
up at the yard-arm."--"What," says I, " they will execute
them right or wrong; han them first, and judge them after-
wards? ---"0, Sir," says he old pilot, "there is no need to
make a formal business of it with such rogues as those; let
them tie them back to back, and set themadiving, 'tis no more
than they deserve."

i knew I had my old man fast on board, and that he could
do me no harm, sothat I turned short upon him: " Well, now
Seignior," said I, " this is the very reason why I would have
you carry us up to Nanquin, and not put back to Macao, or to
any other part of the country where the English or Dutch
ships come; for, be it known to you, Se'ignior, those captains
of the English and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, proud,
insolent fellows, that neither know what belongs to justice,
nor how to behave themselves as the laws of (led and nature
direct; but being proud of their offices, and not undeistanding
their power, they would act the murderers, to punish robbers;
would take upon them to insult men falsely accused, and de-
termine them guilty without due inquiry : and, perhaps, I may
live to bring some of them to account for it, when they may be
taught. how justice is to be executed; and that no man ought
to be treated as a criminal till some evidence may be had of the
crime, and that he is the man."

With this I told him that this was the very ship they
attacked, and gave him a full account of the skirmish we had
with their boats, and how foolishly and cowardly they behaved.
I told him all the story of our buying the ship, and how the
Dutchmen served us. I told him the reasons I had to believe
the story of killing the master by the Malayans was true, as
also the running away with the ship: but it was all a fiction
of their own to suggest that the men had turned pirates, and
they ought I0 have been sure it was so, before they had ven-
tured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to resist them;
adding, that they would have the blood of those men, whom
\ve killed there, in just defence, to answer for.

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we
were very much in the right to go away to the north; and
that, if he might advise us, it should be to sell the ship in
China, which we might very well do, and buy, or build, another
in the country; and, said he, though you will not get so good
a ship, yet you may get one able enough to carry you and all
your goods back again to Bengal, or anywhere else. I told
him I would take his advice, when I came to any port where
I could find a ship for my turn or get any customer to buy
this. He replied, I should meet with customers enough for
the ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would serve me
very well to go back again ; and that he would procure
me people, both to buy one, and sell the other. "Well, but
Seignior," says I, "as you say they know the ship so Well, I
may, perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instrumental to
bring some honest innocent man into a terrible broil, and per-
haps to be murdered in cold blood: for, wherever they find the
ship, they will prove the guilt upon the men, by proving this
was the ship, and so innocent men may probably be over-
powered and murdered."--"Why," says the old man, "I'll
find out a way to prevent that also; for as I know all those
commanders you s wait of very well, and shall see them all as
they pass by, I wil be sure to set them to rights in the thing,
and let them know that they haVe been so much in the wrong;
that, though the people who were on board, at first, might run
away with the ship, yet it was not true that they had turned
pirates; and that, in particular, those were not the men that
tirst wont oil with the ship, but innocently bou ht her for their
trade: and I am persuaded they will so far be ieve me as, at
least, to act more catniously for the time to come."

While these things were [hissing between us by way of dis-
course, we went forward directly for Nanquin, and, in about
thirteen days' sail came to an anchor at the south-west point
of the great gulph of Nanquin; where, by the way, _I came
by accident to understand that two Dutch ships Were gone
the length before me, and that I should certainly fall into
their hands. I consulted my partner again in this cxigenc ,
and he was as much at a loss as I was, and would very ladly
have been safe on shore almost anywhere: however, was
not in such perplexity, neither, but I asked the old pilot, if
there was no creek, nor harbour, which I might put into, and
mrsue my business with the Chinese privately, and be in no
tumor of the enemy? He told me, if I would sail to the
soutiwanl about forty-two leawues, there was a little port
called Quinchang, where the fathers of the mission usually
landed from Macao, on their progress to teach the Christian
religion to the Chinese, and where no European ships ever at
in; and, if I thought to put in there, I might consider w at
farther course to take when I was on shore. He confessed, he
said, it was not a place for merchants, except that, at some
certain times, tncy had a kind of fair there, when the merchants
from Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese merchan-
discs.

We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of the
port, as he called it, I may perhaps spell wrong, for I do not
particularly remember it, having lost this, together with the
names of many other places set down in a little pocket-book,
which was spoiled by the water by an accident: but this I
remember, that the Chinese, or Japanese, merchants we cor-
responded with, called it by a different name from that which
our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above,
Quinohang. '

As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place,
we weighed the next day, having only gone twice on shore
where we were to get fresh water, on both which occasions
the peeple of the city were very civil to us, and brought
us abundance of things to sell to us, I mean of provisions,
plants, roots, tea, rice, and some foals, but nothing without

money.
We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not till
five days, but it was very much to our satisfaction; and I was
joyful, and I may say thankful, when I set my foot on
shore, resolving, and my partner too, that if it was possible
to dispose of ourselves and effects any other way, though not
every way to our satisfaction, we would never set one foot on
board that unhappy vessel more; and, indeed, I must acknow-
ledge that, of all the circumstances of life that ever I had any
experience of, nothing makes mankind so completely miserable
as that of being in constant fear. Well does the Scripture say,
" The fear of man brings a snare ;" it is a life of death, and the
mind is so entirely suppressed by it, that it is capable of no
relief.'

Nor did it fail of its usual operations upon the fancy, by
heightening every danger, representing the English and Dutch
captains to be men incapable of hearing reason, or of distin-
guishing between honest men and rogues, or between a story
calculated for our own turn, made out of nothing, on purpose
to deceive, and a true, genuine account of our whole voyage,
progress, and design: for we might many ways have convinced
any reasonable creature that we were not pirates; the goods
we had on board. the course we steered, our frankly showing
ourselves, and entering into such and such ports; and even
our very manner, the force we had, the number of men, the
few arms, little ammunition, short provisions: all these would
have served to convince any men that we were no pirates.
The opium and other goods we had on board would make it
appear the ship had been at Bengal. The Dutchmen, who, it
was said, had the names of all the men that were in the ship,
might easily see that we were a mixture of English, Portu-
guese, and Indians, and but two Dutchmen on board. These,
and many other particular circumstances, might have made it
evident to the understanding of any commander, whose hands
we might fall into, that we were no pirates. But fear, that
blind, useless passion, worked another way, and threw us into
the vapours: it bewildered our understandings, and set the
imagination to form a thousand terrible things that, perhaps,
might never happen. We first supposed, as indeed everybody
had related to us, that the seamen on board the English and
Dutch ships, but especially the Dutch, were so enraged at
the name of a. pirate, and especially at our beating off their
boats and escaping, that they would not give themselves leave

' The author. no doubt, alludes to Proverbs xxix. 25:--" The fear of man
hringethasnare; hut whoso pulled: his trust in the Lord shall be safe." But
he plainly mlstaltes the meaning of it, which does not. up ly to bodily. but
mental fear: To him who is afraid of oil'ending man. it bringe a snare. and will
lead him into sinful complianees; but whose putteth his trust in the Lorri, and
will do what he knows to be His will, whatever may be the consequences in respect
of man. he shall be safe.
to inquire whether we were pirates or no, but would execute
us off-hand, as we call it, without giving us any room for a
defence. We reflected that there really was so much apparent
evidence before them that they would scarce inquire after any
more ; as first, that the ship was certainly the same, and that
some of the seamen among them knew her, and had been on
board her; and, secondly, that when we had intelligence at the
river of Cambodia, that they were coming down to examine
us, we fought their boats and fled; so that we made no doubt
but they were as fully satisfied of our being pirates as we were
satisfied of the contrary; and, as I often said, I know not but I
should have been apt to have taken those circumstances for
evidence, if the tables were turned, and my case was theirs, and
have made no scruple of cutting all the crew to pieces, without
believing, or perhaps considering, what they might have to offer
in their defence.

But, let that be how it will, these were our apprehensions ;
and both my partner and I scarce slept a night without dream-
ing of halters and yard-arms, that is to say, gibbets ; of fight-
ing, and being taken; of killing, and being killed: and, one
night, I was in such a fury in my dream, fancying the Dutch-
men hnd boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamm
down, that I struck my double fist against the side of the
cabin I lay in with such a force, as wounded my hand grievously,
broke my knuckles, and cut and bruised the flesh, so that it
awaked me out of my sleep.

Another apprehension I had was, the cruel usage we might
meet with from them, if we fell into their hands; then the
story of Amboyna came into my head, and how the Dutch
might, perhaps, torture us, as they did our own countrymen
there, make some of our men, by extremity of torture, confess
those crimes they never were guilty of, or own themselves and
all of us to be pirates, and so they would put us to death with
a formal appearance of justice : and that they might be
tempted to do this for the gain of our ship and cargo, which was
worth four or five thousand pounds, put all together.

These things tormented me, and my partner too, night and
day; nor did we consider that the captains of ships have no
authority to not thus; and if we had surrendered prisoners to
them, they could not answer the destroying us, or torturing
us, but would be accountable for it when they came to their
own country ; this, I say, gave me no satisfaction; for, if they
were to not thus with us, what advantage would it be to us
that they should be called to an account for it? or, if we were
first to be murdered, what satisfaction would itbe to us to have
them punished when they came home?

I cannot refrain taking notice here, what reflections I now
had upon the vast variety of my particular circumstances;
how hard I thought it was, that l, who had 3 win forty years
in a life of continued difficulties, and was at ast crane, as it
were, to the port, or haven, which all men drive at, viz., to
have rest and plenty, should be a volunteer in new sorrows by
my own unhappy choice: and that I, who had escaped so
many duigers in my youth, should now come to be han ed
in my old age, and in so remote a place, for a crime whitSil
was not in the least inclined to, much less guilty of.

Alter these thoughts, something of religion would come in;
and I should be considering that this seemed to me to be a
disposition of innnediate Providence, and I ought to look upon
it, and submit to it, as such ; that, although i was innocent as
to men, I was far from being innocent as to my Maker, and
I ought to look .in and exmnine what other crimes, in my life,
Were most. obvious to me, and for which Providence might
justly inllict this punishment as a retribution ; and that I ought
to submit to this, just as [would to a shipwreck, if it had
pleased God to have brought such a disaster upon me.

In its turn, natural courage would sometimes take its place,
and then lwould be talking myself up to vigorous msolu~
tions; that I would not he taken to be barbarously used by a
nrcel of merciless wretches in cold blood; that it were much
better to have fallen into the hands of the savages, though
I was sure they would feast upon me when they had taken me,
than those who would perhaps glut their rage upon me by
inhuman tortures and barbarities; that in the case of tho
savages, I always resolved to die fighting to the last gasp,
and why should I not do so now, seeing it was much more
dreadful, to me at least, to think of falling into those men's
hands, than ever it was to think of being eaten by men; for
the savages, give them their due, would not eat a man till he
was killed and dead, but that these men had many arts beyond
the cruelty of death. \Vhenever these thoughts prevailed, I was
sure to at myself into a kind of fever with the agitation of a
suppo light; my blood would boil, and my eyes sparkle, as
if I was engaged, and I always resolved to take no quarter at
their hands; but, even at last, if loould resist no longer, Iwould
blow up the ship and all that was in her, and leave them but
little booty to boast of.

The greater weight the anxieties and perplexities of these
things were to our thoughts, while we were at sea, the greater
was our satisfaction when we saw ourselves on shore; and
my partner told me he dreamed that he had a very heavy load
upon his back, which he was to carry up a hill, and found that
he was not able to stand long under it, but that the Portu-
guese pilot came and took it 03' his back, and the hill dispersed,
the ground before him appearing all smooth and lain; and
truly it was so; they Were like men who had al taken ofl
their backs. For my (art, 1 had a Weight taken off my heart
that it was not able any longer to hear; and, as i said above,
we resoIVed to go no more to sea in that ship. When we came
on shore, the old pilot, who was now our friend, got us a
lodging, and a warehouse for our goods, which, by the way,
was much the same: it was a little house, or hut, with a larger
house adjoining to it, and built with canes, and pallisadoed
round with large canes, to keep out pilfering thieVes, of which
it seems there were not a few in that country; however, the
niagistmms allowed us a little guard, and we had a soldier
with a kind of halberd, or half-pike, who stood sentinel at our
door; to whom we allOWed a pint of rice, and a little piece of
money, about the value of threepenoe, per day, so that our
guide were kept very safe.

CHAPTER Lil.

mans" uraeroxuru--u-mxn alloy--WI: 0' 1'"! SI"? AND IIMIIAN'
DISK--TIIK YOUNG NAN, ROIIINwX CIUIOI'U G)IPANl0N-JOUINKY 1'0 IANQUIN
COIIK.'ATIONI ON CIIINA--IHUKN 1'0 QUINOIANO.

'l'iu-z fair, or mart, usually kept in this place, had been over
some time; however, we found that there were three or four
junks in the river, and two Ja mners, I mean ships from Japan,
with goods which they had ught in China, and were not
gone away, having some Ja anese merchants on shore.

The first thing our old ortuguese pilot did for us was to
get us acquainted with three missionary llomish priests, who
were in the town, and who had been there some time converting
the people to Christianity; but we thought they made but
poor work of it, and made them but sorry Christians when
they had done; however, that was none of our business. One
of these was a Frenchman, whom they called Father Simon:
another was a Portuguese, and the third a Genoese; but
Father Simon was courteous, easy in his manner, and very
agreeable company; the other two were more reserved, seemed
rigid and austere, and applied seriously to the work they came
about, viz., to talk with, and insinuate themselves among the
inhabitants whenever they had an opportunity. We often ate
and drank with those men; and though, I must confess, the
conversion, as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity is so
far from being the true conversion required to bring heathen
people to the faith of Christ, that it seems to amount to little
more than letting them know the name of Christ, and saying
some prayers to the Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue
which they understood not, and to cross themselves, and' the
like; yet it must be confessed that the religionists, whom we
call missionaries, hare a firm beliet~ that these people will be
saved, and that they are the instruments ot' it; and, on this
account, they undergo, not only the fatigue of the voyage, and
the hazards of living in such places, but oftentimes death itself,
with the most violent tortures, for the sake of this work.

But to return to my story: This French priest, Father
Simon, was appointed, it seems, by order ot' the chiet' ot' the
mission, to go up to l'ekin, the royal seat of the Chinese
emperor, and waited only for another priest, who was ordered
to come to him from Macao, to go along with him; and we
scarce ever met. together but he was inviting me to go that
journey: telling me how he would show me all the glorious
things of that mighty empire. and among the rest, the greatest
city in the world: a city, said he, that. your London and our
l'aris put together cannot be equal to. This was the city of
Pekin, which I confess, is very great, and infinitely full of
\eople; but, as I looked on those things with dim-Nut eyes
rem other men, so 1 shall give my opinion of them in a few
words, when I come, in the course of my travels, to speak more
particularly of them.

But tirst I come to my friar or missionary: dinigg with
him one day, and being very merry together, I showed some
little inclination to go with him, and he pressed me and my
partner very hard, and with a great many persuasions, to con-
sent. " Why, Father Simon," says my partner, "should you
desire our company so much P You know we are heretics, and
you do not love us, nor cannot keep us company with any
pleasure."---"0h," says he, " you may perhaps be good Catho-
lics in time; my business here is to convert heathens, and who
knows but 1 may convert you, too ?"--" Very well, Father,"
said i, "so you will preach to us all the way."--"l will not
be troublesome to you," says he; "our religion does not
divest us of good manners : besides, we are here like country-
men, and so we are compared to the place we are in; and if
you are Huguenots and l a Catholic, we may all be Christians
at last; at h-ast, we are all gentlemen, and we may converse
so without being uneasy to one another.' I liked this part of
his discourse very well, and it began to put me in mind of my
priest that I had left in the Brazils; but this Father Simon did
not come up to his character by a great deal: for, though
'ather Simon had no appearance of a criminal levity in him
neither, yet he had not that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety,
and sincere affection to religion, that my other good ecclesiastio

ad.

But, to leave him a little, though he never left us, nor solicit-
ing us to go with him; We had something else before us at
first, for We had all this while our ship and our merchandise to
dispose of, and we began to be very doubtful what we should
do, for we were now in a place of very little business; and
once I was about to venture to sail for the river of Kiliun, and
the city of Nauquin; but Providence seemed now more visibly,
as i thought, than ever to concern itself in our affairs: and l
was encouraged from this Very time to think i should, one way
or other, get out of this entangled circumstance, and be
brought home to my own country a'ain, though 1 had not
the least view of the manner. l'rovi ence, I say, began here
to clear up our way a little: and the first thing that offered
was, that our old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant
to us, who inquired what goods we had; and in the first place
he bought all our opium, and gave us a very good price for it,
paying us in gold by weight, some in small pieces of their own
coin, and some in small wedges of about ten or eleven ounces
each. While we were dealing with him for our opium, it came
into my head that he might perhaps deal for the ship too, and
[ordered the interpreter to propose it to him: he shrunk up
his shoulders at it when it was first proposed to him; but, in a
few days after, he came to me with one of the missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me he had a proposal
to make to me, which was this: he had bought a great quan-
tity of goods of us when he had no thoughts of proposals
made to him of buying the ship; and that, therefore, he had
not money enough to pay for the ship; but if I would let the
same men who were in the ship navigate her, he would hire
the ship to go to Ja an; and would send them from thence to
the Philippine islan s with another loading, which he would
pay the freight of before they went from Japan; and that at
their return he would buy the ship. I began to listen to his
proposal, and so eagerly did my head still run upon ramblin ,
that I could not but begin to entertain a notion of going mysc f
with him, and so to sail from the Philip ine islands away to
the South Seas: accordingl [asked the a nose merchant if
he would not hire as to the hilip ine islan s, and dischar e us
there. He said no, he could not 0 that, for then he coul not
have the return of his cargo; but he would discharge us in
Japan at the ship's return. Well, still I was for taking him
at that proposal, and going myself: but my partner, wiser
than myself, persuaded me from it, re resented the dangers as
well of the seas as of the Japanese, w o are a false, cruel, and
treacherous people: likewise those of the Spaniards at the
Philippines, more false, cruel, and treacherous than they.

But, to bring this long turn of our affairs to a conclusion:
the first thing we had to do was to consult with the captain of
the ship, and with his men, and know if they were willing
to go to Japan: and while I was doing this, the young man
whom my nephew had left with me as my companion for my
travels, came to me and told me that he thought that voyage
promised very fair, and that there was a great prospect of ad-
vantage, and he would be very glad if I undertook it; but that
if Iwould not, and would give him leave, he would go as a
merchant, or how I pleased to order him; that if ever he came
to England, and I was there, and alive, he Would render me a
faithful account of his success, which should be as much mine
as l pleased. Iwas really loth to iart with him; but con-
sidering the prospect of advantage, w ich really was consider-
able, and that he was a young fellow as likely to do well in it
as any I knew, I inclined to let him go ; bntl told himl would
consult my partner, and give him an answer the next day.
My partner and l discoursed about it, and my partner made a
most generous ofl'er: "You know it has been an unlucky
ship," said he, " and we both resolve not to go to sea in it
again; if your steward (so he called my man) will venture the
voyage, I will leave my share of the vessel to him, and let him
make the best of it; and if we live to meet in England,and he
meets with success abroad, he shall account for one half of
the profits of the ship's freight to us; the other shall be his
own."

If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young
man, made him such an otl'er, I could do no less than offer
him the same; and all the shi 's company being willing to go
with him, we made over half e ship to him in property, and
tookawriting from him, obliging him to account for the other;
and away he went to Japan. The Japan merchant, proving a
very punctual, honest man to him, protected him at Japan, and
got him a licence to come on shore, which the Europeans in
general have not lately obtained; paid him his freight very
Eunctually, sent him to the Philippines, loaded with Japan and

hina wares, and a supercargo of their own, who, trafiickintr
with the Spaniards, brought back European goods agaim'and
a great quantity of cloves and other spices; and there he was
not only paid his freight very well, and at a very good price,
but not being willing to sell the ship then, the merchant fur-
nished him goods on his own account; and with some money
and some spices of his own which he brought with him, he
went back to the Manillas to the Spaniards, where he sold his
cargo very well. Here, having got a good acquaintance at
Manilla, he got his ship made a free ship; and the governor
of Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco in America, on the
coast of Mexico, and gave him a licence to land there, and to
travel to Mexico, and to in any Spanish ship to Europe
with all his men. He madfihe vo age to Acapulco very hap-
pily, and there he sold his ship, an having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found means,
somehow or the other, to get to Jamaica with all his treasure;
and about eight years after came to England exceeding rich,
which I shall take notice of in its place 3" in the meantime I
return to our particular affairs.

Being now to part with the ship and ship's company, it
came before us, of course, to consider what recompense we
should give to the two men that gave us such timely notice of
the design against us in the river Cambodia. The truth was,
they had done us a very considerable service, and deserved well
at our hands, though, by the way, they Were a couple of rogues,
too; for as they believed the story of our being pirates, and
that we had really run awag' with the ship, they came down to
us not only to betray the esign that was formed against us,
but to go to sea with us as pirates; and one of them confessed
afterwards, that nothing else but the hopes of going a roguing
brought him to do it: however, the service they did us was not
the less; and therefore, as I had promised to be grateful to
them, I first ordered the mono to be paid them which they
said was due to them on board t eir respective ships; over and
above that I gave each of them a small sum of money in gold,
which contented them very well; then I made the Englishman
gunner in the ship, the gunner being now made second mate and
purser; the Dutchman I made boatswaiu; so they were both
very well pleased, and proved very serviceable, being both able
seamen and very stout fellows.

We were now on shore in China: if I thought myqu
banished and remote from my own country at Bengal, where
I had many ways to get home for my money, what could
I think of myself now when I was got about a thousand
leagues farther off from home, and perfectly destitute of all
manner of prospect of return? All we had for it was this,
that, in about four months' time, there was to be another fair at
the place where we were, and then we might be able to pur-
chase all sorts of the manufactures of the country, and withal
might possibly find some Chinese junks, or vessels, from
'I'onquin, that would be to be sold, and would carry us and our
goods whither We pleased. This I liked very well, and resolved
to wait; besides, as our particular persons were not obnoxious,
so if any English or Dutch ships came thither, perhaps we
might have an opportunity to lead our goods, and get passage
to some other place in India, nearer home. Upon these hopes
we resolved to continue here; but to divert ourselves we took
two or three journeys into the country. First we went ten
days' 'ourney to the city of Nanquin, a city well worth seeing,
inde ; they say it has a million of people in it: it is regularly

0 This, however. he does not do. concluding his narrative Immediately on hls
return to London.
built, the streets all exactly straight, and cross one another in
direct lines, which gives the figure of it great advantage. But
when I come to compare the miserable people of these
countries with ours, their fabrics, their manner of living, their
government, their religion, their wealth, and their glory, as
some call it, I must confess that I scarcely think it worth my
while to mention them here. It is very observable that We
wonder at the grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies,
the government, the manufactures, the commerce and conduct
of these people; not that it is to be wondered at, or, indeed,
in the least to be regarded; but because having a true notion
of the barbarity of those countries, the rudeness and the
ignorance that prevail there, we do not expect to find any
such things so far off. Otherwise, what are their buildings to
the palaces and royal buildings of Europe? What their trade
to the universal commerce of England, Holland, France, and
Spain? What are their cities to ours for wealth, strength,
gaiety of apparel, rich furniture, and infinite variety P What
are their ports, supplied with a few junks and barks, to our
navigation, our merchant fleets, our large and powerful navies P
Our city of London has more trade than half their mighty
empire: one English, Dutch, or French man-of-war of 80 guns
would be able to fight almost all the shipping belonging to
China: but the greatness of their wealth, their trade, the
power of their government, and the strength of their armies,
may be a little surprising to us, because, as I have said, con-
sidering them as a barbarous nation of pagans, little better
than savages, we did not expect such things among them: and
this, indeed, is the advantage with which all their greatness
and lpower is represented to us; otherwise, itis in itself nothing
at a ; for what I have said of their ships may be said of their
armies and troops; all the forces of their empire, though they
were to bring two millions of men into the field together,
would be able to do nothing but ruin the country, and starve
themselves, if they were to besiege a strong town in Flanders,
or to fight a disciplined army; one good line of German
cuirassiers, or of French cavalry, might withstand all the horse
of China; a million of their foot could not stand before one
embattled body of our infantry, posted so as not to be sur-
rounded, though they were not to be one to twenty in number;
nay, I do not boast, if I say that 30,000 German or English
foot, and 10,000 horse well managed, could defeat all the forces
of China; and so of our fortified towns, and of the art of our
engineers in assaulting and defending towns; there is not a
fortified town in China could hold out one month against the
batteries and attacks of an European army; and at the same
time, all the armies of China could never take such a town as
Dunkirk, provided it was not starved; no, not in ten years'
sie e. They have fire-arms, it is true, but they are awkward
an uncertain in their going otf ; and their wder has but
little strength. Their armies are badly discip ined, and want
skill to attack, or temper to retreat; and therefore I must con-
fess it seemed strange to me when 1 came home and heard our
people say such fine things of the power, riches, glory, mag-
nificence, and trade of the Chinese; because, as far as I saw,
they appeared to be a contemptible herd, or crowd, of ignorant,
sordid slaves, subjected to a government qualified only to rule
such a peeple: and were not its distance inconceivably great
from Muscovy, and the Muscovite empire, in amanner, as rude,
impotent, and ill-governed as they, the Czar of Muscovy might
with ease drive them all out of their country, and conquer them
in one campaign: and had the Czar, who is now a growing
prince, fallen this way instead of attacking the warlike Swedes,
and equally improved himself in the art of war as they say
he has done; and if none of the powers of Euro had envied
or interrupted him, he might by this time have en emperor
of China, instead of being beaten by the king of Sweden at
Narva, when the latter was not one to six in number. As
their strength and their grandeur, so their navigation, com-
merce, and husbandry, is very imperfect, eom mod to the same
things in Europe: also in their knowledge, t eir learning, and
in their skill in the sciences, they are either very awkward or
defective, though they have globes and spheres, and a smat-
tering of the knowledge of the mathematics, and think they
know more than all the world besides; but they know little of
the motions of the heavenly bodies: and so grossly and ab-
surdly ignorant are their common people, that when the sun
is eclipsed they think a great dragon has assaulted it, and is
gointIr to run away with it: and they fall a clattering with all
the drums and kettles in the country, to fright the monster
away, just as we do to hive a swarm of bees. .

As'this is the only excursion of the kind which I have
made in all the accounts 1 have given of my travels, so I shall
make no more such: it is none of my business, or any part of
my design; but to give an account of my own adventures
through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a long variety of
changes, which, perhaps, few that come after me will have
heard the like of : I shall, therefore, say very little of all the
mighty places, desert countries, and numerous people I have
yet to pass through, more than relates to my own story, and
which my concern among them will make necessary.
CHAPTER LIII.

JOURNEY 1'0 1'3le [X 1'83 SUITE 0? A HAKDARIN--A <<NINTH? GENTLEIAK--
ARRIVE AT PEKIN--CARATAX SETTING OUT FOR "WW--THEY JOIN 17-
SL'MBER OF THE CARAVAN--HOUSE BUILT m CHISAOWARE--THB GREAT
WALL'ESMUSTHB WITH THE TABTARS.

l was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China,
about thirty degrees north of the line, for we were returned
from Nanquin: I had, indeed, a mind to see the city of Pekin,
which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon importuned
me daily to do it. At length, his time of going away being
set, and the other missionary who was to go with him being
arrived from Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve,
either to go or not: so I referred it wholly to my partner, and
left it wholly to his choice, who, at length, resolved it in the
affirmative, and we prepared for our journey. We set out with
very good advantage, as to finding the way, for we got leave
to travel in the retinue of one of their mandarins, a kind of
viceroy, or principal magistrate in the province where they
reside, and who take great state upon them, travelling with
great attendance, and with great homage from the people, who
are sometimes greatly impoverished by them, being obliged to
furnish provisions for them and all their attendants in their
journeys. That which I particularly observed, as to our tra-
velling with his baggage, was this, that though we received
sufiicicnt provisions, both for ourselves and our horses, from
the country, as belonging to the mandarin, yet we were obliged
to pay for everything we had, after the market price of the
country, and the mandarin's steward collected it duly from
us; so that our travelling in the retinue of the mandarin,
though it was a very great kindness to us, was not such a
mighty favour in him, but was a great advantage to him, con-
sidering there were above thirty other people travelled in the
same manner besides us, under the protection of his retinue ;
for the country furnished all the provisions for nothing to him,
and yet he took our money for them.

We were twenty-five days travelling to Pekin, through a
country infinitely populous, but I think badly cultivated; the
husbandry, the economy, and the way of living, miserable,
though they boast so much of the industry of the people;
I say miserable, if compared with our own, but not so to these
poor wretches, who know no other. The pride of the people
is infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing but their povertyf"
in some parts, which adds to that which I call their misery;
and I must needs think the naked savages of America live
much more happy than the poorer sort of these, because, as
they have nothing, so they desire nothing; whereas, these are
proud and insolent, and, in the main, are, in many parts, mere
beggars and drudges; their ostentation is incxpressible; and,
if they can, they love to keep multitudes of servants, or slaves,

\which is to the last degree ridiculous, as well as the contempt
of all the world but themselves.

I must confess, I travelled more pleasantly afterwards, in
the deserts and vast wildernesses of Grand Tartary, than
here; and yet the roads here are well paved and Well kept,
and very convenient for travellers: but nothing was more
awkward to me than to see such a haughty, imperious, inso-
lent people in the midst of the grossest simplicity and igno-
rance; and my friend, Father Simon, and I, used to be very
merry upon these occasions, to see the beggarly pride of these
people: for example, coming by the house of a country gen-
tleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues ofl'
the city of Nanquin, we had first of all the honour to ride
with the master of the house about two miles; the state he
rode in was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp
and poverty. His habit was very proper for a scaramouch, or
merry-andrew, being a dirty calico, with hanging sleeves,
tassels, and cuts and slashes almost on every side: it covered
a tafi'ety vest, as greasy as a butcher's, and which testified
that his honour must be a most exquisite sloven. His horse
was but a poor, starved hobbling creature, and he had two
slaves followed him on foot to drive the poor creature along;
he had a whip in his hand, and he belaboured the beast as fast
about the head as the slaves did about his tail; and thus he
rode by us, with about ten or twelve servants, going from the
city to his country seat, about half a league before us. We
travelled on gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away
before us, and as we stopped at a village about an hour to
refresh us, when we came by the country seat of this great
man, we saw him in a little place before his door, eating his
repast. It was a kind of a garden, but he was easy to be seen;
and we were given to understand, that the more we looked on
him the better he would be pleased. He sat under a tree,
something like the palmetto, which effectually shaded him over
the head, and on the south side; but under the tree was also
placed a large umbrella, which made that part look well
enough; he. sat lolling back in a great elbow-chair, being a
heavy, corpulent man, and had his meat brought him by two'

women slaves; he had two more, one of which fed the squire
'1' 2
with a spoon, and the other held the dish with one hand, and
scraped off what he let fall upon his worship's beard and tafl'ety
vest.

 

Thus leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our
looking at him as if we admired his pomp, though we really
pitied and contemncd him, we pursued our journey: only
Father Simon had the curiosity to stay to inform himself
what dainties the country justice had to feed on in all his
state, which he had the honour to taste of, and which was, I
think, a mess of boiled rice, with a great piece of garlic in
it, and a little bag filled with green pepper, and another plant
which they have there, something like our ginger, but smelling
like musk, and tasting like mustard ; all this was put together
and a small piece of lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his
worship's repast; four or five servants more attended at a
distance, who, we supposed, were to eat of the same after their
master.

As for our mandarin with whom we travelled, he was
respected as a king, surrounded always with his gentlemen,
and attended in all his appearances with such pomp, that I
saw little of him but at a distance; but this I observed, that
there was not a horse in his retinue but that our carricis'
pack-horses in England seemed to me to look much better;
though it was hard to judge rightly, for they were so coveled
with equipage, mantles, trappings, &c., that we could scarce
lee anything lint their feet and their heads as they went along.

1 was now ight-hearu'd, and all my trouble and perplexity
that I have given an account of, being over, I had no anxious
thought about me, which made this journey tho pleasanter to
me: nor had 1 any ill accident attendul me, only in the [siss-
ing or fording a small river, my horse fell, and made me free
of the country, as they call it; that is to say, threw me in.
The place was not deep, but it wetted me all over. I mention
it, because it spoiled my pocket-book, wherein i had set down
the names of several people and places which I had occasion
to remember, and which, not taking due care of, the leaves
rotted, and the words were never after to be read, to my great
loss, as to the names of some placw 1 had touched at in this
journey.

At len th we arrived at l'ekin: I had nobod ' with me but
the yout whom my nephew, the captain, ha given me to
attend me. as a servant, and who proved very trusty and dili-
gent; and my partner had nobody with him but one servant,
Who was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being
desirous to see the court, we here his charges for his comlumy,
and to use him as an interpreter, for he understood the lan-

uage of the country, and spoke good French, and a little

lnglish; and, indeed, this old man was a most useful imple-
ment to us everywhere; for we had not been above a week at
l'ekin, when he came laughing: " Ah, Seignior lnglese," says
he, "I havesomethiug to tell you will make your heart glad."--
" My heart glad P" said I ; " what can that be P I don t know
anything in this country can either give me joy or grief, to
any great degree."---" Yes, es," said the old man, in broken
English, " make you gl , me sorry."--" Why," said I,
"will it make you sorry P"--"Because," said be, "you have
brought me here twenty-five days' journey, and will leave me
to go back alone ; and which way shall I get to my port after-
wards witheut a ship, withouta horse, without. pccunc 9"----so he
called money, being his broken Latin, of which he had abun-
dance to make us merry with. In short, he told us there was
a great caravan of Museovite and Polish merchants in the city,
pre ring to set out on their journey by land, to Muscovy,
wit in four or five weeks, and he was sure we would take the
e portunity to go with them, and leave him behind, to go back

one.
Iconfess I was greatly surprised with this geod news, and

had scarce power to speak to him for some time; but, at last,
1 turned to him. "How do you knew this P" said I: "are
you sure it is true P"--" Yes," says he; "I met, this morning,
in the street, an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who
is among them: he came last from Astractn, and was design-
ing to go to Tonquin, where I formerly knew him, but has
altered his mind, and is now resolved to go with the caravan
to Moscow, and so down the river Wolga, to Astracan."---
" Well, Seignior," says I, "do not be uneasy about being left
to go back alone; if thisbe a method for my return to England,
it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao at all." We
then went to consult together what was to be done; and I
asked my partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and
whether it would suit with his afl'airs? He told me he would
do just as I would; for he had settled all his afl'airs so well at
Bengal, and left his effects in such good hands, that, as we had
made a good voyage here, if he could vest it in China silks,
wrought and raw, such as might be worth the carriage, he
would be content to go to England, and then make his voyage
back to Bengal by the Company's ships.

Having resolved upon this, we agreed that, if our Portuguese
pilot would go with us, we would hear his charges to Moscow,
or to England, if he pleased: nor, indeed, were we to be
esteemed over-generous in that, neither, if we had not rewarded
him farther, the service he had done us being really worth
more than that : for he had not only been a pilot to us at sea,
but he had been like a broker to us on shore; and his pro-
curing for us the Japan merchant was some hundreds of
pounds in our pockets. So we consulted together about it,
and being willing to gratify him, which was but doing him
justice, and very willing also to have him with us besides, for
he was a most necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to
give him a quantity of coined gold which, as I compute it,
came to about 175l. sterling, between us, and to bear all his
charges, both for himself and horse, except only a horse to
carry his goods. Having settled this between ourselves, we
called him to let him know what we had resolved. I told him
he had complained of our being to let him go back alone, and
I was now to tell him we were resolved he should not go
back at all; that as we had resolved to go to Europe with the
caravan, we resolved, also, he should go with us; and that we
called him to know his mind. He shook his head, and said
it was a long journey, and he had no peczme to carry him
thither, or to subsist himself when he came there. We told
him we believed it was so, and therefore we had resolved to do
something for him, that should let him see how sensible we
were of the service he had done us, and also, how agreeable
he was to us; and then I told him what we had resolved to
give him here, which he might lay out, as we would do our
own; and that, as for his charges, if he would go with us, we
would set him safe on shore (life and casualties excepted)
either in Muscovy or England, which we would at our own
charge, except only the carriage of his goods. He received
the proposal like a man transported, and told us he would go
with us over the whole world : and so we all prepared for our
journey. However, as it was with us, so it was with the other
merchants; they had many things to do; and, instead of being
ready in five weeks, it was four months and some days before
all things were got together.

It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set
out from Pekin. My partner and the old pilot had gone
express back to the port where we had first put in, to dispose
of some goods which we had left there ; and I, with a Chinese
merchant whom I had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and
who came to Pekin on his own affairs, went to Nanquin,
where I bought ninety pieces of fine damasks, with about two
hundred pieces of other very fine silks of several sorts, some
mixed with gold, and had all these brought to l'ekin against
my partner's return; besides this, we bought a very large
quantity of raw silk, and some other goods, our cargo amount-
ing, in these goods only, to about 35001. sterling: which,
together with tea, and some fine calicoes, and three camels'
loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen camels
for our share, besides those we rode upon; which, with two or
three Spare horses, and two horses loaded with provisions,
made us, in short, twenty-six camels and horses in our
retinue.

The whole company was very great, and, as near as I can
remember, made between three and four hundred horse, and
upwards of one hundred and twenty men, very well armed,
and provided for all events: for, as the eastern caravans are
subject to be attacked by the Arabs, so are these by the 'l'artars .
but they are not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so
barbarous when they prevail.

The company consisted of people of several nations; but
there were above sixty of them merchants, or inhabitants of
Moscow, though of them some were Livonians; and, to our
particular satisfaction, five of them were Scots, who appeared,
also, to be men of great experience in business, and of very
good substance.

When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who
were five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants,
that is to say, all the passengers except the servants, to a great
council, as they called it. At this council every one deposited
a certain quantity of money to a common stock, for the neces-
sary expense of buying forage on the way, where it was not
otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the guides, getting
horses, and the like: and here they constituted the journey,
as they call it, viz., they named captains and officers to draw us
all up, and give the word of command, in case of an attack, and
give every one their turn of command; nor was this forming us
into order any more than what we found needl'ul upon the way,
as shall be observed.

The road all on this side of the country is very populous,
and is full of wtters and earth-makers; that is to say, peeple
that temper t e earth for the China-ware ; and as I was
coming along, our Portugal pilot, who had always something
or other to say to make us merry, came sneering to me, and
told me he would show me. the greatest rarity in all the country,
and that I should have this to say of China, after all the ill-
humoured things I had said of it, that I had seen one thing
which was not to be seen in all the world beside. I was very
importunate to know what it was: at last he told me it was a
gentleman's house built with China-ware. " Well," says I,
"are not the materials of the buildings the product of their own
country, and so it is all China-ware; is it not ?"--" No, no,"
says he, " 1 mean it is a house all made of China-ware, such
as you call it in I'lngland, or, as it is called in our country,
mrcelain."----" Well," says I, " such a thing may be; how big
is it? Can we carry it in a box upon a camel? If we can we
will buy it."--" Upon a camel l" says the old pilot, holding
up both his hands; " why there is a family of thirty people live
in it.

1 was then curious indeed, to see it; and, when I came to it,
it was nothing but this: it was a timber house, or a house
built, as we call it in England, with lath and plaster; but all
this plastering was really China-ware: that is to say, it was
plastered with the earth that makes China-ware. The outside,
which the sun shone hot upon, was lazed, and looked very
well, perfectly white, and painted with lne figures, as the large
China-ware in England is painted, and hard as if it had been
burned. As to the inside, all the walls, instead of wainscot,
were lined with hardened and painted tiles, like the little
square tiles we call galley tiles in England, all made of the
finest China, and the figures exceeding tine, indeed, with extra-
ordinary variety of colours, mixed with gold ; many tiles
making but one figure, but joined so artificially, the mortar
being made of the same earth, that it was very hard to see
where the tiles met. The floors of the rooms were of the same
composition, and as hard as the earthen floors we have in use
in several parts of England: as hard as stone, and smooth,
but not burned and painted, except some smaller rooms, like
closets, which were all, as it were, paved with the same tile:
the ceiling, and all the plastering work in the whole house,
were of the same earth; and, after all, the roof was covered
with tiles of the same, but of deep shining black. This was
a China-warehouse, indeed, truly and literally to be called so;
and, had I not been upon my journey, I could have staid some
days to see and examine the particulars of it. They told me
there were fountains and fish-ponds in the garden, all paved
on the bottom and sides with the same; and tine statues set up
in rows on the walks, entirely formed of the porcelain earth,
and burned whole.

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may be
allowed to excel in it; but I am very sure they excel in their
accounts of it; for they told me such incredible things of their
performance in crockery-ware, for such it is, that 1 care not to
relate, as knowing it could not be true. They told me, in par-
ticular, of one workman that made a ship with all its tackle,
and masts, and sails, in earthenware, big enou vh to carry titty
men. If they had told me he launched it, an made a voyage
to Japan in it, l might have said something to it, indeed; but,
as it was, I knew the whole of the story, which was, in short,
asking iardon for the word, that the fellow lied; so I smiled,

and sai nothing to him.
This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for

which the leader of it for the day tined me about the value of
three shillings; and told me, it' it had been three days' journey
without the wall, as it was three days within, he must haw
tined me four times as much, and made me ask pardon the next
council-day. I promised to be more orderly; and, indeed, l
formd, afterwards, the orders made for keeping all altogether were
absolutely necessary for our common safety.

In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for
a fortification against the Tartars; and a Very great work it is,
going over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the
rocks are impassable, and the precipices such as no enemy
could ibiy enter, or indeed, c imb up, or where, it' they did,
no wal could hinder them. They tell us its length is near a
thousand English miles, but that the country is live hundred
in a straight measured line, which the wall bounds, without
measuring the windings and turnings it takes; it is about four
fathoms high, and as many thick in some flaws.

I stood still an hour, or thereabout, wi out trespassing our
orders (for so long the caravan was in passing the gate), to
look at it on every side, near and far elf--l mean that was
within my view ; and the guide of our caravan, who had been
extolling it for the wonder of the world, was mighty eager to
hear my Opinion of it. I told him it was a most excellent
thing to keep out the Tartars; which he happened not to
understand as I meant it, and so took it for a compliment;
but the old pilot laughed: "Oh, Seignior Inglese," says he,
"you speak in colours."--"In colours!" said I; " what do
you mean b that ?"--" Why you speak what looks white this
way, and b ck that we ; gay one way, and dull another.
You tell him it is a go wall to keep out Tartars; you tell

'1'
me by that it is good for nothing but to keep out 'l'artars.
l understand you,-Selguior lnglese; I understand you; but
belgmorClnnesc understood you his own way."--" Well," says

 

l, "Seignior, do you think it would stand out an army of our
country-people with a good train of artillery, or our engineers,
with two companies of miners P Would not they batter it down
in ten days, that an army might enter in battalia? or blow it
up in the air, foundation and all, that there should be no sign
of it left P"---"Ay, ay," says he, " I know that." The Chinese
wanted mightily to know what I said, and I gave him leave to
tell him a few days after, for we were then almost out of their
eountr r, and he was to leave us in a little time after this ; but,
when he knew whatI said, he was dumb all the rest of the
way, and we heard no more of his fine story of the Chinese
power and greatness while he stayed. '

After we had passed this mighty wall, something like the
l'icts', and so famous in Northumberland, built by the Romans,
we began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people
rather confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being
subject to the inroads and depredations of the Tat-tars, who
rob in great armies, and, therefore, are not to be resisted by
the naked inhabitants of an open country. And here I began
to find the necessity of keeping together in a. caravan as we
travelled, for we saw several troops of 'l'artars roving about;
but, when I came to see them distinctly, l Wondered more that
the Chinese empire could be coiupiered by such contemptible
follows; for they are a more horde of wild fellows, keeping no
order, and understanding no discipline, or manner of light.
Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and tit
for nothing; and this we found the first day we saw them,
which was after we entered the wilder part of the country.
Our leader for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to
go a hunting, as they call it, and what was this but hunting of
sheep? however, it may be called hunting, too, for the creatures
are the wildest lLlld swiftest of foot that ever 1 saw of their
kind; only they will not run a great way, and you are sure of
sport when you begin the chase, for they appear generally thirty
or I'ortv in a ilock, and, like true sheep, always keep together
when they fly.

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet
with about forty 'l'artars; whether they Were hunting mutton,
as we were, or whether they looked for another kind of prey,
we knew not; but, as soon as they saw us, one of them blew
a kind of horn very loud, but with a barbarous sound that I had
never heard before, and, by the Way, never care to hear again:
we all sup 'd this was to call their friends about them, and
so it was ; or, in less than ten minutes, a troop of forty or fifty
more appeared, at about a mile distance; but our work was
over first, as it happened.

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be
amongst us, and as soon as he heard the born, he told us that
we had nothing to do but to charge them immediately, with-
out loss of time; and, drawing us up in a line, he asked if We
were resolved. We told him we were ready to follow him ; so
he rode directly towards them. They stood gazing at us like a
mere crowd, drawn up in no order, nor showing the face of any
order at all; but, as soon as they saw us advance, they let fly
their arrows, which, however, missed us very happily : it seems
they mistook not their aim, but their distance; for their arrows
all fell a little short of us, but with so true an aim, that, bed
we been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had severai
men wounded, if not killed.

immediately we halted, and, though it was at a great dis-
tance, we fired, and sent them leaden bullets for wooden arrows,
following our shot full gallop, to fall in among them, sword in
hand, for so our bold Soot that led as directed. He was, indeed,
but a merchant, but he behaved with that vigour and bravery
on this occasion, and yet with such cool courage, too, that[
never saw any man in action fitter for command. As soon as
we came up to them, we fired our pistols in their faces, and
then drew; but they fled in the greatest confusion imaginable.
The only stand any of them made was on our right, when
three of them stood, and by signs, called the rest to come back
to them, having a kind of scimitar in their hands, and their
bows hanging to their backs. Our brave commander, without
asking anybody to follow him, gallops up close to them, and
with his fusee knocks one of them off his horse, killed the
second with his pistol, and the third ran awa '; and thus ended
our fight; but we had this misfortune atten ing it, that all our
mutton we had in chase got away. We had not a man killed
or hurt; but as for the 'l'artars, there were about five of them
killed; how many were wounded we knew not; but this we
knew, that the other party were so frightened with the noise of
our guns, that they made off, and never made any attempt
upon us.

We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and, there-
fore, the 'l'artars were not so bold as afterwards; but, in about
five days, we entered a vast, great, wild desert, which held us
three days' and nights' march; and we were obliged to carry
our water with us in great leathern bottles, and to encamp all
night, just as I have heard they do in the desert of Arabia.

Iaskcd our guides whose dominion this was in; and they
told me this was a kind of border, that might be called no
man's land, being a part of Great Karakathay, or Grand
'l'artary; but, however, it was all reckoned as belonging to
China, but that there was no care taken here to preserve it
from the inroads of thieves, and, therefore, it was reckoned
the worst desert in the whole march, though we were to go over
some much larger.

In passing this wilderness, which was, at first sight, very
frightful to me, we saw, two or three times, little parties of the
Tartars, but they seemed to be upon their own affairs, and to
have no design upon us: and so, as they had_nothing to say to
us, we had nothing to say to them; we let them go. Once,
however, a party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at
us: whether it was to consider if they should attack us or not
we knew not; but, when we passed at some distance by them,
we made a rear-guard of forty men, and stood ready for them,
letting the caravan pass half a mile, or thereabouts, before us;
but, after a while, they marched ofi' ; only we found they
saluted us with five arrows at their parting, one of which
wounded a horse, so that it disabled him, and we left him the
next day, poor creature, in great need of a good farrier: they
might shoot more arrows, which might fall short of us, but we
saw no more of them at that time.
CHAPTER LIV.

ARWR MWTn--A MD? 0? TEN 'I'IIOUBAND TAMARS APPRAI, IU'! 00
m HOLES? TREK-THE CITY OF RAVI--58TH! TH! UUWVITS DOIINIOFD--
THE RIVER AGUNL--TRB RIVER YLMOUB--TIIB TAKIABUS~IDOMTBXQ

We travelled near a month after this, the ways not being so
good as at first, though still in the dominions of the emperor
of China, but lay for the most part in villages, some of which
were fortified, because of the incursions of the Tartats. When
we were some to one of these towns (it was about two days'
and a half journey before we were come to the city of Naum),
l wanted to buy a camel, of which there were plenty to be sold
all the way upon that road, and horses also, such as they are,
because, so many caravans coming that way, they are often
wanted. The person that I spoke to, to get me a camel, would
have gone and fetched one for me; but , like a fool, must be
officious, and go myself along with him: the place was about
two miles out of the village, where it seems they kept the
camels and horses feeding under a guard.

I walked it on foot, with my old film and a Chinese, being
very desirous of a little variety. hen we came to the place,
it was a low, marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall,
piled 11 dry without mortar or earth among it, like a park,
with a ittle guard of Chinese soldiers at the door. Having
bought a camel, and agreed for the price, I came away, and
the Chineseman that went with me led the came], when, on a
sudden, came up five 'I'artars on horseback ; two of them seized
the fellow and took the camel from him, while the other three
stepped up to me and my old pilot, seeing us as it were un-
armed, for I had no weapon about me but my sword, which
could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that
came up, stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for they
are errant cowards; but a second coming upon my left, gave
me a blow on my head, which 1 never felt till afterwards, and

wondered, when I came to myself, what was the matter, and
where I was, for he laid me flat on the ground; but my never-
failing old pilot, the Portuguese (so Providence, unlocked for.
directs (leliverances from dangers which to us are unforeseen),
had a pistol in his pocket, which I knew nothing of, nor the
Tartars neither; if they had, I suppose they would not have
attacked us; but cowards are always boldest when there is no
danger. The old man, seeing me down, with a bold heart
stepped up to the fellow that had struck me, and laying hold
of his arm with one hand, and pulling him down by main
force a little towards him with the other, shot him in the.
head, and laid him dead upon the spot. He then innnediately
stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I said, and before
he could come forward again, made a blow at him with a
scimitar, which he always wore, but missing the man, out his
horse in the side of his head, out one of the ears oil by the
root, and a great slice down by the side of his face. The poor
beast, enraged with the wound, was no more to he governec by
his rider, though the fellow sat well enough, too; but away he
flew, and carried him quite out of the pilot's reach; and, at
some distance, rising upon his hind legs, threw down the Tartar,
and fell upon him.

In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost the
camel, but he had no weapon: however, seeing the Tartar
down, and his horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him, and
seizing upon an ugly, ill-favoured wea on he had by his side,
something like a pole-axe, he wrenched it from him, and made.
shift to knock his 'l'artarian brains out with it. But my old
man had a third Tartar to deal with still; and seeing he did
not fly, as he expected, nor come on to fight him as he appre-
hended, but stand stock still, the old man stood still, too, and
fell to work with his tackle, to charge his pistol again; but. as
soon as the Tartar saw the pistol, away he scoured, and left.
my pilot--my champion I called him afterwards--a complete
victor.

By this time I was a little recovered; for I thought, when l
first began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as
I said above, I wondered where l was, how I came upon the
ground, and what was the matter; but a few moments after,
as sense returned, I felt pain, though I did not know where;
so I clapped my hand to my head, and took it away bloody;
then I felt my head ache; and then, in a moment, memory
returned, and everything was present to me again. I jumped
upon my feet instantly, and got hold of my sword, but no
enemies in view: I found a Tartar lie dead, and his horse deg
standing very uietly by him; and looking farther, I saw my
cham )ion and (deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese
had one, coming back with his hanger in his hand: the old
man, seeing me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced
me witha great deal of joy, being afraid before that I had been
killed; and, seeing me bloody, would see how I was hurt; but
it was not much, only what we call a broken head; neither did
I afterwards find any great inconvenience from the blow, for it -
was well again in two or three days.
We made no great gain, however, by this victory, for we lost
a camel and gained a horse: but that which was remarkable,
when we came back to the village, the man demanded to he
paid for the camel; I disputed it, and it was brought to a
hearing before the Chinese judge of the place. To giVe him
his due, he acted with a great deal of prudence and impartiality ;
and, having heard both sides, he gravely asked the Chincseman
that went with me to buy the camel, whose servant he was?
" I am no servant," says he, " but went with the stranger."--
" At whose request?" says the justice. "At the stranger's
request," says he. " Why then," says the justice, " you were
the stranger's servant for the time; and the camel being
delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him, and he must
pay for it."

l confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to say :
but admiring to see such just reasoning upon the consequence,
and an accurate stating of the case, I paid willingly for the
camel, and sent for another; but, you may observe, 1 did not
go to fetch it myself any more, for I had had enough of that.

The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire ; they
call it fortified, and so it is, as fortifications go there ; for this
l will venture to affirm, that all the Tartars in Karakathay,
which, I believe, are some millions, could not batter down the
walls with their bows and arrows; but to call it strong, if it
were attacked with cannon, would be to make those who under-
stand it laugh at you.

We wanted, as I have said, about two days' journey of this
city, when messengers were sent express to every part of the
road to tell all travellers and caravans to halt till they had
a guard sent for them; for that an unusual body of Tartars,

making ten thousand in all, had appeared in the way about
thirty miles beyond the city. '

This was very bad news to travellers; however, it was care-
fully done of the governor, and we were very glad to hear we
should have a guard. Accordingly, two days after, we had two
hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison of the Chinese on our
left, and three hundred more from the city of Naum, and with
these we advanced boldly; the three hundred soldiers from
Nauin marched in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and
our men on each side of our camels with our baggage, and the
whole caravan in the centre: in this order, and well prepared
for battle, we thought ourselves a match for the whole'ten
thousand Mogul Tar-tars, if they had appeared; but the next
day when they did appear, it was quite another thing.

It was early in the morning, when, marching from a well-
situated little town, called Changu, we had a river to pass,
which we were obliged to ferry: and had the 'l'artars had any
intelligence, then had been the time to have attacked us, when
the caravan being over, the rear-guard was behind; but they
did not appear there. About three hours after, when we
were entered upon a desert of about fifteen or sixteen miles
over, behold, by a cloud of dust they raised. we saw an enemy
was at hand; and they were at hand, indeed, for they came on
upon the spur.

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big
the day before, began to stagger; and the soldiers frequentlv
looked behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier that
he is just ready to run away. My old pilot was of my mind ;
and being near me, called out, " Seignior Inglese," says he,
" those fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all;
for if the Tartars come on they will never stand it."--
" I am of your mind," says I : " but what must be done .9"--
"Doue!" says he, "let fifty of our men advance and thunk
them on each wing, and encourage them ; and they will fight
like brave fellows in brave company; but without this they
will every man turn his back." Immediately l rode up to our
leader, and told him, who was exactly of our mind; and
accordingly fifty of us marched to the right. wing, and fifty to
the left, and the rest made a line of rescue : and so we marched,
leaving the last two hundred men to make a body by them-
selves, and to guard the camels ; only that, if need were, they
should send an hundred men to assist the last fifty.

In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable com-
pany they wer ': how many we could not tell, but ten thousand
we thought was the least; a party of them came on first, and
viewed our posture, traversing the ground in the front of our
line ; and as we found them within gun-shot, our leader
ordered the two wings to advance swiftly, and give them a
salvo on each wing with their shot, which was done : but they
went off, and I suppose back, to give an account of the recep-
tion they were like to meet with: and, indeed, that salute
cloycd their stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood a
while to consider of it, and, wheeling off to the left, they gave
over their design, and said no more to us for that time; which
was very agreeable to our circumstances, which were but very
indifferent for a battle with such a number.

Two days after this we came to the city of Naun, or Naum:
we thanked the governor for his care of us, and collected to the
value of an hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave to
the soldiers sent to guard us; and here we rested one day. This
is a garrison, indeed, and there are nine hundred soldiers kept
here; but the reason of it was, that, formerly, the Muscovite
frontiers lay nearer to them than they now do, the Muscovites
having abandoned that part of the country which lies from this
city west for about two hundred miles, as desolate and unfit
for use; and more especially, being so very remote, and so
diilicult to send troops thither for its defence; for we had yet
aboVe two thousand miles to M uscovy, properly so called.

After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful
deserts: one of which we were sixteen days )assing over; and
which, as I said, was to be called No Man's nd: and on the
13th of April, we came to the frontiers of the Muscovite do-
minions. I think the first town or fortress, whichever it may
be called, that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called
Arguna, being on the west side of the river Arguna.

I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so
soon arrived in, as 1 called it, a Christian country, or, at least,
in a country governed by Christians; for though the Muscovites
do, in my opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians,
yet such they pretend to be, and are very devout in their way.
It would certainly occur to any man who travels the world as
l have done, and who had any power of reflection, what a
blessing it is to be brought into the world where the name of
God and a Redeemer is known, adored, and worship d: and
not where the people, given up by Heaven to strong dilusions,
worship the devil, and prostrate themselves to stocks and
stones; worship monsters, elements, horrid-shaped animals,
and statues or images of monsters. Not a town or city we
passed through but had their pagods, their idols, and their
temples, and ignorant peeple worshipping even the works of
their own hands. Now we came where at least a face of the
Christian worship appeared; where the knee was bowed to
Jesus; and, whether ignorantly or not, yet the Christian reli-
gion was owned, and the name of the true God was called upon
and adored, and it made my soul rejoice to see it. I saluted
the brave Scots merchant I mentioned above with my first
acknowledgment of this: and taking him by the hand, I
said to him, "Blessed be God, we are once again amongst
Christians!" He smiled, and answered, "Do not rejoice too
soon, countryman; these Museovites are but an odd sort of
Christians ; and but for the name of it you may see very little
of the substance for some months farther of our journey."--
" Well," says l, " but still it is better than Paganism and ww-
shipping of devils."--" Why, Iwill tell you," says he; "except
the Russian soldiers in the garrisons and a few of the inhabit-
ants of the cities upon the road, all the rest of this country, for
above a thousand miles farther, is inhabited by the worst~and
most ignorant of Pagans :" and so indeed we found it.

We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth,
if I understand anything of the surface of the globe, that is
to'be found in any part of the world; we had, at least, twelve
thousand miles to the sea, eastward: two thousand to the
bottom of the Baltic sea,_westward ; and above three thousand,
if we left that sea and went 0n west, to the British and French
channels; we had full five thousand miles to the Indian or
Persian sea, south; and about eight hundred to the Frozen
sea, north. Nay, if some people may be believed, there might
be no sea north-east till we came round the Pole, and conse-
quently into the north-west, and so had a continent of land into
America; though I could give some reasons why I believe that
to be a mistake. .

As we entered into the Muscov-ite dominions, a good while
before we came to any considerable towns, we had nothing to
observe there but this; first, that all the rivers run to the
east: as I understood by the charts which some in our cara-
van had with them, it was plain all those rivers ran into the
great river Yamour, or Gamour; which river, by the natural
course of it, must run into the East sea, or Chinese Ocean.
The story they tell us, that the mouth of this river is choked
up with bulrushes of a monstrous growth, viz., three feet about,
and twenty or thirty feet high, I must be allowed to say I
believe nothing of; but, as its navigation is of no use because
there. is no trade that way, the 'l'artars, to whom it alone be-
longs, dealing in nothing but cattle, so nobody that ever I
heard of, has been curious enough either to go down to the
mouth of it in boats, or come up from the mouth of it in ships,
as far as I can find : but this is certain, that. this river running
east in the latitude of about fifty degrees, carries a vast con-
course of rivers-along-<<with-it,--and--finde--an--eeean~~to-empty
itself in that latitude; so we are sure of sea there.

Some leagues to the north' of this river there are several
considerable rivers, whose streams run as due north as the
Yamour runs east, and these are all found to join their waters
with the great river 'l'artarus, named so from the northernmost
nations of the Mogul Tartars; who, as the Chinese say, were
the first 'l'artars in the world; and who, as our geographers
allege, are the Gog and Magog mentioned in sacred story.
These rivers running all northward, as well as all the other
rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evident that the northern
ocean bounds the land also on that side; so that it does not
seem rational in the least to think that the land can extend
itself to join with America on that side, or that there is not a
communication between the northern and eastern ocean: but
of this I shall say no more; it was my observation at that time,
and therefore 1 take notice of it in this place.

We now advanced from the river Arguna by easy and
moderate journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care
the Czar of Muscovy has taken to have cities and towns built
in as many places as it is possible to place them, where his
soldiers keep garrison, something like the stationary soldiaa
placed by the Romans in the remotest countries of their em-
pire; some of which that I had read of were placed in Britain
for the security of commerce, and for the lodging travellers;
and thus it was here ; for, wherever we came, though at these
towns and stations the garrisons and governors were Russians
and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were me're
Pagans; sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun, moon,
and stars, or all the host of Heaven; and not~only so, but were
of all the heathens and Pagans that ever 1 met with, the most.
barbarous, except only that they did not eat men's flesh, as our
savages of America did. '

Some instances of this we met with in the country between
Arguna, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city
of 'l'artars and Russians together, called Nortziousky, in which
is a continual desert, or forest, which cost us twenty days to
travel over. In a village, near the last of these places, I had
the curiosity to go and see their way of living, which is most
brutish and unsufi'erable: they had, I suppose, a great sacri-
ficc that day; for there stood out upon an old stump of a tree
an idol made of wood, frightful as the devil--at least, as any-
thing we can think of to represent the devil can be made : it
had a head not so much as resembling any creature that the
world ever saw ; ears as big as goats' horns, and as high :_ eyes
as big as a crown-piece; a nose like a crooked ram's horn, and
a mouth extended four-cornered, like that of a lion, with hor-
rible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under-bill: it was dressed

--up irthrfilthiestmaunerthat-you could suppose; its upper
garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward; a great
Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns growing through
it: it was about eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, or any
other proportion of parts.

The scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village;
and when I came near to it there were sixteen or seventeen
creatures, whether men or women I could not tell, for they
make no distinction by their habits, all lying flat upon the
ground round this formidable block of shapeless wood : I saw
no motion among them, any more than if they had been all
logs of wood, like the idol, and at first I really thought they
had been so; but when I came a little nearer, they started up
upon their feet, and raised a howling cry, as if they had been so
many deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away, as if they were
displeased at our disturbing them. A little way off from the
idol, and at the door of a tent, or hut, made all of sheep-skins
and cow-skins dried, stood three butchers--I thought they
were such: when I came nearer to them I found they had
long knives in their hands; and in the middle of the tent
appeared three sheep killed, and one your:or bullock, or steer.
These, it seems, were sacrifices to that senseless log of an idol;
the three men were priests belonging to it, and the seventeen
prostrated wretches were the people who brought the offering,
and were making their prayers to that stock.

I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish
worship of a hobgoblin than ever lwas at anything in my
life; to see God's most glorious and best creature, to whom
lie had granted so many advantages, even by creation above
the rest of the works of His hands, vested with a reasonable
soul, and that soul adorned with faculties and capacities
adapted both to honour his Maker and be honoured by Him,
sunk and degenerated to a degree so very stupid as to prostrate
itself to a frightful nothing, a mere imaginary object, dressed
up by themselves, and made terrible to themselves by their own
contrivance, adorned with nothing but old rags; and that this
should be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought up into hellish
devotion by the devil himself; who, envying to his Maker the
homage and adoration of His creatures, had deluded them into
such sordid and brutish things as one would think should
shock nature itself!

But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of
thoughts? thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there
was no room to wonder at it. or think it possible: all my admir-
ation turned to rage, and I rode up to the image, or monster,
call it what you will, and with my sword made a stroke at the
bonnet that was on its head, and cut it in two; and one of our
men that was with me took hold of the sheep-skin that covered
it, and pulled at it; when, behold, a most lndcous cry and
howling ran through the village, and two or three hundred
people came about my ears, so that l was glad to scour for it,
for we saw some had bows and arrows; but I resolved from
that moment to visit them again.

CHAPTER LV.

NIRTSIN'SKAY --ROBI.\'80N CRUSOI AND THE acors IIMHAN'I' Dmmr Till!
IN]. -- I'UIBU RD BY Till-3 TARTAIIS -- JABAWBNA -- PRlGllflCL "HINT --
ADISSKOY-TIIE TONGUESES--JASEZAY--TIIB RIVER OBI--meKX--Wflfl'fikfl

THERE.

OUR caravan rested three nights at the town, which was about
four miles off, in order to provide some horses which they
wanted, several of the horses having been lamed and jaded
with the badness of the way, and long march over the last
desert; so we had some leisure here to at my design in exe-
cution. I communicated my design to t e Scots merchant of
Moscow, of whose courage i had sufficient testimony: I told
him what 1 had seen, and with what indignation 1 had since
thought that human nature could be so degenerate ; I told him
if I could get but four or live men well armed to go with me,
I was resolved to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol,
and let them see that it had no'power to help itself, and, con-
sequently, could not be an object of worship, or to 'be prayed
to, much less help them that offered sacrifices to it.

He laughed at me :--says he, " Your zeal may be good, but
what do you propose to yourself by it?"--"1'ro[x)sel" said I,
"to vindicate the honour of God, which is insulted by this
devil-worship."---"liut how will it vindicate the honour of
tied," said he, "while the people will not be able to know
what you mean by it, unless you could speak to them, and tell
them so? and then they will light you, and beat you, too, I'll
assure you; for the are desperate fellows, and that especially
in defence of their idolatry."-" Can we not," said I, "do it in
the night, and then leaVe them the reuSons and the causes in
writing in their own language P"---"Writingl" said he: "why
there is not a man in live nations of them that knows any-
thing of a letter, or how to read a word any way."---" Wretohed
ignorancol" said I to him ; " however, I have a great mind to
do it: perhaps Nature may draw inferences from it to them, to
let them see how brutish they are to worship such horrid
things."--" Look you, sir," said he; "if your zeal prompts
you to it so warmly, you must do it; but, in the next place,
[Would have you consider these wild nations of people are
subjected by force to the Czar of Muscovy's dominions, and, if
you do this, it is ten to one, but they will come by thousands
to the governor of Nertsinskay, and demand satisfaction; and,
if he cannot give them satisfaction, it is ten to one but they
revolt; and it will occasion a new war with all the Tartars in
the country."

This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for a while,
but I still found that my inclination increased for executing the
project I had been forming to destroy the monster, if it Were
possible to do it with an ' safety: and, upon meeting the Scots
merchant by accident t e next evening, and consulting him
again, I found he was grown as earnest for it as myself; so we
sat down to contrive how we should effectually execute our
purpose: and when we had laid the scheme to our minds, with
the assistance of a trusty companion, and a servant or two,
we went out privately, and came up to the priests in the ni ht;
and then, by a stratagem, having confined them and cir
attendants in their house, or tent, we stuffed wild-fire in the
filthy idol's mouth and ears: and with the addition of other
combustible stuff, we bumed the frightful image to ashes, with-

out being apprehended.
After the feat was lwrformed, we amieared in the. morning
among our fellow-travellers, exceedingly busy in getting ready
for our journey : nor could any suggest that we had been any-
where but in our beds, as travellers might be. summed to be,
to fit themselves for the l'atigues of the day's journey.

 

But the at't'air did not end so; the. next day came a great
number of the. country [wople to the town-gates, and, in a most.
outrageous manner, demanded satisfaction of the. liussian
governor for the insulting; his priests, and burning their great
tfhagn Chi-'l'hanngu. The people of Nertsinskay were at lirst
In a great consternation, for they said the 'l'artars were already
no less than thirty thousand strong. The Russian governor
sent out messengers to appease them, and gave them all the
good words imaginable; assuring them that he knew nothing
of it, and that. there had not a soul in his garrison been ahroad.
so that it Could not be from anybody there ; but, if they could
let him know who did it, they should be. exemplarily punished.
They returned, haughtily, that all the country reverenced the
Chain Chi-'l'hanngu, whodweltin the sun, and no mortal Wutlltl
have dared to on'er violence to his image but some Christian
miscreant; and they therefore resolved to denounce war against
him and all the Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and
Christians.

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach,
or to have any cause of var alleged to be given by him, theROBINSON oIIUsm-I. 43]

Czar lIaII III-I strictly II.h: IIIgIIIl him to treat lllt' CIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII country
with gII IIItlIIIIIIss :IIIIl IIIII ility. gave tlIIIIII still :Ill the mood words
hII ('tllllC/l. At. last. hI- tIIlIl IIIIIIII tlIIIIIII was :I_ IaIaIIIIn gone
tIIIIIaIIIls lInssia that. IIIIIIIning. anIl, IIIIrhaIIs, it. was 5mm: of
than who had IIIInII IhIIIII this injury I. and that, it tlIIIy IIIIIIIlIl
IIII satiinIIIl with that ho wIIIIlIl sIInIl aI'IIIII "II III III iIIqIIirII
into it. 'lhis sIIIIIIIIIIl III alI IIIIasII tlIIIIII II littlII; and, :II IIIIIIIlingly,
tlIII gIIIII-IIIIII sI-nt I'IIIIIII as. and :;:'I\II II- a IIIIIIIIIIIl II :IchIIIIIt
how tIIII thing was: intitnatin: IIIitlIIIl, that it' any in IIIIIIcara~
\':III IIIIIl IIIIIIII. it. thIIy shIIIIlIl InakII thIIiII IIsIIapII; hat that,
IIIlIIIthIII' wII haIl IlIInII it or IIII, "'0 should IIIalIII III] "III hIIstII
forward that. was IIIIssilIlII: and that, in IIIII IIIIIIIII tiInII, he
would kIIIIII than in play as long as lIII Could.

This was IIIIIy IIIiIInIlly in tho gIIIIIIIIIIIII'; howIII'IIII, Wllt'll it.
CIIIIIII to tho IIaIIIIIIIIn, thIIIIII was nobody knew anything of the
InattI-II; and. as IIIII us that wIIrII guilty IIIII worn the least or
:III sIIsIII-IIIIIII. llU\\'('\'('l', tlIII t':l||l:llll III "III cIII":I\aII lot the
than look thII hint that tho _-_:II\IIIIIIIIII' gave us, and MI tI'aIIIIllIIIl
two days and two nights IIIItlIIIIIt any cIInsiIlIIIIalIlII stop, and
than wII lay III a \'lll.'l_'_"'t'. IIIIIIIIIl l'lIIthIIs: nor did we IIIIIkII any
long sIIIII hIII-II, lIIIt. lIastI-IIIIII on towards JaIIaIIIIIIIa, IIIIIIt.hIIII III'
IlIII (.'zat' III~ hltIsIIIIIIy's IIIIlIIIIiIIs, aIIIl IIIlIIII'II IIIII IIxIIIIIItIIIl IIIII.
shIIIIlII lIII safe. "I", IIIIIIII IIIII sIIIIIInIl Ilay's IIIIII'ch t'rIInI
l'lIIthIIs. by the clouds of dust, lIIIhiIIIl us, at a _'_'l't':ll- IlistancII,
some of our IIIIIIIIlII hogan to ho sIInsilIlIs \\'\' IIIIIIII: IIIIIIsIIIIIl.
\\'II had ('llll'l't'll a _I_:I'IIat. IlIIsIIIIt, and had IIIIssIIIl by :I gIIIIat lake
IIIIllIIIl SI'haks UsIIII. II'lIIIII II'II llt'l'Ct'th'tl a very gI'IIIIt body of
homo appear IIn tlIII IIIlIIII' siIlII "f the lztlu', III "II! llIII'IlI, Wt!
travelling.r must. "I observed thIIy wIInI- away west, as we
did, but had sIIIIIIIIsIIIl wI- II'IIIIlIl IIaI'II takIIII that- siIlI: III' the
laIkI, IIIhIIIIIIas \\'t' \t'l'\' happily tIIIIlI thII sIIIIth siIlII; and, in
two IIIII's InIIrII thIIy IlisIIIIpIIIII'IIIl again: IIIII thIII', IIIliIIIing
wII. II'III II still lIII ItIIIc tlIIIIII, [IIIslIIIIl IIII Iill "II I value III IIIII IIiII r

IlIl I, a may gIIIIIIt IIiIIIIII \IlII II it passes lIIIIthIIII north, but
IlI'lIIIrII. II'II IIIIIIIII to it. IIIII I'IIIIIIIl it narrow and tiIIIIIIIlIlII.

'l'lIII third day they had IIIithII found their IIIistakII, or had
iIItIIlligIInIIII III us. and came IIIIIIIIiII;.,I in upon us towards IhI-
IlIIsk III thIIIIIIIIriIIg. \\II. had, tIIIIIIII gIIIIIII satistactinn, just.
IIiIIIlIIIIl IIIIIIII a place for our IIIIIIIII, which was III-IIy IIIIIII'IIIIIIIIII
for the night; tor, as \I'II \IIIII'II upon a Ilt'St'l'l-, though tall at. the
beginning "I it, that was alIIH'II Ii\'I' lIttIIIlI'IIIl IIIilIIs war, We
had no towns to loIlgII at, and, inIlIIIIIl, IprIIctI-Il IIIIIII: lIIIt llw
cit-y JIIIIaIIII-na, which we had yet two days' march to: the
dIISIIIt, hoII'IcIIII', lIIIIl smnc Ii III woods in it IIII this siIlII, and
little l'th'l'S, which I. III all into the I'I'IIIIt. l'lVCl' UIlIIaI , it was in
a narrow strait. bI-IIIIII-II litIlII, but very thick, woods, that. we
pitched our camp for that night, expecting to be attac'IIIIl be.
fore mornin-r.
Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for: but
as it was usual for the Mogul ' 'artars to go about in troops,
in that desert, so the caravans always fortifv themselVes every
night agiinst then), as against armies of robbers; and it was,
therefore, no new thing to be pursued.

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a
most advantageous camp; for we lay between two woods,
with a little rivulet running just before our front, so that we
could not be surrounded, or attacked, any "my, bat. in our front
or rear. We took care, also, to make our front as strouer as we
could, by placiu ourpacks, with our camels and horses, all in a
line, on the insa e of the river, and felling mine flees in our rear.

in this posture we encamped for the night; but the enemy
was upon us before we had finished our situation. They did
not come. on us like thieves, as we expected, but sent. three
messengers to us to demand the men to be delivered to them
that had abused their priests, and burnt their god Chum Chi~
'l'haungu with tire, that they might burn them with fire; and,
upon this, they said they would go may and do us no farther
harm, otherwise they would destroy us all. Our men looked
very blank at this message, and began to stare at one another,
to see who looked with the most guilt in their faces; but,
nobody was the word; nobody did it. The leader of the
caravan sent word, he was well assured it was not done by any
of our camp; that we Were 1 'aceable merchants, traVelling on
our business; that we had done no harm to them, or to any
one else; and that, therefore, they must look farther for their
enemies who had injured them, for we were not the people: so
desired them not to disturb us, for, if they did, We should
defend ourselves.

They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer;
and a great crowd came running down in the morning, by
break of day, to our camp; but, seeing as in such an unac-
countable situation, they dnrst come no farther than the brook
in our front, where they stood, and showed us such a number,
that indeed terrified us very much; for those that spoke least
of them spoke of ten thousand. Here they stood, and looked
at us a while, and then, setting up a great howl, they let fly a
crOWd of arrows among us ; but we were well enon h fortified
for that, for we sheltered under our baggage, an I do not
remember that one of us was hurt.

Some time after this, we saw them move a little to our
right, and expected them on the rear; when a cunning fellow,
a Cossack of Jarawena, in the. pay of the. Masciwites, calliu
to the leader of the caravan, said to him, "l'll go send afi
these people am to Siheilkaf' this was a city, four or tire
days' journey, at cost, to the right, and rather behind us. So
he takes his bow and arrows, and getting on horseback, he,
rides away from our rear directly, as it wele back to Net-t-
siuskay; after this, he takes a great circuit about, and comes
directly on the. army of the 'l'artars, as it' he had been sent
express, to tell them a long story, that the people who had
burnt the Chain Chi-'l'hauu u were gone to Siheilka, with a
caravan of miscreants, as to called them, that. is to say,
Christians; and that they had resolved to burn the god Shut-
lssr, belonging to tho 'l'ongueses.

As this fellow himself was a mere 'I'artar, and perfeetly
spoke their language, he counterfeited so well, that they all
took it from him, and away they dmve in a most. violent hurry
to Siheilka, which, it seems, was live days~ journev to tlu
north; and in less than three hours they were entiiely out. el
our sight, and we never heard any more of theta, nor whether
they went to Siheilka or no. So we [named away safely on to
Jarawena, where there was a garrison of Muscm'ites. and
there we rested live days; the caravan being excoetlingly
litti-vued with the last day's hard march, and with want, of rest
in the night.

From this city we had a frightful desert, which held as
twenty-tlnee days' march. \\'e t'tn'nished ourselves with some
tents here, for the better accenuumlating ettrselves iu the
night; and the leader of the aravan procured sixteen carriages,
er waggons, ot' the country, for carrying our water, or previ-
sions; and these carriages were our det'euce, every night, rental
our little camp; so that had the 'l'artars a upeared, unless they
had been very numerous indeed, they Would not have been able
to hurt us.

We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long
journey; for, in this desert, we neither saw house nor tree,
and scarce a bush; though we saw abundance of the sable~
hunters, who are all 'I'artars of the Mogul 'l'artary, of which
this country is a part; and they frequently attack small cara-
vans, but we saw no numbers of them together.

After we had tasscd this desert, we came into a country
pretty Well inhabited; that is to say, we found towns and
castles, settled by the Czar of Muscovy, with garrisous of
stationary soldiers to protect the caravans, and defend the
country against the Tartars, who Would, otherwise, make it
ver dangerous travelling; and his Czarish majesty has given
sue t strict orders for the well nardinfi the caravans and mor-
chants, that, it' there are any ' artars card of in the country,
detachments of the garriscns are always sent to see the tra-
vellers safe from station to station. And thus, the governor of
Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit to, by
means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him,
ofl'ered us a guard of fifty men, it' we thought there was any
danger, to the next station.

I!
I thought, long before this, that, as we came nearer to
Europe, we should find the country better inhabited, and the
people more civilised; but I found myself mistaken in' both;
tor we had yet the nation of tho 'l'ongueses to pass through,
where we saw the same tokens of paganism and barbarity as
before; only, as they were conquered by the Muscovites, they
were not so dangerous; but, for rudeness of manners, and
idolatry, no people in the world ever went beyond them : they
are clothed all in skins of beasts, and their houses are built
of the same; you knew not a man from a woman, neither by
the ruggedness of their conntenances nor their clothes; and, in
'the winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they live
inderground in vaults, which have cavities going from one to
mother.

It the 'l'artars had their Chain Chi-Thanh a for a whole
village, or country, these had idols in every int and every
cave: besides, they worship the stars, the sun, the water, the
snow, and, in a word, eVerything they do not understand, and
they understand but very little; so that every element, every
uncommon thing, sets them a sacrificing. I met with nothing
peculiar to myself in all this country, which I reckon was,
from the desert 1 spoke of last, at least four hundred miles,
half of it being another desert, which took us up twelve days'
severe travelling, without house or tree; and Were obliged
again to carry our own provisions, as well water as bread. Alter
we were out of this district, and had travelled tWo days, we came
to Janezay, a Muscovite city, or station, on the great river
Janezay, which, they told us there, parted Europe. from Asia.

Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed,
except in the Muscovite garrisons; all the country between
the river Oby and the river Janezay is entirely mean, and the
people as barbarous as the remotest of the 'l'artars: nay, as
any nation, for aught I know, in Asia or America. I also
found, which [observed to the Muscovite governors whom I
had an opportunity to conVerse with, that the poor vagans
are not much wiser, or nearer Christianity, for bein r an or the
Muscovite government, which they acknowledge was true
enough; but that, as they said, was none of their business;
that, if the Czar expected to convert his Siberian 'l'onguese, or
Tartar subjects, it should be done by sending clergymen
amen them, not soldiers; and, they added, with more sincerity
thanfi expected, that they found it was not so much the
concern of their monarch to make the people Christians, as it
was to make them subjects.

From this river to the great river Oby, We crossed a wild,
uncultivated country, barren of people and good management,
otherwise it is, in itself, a most pleasant, fruitful, and agreeable
country What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans,
except. such as are sent among them from llnssia: for this is
the country, I mean on both sides the river Uhy, whither the
Museorite criminals, that are not put to death, are hanished,
and from whence it is next to inumssihle they should eVer
Come away.

I have nothing material to say of my particular all'airs, till I
came to 'l'olmlski, the capital city of Siberia, where I continued
some time on the following occasion.

We had now been almost seven months on our journey, and
winter began to come on apaco; whereupon my partner and l
'alled a council about our )artioular affairs, in which We lound
it proper, as we were hount for England, and not for Moscuw,
to consider how to dispose of ourselves. They told us of
sludges and reindeer, to carry us over the snow in tho winter-
time: and, indeed, they hit") such things that it Would be
incredible to relate the varticnlars of, h which means the
Russians traVel more in t to winter than hey can in the sum-
mer, as in these sludges they are able to run night and clay,
tho snow, being frozen, is one uniVersal covering to nature, by
which tho hills, Vales, rivers, and lakes, are all snsmtli and
hard as a stone, and they run upon tho surface without any
regard to what is underneath.

But I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this
kind; I was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route
lay two ways; either I must go on as the caravan Went, till l
came to Jaroslaw, and then re oil' west for Nerva, and the
gulph of Finland, and so to )antzic, where l might possibly
sell my China cargo to good advantage; or I must leave the
caravan at a little town on the Dwina, from whence I had but
six davs, by water to Archangel, and from thence might be
sure olx shipping either to England, llolland, or l'Iamlmrgh.

Now to go any of these journeys in the winter Would have
been preposterous; for, as to Dantzic, the Baltic Wollltl have
been rozen up, and I Could not get passage; and to go by
land in those countries was far less safe than among the
Mogul 'l'artars; likewise, to go to Archangel, in October, all
the ships would be gone from thence, and even the merchants
who dwell there in summer, retire south to Moscow in winter,
when the ships are gone; so that I could have nothing but
extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity of provisions,
and must lie in an empty town all the winter: so that, upon
the whole, I thought it much my better way to let the caravan
go, and make )I'OVlBlUII to winter where I was, at Tobolski, in
Siberia, in the atitnde of about sixty degrees, where I was sure
of three things to Wear out a cold winter with, viz., plenty of
provisions, such as the country all'orded, a warm house, with
Incl enough, and excellent company.

c2
CHAPTER LV I.

fill ennui--warn: mesa--ultra or urn'orr--uumm-s l.\' um rasunsr-
uu'rr nus or not msu or was wuss man-nut tn ItKruerlnN 4
quur oosoemoa--rna eow--ruovnuoss--raauanmss ro errant--
CORD!!!" 0F TIIK EXILE--OFFRR TO AN EXILK to Aa-'IBI' um I.\' "Alum; ms
wears--Anscusxn, sm' mean-an sou ms son.

I WAS now in a quite ditl'ereut climate from my beloved island,
where I never felt eold, excqit when I had my ague; on the
emurary, I had much to do to hear any clothes on my back,
and never made any tire, but without doors, which was neces--
sary for dressing my food, 8m. New I made me three good
rests, with large robes or gowns over them, to hang down to
the feet, and button close to the wrists; and all these lined
with t'urs, to make. them snfliciently warm.

As to a warm house, 1 must confess I greatly disliked our
way in England of making tires in every room in the house in
open chimneys, which, when the tire was out, always kept. the
air in the room cold as the climate; but taking an apartment.
in a good house in the town, I ordered a chimney to be built
like a furnace, in the centre ol' six schral rooms, like a store ;
the {tunnel to carry the smoke went us; one way, the door to
come at the tire went in another, and a l the rooms were kept
equally warm, but no tire seen, just as they beat the lmgniol
in England. By this means. we had always the same climate
in all rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and, how cold
soerer it was without, it was always warm within ; and yet we
saw no lire, nor were chl' incommoded with smoke.

The most wonderful thing of all was, that it should be
possible to meet with good company here, in a country so
barbarous as that of the most northerly parts of Europe, near
the Frozen ocean, within but a very few degrees of Nova
Zenibla. But this being the country where the state criminals
of Muscevy, as 1 observed before, are all banished, this city
was full of nobleman, entlemen, soldiers, and courtiers et'
Museovy.' Here was 0 famous prince Gallitzen, the old
general Robostiski, and several other persons of note, and
some ladies. By means of my Scots merchant, whom, never-
theless, l rted with here, 1 made an acquaintance with
Several of ese entlemen; and from these, in the long winter
nights in which stayed here, 1 received seVeral very agreeable
visits.

It was talking one night with Prince --, one of the
banished ministers of state belonging to the Czar of Muscory,
that the discourse. of my particular case began. He had been
telling me abundance of line things of the greatness, the
magnificence, the dominious, and the absolute unver of the
emperor of the Russians: linterrnpted him, am told him I
was a greater and more powerful prince than even the lzar of
Museovy was, then b my dolninions were not so large, or mv
[ample so many. '1' )0 Russian grandee looked a little surprised.
and fixing his eyes steadily upon me, be an to wonder what I
meant. I told him his wonder wonh cease when 1 had
explained myself. First, I told him I had ahsolute disposal
of tho litres and fortunes of all my subjects; that, notwith-
standing my absolute power, I had not one person disaffected
to my overmneut, or to my person, in all my dominions. He
shook iis head at that, and said, there, indeed, I ontdid the
Czar of Museovy. I told him, that all the lands in my king-
dom store my own, and all my subjects were not only the
tenants, but tenants at will; that they would all ti vht for me.
to the last drop; and that never tyrant, for such If acknow-
ledged myself to be, was ever so universally beloved, and yet so
horribly feared by his snh'ects.

After amusing him with these riddles in government for a
while, I opened the case, and told him the story at lar e of
my living in the island; and how I managed both mysel and
the people that were under me, just as l have. since minuted it
down. They Were exceedin ly taken with the story, and
especially the prince, who told! me with a sigh, that the true
greatness of life was to be masters of ourseIVes ; that he would
not have exchanged such a state of life as mine to he Czar of
Muscovy; and that he found more felicity in the retirement he
seemed to be banished to there, than ever he found in the
highest authority he enjoyed in the Court of his master the
Czar; that the height of human wisdom was to bring our
tempers down to our circumstances, and to make a calm
within, under the weight of the greatest storms without.
When he came first hither, he said he used to tear the hair
from his head, and the clothes from his back, as others had
done before him; but a little time and Consideration had
made him look into himself, as well as round him, to things
without; that he found the mind of man, if it was but once
brought to reflect upon the state of universal life, and how
little this world was concerned in its true felicity,was perfectly
capable of making a felicity for itself, fully satisfying to itself,
and suitable to its own best ends and desires, with but very
little assistance from the world ; the air to breathe in, food to
sustain life, clothes for warmth, and liberty for exercise, in
order to health, com leted, in his opinion, all that the world
could do for us; an though the greatness, the authority, the
riches, and the pleasures which some enjoyed in the world,
had much in them that was agreeable to us, yet all those
things chiefly gratified the coarsest of our affections, such
as our ambition, our particular pride, avarice, vanity, and
sensuality ; all which, being the more product of the worst part
of man, were in themselves crimes, and had in them the seeds
of all manner of crimes: but neither were related to, nor
concerned with, any of those virtues that constituted us wise
men, nor of those graces which distinguished us as Christians ;
that, being now deprived of all the fancied felicity which he
enjoyed in the full exercise of all those vices, he said he was at
leisure to look upon the dark side of them, where he found all
manner of deformity, and was now convinced that virtue only
makes a man truly wise, rich, and great, and preserves him in
the way to superior happiness in a future state; and in this,
he said, they were more happy in their banishment than all
their enemies were, who had the full possession of all the
wealth and power they had left behind them. "Nor, sir,
says he, "do I bring my mind to this politically, by the
necessity of my circumstances, which some call miserable:
but, if i know anything of myself, 1 would not now go back,
though the Czar my master should call me, and reinstate me
in all my former grandeur; I say, I would no more go back to
it than i believe my soul, when it shall be delivered from this
prison of the body, and has had a taste of the glorious state
beyond life, would come back to the gaol of flesh and blood it
is now enclosed in, and leave heaven to deal in the dirt and
crime of human affairs.

He spoke this with so much warmth in his temper, so much
earnestness and motion in his spirits, that it was evident it
was the true sense of his soul; there was no room to doubt
his sincerity. I told him 1 once thought myself a kind of
monarch in my old station, of which I had given him an
account; but that i thought he was not only a monarch, but
a great conqueror; for that he that has got a victory over
his own exorbitant desires, and the absolute dominion over
himself, whose reason entirely governs his will, is certainly
greater than he that conquers a city. " But, my lord," said I,
"shall 1 take the liberty to ask you a question P"--" With all
my heart," says he. " If the door of your liberty was opened,"
said 1, " would you not take hold of it to deliver you from this
exile ?"--"Ilold," said he; "your question is subtle, and
requires some serious, just distinctions, to give it a sincere
answer; and then I will give it you from the bottom of my
heart. Nothing that I know of in this world would move me
to deliver myself from this state of banishment, except those
two: first, the enjoyment of my relations; and, secondly, a
little warmer climate : but I protest to you, that to go back to
the pomp of the court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a
minister of state: the wealth the gaiety, and the pleasures cf
a courtier; if my master should send me word this moment,
that he restores the to all he banished me from, I protest, it
I know myself at all, I would not leave this wilderness, these
deserts, and these frozen lakes, for the palace at Moseow."----
"But, my lord," said I, "perhaps you not only are banished
from the pleasures of the court and from the power, authority,
and wealth you enjoyed before, but you may be abSenr, too,
from some of the conveniences of life; your estate, perhaps,
confiscated, and your effects plundered; and the supplies left
you here may not be suitable to the ordinary demands of
1ife."---"Ay," says he, "that is as you suppose me to be a
lord, or a prince, &c.; so, indeed, I am; but you are now to
consider me only as a man, a human creature, not at all dis-
tinguished from another; and so, I can stiller no want, unless
I should be visited with sickness and distempers. However,
to put the question out of dispute, you seeour manner; we are,
in this place, live persons of rank; we live perfectly retired,
as suited to a state of banishment; we have something rescued
from the shipwreck of our fortunes, which keeps us from the
mere necessity of hunting for food; but the poor soldiers, who
are here without that help, live in as much plenty as we, who
go into the woods and catch sables and foxes : the labour of a
month will maintain them a year; and, as the way of living is
not expensive, so it is not hard to get sufficient for ourselves.
So that objection is out of doors."

I have not room to give a full account of the most agreeable
conversation I had with this truly great man: in all which
he showed that his mind was so inspired with a superior know-
ledge of things, so supported by religion, as well as by a vast
share of wisdom, that his contempt of the world was really as
much as he had expressed, and that he was always the same
to the last, as will appear in the story I am going to tell.

I had been here ei ht months, and a dark, dreadful winter
I thought it; the col so intense that I could not so much as
look abroad without being wrapped in furs, and a mask of fur
before my face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath,
and two for sight: the little daylight we had was, as we reck--
oned for three months, not above five hours a day, and six at
most; only that, the snow lying on the ground continually,
and the weather clear, it was never quite dark. Our horses
were kept, or rather starved, underground; and as for our
servants, whom we hired here to look after ourselves and
horses, we had every now and then, their fingers and tees to
thaw and take care of, lest they should mortify and fall ofl'.

It is true within doors we were warm, the houses being close,
the walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our
food was chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and cured in the season;
bread good enough, but baked asbiscuits; dried fish of several
sorts, and some flesh of mutton and of the bufi'aloes. which is
pretty I.I.IIIId InI'.IIt. .\H the stores of IIrIIIIisiIms I'm- the Winter
are laid up in the summer, and well IIanIIl: IIIII' drink was
water, mixed with :IIIIIII-I'iIIII instead of bI'IIndI' ; IIIId, fern treat,
IIIIIIIIl in3IIIIIId III' \I'IIIII, which, however, they have excellent
<<and. The lInnIIILI3', \\'l|\\ \'IIIIIIIIIII :IbrIIIId :Ill IIIIIIIhIII'3, fr!"
IIuI IItlII bIIIII Iht us in tine \IIInisIIn, IInIl IIIIIIIIIIiIIIII3' heIII'II IIIhIIIIh,
but \\'I' did IIIII "INC-ll IIIII'II [III the lust. \\ II hIId II good stuck
III' III I,I with which we treated IIuII I'IIiIIIIdII, II.3' above, and we
hVUIi \"I I'\' C'lII'I'lllIllV and \\'I' ll, :1" IllilII's ('IIIISIIlI'II'IL

It. was IIIIII' I\l:IIII,h the dI'II3 gI'IIIIIn considerably longer,
and the II'IIIIIIthII III lIIIIiIt tIIlIII'IIbIII; so the other IIIIIIIIIIIIrII
hIII.I;IIII to prepare .3'lIId-.:II3 III eIIIIII IlIIInI IIIIII' the 3IIIIIIII, and to
get things rIII :IIlI III he going; but my IIIIIII3IIIIII3I being lined,
33' I have .3'IIiIl, IIII' Archangel, and nut IIII' MuseuvI', or the
Baltic, I made no motion; lIlIIIWlIIg Very well that. thII ships
I'I'IIIII IlIII 3IIIIIth do IIIII. .3IIII IIut. I'I'qu that part nt' the world till
MIII', IIII June, and that. if l was there by the beginning IIf
August, it. would he as 3mm us any ships would be. rIIIIIlII III
go :IIIII II'; and there line I III IIlII nII lIIIstII II) be gone, 33 IIIhIII'3
diIl. . in II \IIII,IIIl l.3 3'I'III II. :IIIIIII III:III_\' IIIIIIIIIII, IIIIII, all the IIIIIIIIl-
lem, I.:II :\\\':l_\' before me. It .3'IIIIIII3', III'IIII' IIIIIII , thIIII gu II'IIIII
the IIIIIII III MuscIII'II fur trade, IIi7.., tII IIIIIIIII tins, and MW neces-
3IIII'iII3' which they bring back with them In IuI'ni3IlI IlIIIir3hIIIIs:
:Il3III others went IIII IlIII3 IIIIIIIII III'II: IIIIIl III .-\IItlI:III_I.:IIl; but then
theI all, being In CUIHI' back again, .IbIII II. eight. hundred miles,
went. all IIIIt before me.

In the month of MIII I began III III Ike IIll re IIlI III puck up;
and. II3' l IIIII3' IlIIinI' this, it IICIIIII'IIIId III IuII th It see iIII.::Ill these
people II'I'IIII banished bv the Czar III Mu3'IIIII' I III Siberia, and
yet. when they came IlIIIrII, II'I'IIII leIt III liberty III III) whither
they would, why thIIII IliIl nut. IlIIIII I.:II :III'III IIIIIIII' part III the
world, wherever they thought tit; and I began III II.\ Inuine
IleIIt shuuld hinder IlIIIIu ImnI Illilklllg such an IIIIIIIIIIIt.
But my wonder \II:I3I ()\' III when I entered upon that subject
with the person I lIIIIe IIIIIIItiIIIIIIIl, \\'l|() answered me thus:
"Consider, first, sir, said he, "the place where \\'t' IIIIII. . and,
secondly, the eIuIIlitiInI IIII Me in; II'3pIIeiIIIII IlIII generality of
the people \\'ll0 :IrII banished hither. \\'II are 3IIIIIIIIIInIleIl with
stronger things than hII r3' (ll' hults; "It the MINI side an un-
IIIwigIIhlII UUI' IIII, II'lIIIIIII ship IIIII II Silllt'tl,' IIIIII lIIII.It IIIIIII Ir swam, .
every other way, we have. IIhIIIII II thousand miles In p333
thmuI'lI the 0mm own IlIIIIIiniIIIIs, and [III II :II'3 IIIIII IIlI im-
passable, except by the roads III Ide by the IIIIIIIIrIIInIInt, and
through the towns garrisoIII-d by his tIIIIIIIIII; III>> that IIIII chlIl
neither pass undiscovered by the rum}, III>II subsist any other
way, . so that it. is in vain to attempt it."

1 II as silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they were in
a ptiseu, III'III'I' jot us secure as it they had bee III lucked up in
the castle :It MoscIIII- . however, It came into IIII,I thoughts,
that I might. certainly be nnule an instrument to procure the
mieape of this (meellent lemon ; and that, whatever hazard I
ran, l would certainly try if I could earry him otl'. Upon this
I took an oc'asion one evening to tell him my thoughts. I
represeuual to him, that. it. was very easy for me to carry him
away, there being no guard over him in the eountry; and, as I
was not going to Moscow, but to Archangel, and that I Went
in the rotinue ot'a caravan, by which I was not obliged to lie
in the stationary towns in the desert, but. could encamp every
night where I Would, we might. easily pass uninterrnptul to
Archangel, where I Would iuunediately secure him on board an
English ship, and carry him safe along with me; and, as to his
suleistenee, and other particulars, it. should be my atre, till be
eon better sup; ly himself.

He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me
all the while I spoke; nay, I Could see in his very face that
what. l said put. his spirits into an excmling torment; his
colour fro uently changed, his eyes looked red, and his heart
fluttered, t lat it might. be even perceived in his countenance;
nor could he innuediately answer me when i had done, and as
it. were, hesitatml what. he Would say to it; but, after he had
paimed a little, be embraced me, aml said, " llow unhappy are
we, unguardixl creatures as we are, that. even our greatest
acts of friendship are made snares unto us, and we are made
tempters of one anotherl My dear friend," said be, "your
otl'er is so sincere, has such kindness in it, is so disinterested in
"so", and is so mlculated for my advantage, that I must
have very little knowledge of the world if I did not both
Wonder at it and acknowledge the obligation l have upon
me to you for it. But did you believe I was sincere in w rat
1 have often said to you of my contempt of the world? Did
you believe I s Joke my very soul to you, and that l had'really
obtained that degree of felicity here that had placed me above
all that the world could give me? Did you believe I was sin-
cere when I told you lwould not go back, if 1 was recalled
even to he all that I once was in the court, with the favour of
the. Czar my master? Did you believe me, my friend, to be an
honest man; or did you believe me to boa beaming hypocrite ?"
Here he stepped, as if he would hear what I would say; but,
indeed, I soon after perceived that he stopped because his
spirits Were in motion, his great heart was hill of struggles,
and he could not go en. 1 was, 1 wafers, astonished at the
thing, as well as at the man, and I used some arguments with
him to urge him to set himself free: that he ought to look
upon this as a door opened b Heaven for his deliverance, and
a summons by Providence, w 10 has the care and dis )osition of
all events, to do himself good, and to render himsel useful in
the world. ~
llo had, by this time, rocororod himsolt': "llow do you
know, sir," says he, warmly, "hat that, instead of a sum-
mons from lh'aron, it may ho a t'eiut of another iiwtrnmont:
ropri-sonting in alluring colonm to ino tho show ot' t'elioity as
a dolivoranoo, which may in itsolt' ho my snare, and tond
directly to my ruin? How I am that from tho tom itation ot'
rotni'ning to my former misorahlo greatniss: thoro'l am not.
suro lint that all tho soods of pride, aniliition, avarico, and
luxury, which I know roniain in natnrr, may rovivo and who
root, and, in a Word.agani ororwhelm luv; and thou the happv
prisoner, whom you sm now master ot' his soul's liberty, shall
ho tho misorahlo slave of his own sonses, in tho t'nll enjoyuiont
of all poisonal lila-rty. lh-ar sir, lot mo remain in this
lili-ssod routinomont, lianishcd from tho crimes of mo, rather
than purchase a show of t'reodoni at tho oxponso of tho liliorty
of my reason, and of tho t'nttn'o happiiam, which I now haro
in my \'iow, hilt shall thou, 1 that; quickly loso sight of; for I
am but tlesh, a man, a more man ; hayo passions aml atl'ootions
as likoly to [assess aml overthrow lno as my man: oh l ho not
my t'riond and tompter both together."

If I was snrprisod liot'oro, l was quito dumh now, and stood
silent, looking at him, and indeod admiring what I saw. 'l'ho
strugglo in his soul was so grout, that, though tho \reatlu-r was
oxtremoly cold, it put him into a most \'iolont sWoat, and I
found ho wanted to giro ront to his mind; so 1 said a Word or
two, that I would loavo him to consider (if it, and Wait on him
again, and then I withdrow to my own apartmont.

About. two hours at'tor, l hoard somohody at. or noar tho door
of my room, and l was going to open tho door, but ho had
Ulllllt'tl it,and canw in. " My dear friend," says ho, " you had
almost ovorsotme, hutl am reooroml. Do not tako it ill thatl
do not oloso with your otl'or; l assuro you it is not for want of
sonso of tho liindnoss of it in you; and l canto to mako tho
most sincoro acknowlodgnient. of it to you; but 1 ho io 1 how
got the victory over inyselt'."----" My lord," said I, " l iopo you
am fully satisfied that you do not resist tho call of lh-aVon."-
"Sir," said ho, " it' it had lit-on from lleavon, tho sanio power
would hayo intluenced mo to havo accepted it; but 1 hopo. and
am fully sntistied, that it is from lleavon that. I declined it;
and l haro intinito satistiartion in tho putting, that you shall
leavo nio an honest man still, though not a freo man."

1 had nothing to do but to ucqttiesco, and mako professions
to him of my having no end in it but. a silicon: denim t0 sorvo
him. No omhracod mo Vol-y inimioiiately, and amurod mo ho
was sensible of that, and should always acknowlulgo it; and,
with that, ho otl'ei'od me a Very lino prosont ot' sahlos, too much,
indeed, for me to aceopt from a man in his circumstances, and
1 would havo avoided them, but he Would not bo refused.
The next morning i sent my servant to his lordship with a
small present of tea, and two pieces of China damask. and four
little wetlges ol' Japan gold, which did not all weigh above six
uttuwd, or thereahout, but were far short of the value of his
sablm, which, when i came to Enghuul,l found Worth near
2300!. He aoeo Ilvtl the tea, and one piece of the damask, and one
of the pieces ol gold, which had a line stamp upon it of the
Japan coinage, which [ found he took for the rarity of it, but
would not take any more; and he sent word by my servant,
that he desired to alieak with me.

When i came to him, he told me i knew what had paissued
between us, and hoped [would not move him any more in that
all'air; but that, since i had made such a generous oll'er to
him, he asked me, il' i had kindness enough to oll'er the same
to another lmrson that he Would name to me, in whom he had
a great share of concern. i told him that l could not say 1
inclined to do so much for any but himself, for whom I had a
particular value. and should have been glad to have been the
instrument of his delii'enuice; however, it' he would please to
name tho person to me, i would giVe him 111 answer. He
told me it was his only son; who, thou h 1 he not seen him,
Ivet ho was in the same condition with iimsell', and above two
iundred miles from him, on the other side the Oby : but that,
il' l consented, he would send for him.

1 made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made
some ceremony in letting him understand that it was wholly
on his account; and that, seeing I could not prevail on him,
I would show my respect to him, by my concern for his son;
but these things are too tedious to repeat hero. Ila sent away
the next day for his son; and, in about twenty days, he came
back with the messenger, bringing six or seven horses loaded
with very rich liars, and which, in the whole, amounted to a
very great value. His servants brought the horses into the
town, but left the young lord at a distance till night, when he
came incognito into our apartment, and his father presented
him to me; and, in short, we concerted the manner of our
traVclling, and everythin pro r for the journey).

I had bought a ccnsi anti: nantity of an ice, black fox
skins, line ermines, and such other furs as are vory rich, in
that cit , in exchange for some of the goods [ had brought
from (June; in particular for the cloves and nutmegs, of
which 1 sold the greatest part here, and the rest, afterwards, at
Archangel, for a much better price than 1 could have got at
Wilden; and my partner, who was sensible ol' the prolit, and
whose business. more particularly than mine, was merchandise,
was mi htily pleased with our stay, on account of the tram

we e here. '
CHAPTER LV ll.

DRI'AR'I'URR FRO! Wflllnl--WALI. 0AM\'Al\'----Tll8 NV" KAIA--aflnf llA'llul
--V.\8'I' DKSNRT--A floor 0? TllluVm-INLVUN'ITR--AND llKTRRAT~KMkdeg
[INSKOY ~VKCWIh--MWBKNMOT -- ARClIAHOKL--HAIDURGll-WNDUS--TIDE
KND.

IT was the beginning of June when 1 left this remote lee,
a cit y, l believe, little heard of in the world; and, indeed, it is
so far out of the road of commerce, that 1 know not how it
should he much talked of. We were now reduced to a ver
small caravan, having only thirty-two horses and exunels in all,
and all of them passed for mine, though my new guest was
proprietor of eleven of them: it was most natural, also, that

should take more servants with me than I had before; and
the young lord passed for any-steward: what great man 1
passed for myself, I know not, neither did it concern me to
inquire. We had here the worst and the largest desert to pain
over that we met with in our whole journey; I call it the
worst, because the way was \'er deep in some places, and very
uneven in others; the best we tad to say for it was, that We
thought we had no troops of 'l'artars, or robbers, a) fear, and
that they never came on this side the river Oby, or, at least,
but very seldom; but we found it otherwise.

My young lord had a faithful Siberian servant, who was
perfectly acquainted with the country, and led us by private
roads, so that we avoided comin into the princi )al towns and
cities upon the great road, suc as 'l'umen, Sooy Kamskoi,
and several others; because the Muscovitc rrisons which
are kept there are very curious and strict in t leir observation
upon travellers, and searching lest any of the banished persons
of note should make their escape that way into Muscovy; but,
by this means, as we were kept out of the cities, so our whole
journey was a desert, and we were obliged to 81100111!) and lie
in our tents, when we might have had very accommodation
in the cities on the way: this the young ord was so sensible
of, that he would not allow us to lie abroad when we canto to
several cities on the way, but lay abroad himself with his ser-
vant in the woods, and met as always at the apspinted places.

We were just entered Europe, having passed 0 river Kama,
which in these parts is the boundary between Euzoipe and
Asia, and the first city on the European side was call Soloy
Kamskoi, which is as much as to say, the great city on the
river Kama; and here we thought to see some evident altera-
tion in the people; but we were mistaken; for, as we had a
vast desert to pass, which is near seven hundred miles long inaemneon eaueon. 445

acme plaeea. but not above two hundml mile: M'et' where We
paused it. till we earue met that horrible hiaoe. we timed
very little liti'emnee lmtween that eeuutry and the Mogul
'l'urtary: the maple are men banana. ttllt little better than
the. savages Ameriea; their "mum! and towns t'ull ot' idols.
and their way of living wholly lairbamuaexoept in the eitiea, an
above, and the villages near them. where they are Chriatiana. an
they call themselves. oi' the Greek Ulmmh; but have their reli-
gion mingled with so many relics of aruwrotitiou. that it in manna
to be known in aeme places from more mreery and witeherat't.
in running this tenet. i thought, indeed. we numt (alter all
our dangers were to our imagination eeeaped. an mew) have
been plundered and rultltotl, and perhape murdered. by a temp
of thieves; of what eeuntrly they Were i am yet at a lean to
know, but the were alien iomhaekmarried how and arrow,
and were at trnt about flirty-tins in number; they came an
near to us as to he within two inueltet-ahola. and. uniting no
questions, eurrotunlml it. with their home. and limited Very
eurin-utly upon an twice: at length the placed themaelreu
just in our way; upon which we drew up n a little line before
our eamele, being not above aixteen men in all; am being
drawn up time. we halted, and sent out the Siberian oervant.
who attended hie lord. to nee who they were: hilt mailer was
the more willing to let him go, lmeauee he was not a little ap-
ireheneire that they Wow it Siberian troop aunt out after him.
il'ho man came up near them with a ling oi' truce nntleallod to
them; but though he a ioite normal of their lauguagea. er
dialects of languages rat or. he could not undeniand a word
they said: however,at'wr some eignu tobim not toeome nearer
to them at his peril, the fellow eame heel: no wiaer than he
went i only that by their dwelt, he aaid, he believed them tebe
some i'urtare ol' Kalmuek. or of tho Oirosmian harden, and that
there mnatbo more of them upon the great deeert, though he
never heard that any of thorn were eeen It) for north before.

About an hour after, the again made a motion to attack
as, and redo wear! our iitto wood to see where they might
break in; but lihdlngue always ready to face them. they Went
ell' again; and we rowlvodnot to stir for that night.

This was small comfort to on; however, we had no remedy:
there was on our left hand; at about a quarter of a mile die-
tauee, a little grove, and very near the road; 1 immediately
received we should advance to those trace, and fortify ourselvee
as well as we could there; for, ilret,l considered. that the trees
would, in a great 'meaeuro cover as from theirarrowa; and in
the nextpluee the 7 (mid, not come to ehargeuaitu bod .; it
was, indeed, my 0 ,, ortngueeo pilot who propoiedtltpan who
had this exeolieue ', attending him, that he was we a resilient
and most a tie, tree aggmnmumge us in .0 thermal:

dancer. e advance" immflitllolli Willi>> What rpm} i" could,
1'": . e
and gained that little wood; the Tax-tars, or thieves, for we
knew not what to call them, keeping their stand, and not
attempting to hinder us. When We came thither, we found, to
our great satisfaction, that it- was a swampy piece of ground,
and on the one side a verv great s )ring of water, which
running out in a little brook, was, a ittle farther, joined by
another of the like size: and was, in short, the source of the
considerable river called afterwards the \Virtska: the trees
which grew about this spring were not above two hundred, but
very large, and stood pretty thick, so that, as soon as we got.

. in, we saw ourselves perfectly safe from the enemy, unless
thev attacked us on foot. '

While we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy some
hours without perceiving they made any movement, our Portu-
Eese, with some help, out several arms of trees half oil, and

'd them hanging across from one tree to another, and in a
manner fenced us in. About two hours before night they came
down directly upon us: and though we had not perceived it,
we found they had been joined by some more of the same, so
that they were near fourscore horse; whereof, however, we
fancied some were Women. The 'camo on till they were within
half shot of our little wood, when we fired one musket without
ball, and <<died to them in the Russian ton e to know what
they wanted, and bade them kee ) on": but ey came on with
a double fury up to the wood~si e, not imagining we were so
barricadoed that they could not easily break m. Our old pilot
was our captain as Well as our engineer, and desired us not to
fire upon them till they came within dpifltol-shot, that we might
be sure to kill; and that, when we id tire, we should be sure
to take good aim; \ve bade him give the word of command,
which he delayed so long, that the wens some of them within
two pikes' length of us when we et fly. We aimed so true
that we killed fourteen of them, and wounded seVeral others,
as also several of their horses: for We had all of us loaded our
pieces with two or three bullets at least.

T12?v were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated
imm iately about one hundred rods from us, in which time
we loaded our pieces again, and seeing them keep that distance,
we sallied out, and catched four or five of their horses, whose
riders we supposed were killed : and coming up to the dead, We
judged they were Tar-tars, but knew not how they came to make
an excursion of such an unusual len th.

We slept little, you may be sure, ut spent the most part of
the night in strengthening our situation, and barricading the
entranoet'into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We
waited for daylight, and when it came, it gave us a very unwel-
come discovery, indeed; for the enemy, who, we thought, were
discos with the reception they met with, were now greatly
' and had set up eleven or twelve huts, or tents, as-- ' ~a:
* f "my".

aoarneon causes. 44?

if they won: reaolved to heeie no; and this little camp they
had pitched upon the open l ain, about three quarters of a
mile from as. We were, indeed enrpriml at this dieowery;
and now i eonl'esa l gave myae l' over for lost, and all that
1 had: the loan of my clients did not lie so near me, though
ver considerable, as the thought: ol' falling into the hands of
sum barbarians, at the latter end of my journey, alter to many
dillicultioe and hazards as l had gone thmugh, and oven in
sight of our port, whore We expected safety and delivm'auom
As to my \ttl'tllm', he was raging, and declaml. that to huge hie
goods won d be his ruin, and that he would rather die than he
starved; and he was for iighting'le the loot drop.

The young lord, a gallant youth, War; for lighting to the. lava.
also; and aw old pilot waa oi' the opinion we were ahie to
resist them all in the aituation we were their in; and than we
spent the day in dehatec ol' what We should do: hat towarda
evening we found that the nnmher ol' our enemies still in-
creiuied, and we did not know but hy tho morning they might
still he a router number; an l he tll in inquire ol' those
people we ad brought from 'i'ohola ti, if there were he pri-
vate ways by which we might avoid them in the night, and,
werhapa, retreat to snare town, or get help to guard as over the
ieaert. The Siberian, who was servant in the young lord
told as, if We designed to avoid them, and not light, he would
origami to carry an off in the night, to a way that went north,
towards the river l'etrou, by which he made no question but
we might getaway, and the 'l'arlara never the wiser: but he
said his lord had told him he would not retreat, hut Would
rather choose to light. i told him he mistook his lord: for
that he was too wine a man to love lighting for the sake of it
that i knew hia lord was hrave enough,hy what he had ahow ,
already; but that his lord knew hotter than in <<,leeire amen>>-
teen or eighteen mon'to light live hundred, unless an unmold-
able necessity forced them to it; and that, if he then ht it
mihle for us to escape in the night, we had nothing e on in
r 0 hot to attempt it. He answered ii' hid lordship gave him
ouch orders, he would lose hie life if he did not perform it:
we soon breu ht hie lord to give that order, thong privately,
and we immer iately prepared for the putting it in modem

And, iirat, as soon as it be an to be dark We k ndlod a lire
in our little camp, which we opt homing and prepared. so an
to make it burn all night, that tho Tartan! might conclude We
were still there : but an coon an it was d rlr, and We could see
the stars (for our guide Would not etir More), having all our
horses and camels ready lmulml, we followed our new guide,
who, I soon found, steered himaell' hy the north star.

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it be an to be
lighter still; not that it was dark all night, but t a moon
began to rise, to that, in ehort,it was rather lighter than we448 anvsxrunss or uomsox causox.

 

wished it to be; but by six o'clock the next morning we were
not above thirty miles, having almost spoiled our horses. ~
flew we found a Russian village, named Kermazinskoy, where

we rested, and heard nothing of the Kalmuck Tartan: that

day. About two hours before night we set out agiin, and
travelled till eight the next morning, though not quite so hard

as before; and about seven o'clock we passed a little river,

called Kirtza, and came to a good large town, inhabited by
Russians, called Uzoinoys: there we heard that several troops

of Kalmueks had been abroad upon the desert, but that we

were now completely out of danger of them, which was to our

great satisfaction. Here we'were obliged to get some fresh
horses ; and having need enough of rest, We stayed tivo days:

and my partner and I agreed to give the honest Siberian who
brought us thither t1; value of ten pistoles.

111 live days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river
Wirtzogda, and running into the 'DWina; we Were there very
happily near the end, of our travels by land, that river being
navigable, in seven days' pissage to Archangel. From whence
We 641an to Lawrenskoy the 3rd of July ; and providing our-
selves with two luggage-boats, and a barge for our own con-
venience, We embarked the 7th, and arrived all safe at Archangel
the 18th; having been a year, five months, and three days on
the journey, including our stay of eight months at 'l'obolski.
We stayed at this place six weeks, for the arrival of the ships ;
and must have tarried longer, had not an Hamburgher come in
above a month sooner than usual.

We then set sail from Archangel, the 20th of August, the
same year; and after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived
safe in the Elbe the 18th of September. Here my partner and
I found a very good sale for our goods, as well those of China,
as the sables, &c., of Siberia: and dividing the produce, my
share amounted to 3475!. 178. 3d. including about six hundred
pounds' worth of diamonds, which I had purchased at Bengal.

Here the young lord took his leaVe of us, and went up the
Elbe in order to gem) the court of Vienna, where he resolved
to seek protection, and could corres nd with those of his
father's friends who were left alive. e did not part without
testimonies of gratitude for the serviceI had done him, and
the sense of my kindness to the prince his father.

To conclude, having stayed near four months in llamlmrgh, l

l came from thence, by land, to the Hague, where l embarked in
l the packet, and arrived in London the 10th of January, 1705;
L: havmg been absent from England ten years and nine months.
.; And here I I'CSUchd to prepare for a longer journey than all
in these, having lived a life of infinite variety seventy-two years.

(40300]: P813780 l! W. cwwfi A" '03.. STAINRD "If".
._ g, .