...___.' -d>>. -~...,,.~.__'__..--._. -._--..___

'1' 1111 S 0 E . . 1051214.

 

'L'mbinsmn Culsne's C alaldztrlie every

(Lay (r111 anotch 311 Lhis Post .
[m.l/p 72.

,.<<".';n/I2r.7u'./ .'uin'.' L1. 7.81/5? .Z'Hm 7;: ("nrnaruy'A'fLRHI/J. )TH E

ADVENTURES

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

NEW AND IMPROVED EDITION,

INTERSPERSED

WITH REFLECTIONS,
RELIGIOUS AND MORAL.

SECOND EDITION.

* ADORNED WITH ENGRAVINGS.

 

e ' LONDON:

PRINTED FOR J. HARRIS AND SON,
comma 0? ST. PAUL'S cndncu-<<mnn.

l

I

I 1821.H. Bryer, Printer,
Bridewell Hospital, London.PREFACE.

FEW prefatory observations can be neces-
sary on presenting to the Public 3. new edi-

tion of a work so generally known through-
out Europe as " T he Lg'fe and Adventures

of Robinson Crusoe." As it will be found,
however, that the present edition deviates,
in some degree from the plan adopted by

several respectable editors in this and other
countries, it would appear to be incumbent

on the Publishers to submit some brief re-
marks, concerning the character and inten-

tion of the undertaking.
It has been the constant endeavour of

the author of this abridgement to bring the
whole of the incidents and sentiments Within
the comprehension of youthful readers by a.
clear and simple, rather than _by a puerile
and familiar, manner. In pursuit of such
a design, the most leading circumstances
likely to amuse the fancy have been retained;
but chiefly those which combine Instruction
with Entertainment, and which most for-
cibly inculcate the great lesson for Which
this work is eminently calculated; namely,
that however severe the trials inflicted by
an extremity of adverse fortune, they may
be eventually surmounted, by the AID OF
RELIGION, AND THE EXERCISE OP PA-
TIENCE AND INDUSTRY.

The importance of adapting so grand a
lesson to the minds of the youthful, is not

likely to be denied; and the Publishers
anxiously hope that the execution is not

unworthy of the design, and will meet With
public approbation.TABLE OF CHAPTERS.

Page
Chap. 1. Robinson Crusoe gives an account of his
first errors........................ . l
Chap.II. The Shipwreck...... ..... .......... 19
Chap. Ill. Robinson Crusoe swims to the ship. . . . . '28
Chap. IV. Robinson Crusoe returns to the ship. He
constructs a fortified habitation on the island. . . . . 40
Chap. V. Industry of Robinson Crusoe. . . . . . . . . . . 46
Chap. VI. An Earthquake. Illness of Robinson
Crusoe................................... 55
Chap. VII. Recovery of Robinson Crusoe. He visits
difi'erentparts of the island... 63
Chap. VIII. Great labours bestowed by Robinson
Crusoe making a boat. He provides himself with
freshclothes.............. ....... '79
Chap. IX. Robinson Crusoe succeeds in launching
his boat, and determines to sail round hisisland. . . 86
Chap. X. Robinson Crusoe returns to his cave, and
resumes his work. His dog dies. He sees the print
of afoot on the sand, and finds the remains of a
cannibalfeast...................... ........ . 9!

Chap. XI. Robinson Crusoe attacks the cannibals

and delivers one of their victims. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . 102

Chap. XII. Robinson Crusoe'gives the name of Fri-
day to the savage whom be rescued, and whnviii

learns to assist him in his labours. New compa.
nions in misfortune.... .... .. ............ .. .115

Chap. XIII. Arrival of an European ship, the crew
of which had mutinied.. . .. .. .... .... . . . . . . . . 13!>>
Chap. XIV. Robinson Crusoe assists the captain in
recovering his ship, and embarks for Europe. . . . . . 148

(3113;). XV. Robinson Crusoe arrives in England.
Alce'ing wit}! hiSfathero O. O. O I. C O .0 0 O O O O I. O .0. 17:5ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

CHAP. I.

ROBINSON CRUSOE GIVES AN ACCOUNT
OF HIS FIRST ERRORS.

THE sun was descending towards the hori-
zon, and shed With magnificence its depart-
ing rays over the great waters Which bathe
the coast of America. The heat had been
excessive throughout the middle of the day,
but it was now tempered by a gentle breeze,
which carried rapidly over the waves a ves-
sel on a voyage from San-Salvador, a sea-
port of Brazil, to the coast of Guinea in
Africa, for the purpose of carrying on the
slave trade. This vessel, which was laden
B
with iron-ware, mounted six cannon. The

crew consisted of fourteen men, including
the captain, his son, and the supercargo, or
person appointed to superintend the inte-
rests of those at whose expense the vessel

had been fitted out. This person was named
Robinson Crusoe. He was seated on the
deck, and appeared absorbed in profound

and melancholy reflection. The captain,
having a few moments' leisure, sat down

beside him. " Well, Mr. Englishman,"
said he, (for thus the Portuguese composing
the ship's crew always addressed Robinson
Crusoe, who was a native of England),
" well, what think you of our voyage? Has
it not commenced in a way that may induce
us to hope for a favorable result? We have
been twelve days at sea, and have not yet
experienced a single accident." " But,"
replied Robinson Crusoe, " one moment of
misfortune may bury in oblivion whole years
of prosperity." " Oh, oh!" said the Por-
tuguese, " your thoughts are gloomy to-
day." " It is because this day revives Sad
recollections in my mind." " How so "I" " ItROBINSON CRUSOE. 3

was this day seven years . . . yes, seven years
ago this very day, when, by the vilest in-
gratitude, I abandoned the best of fathers,
and the fondest of mothers." " So much
the worse, Mr. Robinson; such recollections
are not very pleasant at sea. But you are a
young man, you may again return to your
native country; your parents are perhaps
still living; you may obtain their forgive-
ness, and be happy yet . . . come, come, think
no more about it." " I would willingly fol-
low your advice," replied Robinson Crusoe,
" but since I pass the whole year Without
ever thinking on my faults, it is but just
that I should devote at least one day to re-
pentance . . .and I know not how it is, but
the affliction Which weighs upon my mind,
is to-day more insupportable than ever: it
appears as though some terrible misfortune
was hanging over me." " It is merely regret
that disturbs you thus," said the captain;
" but take courage, and hope for the best:
your father will forgive you."---" Alas !" re-
plied Robinson Crusoe, " I do not doubt
the goodness of his heart, I have experi-
enced a thousand proofs of it; I am well
convinced, that should I ever enjoy the hap-
piness of seeing him again, he will fondly
press me to his bosom; but, though he
should utter the words, ' I forgive you 1' can
I ever forgive myself for the injury I have
done him, for the sorrow with which I have
embittered his old age, and the tears which
my conduct has forced from him? If I had
had any reason for quitting the home where
so much tenderness was bestowed on my
infancy! but far from it: Iwas too kindly
treated, and at length became weary of per-
fect happiness: such is the dissatisfied na-
ture of man! . . .

" I was born in the city of York, in Eng-
land. My father, after having made a
handsome fortune in trade, retired to a beau-
tiful country--house, to spend the latter part
of his life free from care and trouble. He
was then about the age of fifty, and might

reasonably hope to see many happy years.
I was his only child, and in me all his dearest
affections were centred. If he congratu-

lated himself on the thought of possessing
a handsome competency, it was more for
my sake than his own. ' Robinson,' he said,
' if you are wise, you may be the happiest
of men; you possess every thing that can
render you comfortable, and your situation
in life will not be so elevated as to excite
envy.'

" Alas! he spoke to a person who was un-
worthy to enjoy the happiness he had pre-
pared for him. From the very moment when
my understanding first began to unfold it-
self I was tormented by a restless spirit and

a thirst for novelty ; the desire of going to
sea and visiting distant countries, was my

ruling passion. I even ventured to disclose
my wishes; but the first words I uttered
spread consternation through my family. I
beheld the tears of my mother. That alone
might for ever have closed my mouth on the
subject; but I returned to it'repeatedly, re-
gardless of wounding the heart of the best
of' parents. My father, who had at first
threatened me with his displeasure, now en-
deavoured by reasoning to overcome the
silly wishes that had entered my mind: he
B (3
drew a flattering picture of the situation in
which Providence had placed me, and as-
sured me that whatever country I might vi--
sit, or whatever degree of fortune I might
enjoy, I should never find the happiness I
was about to forsake. ' And what would

you seek in distant countries?' pursued he;
' do you imagine you will find more tran--
quillity there than in this house, or meet
with more tenderness than in the society of
your mother? Leave adventurers to seek
their fortunes, my son, and enj oy that which
Heaven has enabled me to bequeath to you.
Your imagination torments you, or rather
you are weary of a life of idleness. Well!
seek for occupation; enter into business.
. Though you do not need the assistance of your
country, your country needs yours. Let others
serve her for interest; you may serve her for
honour; itisyour duty to do so. Isaynothing
of your mother and myself; but, my son, do
you imagine that we can separate from you

without regret? Have you reflected on the
sorrow we shall experience when you forsake
us 1' We shall be alone, abandoned ; and
shall die when you are not near to close our
eyes. But whatever distress you may occa-
sion us, we can never cease to pray for you :

yet Heaven may not bless you as we could
wish; you may, perhaps, become a prey to
remorse for having despised our counsel;
and if you be doomed never to see us more,

the recollection of your imprudent conduct
will pursue you wheresoever you go, and
will prove the torment of your old age.'

" Such were the words which my father

addressed to me. I was deeply moved; the

tears fell from my eyes; my parents hoped
that I had abandoned my error, and for a
short time I sincerely relinquished all inten-
tion of going abroad. But the chimeras
which I had so long cherished in my mind,
by degrees revived, and ruled me as power-
fully as before. I rejected every proposal
that was made to me respecting the choice
of aprofession; I listened With ill-humour
to the prudent advice which was given to
me, and threatened to quit home without
the consent of my father. My heart became
hardened, and I even regarded the affliction
of my mother with indifference.

" However, it would probably have been
a long time ere I should have attempted to
put my design into execution, had not an
opportunity unexpectedly presented itself.
One day when I chanced to be at Hull,
whither I had gone without any bad inten-
tion, I met one of my companions who was
on the point of departing for London by
sea, on board his father's vessel. He in--
vited me to accompany him, and the better
to persuade me, he employed the usual a1--
lurement of seamen, observing that my pas-
sage would cost me nothing. I then re--
solved to consult neither father nor mother;
I did not even take the trouble of writing a
letter to inform them of my departure. In

a transport ofjoy I went on board the vessel,
and as we departed from the shore I fancied

I had attained the summit of my wishes.
That day, the most fatal of my life, was the
1st of September, 1651. As I before ob-

served to you it was this day seven years.
I was then just twenty.
" But I had soon cause to repent of my
folly: a violent storm arose during the pas-
sage, and made us all despair of our lives;
to me it appeared a punishment of Heaven,
and filled me with a strong desire to return
home on the very first opportunity. Unfor-
tunately, those sentiments vanished with
the storm. On my arrival in London, I
wandered about the town without knowing
what to do with myself: very little would
have prevailed on me to return to my pa-
rents, as very little did actually induce me
to sail for the coast of Africa. This irreso-
lution arose not so much from the desire of
travelling, Which had formerly harassed my
mind, as the shame I should have endured
on again seeing my friends and acquaint-
ances. I fancied I should be pointed at on
my return home, and that no one would ever
speak to me without a reproach.

" \Vhilst I was deliberating with myself

as to what course I should adopt, I learnt
that a vessel was on the point of sailing for

the coast of Guinea. The persons to whom
I spoke concerning this voyage, described
it in the most agreeable point of view, and
assured me that I might make a fortune in

that. part of the world, with the greatest ease
imaginable. Another circumstance contri-
buted still more to fix my determination: I .
became acquainted with the captain of the
vessel, and quickly found that he was an
honest and generous-hearted man. I placed
myself without hesitation under his gui-
dance. He gave me excellent advice, which
I had the good sense to follow: I embarked,
on a venture, a sum of money, which
though trifling was soon augmented through
the probity and disinterestedness of the cap-
tain. He informed me what goods it would
be advisable to carry out, and how to dis-
pose of them to the best advantage. Every
thing succeeded to my wishes, and on my
return from Africa I found myself possessed
of the sum of three hundred pounds. This
success induced me to venture on plans
which I was totally unable to execute, and
at length brought about my ruin. Instead
of repairing home to solicit my father's for-
giveness, I once again embarked for Gui-
nea, in the hope of making a rapid fortune,
and afterwards returning to my native coun-
try with what I considered greater honour.
But Heaven punished my ambition which

made me forget every sentiment of nature.
Our voyage this time was extremely unfa-

vorable, and as we were sailing between the
Canary Islands and the coast of Africa, we
were overtaken by a Turkish corsair of Sal--

lee much more powerful than ourselves,
who after an obstinate engagement captured

our vessel and reduced us to slavery.

" I fell to the share of the Turkish cap-
tain, who carried me to Sallee, a sea-port
belonging to the Moors. My condition in
captivity was not so distressing as I had
imagined it would be, for my master was a
most humane man. He took me to his
country house, which was on the seashore,
and entrusted me with the cultivation of his
garden. I occasionally went out to fish
with him or some of his domestics. This
latter occupation very much pleased me,
particularly as it afforded me the hope of
regaining my freedom. For such an enter-
prize the greatest courage was of course re-
quisite, but in that respect I was by no means
deficient; and besides, I thought it would
be quite as well to die as to live in a state
of slavery. For two whole years I anxiously
watched for the favorable opportunity
which might restore me to my natural free-
dom : it at length presented itself, and I did

not fail to embrace it.
" My master with three or four of his

friends one day intended to go out on a fish-
ing excursion, and he directed me to deposit
in the boat an abundant supply of provi-
sions, together with several guns, as they
wished to amuse themselves by shooting
birds as well as fishing. I obeyed his orders,
and placed every thing in readiness. At
the appointed hour, however, he sent to in-
form me that he could not go; but as his

friends had promised to dine with him and
they should want fish at table, he intended

to send me, accompanied by a man and a

boy to fish along the coast.
" This circumstance made an extraordi-
nary impression upon me. I fancied my'
J-

l' R 1" S 0f

l'usuv ('xv :1 mi 110' 111ml 5

 

LHPC.

I
Q

P

V

ALL);)|HS()|1(

l"I.l/l. 14.3.
chains were already broken. My determi-
nation was instantly fixed, and I began to
make arrangements for the grand enterprize
Which I had so long meditated. Ihastily
conveyed an additional quantity of bread
and biscuits into the little cabin of the boat,
not forgetting, at the same time to augment
the supply of powder and shot.

" I had no sooner done this than the man
and the boy arrived. We untied the boat
and rowed off from the shore. My heart beat
violently at the very thought of the project
Iwas about to attempt. But Heaven was
pleased to assist me: a thick fog arose
which rendered it totally impossible for
those on shore to discern what was taking

place at a certain distance out at sea.
" Having reached the spot where We in-
tended to fish, I seized the opportunity when

I observed my companion standing on the

edge of the boat, to plunge him suddenly

overboard. He immediately rose above wa-

ter, for he was an excellent swimmer; he

called upon me and entreated that I would

take him into the boat, vowing to follow me
c
from one corner of the world to the other,
if I would only save his life. \Vithout
heeding his supplioations, I took up a gun,
pointed it at him, and addressed him in the
following way: ' Hark ye, my friend, Ihave
done you no harm, and intend to do you
none, if you only promise to be quiet. You
can swim ashore very well if you please;
the sea is calm, make the best of your way
to the coast, and let us part on good terms;
but if you venture to approach the boat, I
swear to discharge this musket at your head,
for I am resolved 0n obtaining my liberty.'
He was probably intimidated by the reso-
lute tone in which I spoke, for he immedi-

ately turned and swam tovards the shore,
which he reached in safety.

" The little boy, who was greatly terri-
fied, threw himself at my feet and entreated
that I would spare his life: he doubtless
supposed I intended to kill him. I assured
him of the contrary and promised to treat
him with kindness if he would second me.

He swore by Mahomet that he would do
whatever I might command.f\ r
ROBINSON CRL'SOE. 10

" As I was well aware that the Moors
would pursue me towards the coast of Spain,
I took a contrary course, by proceeding to
the south along the coast of Barbary. In
this direction I could only meet with regions
either entirely desert or inhabited by sa-
vages; butI entertained far less horror of
wild and ferocious beasts than of falling
into the hands of the Moors, who shew no
mercy towards their slaves who have escaped
from captivity.

" I shall not attempt to describe all I suf-
fered during upwards of twenty days which
I spent in sailing along the African coast,
I frequently went ashore to kill such ani-
mals as might serve for our support. At
length, as we were passing between Cape
Verd and the islands which bear its name,
we came within sight of a Portuguese ves-
sel, the crew of which immediately sent out

a boat to our assistance. The captain re-
ceived us with the utmost kindness and was

greatly astonished on hearing the account
of my adventures. I offered him all I pos-
sessed, namely my boat and its contents,
which was in truth no contemptible present.
He thanked me, and observed that he should

for ever reproach himself if he had saved
my life only to plunge me into a state of
misery worse than the situation from Which
I had escaped. ' I Will take charge of your
proPerty,' said he, ' and will conduct you to
Brazil, whither we are now proceeding; but
on our arrival there every thing shall be re-
stored to you With the most scrupulous fide-
lity. 'I will treat you as I should myself
wish to be treated under similar circum-
stances. This is merely fulfilling the com-

mand of God, and it is a duty Which I per-
form with pleasure.'

" He kept his promise. At Brazil all my
property was restored to me, and the cap-
tain advised me to sell my boat and return
to England. I adopted only one half of this
good advice; I disposed of my boat, and
with the money, joined to some other ar-
ticles in my possession, I purchased a piece
of land to form a plantation, in the hope
that fortune would smile on me as she had
smiled on others. This would have been a.
prudent speculation for a man who had no
other resource; but what need had I to la-
bour for a fortune in Brazil, when I might
tranquilly have enjoyed one in my native
country? But I was resolved not to return
without wealth, that I might have to endure
the less reproach for having followed my own
inclination. So far from entertaining a
thought of returning to England, I availed
myself of a favorable opportunity of trans-
ferring to Brazil the funds which I had left
in London when I sailed on my second

voyage to Africa.

" This money, joined to the mostinde-
fatigable industry, speedily rendered my
plantation profitable; during the four years
I have spent in Brazil my original stock is
quadrupled. But I am still unsatisfied; I
wish to incur fresh hazards which may per-
haps hasten the moment when I can retum
with affluence to my family and friends. I
recollect that I was very successful on my
first voyage to Africa; why may I not be so
again? I am tired of a planter's life, and

am more than ever anxious to return to my
c 3
country. I am perhaps to blame in this
new enterprise, some secret voice seems to
whisper that I am--but what can I do?
though I have already reaped considerable
profits, yet it would require four years
more to realize the sum which I wish to lay
at the feet of my father; and four years ap-
pear like four centuries: I have not patience
to wait for their termination."

" ' \Vell, well, Mr. Crusoe,' said the cap-
tain, ' take courage and all may yet be well:
in one year at sea you may gain twice as
much as in the four years Which it would be

necessary for you to spend on shore.' "

" Heaven grant it may be so, captain; it
is not interest that induces me to offer up
this prayer, but the wish of enjoying tran-
quillity of mind in the society of my parents.
I am convinced that I can never be happy
until I hear my father say: ' I forgive you
for all the sorrow you have occasioned us.' "
CHAP. II.
THE SHIPWRECK.

WHILST Robinson Crusoe and the Cap-
tain were thus conversing together, the sun
disappeared behind some thick clouds,

which it tinged with glowing red; night
began to oversPread the ocean, and the
wind blew with greater violence than be-

fore. The Captain quitted the deck to pro-
ceed to his occupation, and Robinson Cru-

soe retired to his cabin, where he threw
himself on his hammock overcome by the

sad recollections that crowded on his mind.

He at length fell asleep, and for a short
time forgot his sorrows; but he was sudden-

ly roused by the noise of the ship's crew, the
wind whistling among the sails, and the waves
dashing against the sides of the vessel.
He hastened to ascend the deck. A hurri-
cane had arisen during the night, and raged
with such violence that there was every rea-
son to dread it would be attended by some
fatal result. The storm was far from abating
with the return of daylight; and the seamen,
who were accustomed to the climate, plainly
foresaw that. the danger would not speedily
cease. For the space of twelve days the ship
was driven about in every direction, a prey
to the fury of' the winds 5 and the crew, in a
continual state of apprehension, expected
that. every day would be their last. Three
men perished during the storm : two fell
overboard, and the third died of an inflam-
matory fever. The vessel, from the effects
of the tempest, leaked in such a way as to
he completely unfit. for the long voyage
which had at, first. been proposed. The dan-
ger augmented every moment.

At the conclusion of the twelfth day, how-
ever, the Wind somewhat abated, and the
captain took advantage of that moment of
respite to ascertain the latitude and discover
the situation of the vessel. He held a con-
sultation with Robinson Crusoe, and they
both agreed as to the impossibility of pro-
ceeding flirther; they accordingly resolved
to direct their course towards Bal'badoes, or
some of the islands in the possession of the
English, in the hope of obtaining assistance.
But even this was impracticable : a second
tempest arose as violent as the former one,
and the ship was driven so far out of the way
of all human commerce, that even had the
crew escaped the fury of the waves, they
would have incurred a far greater risk of be-
ing devoured by savages than of finding
means to return to their country.

In this dreadful extremity the wind still
raged with violence ; but day had no sooner
dawned than one of the seamen was heard
to exclaim " land! land!" At these joyful
words every one hurried on deck to gain a
sight of the happy country for which they
had so devoutly prayed ; but in one moment
the vessel struck against a sandbank, and
her motion was completely stopped. The
seabroke over her with suchimpetuosity that
immediate destruction was looked for. The
seamen, filled with despair, were driven into
their close quarters to shelter themselves from
the fury of the sea. It was scarcely to be
hoped thatthe ship could remain in that situ-
ation, even for a few moments, without going
to pieces, if a calm did not arise by a sort of
miracle. All remained motionless, every in-
stant expecting death, and preparing for
another world.

Contrary to all expectation, the vessel
remained in this situation for some time with-
out breaking, and the captain, with a view
to encourage the seamen, declared that the
storm was subsiding. But even allowing it
had entirely abated, all hope seemed lost;
for the vessel stuck so fast in the sand that
it was impossible to get her out.

The first moment of terror having passed
away, the crew began to reflect on the means
of escaping, at. least from death, and of seek-
ing refuge in the land which lay before them.
But this was a hazardous attempt, for the
longboat which had been towed to the vessel,
was lost, and the cutter appeared too small
to encounter the fury of the waves : it was,
however, the last resource; and this resource
was the more urgent, as the vessel threaten-
ed every moment to go to pieces ; indeed
some declared that it had already broken.

The pilot, with the assistance of some of
the seamen, speedily got out the cutter.
Eleven men all that now remained of the
crew, joyfully leapt into it. They offered up
a prayer to Heaven and then resigned them-
selves to the mercy of the ocean. Though
the storm had, in reality, considerably abated ,
yet the sea rose to a dreadful height, and it
appeared certain that the frail cutter must
either be dashed to pieces on the rocks, or
sink beneath the furious waves. The wind
raged With such violence, that to guide the
boat was impossible. In spite of all the ef-
forts of the unfortunate men, they were driven
along at the mercy of the tempest, and they
pictured death in every wave that rose above
them. Pale, bewildered, unable to commu-
nicate with each other, they alternately in-
voked the mercy of Heaven, and uttered the
exclamations which terror forced from them.
Their danger was even increased by their to-
tal ignorance of the situation of the boat
with respect to the coast, which they were
endeavouring to reach : they besides knew
not Whether itwas low or high, rock or sand;
whether the refuge they sought might not
prove as dangerous as the storms of the

ocean, or finally, Whether it was entirely
desert, orinhabited by savages or wild beasts.
\Vhatever might ensue, their destruction in
some way or other seemed inevitable.
Finally, after rowing, or rather being
driven along, for the space of a league and
a half, a wave like a mountain came rolling
along, and falling with a frightfulnoise, swal-
lowed up the boat and all Within it : the unfor-
tunate crew immediately disappeared beneath
the enormous mass, scarcely having sufficient
time to recommend themselves to Heaven.
It were useless to attempt a description of
this moment of horror: it was a picture which
surpasses imagination. One man alone sur-
vived the dreadful catastrophe : that man

was Robinson Crusoe. After being carried
along with a degree of violence Which de-

prived him of sensibility, he found himself
cast on the shore though almost in a lifeless

state; animated by this prospect and the impe-
rious desire of self preservation,which so for-

cibly appeals to every heart, he made an effort,
rose, and endeavoured to advance further on
the land, before the waves should again over-

whelm him. But this seemed nextto impos-
sible; for on looking behind him, he beheld
another wave as furious as the former, on the
point of breaking over his head. All he
could do was to hold in his breath, to endea-
vour to rise to the surface of the water, and
to float towards the shore, for there was
every reason to fear that the wave would
once more wash him into the middle of the

sea. Whilst he was thus deliberating on the

means of escaping death, he was over-
whelmed by a mass of water between twenty
and thirty feet in height, which carried him
with violence towards the shore. He held in
his breath to avoid being drowned ; but had

this constraint lasted for any length of time
he would probably have been suffocated.

Fortunately he had power to raise his head
above the water, which afforded him time to
draw breath and to recover his strength. A

moment after he was again hurried beneath
the water; but finding that the wave had

broken, he made an effort to dart forward,

and joyfully felt the ground beneath his feet.
D26 ADV 12x '1' U 11,55 01:

He remained for some moments motion--
less to recover his breath, and to wait until
the water should flow back again. He then
rushed fbrward and ran towards the shore
with all the swiftness of Which he was capa-
ble. But this was not sufficient to rescue
him from the fury of the sea which was; once
more en ti e point of overwhelming him ; it
rose and carried him forward with the same
violence as before, the shore being very flat.

This last misfortune had well nigh proved
fatal to poor Robinson Crusoe, for he was
dashed against a rock With so much Violence
that he became insensible and was unable to
make any motion to save himself : he re--
ceived a severe blow on his breast which for
some time deprived him of respiration. On
recovering, he heard the waves recede with
their accustomed roaring noise : the first
thing he did was to grapple with all his
strength to catch a firm hold of the rock
against which he had been thrown. The
waves were not so high as at first, for he was
now near land, and he never quitted his
hold until they had passed and repassed over_._ .
w ..
m. A
r...
m...

{V on tho z'nvk .

l
I
0

"V

a
l

(m Crux (w (' :18 1

K(Sl vi :1 s

l" ((1,325
him. Hemade another spring which brought
him so close to the shore, that though the
waves still covered him they had not suf-
ficient power to carry him off his feet. Fi-
nally only one more eflbrt was necessary to
release him from his dreadful situation : his
feet touched the shore and he ascended a
little rising ground, where he fell prostrate,
overcome by fatigue and exhaustion, for he
had no longer reason to dread the fury ofthe
waves. He was saved, and preserved from
a death Which appeared inevitable. His ex-
traordinary deliverance filled his heart with
transports, which in some measure contri-

buted to restore his strength. He fell on his
knees, and with uplifted hands, returned
thanks to Heaven for the happiness of being

still permitted to enjoy life.
CHAP. III.

ROBINSON CRUSOE SVVIMS TO THE SHIP.

HAVING relieved his heart by this effu-

sion of gratitude, Robinson Crusoe rose to
look around him. He wandered along the
seashore reflecting on the fate of his unfor-

tunate comrades who had all perished be-

neath the waves. He cast his eyes towards
the spot where the vessel had been wrecked;
but the sea was so furious, and the sand-
bank at so great a distance from the shore,
that it was impossible to distinguish any-
thing.

However, as he entertained no hope of
deriving assistance from the ship, he began
to take a view of the coast, and found to
his sorrow that it was a Wild and barren
country, which had apparently never before
been trodden by any human foot; all seem-
ed to announce a desert land. The joy he
had at first experienced was now entirely at
an end; and he beheld all the horrors of
his situation. He had no dry clothes to
substitute for his wet ones, no food tn sa-
tisfy his hunger, nor a drOp of water to allay

the thirst with which he was overcome : he
was even without arms to defend himself or

to procure food; and he could therefore ex-
pect only to die of starvation or to become
the prey of some ferocious beast. A knife,
a pipe, and a little tobacco in a box, were
his only riches.

Meanwhile daylight began gradually to
disappear. This augmented the despair
of poor Robinson Crusoe, when he re-
flected that it is chiefly in the darkness
of night that wild beasts roam in quest of
prey.

He looked round him in vain for some
placeof concealment; he beheld 'none ex-
cept an old fir tree, the thick branches of
which seemed to promise him a refuge.
But as he was dying of thirst, he resolved
first of all to look out for some water, and
he soon had the good fortune to meet with
an excellent spring. Having drank heart-
ily of the water, he put alittle tobacco

D3
into his mouth; this was his only repast,
and it made him fully sensible 0f the

destitute situation of the man who is cut
ofi" from the society of his fellow crea-

tures. He then ascended the tree, and
having fixed on a place where the branches
were strong and closely interwoven, he
stretched himself out as well as he was able ;
and lest he might fall in his sleep, he tied
himself to the trunk of the tree, by means
of his belt which was tolerably long. His
extreme fatigue soon made him forget the
inconvenience of' his resting place, and he
slept soundly until he was awakened by the
chirping of a vast number of birds. The
sun had already risen above the horizon, the
sky was clear and the storm had dispersed.
He was very much astonished on observing
that in consequence of the rising of the tide,
the ship had been disengaged from the sand-
bank, and driven close to the rock before-
mentioned, against which he himself had
been dashed with so much violence. At this

he was overjoyed; he descended from the
tree, and hastened toward the shore, as
though he had expected to meet his unfor-
tunate companions. \Vhen he found him-

self so near the vessel, and reflected that
the crew might all have been preserved had

they remained on board, he found it imPOSC/
sible to restrain his tears. But in his situa-
tion, tears were of no avail, and he accord-

ingly began to deliberate on the means of
reaching the vessel. He waited until the

ebb of the tide, when he stript off his clothes,

plunged into the water, and in a few moments
swam t0 the ship. A rope which hung from
the helm assisted him in mounting the
deck. The first thing he did was to
search for food to satisfy his hunger; he
found the remains of the last meal which
he had shared with his unfortunate com-
panions, and he eat with the utmost avidity,
whilst at the same time he arranged his fu-
ture plans, for every moment was then valu-
able. He drank a little rum which he found
in the captain's cabin, which revived 'his
spirits and inspired him with fresh courage

to sustain his severe trials.
Having thus satisfied the demands of -
hunger, he began to inspect the ship, but
every object revived the recollection of his

ill-fated companions Who were now no more.
He called on them aloud, as though he

imagined they could hear him, whilst he
shed a. torrent of tears. " Oh! my friends,"
he exclaimed, " shall I never see you more?

I am for ever separated from the rest of my
fellow creatures! Ah! I should be happy

were I doomed to pass my days in the socie-
ty of the man I least loved !. . . . But I am
myself the sole cause of my misfortune; I
despised the wise counsels of my parents, I
brought affliction on their old age, and
Heaven now punishes me."

Only one living creature answered his com-
plaints; Faithful, the captain's dog, which
had been shut up at the beginning of the
storm, lest he should interrupt the seamen
in working of the ship. Faithful now an-

swered Robinson Crusoe by howling and
scratching at the door of the closet in which
he was confined. He ran to liberate the pri-

soner, and the poor animal rushed out and
loaded him with caresses. Crusoe could not.Lpllu'f' 13 .

'Wa

2r .'
/. pig"
PS91 '

\\EUR\

(1'

 

Robinson Crusoe on EUR119 Raft. ..

l' 4.46 '34 ?
_l'ul>/i.:hn/ Tn V.' 1. L478. 13y J_lel m. 1'. err :d'J'.' 1'.

'llllJ. ./_ )
forbear shedding tears, Faithful was a friend
whom Heaven had preserved for him; at
least he was not doomed to live in total so-
litude.

Whilst Faithful ran to devour the frag-
ments which remained on the table, Robin-
son Crusoe continued his search about the
vessel. He found that she was bulged and a
great deal of water in the hold, but as she
had been driven against a bank of hard sand,
her stern lay lifted up, and her head low to

the water. Her quarter was therefore per-

fectly free, and all the contents of that part
of the ship were dry.

Crusoe immediately set to work. On board
the vessel were several spare yards, one or

two tcp-masts, and two or three large Spars
of wood; of these he determined to form a
raft. For this purpose he threw overboard

all that wer'e'i'hot too heavy and could be tied
together with ropes. He then went down
the ship's side, tied together the largest
pieces of wood, and placed planks across
them, so that his raft, though rudely con-

structed, was capable of bearing a consider-
able weight Necessity urged him to exert
his. industry and coumoe; 1 ml in the spa ce
of an :hour 119. fi nislled mme uork than he
would have done in half a day on any ordi-
nary occasion.
\Vith respect to the articles which he Wish-
. ed to 0011' ex to his isl:11:1,he select ed the
most. use1u1 and not the most valuable. He
first tool; three sailors' trunks, which he
opened by forcing the locks, and having
emptied them he lowered them down on the
raft by a rope. The first he filled 11 1th pro-
visions, such as bread, lice, three Dutch
cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh, and
a small portion of corn that had been laid
aside for some fowls: the latter had how-
ever long since been killed. There was be-
sides a small quantity of barley and wheat
mixed together. He likewise found several
cases of bottles which had belonged to the
captain ; some were filled ' with cordial
water, and there were about twenty-four
bottles of arrack. He arranged them sepa--
ratelv, for it was not necessary nor even
prac1 icable to p12 ce them all 1n the trunk.
_ \Vhilst he was thus employed, he observ-
ed that the tide was beginning to flow, though
very gradually, and he soon had the mor--
tification of seeing his coat, waistcoat, and
shirt, which he left on the shore, floating
along the surface of the water. This acci-
dent led him to think of augmenting his
wardrobe, and he soon repaired his loss with
interest. He likewise wished to take some
tools forworking whenhe should go ashore ;
and after searching for some time he dis-
cevered the carpenter's chest. This was,
indeed, a treasure ; and a treasure far more
valuable to him than a ship laden with gold.
He hastily let it down along with the rest of
the trunks, and placed it on his raft without
taking time to examine it; for he was well
aware that every thing it contained would be
of the utmost value to him.

In addition to what he already possessed,
he' was anxious to obtain gunpowder and
arms. In the captain's cabin there were
two very good fowling-pieces, and a pair
of pistols ; he carried them away, together
with a few horns filled with powder, a little
bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. He
searched a long time for three barrels of
gunpowder which he knew were on board
the ship ; he at length discovered them, after

having ransacked every corner. The water
had penetrated into one of the barrels ; but
the other two were dry, and in good con-
dition: he immediately conveyed them to

to the raft, with the gun, and pistols. He

did not forget his new and only friend, poor
Faithful, and he gave him, as companions,

the two cats of the ship, whom he confined
in a cage, and who appeared to undertake
their new voyage with considerable reluc-
tance.

All being thus arranged, he began to
think on how he should regain the shore.
\Vithout either sail or rudder this was a
difficult undertaking, and a slight breeze
would have been sufficient to overset the
whole cargo. But the sea was calm; he
knew that the tide which was rising, would
carry him toward the shore, and the wind,
though gentle, was in his favor. He had the
good fortune to see his raft flout along smooth-
1y for the space 0sz mile. He however re-
marked, that it deviated a little from the
point atwhich he had previously landed, from

which he concluded that there must be an

indraught of the water, and that he might
possibly find some creek which would answer
the purpose of a port to land his treasures.
He was not mistaken in this conjecture : he
was carried along by the tide into a little
river, where he had well nigh been wrecked
a second time: one end of his raft run
aground in the sand, whilst the other con-

tinued to float, and thus his whole cargo
had nearly fallen into the water. Poor Ro-
binson Crusoe, almost reduced to desPair,
leant with all his force against the chests to
prevent them from sliding into the water;
but his strength was insufficient to extricate
the raft. He dared not even alter his position,
and he remained in the same attitude nearly
half an hour, in the hope that the rising of
the tide would bring him a little more upon
the level. At length the raft floated once
more, and Crusoe, with the assistance of an

old oar which he found in the cutter, arriv-
l3
ed, though with considerable difficulty, at
a little creek, where he resolved to waituntil
the ebbing 0f the tide should leave the raft
dry. He now, for the first time, found him--

self in secure possession of the treasures he
had conveyed from the vessel. In a trans-

port ofjoy he jumped ashore, and proceeded
to take a view of the country in search of an

habitation and some place of security to de-
posit his goods.
As yet he knew not whether he was on a

continent or an island, an inhabited country
or a desart, or whether he might not justly
dread becoming the prey of wild beasts.
About a mile from the spot Where he stood,
he observed a lofty and very steep mountain,

which appeared to rear its summit above
another chain of hills extending on the north.
He too]: up one of his guns and a pistol, and
followed by his dog, proceeded to ascend

the mountain. After considerable trouble

and fatigue, he at length reached the sum-
mit. He then became fully sensible of all
the horrors of his situation, fur he found that

he was on an island, surrounded on every
side by the sea, without the possibility of
discovering any other object than a few dis-

tant rocks, and two islands smaller than the
one on which he was, situated at a distance
of about three leagues to the west.

After this discovery, he mournfully re--
turned to his raft, and began to carry ashore

the articles which he had brought from the
ship. This occupied him during the remain-
der of the day, and when night set in, he
contrived to erect a sort of bedchamber, by

placing one above another, the boxes and

planks Which he had brought ashore. On

the following day he made a tent with the
sail which he had found on board the ship.
CHAP. IV.

ROBINSON CRUSOE RETURNS TO THE
SHIP: HE CONSTRUCTS A FORTIFIED
HABITATION ON THE ISLAND.

ROBINSON CRUSOE had been so success-
ful on his first voyage to the ship that he re-
solved to repeat his visit ; he brought away
various articles, such as sugar, spices, flour,
biscuits, powder, cables, nails, a few ma-
thematical instruments, two telescopes, se-
veral books, pens, paper, ink, and last of
all money, in gold and silver coin. Con-
sidering only his present situation, he was
once on the point of throwing it into the sea.
" V ile trash 1" he exclaimed, " how con-
temptible it nowappears to me ! it is scarcely
worth my while to st00p to pick it up I My
raft, once loaded, is to me a thousand times
more valuable than all the riches in the uni-
verse l" But he soon reflected that what he
had then despised might subsequently prove

useful, and he was right. They Who sacri-
fice every thing to the present moment with-
out ever bestowing a consideration on the
future, cannot hoPe to be happy at any pe-
riod of life. _

He was preparing for another visit to the
ship, when the sky became overcast, and the
wind began to blow as at the approach of a
storm. This deterred him from venturing on
the sea, besides the ship now contained no-
thing to excite his regret. He took shelter
beneath the tent which he had spread out at
a short distance from the shore. The storm
continued to rage with violence during the

whole of the night. On the following mom~
ing when Robinson Crusoe cast his eyes to-
wards the sea, he no longer saw any traces
of the ship : it had sunk to the bottom. This
was another moment of despair. Though

the ship could not serve to convey him to
England, yet the very sight of it afforded

consolation to our unfortunate exile. When
misfortune separates us from the land that

gave us birth, we become endeared to every

object that serves to remind us of it; there
is, as it were, a point of communication
which approximates distances, and unites us

153
in imagination with those who are happily
passing their days in the bosom of their na-
tive land.

But Robinson Crusoe was resigned to his
fate ; it was possible to be far more unfortu-
nate than he really was, for he possessed
enough of all the necessaries of life to last
him for a considerable time. He thanked
Heaven for not having punished his faults
with more severity, and he sought to amelio-
rate his condition by the means which Pro-
vidence had left within his reach.

He immediately formed the design of erect-
ing a habitation to protect him against
the attacks of savages and wild beasts ; one
can never be too prudent, and a wise man

provides against danger as well as want.
For these reasons Crusoe resolved not to fix

his abode beneath the little tent on the shore,
where the gro und was low, marshy, and con-

sequently unwholesome, and there was be-
sides a deficiency of fresh water. Yet he

did not wish to go any great distance from
the coast, but to keep within sight of the
sea, so that in case of any vessel appearing,
he might implore assistance by signals of
distress.

At length having carefully searched for a
considerable time, he met with a spot which
seemed likely to answer his purpose : it was a
little plain, situated at the foot of a high hill,
the front of which was as steep as the side
of a house. This plain was at one end about

a hundred yards wide, but it extended to
nearly double that width with a gentle de-

clivity in the direction of the sea, forming
a vast carpet of verdure, watered by a lim-
pid serpentine stream; the hill sheltered it
from the rays of the sun. On this con-
venient and delightful spot, Robinson Cru-
soe determined to fix his abode; this was

very natural, for the hill being extremely
steep on the side of the plain protected him

from all risk of an attack from the back of

his habitation. He had yet to secure him-

self against the approach of enemies from
the front and sides. Facing a cavity in the

side of the hill close to which he had Spread
out his tent, be fixed in a semicircle, ' a
double row of strong pointed stakes, about
six feet high, interwoven with branches ;
they were supported on the inside by another
row of firm stakes about two feet and a half
thick, so that neither man nor beast could
force a passage through them. It cost poor

Robinson Crusoe a vast deal of labour
and patience to shape the stakes and fix
them into the ground. He left 110 door or

aperture of any kind; but he entered his
fortifications by means of a small ladder,
which when he was in, he lifted over after
him.

In this little fortress, he enclosed his pro-
visions, gunpowder, arms, in a word all he
possessed. He deposited beneath his tent
such articles as were liable to be destroyed
by damp. His tent was double, and covered
over With tarred canvas, so that the rain could
not easily penetrate it. But he had besides,
another place of refuge. The reader has al-
ready been informed that he had spread out
his tent in front of a cavity which appeared
in the centre of the hill. This cavity, though
not very deep, somewhat resembled the en-
trance to a cave. Crusoe undertook, with
the assistance of the tools he had brought
from the ship, to enlarge this hollow so as to
convert it into a storehouse for such articles
as could not be deposited beneath his tent.

Time and patience enabled him to accomplish
his object. But a particular circumstance
contributed to accelerate his labourz--one
day during a severe storm, the lightnlng
seemed almost to have communicated with
his tent. Robinson Crusoe was less terrified
by the lightning than by a thought which
darted into his mind as swift as lightning it-
self. " Good Heaven I" said he, " all the

powder I brought from the ship is beneath
that tent. If the lightning should chance
to set it on fire in my absence, what would
become of me ? \Vithout my powder, how
can I defend myself? how can I provide for
my support when all my stock of provisions
is consumed ?" He then applied himself
with double industry to the completion of
his cave. The stone was soft and was there-

fore easily hewn out, and in a very short
time he formed several small apartments,
taking care to leave, in addition to the sup-
ports which served as parti tions, large masses
in the middle of every room to support the
weight of the vaults and roofs. He was
thus enabled to prevent the misfortune he
so much dreaded ; for he distributed his
powder in a number of separate bags, so
that if, by any unforeseen accident, one por-
tion had exploded, the rest would have re-
mained uninj ured.

+-

CHAP. V.

INDUSTRY OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

ROBINSON CRUSOE set the higher value
on his gunpowder, for he had on several oc-

casions experienced its utility. It would
certainly not have been prudent to have con-
sumed all the provisions Which he brought
from the vessel, before he thought of pro-

curing a fresh supply; consequently he had

frequently suspended the occupation in
which he was so busily engaged, to wage
war against the animals of his island. The
first he killed was a species of sparrowhawk,
the flesh of which was by no means agree-

able ; but he was soon compensated by
meeting with a she-goat and her kid ; their
flesh served to support him for a consider-
able time, and was a delicacy which in some
degree reconciled him to his solitude.

His situation was indeed a most hopeless
one; for previous to the wreck, the ship
had been driven by the violence of the storm,
far from the ordinary course of European
vessels, so that there appeared no proba-
bility of atermination of his exile. But even
in this forlorn state, he was not entirely be-

reft of consolation; others had been far
more unfortunate than he : " Well," he some-

times said, " my condition is indeed wretch-
ed ; but where are my shipmates ? eleven
of us got into the cutter in the hope of row-
ing ashore. I alone was saved: it is doubtless
better to be here than at the bottom of the
sea; it is right to view things on the good
as well as the bad side ; and the blessings I
enjoy should console me under the misfor-
tunes that afliict me." These reflections
were not a vague display of philosophy by
which Robinson Crusoe sought to impose
on himself ; he was really beginning to en-
joy content of mind. This was evident from
the regiilarity which then began to prevail
in his daily avocations ; for it is a most just
observation, that order in a house is the
surest sign of the contentment and tranqui-
lity of its occupants. He spent two or three
hours every morning in shooting, and then
worked until eleven. At noon, after having

dined, he lay down to rest for a couple of
hours in consequence of the heat of the cli-

mate, and he then resumed his work until
evening.
Having entirely finished his habitation, he

set about making different articles of furni-
ture. He began with such things he stood
most in need of. Those which he completed
firstwere a table and chair. He next employ-
ed himself in mounting a grinding-stone
which he had brought from the ship, and which
was indispensable for keeping his tools in
proper order. Scarcely a day elapsed on

which he did not form and execute some new
plan. He was not discouraged by difficulties ;
he tried the same thing twenty times before
he gave it up, and would begin it forty times
rather than do it badly ; unlike thoughtless
young persons, who, while studying the
sciences, or acquiring a profession amidst
all the comforts of life, are disheartened
by the slightest obstacle, and do things badly

for the sake of expedition.

The spirit of order essentially contributes
to our happiness, and Robinson Crusoe was
happy. He cheerfully went out in the morn-
ing to shoot, and returned with no less
satisfaction to his domestic labours; and
he was not Without agreeable amusements.
His dog lay at his feet and his parrotperched
on his shoulder ; for he had lately surprised
a parrot in its nest, and it was now his con-
stant-companion. Whilst he was at work,
he alternately conversed with his new friend
and received the caresses of Faithful, who
was gay or sad according as he saw his
master.

When evening approached, if he did not

feel inclined to lie down to rest, or if he had
F
any work to finish, he usuallylighted his
lamp. This lamp was likewise the produc--
tion of his own hands. It wasa little earthen
vase, which he had shaped as well as he
could, and afterwards dried in the sun. The
oil which burnt in it, was merely the fat of
the animals he had killed, and pieces of
ravelled rope served for the wick.

The ease with which he had made this
lamp, together with some other vessels
which he had never yet placed on the fire,
induced him to undertake a task of the same
kind but much more important, which cost
him a great deal more trouble. He was fond
of soup, and had tasted none since the ship-
wreck, for want of a pan to make it in; en-
couraged by his first success in pottery, he
resolved to attempt making a pan. The ves-
sel was speedily shaped, and to dry it in
the sun took but little time. Enjoying in
anticipation the excellent meals with which
he might thus regale himself, Robinson

Crusoe eagerly placed his pan on the fire,
having previously filled it With water, and

some portion of the flesh of a goat which
he had newly killed. But, alas! the unfor-
tunate pan did not long retain its situation:
it was no sooner heated by the action of the
fire, than it cracked and fell in two, and
the meat and soup were mingled with the
ashes. Robinson Crusoe reflected long on
this accident, before he devised the means
of preventing its recurrence. One day,
having kindled a large fire for cooking his
meat, he found, whilst he was stirring up
his wood in the fire, a piece of the same
pan, which had been baked as hard as a
stone and perfectly red. At sight of this,
a light seemed suddenly to break upon him:
" Certainly," said he, " my vessels may be
baked whole, when they can be so well
baked in separate pieces; but how shall I
proceed ?"----He had no idea of the kind of

oven used by potters, nor of the way in
which they varnish the earthen ware; he

however knew that the lead which he had
brought from the ship would be useful for
the purpose. He accordingly ventured to
place one of his newly made pans on a large
fire: the flames soon rose round it on every
side, and became entirely red. He trembled
lest. it should go to pieces, and on reflecting,
he thought this very likely to happen if he
suffered the fire to abate too suddenly: after
having kept it up for about five or six hours
at the same degree of violence, he re-
duced it by degrees, until the pan became
so cool that he could take it up in his hand;
he then put it to the trial. It succeeded
beyond his expectations, and in a few
hours furnished him with some excellent
soup. He was overjoyed, and as heartily
congratulated himself as though he had
completed the most exquisite piece of
workmanship in the world.

By degrees his situation became more
and more supportable. Scarcely a day
elapsed in Which he did not observe some
signal mark of the protection of Providence,
by leadinghim to discover some new source
of subsistence. He one day wanted some
bags for his gunpowder, and he shook at the
foot of the rock those Which he had brought
from the ship; they had been used for hold-
ing corn to feed the fowls. He was not a

little surprized, some time afterwards, to
find ears of barley, corn and rice, springing
up on the spot where he had shook the bags.
He forgot the pains he had taken to clean
them before he applied them to a new pur-

pose. Struck with this unforeseen event,
he regarded it as a miracle which Heaven
had wrought in his favor, and throwing
himself on his knees, he uttered transports
of gratitude towards the Deity. But when
he began to reflect on the circumstance, he
recollected the history of the bags, and
his pious gratitude to Heaven was soon at
an end ; for superstition borders closely on
impiety. He did not reflect that it was only
through the guidance of Providence, that
he had scattered the corn on a part of the
ground that was shaded, instead of a spot
dried up by the sun, and instead of return-
ing thanks to Heaven for the blessing be-
stowed on him, he thought only of turning
it to the best advantage.

He had, on the preceding evening, been
lamenting his scanty stOre of biscuits, and
the necessity to which he was reduced of

consuming only a very small portion daily
F 3
until the moment when his stock should be
completely exhausted; but now his pre-

sumption and his hopes were boundless.
Without considering that his expectations
might be frustrated by the ordinary occur-
rences of nature, instead of praying that
Heaven would be pleased to bring to matu-
rity the seed he intended to sow, he was
already calculating the vast fields of corn

of which he would become the possessor,
and the granaries it would be necessary to

erect for storing the new riches, which would

every year increase a hundred fold. It has
already been observed that Robinson Crusoe
was beginning to enjoy content of mind,
but the benign influence of religion had not
yet pervaded his heart. It is true he occa-.

sionally repeated the name of the Almighty
through mere habit, but he constantly at-
tributed every thing to himself ; and his ex-
traordinary success at length induced him to
believe that nothing was beyond his strength
and understanding. Butthe Sovereign of the
World severely punished this presumption,
which could only have arisen out of cone
tempt and neglect of his power; he prepared
for the ungrateful Robinson Crusoe a dread-

ful lesson, which for ever fixed him in the
path of duty.

__;..___
CHAP. VI.

AN EARTHQUAKE. ILLNESS 0F
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

THE construction of his dwelling, to-

gether with the skill and perseverance which
had been requisite to render it so extensive
and convenient had excited the guilty vanity
of Robinson Crusoe ; but Heaven thought

fit to make him sensible of his insignifi-

cance.

One day whilst he was at work at the
back of his tent, the earth suddenly came
tumbling down from the edge of the hill

over his head, and two of the pillars he had
formed within the cavern, to support the vault,

fell with a tremendous crash. Not knowing
the real cause of this dreadful commotion,
he supposed that part of the roof of the cave
had fallen in, which had happened on a for-
mer occasion. He was afraid of being
buried beneath the pieces of rock, and there-
fore made all possible haste to reach his
ladder. But he had no sooner crossed to
the other side of his fence, than he clearly
perceived that all the disorder was occasion--
ed by an earthquake. The earth three times
trembled beneath his feet, and the shocks
were so violent that the strongest buildings
must have been thrown down. A great
piece of the top of the rock fell with a noise
like thunder. Robinson Crusoe had never
before seen or heard of any thing to equal
it; he stood motionless with terror. But
his horror was increased when he beheld that
part of the hill fall, in which all his riches

were deposited. At that moment he knew
not whether a fresh shock might not have

taken place in the interior of his cavern;

and he dared not venture to approach it.
He was seated on the ground, dreading to
make the slightest motion, but ready to fly
in case of danger, and looking anxiously
round him on every side. The sky was
quickly overspread with thick clouds ; the
wind gradually rose, and in the space of
half an hour increased to a furious hurricane.

The sea was at the same time covered with
white foam, the waves inundated the shore,

trees were torn up by the roots; in a word
Robinson Crusoe witnessed all the horrors

of a dreadful tempest. A calm at length
succeeded, but it was accompanied by a
tremendous fall of rain; it poured in torrents.
He took refuge in his tent, for it was no
longer possible to brave the fury of the storm,

and there appeared no signs of a return of
the earthquake. But the rain soon pene-

trated the tent and he was compelled to seek
shelter in his cavern, though he every mo-
ment expected it to fall in upon him. There
he spent the remainder of the day and the
following night, aprey to anxiety and terror.

When the return of fair weather enabled

him to quit the cavern, he began to inspect

his habitation and enclosure. One part of
his cavern was nearly filled with the masses

of stone which had been loosened by the
earthquake, and his tent had narrowly es-
caped being thrown down by a tree Which
the torrent of rain had swept down from
the hill. All his hoPeS of reaping an abun--
dant harvest now vanished, for the corn,
rice, and barley he had sown were completely
washed into the sea.

He was deeply afflicted by the losses he
had sustained ; but he did not recognize the
hand that struck him, nor pray that the
wrath of Heaven might be averted. He no
sooner recovered from the stupor occasioned
by the fatal event, than he resumed his con-
fidence and presumption. "I have," said

he, " lost all the seed I had planted round

my fence ; but at the distangflbfa gunshot,
Ipossess an abundant crop, uninjured by
the storm. {t has even been benefited by

the vast torrent of rain. My tent has been

nearly destroyed, and my cavern filled With
rubbish : but these hands Which created all,
can likewise repair the damage and restore

every thing to order. If earthquakes render
this part of the island dangerous, I can fix
my abode in some other quarter, Where I
shall possess as much skill and strength as

I do here."

This arrogant language did not pass un-
punished. Robinson Crusoe had not long
reason to congratulate himself on the abun-

dant crop which he possessed at a gunshot
from his habitation: the animals of the

island in their search for food had devoured
every ear of corn.

As to his hands on which he so confiden-

tially relied for repairing the ravages of the
storm, and transporting his abode to some
more favorable situation, sickness soon de-
prived them of strength.

He had felt unwell for several days, but
he sought to persuade himself that his illness
was merely temporary, and would be at-
tended by no serious consequences. One
morning, however, he was seized with a vio-
lent fever, and was unable to rise the whole
of the day. He remained for several days
in a state of extreme debility, just having
sufficient power to call on Heaven for suc-
cour. The Almighty answered his prayers
by the following dream. He was just re-
covering from the first fit of fever, when he
fancied he was seated on the ground, on the
outside of his fence, on the very spot where
he had sat during the storm which succeed-
ed the earthquake. He thought he beheld
a man armed With a lance, descending in a
thick black cloud, surrounded by flame.
His figure was dazzling as the sun; his
maj estic and imposing countenance too awful
to be described. Robinson Crusoe made an
effort to rise; but he seemed rivetted t0 the
spot by some supernatural power. He be-
held the terrible phantom advance towards
him with the lance upraised, and in a voice
of thunder pronounced the following words :
"Since thou hast not been brought to re-
pentance by witnessing so many signs, thou
shalt die l" God is terrible and implacable
to those who forget his power ; at least it
is in this point of view that they ever regard
11i111.

He started up overcome with terror. When
he had in some measure recovered he began
to reflect on his dream in the 110pe of de-
stroying its fatalillusion: but his conscience_- --- g
'=
.--
2
1' A
2. I
---<<
g

.
:---.'

'2

f.

.ussmufi

mp:

 

Robinson Crusoe reading the Bible.
' pagr (it.

1111311.:11.21'JB:'."L1M.QV.LEzrrix. 12mm" of'J'fl'dllLr. ')
tormented him; he recollected all the bad
actions and evil sentiments which had drawn

down upon him the wrath of the Sovereign

Creator of the Universe; the contempt he

had manifested for his father's counsels;
the affliction in which he had plunged his
family for the sake of following his own
foolish fancies; the criminal enterprise in
which he had been engaged when he was
cast on the desert island; finally, his ingra-
titude for the multiplied blessings which
Providence had bestowed on him since his
shipwreck; and, overcome with remorse,
he exclaimed " Oh ! I have richly merited

all I suffer l"

In vain did he endeavour to set his mind
at ease and compose himself to rest ; where-

ever he turned, the dreadful phantom was

before him; on whatever object he endea-
voured to fix his thoughts, they constantly
returned to the errors of his life and his
terrible dream. Not knowing what to do,
in a transport of violent agitation, he seized
a book which he had placed on a chair near

his bed, for the purpose of raising his lamp ;
G
it proved to be a Bible; he Opened it and
with eager eyes glanced over several pages ;
but his attention was soon arrested by the
following words, which seemed to have been
placed there expressly for his consolation :
--" Call upon me in the day of trouble, and
" I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify
" me." These words reminded Robinsoh
Crusoe that. the God whom he had offended
was a merciful God; they relieved his at"
fliction and diffused around his heart an
indescribable sentiment which induced him

eagerly to continue reading the sacred vo-
lume. Everv line furnished him with some

consolatorv assurance 3 his countenance be-
came serene, and his eyes lost their wildness.
The sweet smile of hope soon played upon

his lips; he heaved a sigh and raised his
hands to Heaven. At that moment the

enormity of his errors was once more present
to his recollection; his blood boiled in his
veins, and his heart swelled With despair.

But the Holy Scripture had enabled him to
seek resources against himself. " Good

Lord!" he said, " have mercy on me; Thou
wilt not forsake me! Thou who hast par-
doned so many faults for the sake of the di-
vine Redeemer of Mankind !" He was so
weak that he could not continue kneeling;
he threw himself on his bed, addressing
fervent prayers to Heaven. Thus armed
with the shield of mercy he gradually fell
asleep. His repose was tranquil, a smile oc-
casionally brightened up his countenance,
and he gently whispered the words :----" Oh

P)

Lord have mercy on me ; do not forsake me .
.__C/-,___
CHAP. VII.

RECOVERY OF ROBINSON CRUSOE; I'IE
VISITS DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE
ISLAND.

ON the following day Robinson Crusoe

found himself considerably better; his fever
had greatly abated. The first thing he did

was to return thanks to God and to implore
his assistance: this contributed to relieve

his sufferings. Prayer is not merely the
most sacred of all duties, but it is the
sweetest pleasure and highest recreation to
those in whom it is the effect of enlightened
piety and not servile fear ; it leaves their
minds in a state of confidence and resigna-
tion,-and makes the cares of life weigh lightly
on them.

He was perfectly free of fever the whole
of the day; but being apprehensive of a re-
lapse he began to reflect on the means of
effectually removing it. He knew nothing
of pharmacy and was not provided with any
kind of medicine; but he recollected that
the people of Brazil in disorders of every
description scarcely ever employ any other
medicine than tobacco. Robinson Crusoe
had in his possession a roll of the Brazilian
tobacco; but how was it to be applied? he
immediately began to make experiments in
several different ways. He first put one of
the leaves into his mouth ; he then steeped
a leaf in some rum and took a dose of it be-
fore he lay down to rest; and lastly he burnt
a quantity of tobacco leaves on the fire, and
held his nose and mouth over the smoke as
long as he could, without incurring the risk
of suffocation.

Having continued using the tobacco in
this manner for several days, he became en-
tirely free of fever; but many weeks elapsed
before he recovered his strength. He was
well convinced of the benefit he would de-
rive from exercise in the open air, and he
took advantage of the first moments of his
convalescence to go out and walk. '

His strength was quickly restored, and he
determined to satisfy the wish he had enter-
tained, of taking a careful survey of his
island. He directed his course towards the
little bay where he had first landed with his
raft. He walked along the seashore, and
having proceeded about two miles ascend-
ing, he found that the tide ceased to flow,
and that there was merely a little rivulet,
the water of which was extremely clear and

fresh.

This rivulet watered several beautiful
meadows which were level andcoveredwith
grass. At some distance from the sea, the
ground rose in the form of an amphitheatre.

G3
Tobacco was growing in abundance on the
hills, and Robinson Crusoe likewise observed
many other plants with which he was un-
acquainted. " Alas," said he, " these plants
perhaps possess properties as salutary as the
tobacco from which I have derived so much
benefit ; but they are lost to me, my igno-
rance renders me incapable of applying them
to any useful purpose. If, during my youth,
I had devoted myself to the study of botany
instead of wasting my time in idle amuse-
ments, I should now have been acquainted
with the virtues of these plants; for I recol-
lect having seen some of the same kind at
Brazil, but I trod them under foot without
even taking the trouble to inquire their
names." These reflections somewhat dis-
heartened our friend, and as night was ap-
proaching, he returned to his habitation.
He walked out again on the following day
he proceeded to a greater distance than be-
fore, and the discoveries he made inspired
him with fresh courage. On every side he
beheld trees loaded with various kinds of

fruit, the ground was covered with melons,
and even luxuriant clusters of grapes were
hanging from the trees. With these exquiv
site productions of nature within his reach,
he would in all probability have plucked and

eat as many as he was able, but he recol- .
lected that when he was in Barbary, many

of the English slaves had died in conse-
quence of eating too freely of the fruits of
the country; he therefore checked his ap-
petite, justly reflecting that there is no
salutary food which may not become inju-
rious if taken in excess.

Robinson Crusoe, overjoyed at sight of
the abundance with which he was surround-

ed, still proceeded onward. Night however
soon overtook him, and as he was too far from

his habitation to think of returning, he
chose a resting place similar to that which
had afforded him shelter when he first land-
ed on the island. He climbed up a thick
bushy tree, among the branches of which
he reposed until morning, and then resumed
his journey.

After walking for some time, he reached
an extensive open country which appeared
to descend in the direction of the west; 21
little rivulet of fresh water, gushing from a
hill, flowed in a contrary direction, namely,
to the east; all this part of the island was
so verdant and blooming that it might have
been taken for a garden planted by human
hands, and it was easy to perceive that per-
petual spring prevailed there.

He descended a short way on the side of
this delicious valley, and chose a favour-

able point for surveying it at leisure. He
stood for some moments motionless with ad--
miration; and his sorrows were banished
by the gratifying reflection that all he saw
belonged to him alone; that he was 10rd
and absolute sovereign of this fertile region;
that he enj oyed a sacred right of possession,
and of transmitting it to his heirs as indis--
putably as though it were an English estate.
The cocoa-nuts, oranges, and citrons, were
not yet perfectly ripe; but he was amply
compensated by the abundance of fruit on
the lime trees. The limes were not only
agreeable to eat, but their juice when mixed

with water, formed a most refreshing beve-
rage.
Robinson Crusoe, like the ant, though in
the midst of abundance, thought of pro--
viding against want. He accordingly heaped
together a quantity of grapes, limes, and
lemons, and carried away some portion of
the fruit, intending to return as soon as
possible provided with a large bag, in which
he could convey the remainder. He then
proceeded to his habitation, overjoyed at

being thus enabled to lay in a store of proe

visions against the rainy season.

But he did not foresee and provide against
every disaster. On his return he had the
mortification of seeing his grapes all spoiled,
divided, and scattered about, and a great
portion half eaten. He immediately con-
cluded that this mischief had been the work
of some of the wild animals in the neigh-
bourhood, and to prevent a recurrence of
such a. misfortune, he hung on the branches
of the trees all the grapes he had gathered
and was unable to carry away, They were
then dried and baked in the sun and became
very agreeable food.

As he walked along, he contemplated
with admiration, the fertility of the valley
the charms of its situation, 'and the refuge
it would afford him in caseof violent storms ;
and he concluded that the spot on which he
had fixed his habitation, was beyond all
doubt the very worst on the whole island.
These reflections naturally led him to form
the idea of removing to this fertile and
agreeable valley, as soon as he could con-
struct a habitation as strong as the one he
possessed on the coast.

He had for a considerable time entertain-
ed this intention, so completely was he cap-
tivated by the beauty of the situation, but
on more mature reflection, he began to con-
sider the advantages of his old abode, for
aslong as he continued to live near the sea--
shore, there was at least a probability of
some favourable circumstance transpiring;
whilst on the other hand, if he retired to
the centre of the island, he abandoned all
chance of ever returning to Europe 5 he

therefore determined ultimately not to quit
his old habitation.

Nevertheless he had become so attached
to the beautiful spot, that he set about
erecting a little bower, surrounding it by a
spacious enclosure, consisting of a double
hedge strongly staked. Here he occasion-
ally slept several nights together, crossing
and recrossing the hedge by means of a
ladder, the same way as at his old abode.
Thus he enjoyed the convenience of pos-
sessing two houses, one on the coast for
watching the arrival of vessels, and the
other in the country for gathering in his
harvest.

He had no sooner completed his fence
round this pleasant bower, than the heavy
rains drove him back to his fortress. For

the sake of amusement as well as to employ"
his time usefully whilst the bad weather
.should keep him imprisoned, he began to
enlarge his cavern. He even succeeded in
digging completely through the rock so as to
make an opening at the back of his fortifi-
cations. This was indeed rendering useless
all the precautions he had taken to prevent
his enclosure being entered except with
the assistance of a ladder. But his fears
gradually vanished for he was now fully con-
vinced that the island was uninhabited.

The largest animal he had hitherto seen was
a goat, and he was not yet aware that tribes
of cannibals whoinhabited the neighbouring
islands, occasionally landed there to de-
vour their prisoners.

The 30th of September was the anniver-
sary of the fatal day on which he had been
cast on the island. He had formed for him-
self a singular kind of Calendar. Ten or
twelve days after his shipwreck he fixed up
a large square post on the seashore, on
which he cut with a knife the following
' words 2--" I landed on tlzz's island on the 30th
" 9}" September, 1659." He every day out
a notch on this post; at the conclusion of
a week he made the notch double the usual

size, and be marked the months by a still
larger one. Having consulted this almanack

at the period abovementioned, he found he
had lived exactly three years on the island.

He had now become a strict observer of his
Christian duties ; he therefore celebrated
the day by a solemn fast, devoting it to re-
ligious exercises, humbly prostrating him-
self before God, and acknowledging his
righteous judgment upon him.

He had the more reason to congratulate
himself on having invented this mode of cal-
culating time, for the ink which he had
brought from the ship was now completely
exhausted, so that he would have been thrown
into a state of great embarrassment had he
trusted to keeping his calculations by writing.

He hadmoreover gradually become inured
to the climate of his island. He was no
longer taken unawares either by the rainy
or the dry season, and the experience he
had acquired in this particular, enabled him
easily to repair the losses he had sustained

through his imprudence at the period when
the earthquake took place. He had now
only a very small quantity of barley, rice,
and corn, and that little he could not sow
for want of instruments to dig and prepare
the ground. Had he ventured to sow his
seed at the commencement of the dry season,
it would infallibly have been lost; he there-
fore sowed it in F ebruary, a. short time be
H
fore the vernal equinox, that is to say, before
the commencement of the heavy rains in
his island. His seed being well watered
during the months of March and April,
sprung up abundantly and yielded a plenti-
ful crop. By thus calculating the period
most favorable for sowing, he in course of
time regularly gathered two harvests every
year.

He succeeded, after considerable trouble
and perseverance in making a wooden spade,
and with this instrument, though not the
most convenient, he dug up the ground and
prepared it for sowing his seed.

\Vhen his corn was perfectly ripe, he cut
it with a sabre which he had converted into
a scythe. The birds would willingly have
spared him this trouble, and they at first
committed terrible ravages among his corn.
Robinson Crusoe knew not how to get rid
of them, at length he determined to try the
experiment of tying to a stake three or four
of the birds which he had shot. This an-
swered the purpose of a scarecrow, and pro-

duced the best cfl'ect imaginable; he had
no longer occasion to dread the ravages of
the feathered tribe ; but vast numbers of
quadrupeds, such as goats, which were very
common on the island, shewed a great incli-
nation to devour the corn as soon as it
sprouted from the ground. But after the
first attack, he enclosed his corn within a
hedge and stationed his dog to guard it;
Faithful took especial care to suffer 110 living
creature, except his master, to encroaeh
within the boundary.

But our friend had many difficulties to
surmount before he could enjoy the comfort
of eating bread. He wanted a mill to grind
his com, a sieve to prepare his flour, and
to separate it from the husks and bran, and
finally an oven to bake his bread in after it
should be made. Though he was unable to
procure all these conveniences, he determin-
ed, if possible, to contrive substitutes for
them; and in this he succeeded.

A stone mortar to pound or bruise his
corn, was the object to which he first turne-
ed his attention; for a mill with all its com-
plicated machinery, was a thing which he
could never hope to complete. He searched
about for a long time before he found a stone
sufficiently large, to convert into a mortar;
and he was at last obliged to have recourse
to a block of strong wood, which he first
shaped with his hatchet, and then made the
hollow by burning. The pestle was easily
provided, for that purpose he procured a
piece of the hard and heavy kind of wood,
called iron-wood.

He made a sieve by stretching out two
cotton handkerchiefs in a frame.

With regard to an oven,Robinson Crusoe
spent a long time in contriving one. At
length he adopted the following ingenious
expedient. He made several earthen vessels,
tolerably wide and rather shallow, that is
to say, they might be about two feet in dia-
meter, and about nine inches deep : and he
hardened them by his fire. Whenever he
wished to bake bread, he began by heating
his oven which was paved with square tiles.
When the firewood was nearly reduced to
embers or live coals, he carefully spread it
out, so as to make it cover every part of his
even. After allowing it to remain for a few
minutes, he swept it entirely away, and
placed his dough in the oven, which he im-
mediately cOvered over with one .of the
earthen pots before described -; he then con-
centrated the heat by heaping burning wood
and ashes round the oven. In this manner
be baked his bread as well as in the best
oven in the world. N 0t content with this,
he occasionally exerted his skill in mak-
ing pastry, and baked several cakes of
rice. '

In the meanwhile he had collected at his
farm, a flock of goats and kids, which sup-
plied him with as much milk and meat as
he could possibly consume; he thus pos-
sessed an abundance of every thing neces-
sary for his existence.

He at first experienced considerable difli-
culty in catching the goats and kids. He

spread out nets, but this method proved in-
effectual, for the animals after eating the
food which had been placed to decoy them,

broke the nets and made their escape.
He next tried cages, but they likewise
' u 3
proved unsuccessful. At length he had re-_
course to traps, but even then he almost
despaired of success 5 however, by degrees
he brought them to perfection, and they
completely answered his purpose. One
morning he found in one of the traps, an old
goat of an extraordinary size; and in another,
three kids, one male and two females.

The old goat was so fierce, that Robinson
Crusoe knew not what to do with him. He
dared not venture to take him from the cage
alive. He might easily have killed him ;
but why should he have done so? God per-
mits mankind to convert the flesh of other
animals into food ; but only barbarians take
delight in inflicting useless torments. He
accordingly unfastened the trap and set the
goat at liberty.

For the kids, he tied them all three to-

gether with a piece of rope, and led them
to his house.

Some time elapsed before he couldinduce
them to eat; but tempted by the corn which

he placed before them, they soon began to
eat and grow tame.
He next formed a kind of park to inclose
them in. This was a piece of ground, about
one hundred and twenty yards long and two
hundred broad, which be surrounded with a
hedge. There his prisoners throve and
multiplied so rapidly, that in about a year
and a half, he had a flock of twelve kids

male and female.

----+-----

CHAP. VIII.

GREAT LABOURS BESTOVVED BYROBINSON
CRUSOE MAKING A BOAT; HE PRO-
VIDES HIMSELF \VITH FRESH CLOTHES.

ALL these advantages could not make
the unfortunate Robinson Crusoe forget the
beloved country Which had given him birth,
and those Who, more fortunate than he, still
resided in it. To be deprived of all com-
munication with mankind, and perhaps for
ever, was a dreadful reflection ; and though
he endeavoured to banish it from his mind,
yet be continually sighed for an opfiortunity
ofagain associating with his fellow creatures.
Religion, to which he was now sincerely de-
voted, taught him the duty of suffering his
misfortunes with patience and resignation ;
yet. to cherish such a wish was by no means
contrary to religion. That mother of the
civilized world, delights in seeing mortals
united by social bonds : her first care is to
teach them to live together, to afibrd each
other mutual assistance, and false devotion
can alone reconcile itselfto retirement. But
Robinson Crusoe's wishes were not always
purified by the divine light of wisdom, and
he occasionally formed ridiculous plans, and
impracticable enterprizes.

From this bower, which was situated on a
point of land bordering on the sea, he thought
he one day perceived land, at a distance of
about fifteen leagues. This was to all ap-
pearance a part of America, and after some
time spent in reflecting on the subject, he
concluded that it inustborder on the Spanish
Colonies, and was perhaps inhabited by
savages, who, had he landed there, would
doubtless have subjected him to a more de-
plorable fate, than he now had to complain
of. He soon howeverbegan to think on the
means of reaching this land. He began by
examining the cutter of the vessel, which,
after the shipwreck had been carried far in
upon the shore, and tossed upside down.
It might have answered for the execution of
his project, if he had had some one to assist
him in launching it : but for Robinson Cru-
soe to repair it and get afloat merely by his
own strength, was as great an impossibi--
lity as to move the island. He nevertheless
attempted it, and wentinto the woods, where
he cut down some wood for levers and roll-
ers which he dragged to the boat, convinced
that if he could once extricate her from the
sand, it would not be difficult to repair the
damage she had sustained, and to render her

a. good boat, in which he might put to sea
without the least fear.

He spent not less than three or four weeks
in this fruitless labour. At length finding
his strength insufficient to heave up the boat,

he began to dig away the sand, with a view
to undermine it, and so to make the boat
fall ; placing at the same time several pieces
Ofwood, to guide it and make it fall straight.
But this plan was no more successful than
the other.

It aflbrded him a useful lesson: but this
proved insufficient; and it was followed by
a second. It is madness to struggle with i11-
surniountable obstacles; and if'we were only
aware how much labour and vexation, incon-
,eiderate actions bring upon us, we should
certainly never attempt any thing, without
deliberately reflecting on it. " \V ell," said
Crusoe, " I must at last abandon this boat;
but ifI could onlv make a canoe 0fthe trunk
of a t1ee, like those used by the 01i0inal 111--
habitants of this pmt 0f the \1 011d. " ' And
losing sight of ex e1y difficulty, except that
Of shaping the trunk of 21 tree into a boat,
forgetting that, unless he made this canoe
011 the seashore, he could no more launch
it, than the boat belonging to the ship 3 he
began to cut down a cedar in the neighbour-
ing forest, leaving a piece of rising ground
between the seashore and the place Where
he worked at his boat.
He had made choice of an exceedingly
fine cedar ; the trunk was about five feet ten
inches in diameter. Before he succeeded in
bringing it. to the ground, he was employed
nearly twenty hours, cutting; and hacking
at the roots. It cost him fifteen hours 1a-
bour to 10p off the branches, and to saw
away its vast spreading head. T0 shape and
plain it proportionally, so that it might float
well, was the work of another month.

Three months were scarcely sufficient for
completing the inside, and working the hol-
lowin such way as to render it a perfect boat.
But at length he found himself in possession
of a very fine boat, large enough to cany
twenty-six men, and consequently sufficient
for him and all his cargo.

Delighted at. the thought of having made
this little vessel, Crusoe fancied himself row-
ing across the sea. Nothing was now want-
ing but to launch it.

The first obstacle that presented itself,
was the little hill which rose between the
shore and the spot he had chosen to work on.

But he was not dismayed by this obstacle;
he resolved to level the hill by means of
his spade. But when after infinite labour

he overcame this difficulty, he found it quite
as impracticable to move the boat, as the

cutter belonging to the ship.
He then measured the ground, and deter-

mined on digging a canal, so that the water
might come up to his canoe, since he could
find no other means of launching it. But
having calculated the depth and breadth of
this canal, and finding that. it would take full
ten years labour and perseverance, before he
could finish it, he deserted the unlucky cu-
noe, shedding tears of vexation for his own
want of foresight.

But he did not long deplore his misfortune.
Though on this last occasion he had not
succeeded very well as a carpenter, he re-
solved to try his skill at tailors' work. His
clothes were beginning to rot; and however
warm it might be in his island, he could not
entirely dispense with clothes, for in that
case he would have suffered severely from
the heat of the sun. Joining all his rags
together he contrived, after a great deal of
pains, to make himself a kind of loose

jacket, and two or three new waistcoats.
It now struck him that the skins of the

animals he had killed might become useful
materials for making clothes; he had a con-
siderable quantity carefully laid by, and he

first made himself a cap, turning the fur out-
side, and afterwards a waistcoat and a pair

of pantaloons.

He had long wished to make an umbrella,
of such a size as would effectually protect
him against the sun and the rain, forin those
countries it is highly dangerous to be ex-

posed to either.
But this was an undertaking that cost

him more labour than all the rest. He made
several unsuccessful trials, for he wanted an

umbrella. to open and shut as he might find
it convenient. At length he succeeded in

making one, and covered it with skins.
CIIAP. IX.

ROBINSON ('RUSOIZ SU('CIZEDSINLAUNCIIv
INC 1118 BOAT AVD .D'E'l'L-ZRMINES T0
SAIL IOUXD HIS ISLAND.

ROBINSON (3111'501; had not entirely re-
nounc ed the intention of makino a bout
11111111 might one (1111' 01 othe1 enable him to
sail fiom his 1:<1:111d; 11111, 111ofiting by ex-
perience, he now set to work 11101'epr11de11t-
1y.He made Choice of' a 31112111131" tree, and
took caie that the mound should be pel-
fectlv 1e1 e1 bet11ee11the spot11he1e he felled
it and the sho1e.

The. boat being finished, he dug a canal
about six feet deep and four wide, in order
to get it out to sea. This last undertaking
cost him two years labour.

But another difliculty 110W 111036. The
boat 1111s at best, only 11 frail skifi', and 011
seeing: it launched, he was well convinced it
would never enable him to perform the voy-
age he had solongmeditated. Butit was too
disheartening to think that all the labour
he had bestowed on it should be thrown
away, and he therefore resolved to sail round

his island.
This was another imprudent undertaking,

for as he was entirely unacquainted with
the coast, he exposed himself to the greatest
danger by venturing in the boat. But that
did not deter him from making the attempt.

At the eastern extremity of the island,
there was a great ledge of rocks which pro-
jected about two miles into the sea; some

above water and some below it. At the ex-
tremity of these rocks, there was besides a
great dry sand bank about half a mile long,
so that in order to double this point it was
necessary to sail to a considerable distance
out at sea.

He had not proceeded very far on his ex-
pedition when he found himself in a furious
current. This current which flowed out to
sea, carried him along with such force that
he found it impossible to keep his boat near
the shore. There was no wind stirrinO' and

c)
all his efforts to guide the boat proved use-
less. He gave himself up for lost. All the
provisions he carried along with him consist~
ed in an earthen vessel filled with water, and
a large tortoise. " How easily," said he,
" can Providence augment our misfortunes,

even when our situation seems most deplo-
rable."

He now looked back upon his island as
though it had been the most delightful spot
in the world. All the happiness he could
wish for, was to be there again. " Oh happy
desart!" he exclaimed, " shall I never see
thee more? \Vretch that I am! it was the
fatal restlessness of my disposition that in--
duced me to abandon the charming retreat;
but now, What would I give to be ashore
agaln."

It is impossible to describe the horrors of
his situation. He exerted all his strength

to manage the boat and to endeavour to re-
sist the current which bore him along; but

he relinquished all hope of preservation, for
he was already so far from the island that it
.was no longer visible, and to complete his
misfortune he had left his compass ashore.
But a smart breeze of wind unexpectedly
arose from the south-south-east, and once
more inspired him with hope and courage.
It became by degrees more and more favour-
able, and soon enabled him to land on the
northern extremity of the island, exactly op-

posite to the point at which he had set out.
When he got ashore, he fell on his knees,

kissed the ground and returned thanks to
Heaven for the unexpected aid he hed re-
ceived.

His feelings, at this moment, were like
those of a man receiving a pardon at the

very instant when he was about to be led to
execution; or one unexpectedly rescued,
when on the point of falling a. victim to the
fury of assassins.

He was overcome with fatigue; and having
guided his boat up a little creek shaded by
thick trees, where it could remain con-
cealed and in perfect safety, he hastened to
his bower, from which he knew he was at
no great distance. He soon reached it, and

without taking the trouble to prepare a bed
I 3
for himself, he lay down to rest beneath the
shade of his hedge.

It was not long before he fell into a sound
sleep; but what was his astonishment on be-
ing awakened by a voice calling him by his
name: " Robinson Crusoe l--Poor Robin-
son Crusoe I--where are you?---where have
you been ?"--He heard these words pro-
nounced several times over, at first not very
distinctly, for he was so fatigued that he
did not immediately awake.

At length he rose filled with terror and as:

tonishment; but the sight of his parrot soon
banished his alarm. The bird had escaped

from its cage during his absence, and at
sight of his master it perched on the hedge
and addressed to him the questions above
mentioned. When observed by Robinson
Crusoe, the parrot flew upon his finger, and,
as if delighted at seeing him again, repeated
the words that awoke him.
CHAP. X.

ROBINSON CRUSOE RETURNS TO HIS
CAVE AND RESUMESHIS \VORK. HIS DOG
DIES. HE SEES THE PRINT OF A FOOT

ONTHE SAND,AND FINDS TllE REMAINS
OF A CANNIBAL FEAST.

ROBINSON CRUSOE returned to his dwel-
ling on the seashore, not very much satisfied
with the voyage he had attempted, and re-
sumed his domestic labours, at which he
daily became more and more expert. He
made a hoop, which enabled him to give a
more perfect form to his earthen vessels,
which were before extremely clumsy, he

moreover succeeded in making a pipe,
which pleased him exceedingly as he was

particularly fond of smoking.

' At length he met with a tree, the branches

of which were as flexible as the willow: he

made them into baskets which though ill

formed, were nevertheless extremely useful.
Every thing was now prospering both in

his fortress and his bower, and in prOportion
as he abandoned all expectation of ever dea-
parting from his island, he became more
and more reconciled to his fate. But ere
long a new misfortune arose to distress him.
He lost Faithful, his only friend and the
constant companion of his labours. The
poor animal died of old age. Robinson
Crusoe saw him gradually decay without the
possibility of sai'ing' him. To the last mo-
ment of his existence, Faithful evinced the
strongest attachment to his master, and he
expired whilst making an effort to crawl to
his feet.

In great cities, such an event seldom
makes a powerful impression on us; we
there possess so many friends that we set
little value even on the best of them. It is
a great deal if we shed a few tears over his
grave; and we soon dry those tears, lest
we should become subjects of derision to the
rest of our acquaintances. But after the
death of Faithful, Robinson Crusoe was
alone, and he sincerely lamented his loss.
The parrot could not supply his place; a
parrot is merely n cold and servile imitator:
he learns to pronounce the words which he
hears constantly repeated, but he pronounces
them mechanically, and in such a. manner
that proves he attaches no ideas to them.

A dog, on the contrary, though he cannot
speak, is all sentiment and soul. He takes
a part in our sorrows and pleasures; he
jumps about when he sees us cheerful, and
hangs his ears when we are sad ; finally he
seems to participate in all our sentiments.

The two cats which Robinson Crusoe had
brought from the ship, were still living. But
the cat is an animal very far inferior to the
dog.

For sevexal days he was perfectly incon-
solable; he moved from one place to another,
traversing his island in every direction,
Without the possibility of banishing a recol-
lection which so severely afllicted him.

The dress which Robinson Crusoe wore in
his island, gave him an air of ferocity which
would almost have excited the terror of an
European. Some notion of his appearance
may be gathered from the following descrip-
tion.
His hat, which \"dS made of goat-skin,
was extremely high and of a singular form;
to the back of it he fastened a large flap of
goat-skin, which entirely covered his neck,
so that it protected him from the rays of the
sun, and prevented the rain from running
through his clothes.

He wore a kind of short jacket. of the same
material as his hat; it descended only to
his knees. His pantaloons were made of a
peculiarly fine gcat-skin, the hair of which
was of an extraordinary length.

He had neither shoes nor stockings but.
were a pair of short boots which he fastened
in the same manner as gaiters. These, like
2111 the rest of his clothes were of a singu-
larly rude form.

In addition to this, he had two belts, both
made of goat-skin. The first, he made use
of for carrying a saw and a hatchet, one on
each side. rl'he second, to which two bags
were fastened, hung from his neck; one of
the bug's was filled with powder and the
other with shot.

On his back he carried a basket, on his
shoulder a gun,' and over his head an um-
brella of very rude construction.

With regard to his skin, it was not so much
sunburnt as might have been expected in a
man who was constantly exposed to all kinds
of weather, and who lived within eight or
nine degrees from the equinox.

He once suffered his beard to grow to a
quarter of a yard in length; but as he had
both scissars and razors, he afterwards kept
it close out except what grew on the upper
lip. He wore whiskers in the Mahometan
style, such as he had seen worn by the
T urks at Sallee.

But though his appearance was so calcu-
lated to excite terror in others, it did not
ensure him against a severe fright which he
received in his peregrinations.

One day whilst he was proceeding towards
the spot Where he left his boat, he distinctly
observed on the sand, the print of a naked
human foot. He stopped short as though
he had been struck with a thunderbolt. He

listened and looked cautiously around him;
but he could neither see nor hear any thing.
He ascended a little hillock and again de-
scended t0 the shore, but he could perceive
no object that was new to him and no trace
of a human being except that one.

He turned back,110ping that his alarm had
been occasioned merely by some working of
his fancy; but he beheld the same marks,
the toes, the heel, in a word every line of a
human foot distinctly traced.

He repaired to his fortification, looking
round him at every step he advanced, and
imagining that an enemy was concealed in
every bush. On reaching his castle, he
crossed the fence with the rapidity of a cri-
minal flying from his pursuers.

He never closed his eyes during the Whole
of the night; the further he was from the
cause of his alarm, the greater were his ap-
prehensions; the very Opposite to what is
usually observable in similar circumstances.
So great was his agitation of mind, that he
for a moment fancied Satan himself had vi~
sited his island for the purpose of frighten-
ing him. '

But he soon banished this silly notion;C RFSOE. 'mm

 

Bohinson ('rusoc's Uerror at flleprint
.

0f the human]. foot.

pgqc .'00'.

.1'5.'z't.'i..'/zl'.l walezSJngflJn-ix I hmn' <<foimzub. J"
and he once more endeavoured to persuade
himself, that the subject of his alarm was a
mere chimera. " Now that I begin to re--
flect," said he to himself, " when I quitted

my boat I must have pursued the same path
as when I was about to return to it, and I

have been frightened by the marks of my
own footsteps." He returned once again to

examine the spot; but he was thoroughly
convinced that he never could have trodden

on that part of the shore. Besides on mea-
suring the mark he found it to be much larger
than his own foot, and this circumstance
filled his heart with new agitations and his
brain with vapourish ideas.

He was now well assured that his island
was either inhabited by savages or that it
had been visited by them, and as he was in
danger of being attacked unawares, he at
first resolved to knock down his enclosure
and drive his flock into the woods, lest the
savages should discover them and thus sus-
pect his existence.

By degrees however his mind became more

calm, and he adopted the most probable of
K
these two conjectures, namely that his island

was not in reality inhabited by any human
being except himself, but that, to all ap-
pearaneea tribes of savages occasionally
landed onit, either intentionally, or through
being driven there by contrary winds, and
he therefore began to think on the best
means of concealing and protecting himself;

He regretted having made his cave so
large, and having made a back entrance to
his fortifications.

To remedy this inconvenience which
might have proved fatal to him in case of an
attack, he determined to make a second
wall in the form of a semicircle, on the spot
where, a few years before, he had planted
a double row of trees. These trees were so
close together that it was merely necessary
to place a few stakes between them in order
to make a "'v fumigation.

He had two walls in front of his cave;
the outer one was thickened by pieces of
wood, old cables and every thing calculated
to make it strong. He had besides made it

about ten feet thick, by laying down great
quantities of earth and walking on it to ren-

der it firm. In this wall he made five holes,
in which he placed the muskets he had
found in the ship, and they thus supplied
the place of artillery.

This task being completed, he covered a
large piece of ground without the wall, with
the sprouts of the osier--wood, of which he
had previously made baskets, and which grew
and thickened'with great rapidity in a short
time. In the space of one year he planted

nearly twenty thousand of these sprouts.
In two years they formed a beautiful grove,
and in six years they grew into a forest so

thick and strong that it was perfectly im>>
penetrable, and no one would ever have
imagined that it concealed the habitation

Of a human being.
As he had left no avenue to his castle, for

so we must hereafter style his habitation,

he went in and out by means of two ladders;

by the first, ascending to a part of the rock

where there was room to place the second.
When these ladders were removed, it was

impossible for any creature to enter it.
All he had now to do was to provide for
the safety of his herd of goats, which were
not merely a valuable resource to him in
present circumstances, but he hoped they
would in future spare the loss of the powder
and shot which he must otherwise have em-
ployed in hunting wild goats.

He saw only two methods of effectually
guarding them against attacks.

One was to dig another cave below ground,
and to drive them into it every night.

The other was to enclose two or three
small pieces of ground at some distance from
each other, and as much concealed as pos-
sible, in each of which he might confine
half a dozen young kids, so that if any dis-
aster should happen to the flock in general,
he mightbe able to repair it in a short time,
and with very little trouble.

He found one enclosure Which seemed to
have been formed by nature expressly for the

purpose he. wanted. He then began to look

out for another, and in so doing advanced
further towards the western extremity of the
island than he had ever done before, when,
on ascending a little height, he thought he

discovered a boat on the sea at a great dis-
tance.

He found a few teleSCOpes in the trunks
which he had saved from the wreck of the
ship, but unfbrtunately he had not brought
one with him; he descended the hill, not
knowing whether to believe the evidence of
his eyes.

But he did not long remain in this state
of suspensez--ea sight of horror soon con-
verted his doubts into certainty.

He had scarcely proceeded a few yards
from the hill, when he beheld the ground

strewed with skulls, hands, feet and other
bones of human beings. He observed a place

where a fire had been made and a'large hole
'of a circular form dug in the ground.

mx'
CHAP. XI.

ROBINSON CRUSOE ATTACKS THE CAN-
NIBALS AND DELIVERS ONE OF THEIR
VICTIMS.

CONVINCED by these unequivocal signs
that men had been feasting on the flesh of
their fellow creatures, Robinson Crusoe
shrunk back with horror. He had often
heard accounts of similar barbarity, and yet
the sight shocked him as much as if no such
idea had ever before entered his mind. In
vain he turned his eyes from the disgusting
scene, his blood curdled in his veins, and
he would probably have fainted had not na--
ture relieved him by a violent fit of vomiting.
He made the best of his way to his habita~
tion, thanking Heaven for having given him
birth in a part of the world far distant from
such barbarians.

From that moment he entirely relinquished
the peaceable occupations in which he had
before been engaged. He thought only on
the means of fortifying his habitation, and
laying snares to entrap the savages; for the
sight of their barbarity had filled him with
so much horror that he spent many days
and nights in contriving plans to destroy
some of them, in the midst of their sangui-
nary festivities.

He first thought of digging a hole beneath
the spot where they kindled their fire, and
to place within it five or six pounds of gun-

powder, which when they began to light
their fire, would immediately explode, and

destroy all who were near it.

But this plan might have failed of pro>>
ducing the desired effect; and besides he
had so little powder that it would have been
imprudent to incur the risk of wasting it
uselessly.

He therefore abandoned this design, and
proposed to place himself in ambush with
his three guns double loaded, in a conve>>
nient spot, from whence he might fire on the
savages in the midst of their horrible cere-
mony: certain of killing or wounding at
least two or three at every shot, he might
easily overcome the rest, though they should
be twenty in number, by falling on them
unawares and attacking them with his pis-
tols and sabre.

He spent several days in searching for a
convenient place for putting his design into
execution; he frequently visited the spot
where the cannibals had feasted, in order
to animate his courage by the sight of their
ferocity.

At length he found a place on the side of
hill, where he might wait in perfect safety
for the arrival of their boats, intending, be-
fore they had time to land, to steal into the
thickest part of the forest: he moreover dis-
covered a hollow tree, capable of concealing
him entirely, from whence he could keep his
eyes on them and watch all their actions, and
When they should sit down to their sangui-
nary banquet it was next to impossible that
he could fail killing two 02: three at a single
shot.

In this place, therefore, he determined to
attempt the execution of his enterprize. He
provided himself with two muskets and his
fowling piece; the former he loaded With
slugs and four or five pistol bullets, and the
latter with a handful of large swan shot.
Thus provided with ammunition for a se-
cond and a. third discharge, he laid wait for
the enemy, but the enemy never made his ap-

pearance. Every morning, for upwards of
two months, Robinson Crusoe regularly sta-
tioned himself on the t0p of the hill, without
discovering any thing, or even seeing a
single boat, either approaching the shore or
out at sea, as far as his eyes or telescope
could reach. He therefore abandoned his
post.

At length he became weary of these fruit-
less excursions: he began to reflect on the
danger of his enterprize, and his indignation
which had at first been so powerfully ex-
cited, soon yielded to fear. He began to
think that it would be more prudent, instead
of laying in wait to attack the savages, to
adopt means to prevent them from disco-
vering his retreat.

N 0 precaution appeared to him sufficient,
no place secure. He was afraid of kindling
a fire lest the smoke should betray him; and
when he went a hunting he carried bows
and arrows to avoid the report of a musket;
finally he resolved at all events to seek out
a retreat which would be less calculated to
excite suspicion than his old habitation. He
soon found one, but on this occasion he met
with a fright which it will be well to notice,
to prove to the youthful readers of this

work that they should never suffer them-
selves to be overcome by fear without in-
quiring into the cause.

He discovered a cave behind some broken
branches of trees in the forest. Overjoyed
and full of curiosity he immediately entered
it; but he came out much quicker than he
went in, for he perceived at the further end
of the cave two great eyes twinkling like
stars, but whether they belonged to devil
or man he was at a loss to conjecture.

After long deliberation, he determined
once more to enter it, with a lighted fire-
brand in one hand and a pistol in the other,
and he then discovered that the object of
his terror was nothing more than an old he-
goat, which was dying of mere old age.

This cave was about four times as large
as the one in which he had hitherto conceale
ed his treasures, and the entrance to it was
infinitely better concealed; he carried thi-
ther all his most valuable property, at the
same time resolving to make it his hiding
place in case of danger.

Meanwhile, parties of savages continued
occasionally to visit the island, and if Cru-
soe did not sooner discover that his island
was the place where they were, accustomed
to celebrate their victories, it was because
he did not earlier direct his course towards
the point at which they usually landed.

One day, however, a circumstance occur-
red which so seriously alarmed him, that
all the plans of revenge which he had at
first formed against the savages, were re-

newed.
It was in the month of December, the
time when he usually gathered in his har-

vest, when going out to work one morning
before sun-rise, he perceived a great light
on the shore, not on that part of the island
where he observed the savages usually land-
ed, but on the side near his habitation. He

immediately returned to his castle, in which
shut himself up, loading his pistols and
muskets, and making every preparation for
a courageous resistance.

The enemy, however, did not appear.
After waiting for two hours, Robinson Cru-
soe, having no one to send out to recon-
noitre, and no longer able to endure his

state of perplexing uncertainty, ventured
to ascend to the summit of his rock. He
then lay flat down and with the assistance

of his telescope endeavoured to discover
what was going forward. He saw about
nine savages seated round a little fire, which

had not been kindled for the purpose of
warming themselves, for the weather was

then extremely hot, but apparently to cook
some pieces of human flesh which they had
brought along with them.

They had arrived in two canoes which
were pulled ashore after them, and as the
tide had then ebbed, he conjectured that
they were only waiting for the flood in order
to row off.

This proved to be the case: whenever the
tide began to flow towards the west, they

jumped into their boats and rowed away.
As soon as Crusoe saw them depart, he

went out With his two muskets on his shoul-
ders, two pistols in his girdle, and his large
sabre by his side. He ascended the hill from
whence he had first discovered'the marks of
the horrible feast of the cannibals, and he

plainly perceived that there were three more
canoes out at sea, along with the rest, all
making towards the main land.

He descended towards the shore which he
found strewed With the remains of the hor-

rible banquet. This revolting sight which
he now witnessed for the second time, filled
him with indignation ; and forgetting all the
dictates of prudence, he resolved once again
to attack the firstparty he should fall in with,
however numerous it might be.

It was some time before the savages again

visited the island; but an opportunity at
length occurred when he was enabled to take

revenge on the barbarians, and by the per-
formance of a good action, to obtain a com-
panion in his misfortune

One morning, he beheld on the shore six

canoes, the people belonging to which had
L
landed and were out of his sight; after hav-
ing armed himself as usual, cap-a-pie, he

ascended the rock to observe them.

He discovered by the help of his tele-
scope that they were at least thirty in number,
that they had kindled a fire to prepare their
food and were dancing round it according to
the custom of their country.

In a few moments, he saw them drag two
miserable wretches from one of the boats.
One instantly fell being killed apparently by
a blow of a club. T wo or three of the sa-
vages without loss of time proceeded to cut
the body in pieces and prepare it for their
cookery ; whilst the. other was left standing
by, awaiting his turn to be slaughtered. The
unfortunate wretch now finding himself a
little at liberty, nature inspired him with
some hope of self preservation; he started

away from his executioners, and ran with the
utmost swiftness towards that part of the
island where Robinson Crusoe had fixed his

habitation.
Our hero was not a little alarmed on see-

ing him take this course. He imagined that
the whole party would follow him and pursue
him into the little wood Which he had plant-
ed round his habitation. He nevertheless
maintained his station, and he began to re-
cover from his fear, on finding that there
were only three men in pursuit of the fugi--
tive. He gained ground considerably on his
pursuers and Crusoe was well assured that if
he could only keep running at the same pace
for half an hour longer, he must inevitably
escape.

There was between him and Robinson
Crusoe a little creek, where he could not fail
of being taken if he did not immediately
swim across it. But on reaching it, although
the tide was then up, he plunged in without
hesitation, and in about thirty strokes gain-
ed the opposite side, where he landed and
then ran on with inconceivable swiftness.
\Vhen his three. pursuers reached the creek,

Crusoe remarked that only two of them could

swim, and the third after stopping a short
time on the edge of the water, returned slow-
1y to the scene of slaughter. He observed

that the two Who could swim took about twice
as long to cross the creek as the one who had
fled from them. A natural and irresistible

impulse now forced him to quit his post of
observation and hasten to the assistance of
the poor creature who so well defended his
life. Robinson Crusoe was at this moment
between the fugitive and his pursuers. He
immediately ran towards the foremost 0f the
two, and felled him to the ground with the
butt-end of his musket, chusing to dispatch
him this way rather than by firing, lest the
report should have been heard by the other
savages. The second seeing his comrade
fall, stopped short as if petrified, but he soon
began to prepare his bow and arrow to shoot.
Crusoe then advanced towards him, and for-
getting the reason which had at firstprevent--
ed him from firing, discharged his musket

and laid him dead at the first shot.
The poor fugitive seemed more terrified by

the report of the musket than inclined to
thank his deliverer; he remained immove-
able. His countenance was that of a man

overcome by terror, and he shewed a dispo-
sition to escape again. Crusoe beckoned'n ll')"""'

#1)
II ~13

I
h
5'

>>
..

 

Friday's first interview With Robmson
Crusoe. [:44]! 1.23

Publir/mi 37) V.' '1J&&(gy 1311771". (1717: (r ofn'fl'dul-Z
him to approach, and after the invitation
had been several times repeated the poor sa--
vage ventured forward a few steps, and then
stopped short again. He doubtless concluded
that he had been made prisoner a second
time, and that he was about to be killed like
his two enemies. Crusoe having again beckonv
ed to him and shewed him every sign of en.-

couragement, he at length approached, but

very slowly, kneeling down at every ten or
twelve steps in token of acknowledgement
to him who had saved his life. On coming
close to Robinson Crusoe he again knelt
down, and took one of his deliverer's feet
and placed it on his own head, apparently ac-
knowledging him as his master and swearing
to be eternally his slave. Crusoe consoled
him by repeated caresses. He by degrees
began to recover from his alarm, when he
perceived that the savage who had been
knocked down by the musket, was not yet
dead and was making an effort to rise. Terror
was again depicted in his countenance; but
Crusoe soon eased his apprehensions by
effectually dispatching his enemy. In grativ
L 3
tude for this act of service he pronounced a
few'words which Crusoe was delighted to hear
thOugh he could not understand them: to
him it was an unspeakable happiness to hear
the voice of a human being; for many long
years had elapsed since he enj oyed that plea-
sure.

Robinson Crusoe was anxious to bury the
_ dead bodies of the savages immediatelylest
the remainder of the party should come in
quest of them. Then perceiving that his new
guest was overcome by fatigue he gave him ~
some refreshment. and led him to the cave
which he had newly discovered in order that
he might lie down to rest.

The savage did not remain longin the cave.
In about half an hour he came running to
Crusoe in his enclosure where he had been

milking his goats. There he repeated all
the signs of submission which he had made
at the moment Of his deliirerance. Crusoe

made him understand by signs, that he was
well satisfied with'him, and that he would

never forsake him.
He was a tall young man, between twenty
and twenty-five years of age, stout and well
made. His appearance was manly without
any thing ferocious; on the contrary his fea->>
tures presented that gentleness of expression

which is peculiar to the Europeans. His hair
was long and black, his forehead high, his

eyes animated, his complexion fresh although
it had somewhat of an olive tinge; he had
a round face, a well formed nose, thin lips,
and his teeth were well set, regular, and as
white as ivory.

CHAP. XII.

ROBINSON CRUSOE GIVES THE NAME OF
FRIDAY TO THE SAVAGE WHOM HE

RESCUED, AND WHO LEARNS TO ASSIST
'HIM'IN HISLABOURS. NEWCOMPANIONS
IN MISFORTUNE.

NEXT morning, after having ascertained
that the savages had departed, Robinson

\
Crusoe began to consider where he should
lodge his new companion. He did not yet
know him well enough to place entire confi-
dence in him; he thought the best thing he
could do was to build a but for him between
the twofiwalls of his fortification, taking care
not to leave within his reach any weapon of
which he could make a bad use.

Happily this circumspection was not very
necessary; for never was there a servant
more faithful, or more full of candour and
love for his master. The young savage had
few faults, and possessed a thousand good
qualities; he was neither ill-humoured nor
obstinate, and was a stranger (:0 fits of pas-
sion : he was intelligent, sprightly, had an
excellent memory, and great talent for in-
vention.

He soon learnt to pronounce tolerably well
the name of every obj ect which attracted his
notice, and in a short time was able to assist
Robinson Crusoe in his various occupations.
In a few days he knew how to bruise the
wheat and make bread. In a word, he learnt
much faster than many Europeans could
have done. Crusoe named him Friday,
which was the day on Which he had deliver-
ed him from the hands of his enemies ; and
in a short time this name became as familiar
to the Caribbee as if he had borne it from
his infancy.

When Crusoe went the morning after his
engagement With the savages to visit the
field of battle, he discovered from the most

unequivocai signs that Friday was also a
cannibal, and that he would willingly have

feasted on the flesh of those monsters, Who,
the preceding day, had been preparing to
regale themselves on his. He hoped to wean
him- from this appetite for human flesh, by
making him taste other food. He led him
one morning into the woods, Where he in-
tended to kill one of his own goats; but,
on entering, he pereeived a wild goat and
two of its young asleep in the shade. He then
beckoned to Friday not to make the least
motion, and he immediately fired at one of
the kids and killed it. The poor savage, Who
three days before had seen one of his ene-
mies struck down at a distance .Without
knowing how, was again terrified, and trem-
bled like an aspen leaf; he did not venture
to turn his eyes towards the place where the
goat lay, but Opened his waistcoat to see
whether he was not wounded himself. In his
terror he doubtless supposed that Robinson
Crusoe had resolved to get rid of him; for he
threw himself on his knees, and made avery
long speech, of' which his master under-
stood nothing, except that he supplicated
him not to take his life.

With the view of undeceiving him, Cru-
soe, smiling, took him by the hand, and
pointing to the kid, made signs to him to go
and fetch it. While he was endeavouring to
discover how the animal had been killed,
Crusoe re-loaded his musket, seeing on a tree,
at the distance of a few paces, a parrot,
which he intended should be the means of
surprising Friday a second time. He called
to him, pointing first to the parrot, and then
to the ground under the tree, and made him
understand his intention of bringing down
the bird. He shot it, and the savage was as

much frightened as on the former occasion.I WM

'

'1!

7;...1' 1'".' '..... ' i:
' = -' .- 't- ' wmammu '. yawn"!

' _ -- . . . '. .......-...
. - '. _
' Q3} "' r, '. ,. ' J
; _. -. . ,. ' .
'~ 2 ; ' . .
. . ~.-.

'.
.c

1

gm
. SS

9

3%,

u
l
\

Friday inflating the Gun not to killhim.

payr 1 29

.Z'ulI/Lr/mi 37)n'."1_m'1e'. lgvfflm'ix. (Lima ('r'..\'.'1'C/wlo'. - /
/
Not having seen him load the musket, he re-
garded it as an inexhaustible source of ruin

' and destruction. For a long time he could
not overcome his terror; and if his master
had allowed him, he would have worshipped
the gun as well as himself. Many days elap-
sed before he ventured to touch it, but he
spoke to it as though the Weapon had been
capable of understanding and answeringhim.
Robinson Crusoe learnt afterwards that he
was entreating it not to kill him.

The same evening Crusoe skinned the kid,
cut it up, and put some of it to stew in an
earthen pot upon the fire. Having taken
the broth himself, he gave a part of the flesh

to Friday, who, seeing Robinson Crusoe eat
it, began to taste it likewise. He liked it,

but seemed to think it very strange that
Crusoe should season his victuals with salt.
In order to make his master understand how
disagreeable this was to his palate, he put
some grains of salt into his mouth, spit it
out again, and made a thousand wry faces,
and afterwards rinsed his mouth with fresh
water. Having regaled him with this kind
of food, Crusoe Wished, on the following
day, to feast him with a piece of meat; this
he did by tying a piece of the kid to a line,
and lettingit turn continually before the fire,
a method he had often seen practised in
England. Whenever Friday tasted it, he
made so many grimaces to express that he
thought it excellent, and that he would
never more eat human flesh, that he must
have been stupid indeed who could not un-
derstand him.

The good conduct of Friday, and the con-
fidence Which it was calculated to inspire,

excited the most consolatory reflections in
the mind of Robinson Crusoe. " This

savage," thought he, " cannot be very'far
from his own country; he owes his life to
me, and he proves that he is grateful for it;
if I could with his assistance depart from

the island and reach his native country, per-
haps there might still be a possibility of my

returning to Europe." This distant hope of
again beholding his native country became

instantly the fond subject of his thoughts,
the sole end of all his actions: from that
moment he thought of nothing but putting
Friday in a state to give him some informa-
tion respecting his nation and the people
who inhabited it. For this purpose it was
necessary to teach him the English language,
of which he knew only a few words, and
even them he was unable to connect. In a
short time Crusoe attained his object. As
soon as Friday knew so much English that
about one half of what he said could be com-
prehended, he began eagerly to interrogate
him. He learnt that his country joined the
continent of America; that the inhabitants
were fierce and cruel in war, but that they
knew how to practise the duties of hospi-
tality. " Master," said Friday, in his broken
English, " if you go to my country you will
not be the only white man there."--" How?"
inquired Crusoe. Friday then informed
him, that about a year before, a European
vessel had been wrecked upon the rocks
which surrounded his native island ; that the
crew had swam ashore, and that they had sub-
sisted since that time upon the provisions with

which the natives of the country had fur--
LI
nished them. At this agreeable and unex-

pected news, Crusoe was almost frantic with
joy: he embraced Friday, asking at the
same time whether the hospitable land was
far distant? " Come, master, come with
me," replied Friday, " and me shew you my
country." He then proceeded at a brisk
pace towards that part of the island from
whence, some years before, Robinson Cru-
soe had discovered a continent, at the dis-
tance of about fifteen leagues. It was there
that Friday's native country was situated;
he pointed it out to his master, exclaiming
repeatedly, " There my country ! there my
nation !"----" Well, my dear Friday," said
Crusoe, " would you not be very glad to see
your country again ?"----" Yes, yes, master !
me very glad to see my country again, that
is, if you go with me; they caress you, they
embrace you much for having saved Friday's
life: but great, great great deal of water, and
me not strong enough to swim to my nation.' '
---" Come hither," said Crusoe, " and I will
show you how we can get to your country
without swimming." He then shewed him
his boat. Friday ran to the boat the instant

he perceived it, and manoeuvred it with such
dexterity as astonished his master, but he
declared at the same time that it was not
strong enough for so long a voyage, and that
it would be necessary to make another.
" How can we do that ?" enquired Crusoe.
Friday made him understand that he would
willingly undertake to do it.

Crusoe resolved immediately to put Fri-
day's zeal to the test. He led him to the
borders of a forest upon the sea--coast, and
told him to choose a tree of which he might
make a canoe fit for the voyage. Friday
soon pitched upon a tree, which was cut
down. He was for burning a hollow to make
it into a boat, but Crusoe having brought
him some tools, and shewed him how to use
them, he set to work so cleverly, that in six

weeks the boat was finished. . All that now
remained to be done was to get it to the sea,
from which it was not far distant: with the

assistance of some great rollers they ac-
complished this object in less than a fort-

night.
When it was afloat, Friday managed it
with as much dexterity as the other, though
it was full as large again. Having made a fair
trial of it, he declared that theymight venture
to perform the voyage even in a strong gale.
Robinson Crusoe wishing to render it more
fit for the enterprise, provided it with a mast
and a sail. He had then to teach his man the
management of the sail and rudder, but this
did not occupy him long, for Friday was an
apt scholar.

The rainy season set in whilst all these
preparations were going forward, and it was
therefore necessary to postpone the voyage.

Robinson Crusoe stowed his little vessel
in safety, and retired to his castle, accom-
panied by Friday. Master and servant lived
upon a footing of perfect equality, Crusoe
had received from Friday too many proofs of
devotion and affection to have any longer the
least distrust of him.

Crusoe employed this period of retirement
in cultivating those seeds of Christianity
which he had already planted in the breast
of Friday while they were labouring together.
Friday, at the period when his master pre-
served his life, had but a barbarous idea of the
divinity; but he did not suffer him to remain
long in this state of ignorance. As soon as
they were able to understand each other, he
endeavoured to make him sensible of the
truths of the Christian religion. In this he
easily succeeded, and Friday became a Chris-
tian in pr0portion as he became civilized;
and, as soon as he could distinguish good
from evil, he found it quite natural to adore
that God, who had submitted to all the mi-
series of human nature, in order to teach
mankind to be virtuous, and to open to them
at the price of his blood, the road to that
happy eternity to which virtue leads.

As soon as the rainy season was at an end,
Crusoe began to lay up a stock of provisions
for the voyage; but an expected event arose
to derange all his projects.

One morning, Friday, who had gone to
the seashore to pick up tortoises, came back
running at full speed and exclaiming. " 0
Master, master! Oh sorrow! Oh bad! yon-

der, one, two, three canoe." Crusoe en-
M 3
deavoured in vain to assure him there was no

danger ; the poor fellow continued in a state
of violent agitation. From the place where
he saw the savages land he recognized that
they were enemies of his nation, and he
imagined that they had come to search for

him, and that they intended to cut him in

pieces and devour him. He did not, how-
ever, want for courage. " Friday," said his
master, " I am in as great danger as you are;
if they take us they will not spare my life any

more than yours; it is necessary therefore
that we should both fight." " Oh," replied
Friday, drawing himself up proudly, " me
quite ready to fight for master; me quite
ready to die when master order me to die."

Crusoe, anxious to profit of this favourable

disposition, gave him three muskets loaded
with swan shot and small bullets ; he himself
took three others loaded in like manner, put

two pistols in his belt, and proceeded towards
the place where the savages had landed.
They were about twenty in number, and were

seated rounda great fire, regaling themselves
with the flesh of one of their prisoners. At
some paces from them stood another unfor-
tunate victim, bound and stretched out on
the sand; he was in his turn to be devoured
by the cannibals.

From his dress, Robinson Crusoe plainly
perceived this man was a European; fired
withindignation atthis discovery, he thought
no more of danger, but resolved to attempt
his deliverance whatever mightbe the conse-

quence. He was not more than four and
twenty yards from the cannibals; a wood

concealed him from their observation; but
did not prevent him from taking a good aim
at them. " Come, Friday," said he, " follow
my directions ; do exactly what you see me do."
He then laid down two of his muskets, and
pointed the third at the savages. Friday did
the same. " Are you ready ?'-' said Robinson

Crusoe. " Yes," replied Friday, and they
both immediately fired.

At this shot three of the savages fell dead,
and five were wounded. The remainder of the
party rose precipitately Without knowing
whither they should fly to avoid danger, the
cause of which was unknown to them. Ro-
binson Crusoe and Friday, laying aside the
muskets they had discharged, took up two

others, and firing a second time, again killed
and wounded several, and the most indescrib-
able consternation prevailed among the rest.
The two assailants then rushed from the
wood, carrying with them their two remain-
ing loaded muskets. No enemy' appeared,

they had all fled. Whilst Friday pursued the

fugitives who sought to regain their canoes,
Robinson Crusoe ran to the Eur0pean, un-
bound him and presented him with arms. He
proved to be a Spaniard, and thanking Cru-
soe for the signal service he had received from
him, he joined in pursuing the fugitives, lest
any of them should escape and convey to
their countrymen an account of the adven~
ture. In a short time they were all extermi-

nated, with the exception of four, who con-

trived to reach one of their canoes, and pad-
dled off as fast as they could. While the

conquerors were reloading their muskets they
had time to get a good distance off. Crusoe

was 10th to waste powder and ball in firing on
them at such a distance; upon this, Friday('Rvs 0E. 1m,>>

    
     
          
      

  

1 lil' ' . -- "$134. w
.' test. .' '
'_ :l\\ fifi\\'u
i" Efit'I-k' ' ' \.\
9.:;""':-"\'" ~ '5' '

\ 0' N

I \ '3"ka ' [v

'-,': <<

\

    
 

,l

           

Friday" aha his Father.

[011.176 Leg.

warm; ..'|7u'."1_zC/1'14?.1p'jflurzlv. (2)1710- 0f.~'.'?:zuZ-'.
proposed that they should pursue them in
one of the canoes which they had abandoned.

This plan being approved of, Friday jump-
ed firstinto one of the canoes. He there dis-
covered a man bound hand and foot. This
man, who proved to be a savage, was lying
at the bottom of the canoe, so that he was
not at first perceived. Friday, by Crusoe's
desire, stooped to unbind him; but he no
sooner beheld his countenance than he ut-
tered a loud cry, pressed the savage to his
heart, and embraced him; he then began to
weep, to laugh, to jump and dance by turns,
as though he had lost his senses. It was some
time before he was able to explain to his
master the cause of all this ; but having
come to himself a little, he informed him
that the savage was his father.

Far from checking transports that had their
source in such honourable feelings, Crusoe
took a delight in witnessing them. Friday
jumped into the boat, then jumped out again,
excited by sentiments which prevented him
from thinking on what he did. The poor old
man stretched forth his arms towards his son,
and was so overcome with emotion, that he
could not utter a single word; he wept for
joy, and from time to time expressed his
gratitude to Robinson Crusoe, of whose
kindness and humanity Friday informed
him in the language of his country.

This affecting scene put an end to the
pursuit of the savages, and as the day was

far advanced, they thought of quitting the
scene of action. The strength which the

Spaniard had shewn in pursuing the fugi-

tives proceeded entirely from his courage, it
continued no longer than the termination of
the battle. He had stretched himself out
at the foot of a tree, and he now endea-
voured in vain to collect his strength, to rise
and follow Robinson Crusoe, who wished
to conduct him to his castle. Friday's fa-
ther was no more able to walk than the Spa-
niard. Friday set his master an example;

he took his father upon his shoulders, and
Crusoe then did the same with the Spaniard.
But when they came to the double wall

they were both at a greater loss than before:
they knew not how to get their friends
across; the reader is aware that Crusoe
could not cross the wall himself without

the help of two ladders. They deter--
mined therefore to erect a tent between the
exterior wall and the grove before men-
tioned. They afterwards made two beds,
upon which the Spaniard and Friday's fa-
ther reposed, after having supped. They

enjoyed a delightful repast, each having a
guest with whom he could converse freely:

Friday and his father spoke the same lan-

guage, and Robinson Crusoe and the Spa-

niard conversed with perfect ease in Latin.
This Spaniard was one of the Europeans

whom Friday had mentioned to his master;
he was taken whilst fighting for those who
had shewn hospitality to him and his com-
panions in misfortune.

Robinson Crusoe soon acquainted him
with the project he was on the point of exe-
outing, when the savages made their appear-
ance, and at the same time inquired whether
it was true that Friday's countrymen had
among them many other Europeans. The

Spaniard assured him there were fifteen Spa-
niards and Portuguese who had been ship-
wrecked upon their coast. " Well," said
Crusoe, " the period of our deliverance is
at hand; in a few days we will depart from
hence to join them, and with the protec-
tion and assistance of the Savages, we will
set to work to build a vessel large enough
to carry us where we like, either southwards
to the Brazils, 0r northwards to the Spanish
Islands." The Spaniard in part disapproved
of this design; he told Robinson Crusoe
that the Europeans to whom he had alluded,
were not on so good a footing with the sa-
vages as he seemed to think they were; that
these savages, who were not all of Friday's
disposition, appeared to have given them an
asylum at first only through dread of their
fire-arms, and that they continued to treat
them well only because they derived assist-
ance from them .in their wars. He added
that he was afraid on that account alone
that they would not suffer them to construct
a ship; in conclusion he expressed a Wish
that Crusoe could by any means rescue the
shipwrecked Europeans from the power of
the savages. " It is better," pursued he,
"'to bring them here, than to go and join
them there; here, indeed, we may labour
to construct such a vessel as you Wish for,
and as we shall not be under the necessity
of continually guarding against the perfidy
of the savages, the work will go on much
faster." .

Robinson Crusoe yielded to this advice,

which he thought very sensible, and Friday's
father soon returned to his native country,
accompanied by the Spaniard. The Spaniard
was the bearer of proposals from Crusoe to
the Europeans; the 01d savage undertook

to prevail on his countrymen to allow the
Europeans to depart on friendly terms ; he

himself intended to accompany them.
Robinson Crusoe had no doubt the Euro-

peans would accept the preposals he made ,
them of coming to his island to build a ship
fit to carry them to their own country. He
awaited the return of his messengers with
that tranquillity of mind which usually ac-
companies the certainty of success; but it

was ordained that he should be delivered
N
from his solitude by other means, and by a
train of circumstances so extraordinary,
that the most incredulous cannot but ac-

knowledge that they were brought about
solely by the hand of God.

--------0-----

CHAP. XIII.

ARRIVAL OF AN EUROPEAN SHIP, THE
CREW' OF WHICH HAD MUTINIED.

ONE morning before the sun had well
risen, Robinson Crusoe was still sleeping
when Friday hastily approached his bed,
exclaiming, " Master, master! they are
come! they are come!"

Crusoe jumped up, and having dressed
himself, proceeded through his grove, so
little dreaming of danger that he Went un-

armed: but what was his surprise, on look-
ing towards the sea, to observe at the dis-

tance of about a league and a half, a boat
under sail, Which, in order to reach his island,
pursued an opposite course to that which the
Spaniard and Friday's father would follow

on their return. He desired Friday to make
no signal since they were not the persons
whom he expected, and it was impossible

to know yet whether they were friends
or enemies.

Robinson Crusoe went to fetch a teles-
cope, and by means of his ladder, ascended

to the top of the rock, as he was accustom-
ed to do when he apprehended any danger,

and wished to make observations withbut
being discovered himself.

He had no soener reached the summit of
the rock than he plainly perceived a vessel
at anchor at the distance of about two
leagues and a half, and from its structure,

as well as that of the boat, he had reason
to believe they were both English.
Although overjoyed at seeing a ship,
which, to all appearance, was manned by
his own countrymen, yet he felt some secret
doubts which induced him to keep on his
guard. He could not conceive what busi~
ness an English vessel could have in that
part of the world, since it was not the way
to any country with which the English carried

on trade; moreover, he knew that there had

not been any storm to drive them on that
coast against their inclination ; consequent-
ly he had reason to believe that they had no
good designs, and that it was better for him
to remain in his present solitary state than to
fall into the hands of robbers and murderers.
He kept himself on his guard therefore, and
made no signal to attract their attention.

The boat drew near the shore as if in
search of a creek for the convenience of
landing, but not perceiving one, the pe0ple
in the boat ran it ashore at a little more than
a quarter of a mile from Robinson Crusoe's
retreat.

When the crew landed, Crusoe plainly
perceived that they were Englishmen, he
eounted eleven, three of whom were bound
and unarmed ; and When the first five or six

0fthose armed and at liberty jumped ashore,
they took the others out of the boat as
prisoners. One of the three exhibited a pic-

ture of grief and despair almost bordering
on madness; the other two from time to
time raised their hands to Heaven and ap-
peared deeply afflicted ; but their grief was
far less violent than that of their companion.

Whilst in this state of uncertainty, unable
to divine the meaning of what he saw, Fri-
day called out in his broken English, " 0
master! you see Englishmen eat prisoners
as well as savages." " Do you think they in-
tend to eat them, Friday ?" replied Crusoe;
. " I am afraid they will murder them, but
rely on it they will not eat them."

He now regretted the absence of the
Spaniard and the old savage, and wished
that he could, undiscovered, come Within
gunshot of the insolent wretches, and deliver
the prisoners from their cruelty; for he did
not perceive that they had any fire-arms with
them, and he therefore hopedto master them
Without much difficulty. But Providence
ordained that he should gain his object
another way.

While they were rambling through all the
island, as if they wished to view the country,

Crusoe observed that the three pnsoners
N 3
were at liberty to go wherever they pleased ;
but they were so downcast that they seated
themselves on the ground, overcome with
grief and despair.

Their forlorn appearance reminded him
of what he himself felt when he first landed

on the island, giving himself up for lost,
turning his eyes on all sides, harassed with

the dread of becoming the prey of wild beasts,
and compelled to take refuge all night
among the branches of a tree.

He then little expected to see the ship
again next morning, and to obtain a provi-
dential supply for his subsistence; so, these
unhappy prisoners had not the least idea of
the speedy deliverance Which Heaven had
prepared for them.

How many reasons have we in this world
to rely cheerfully on the mercy of the Crea-
tor, since we are seldom in such unfortunate
circumstances as not to have some cause
to be thankful, and our deliverance is very
often brought about by those very means
Which appeared to threaten our destruction.

It was high water when the Englishmen
landed ; and part] y in conversing with
their prisoners, partly in strolling about the
coast, they staid until the water ebbed and
left their boat aground.

They had left two men in the boat, Who,
in consequence of drinking too freely of _

brandy, had fallen asleep. One, however,
started up sooner than the other, and finding

the boat too fast aground for him to move it,
he called his companions; but they alto.
gether had not sufficient strength to launch
it, the boat being extremely heavy, ' and the
shore on that part being as soft as a quick-
sand.

In this dilemma, like true seamen, Who
are perhaps the most improvident of all mar...
kind, they resolved to give themselves no
further trouble about it, and began to stroll
up the island. Robinson Crusoe then heard
one of them call out to another who remain-
ed by the boat, " Come, Jack ! let her
alone there, the next tide will set her afloa ."

All this while he kept himself Within the
enclosure of his castle Without going a step
further than his observatory on the top of
the hill. He knew that the boat could net
be afloat before ten o'clock at night, and
that as it would then be dark, he could ap~
proach them Without danger.

In the mean time he made preparations for
a battle, but with more precaution than ever,

well knowing that he had to deal With ene-
mies more formidable than those Whom he
had hitherto encountered on his island.

He promised himself great assistance from
Friday, Who was become an excellent marks-
man : he gave him three muskets, took hime
self two fowling pieces. His appearance
was fierce in the extreme; he had on his head
his formidable goat--skin cap ; at his side
hung his great naked sabre, With two pistols
in his belt, and a gun on each shoulder.

He resolved not to make any attempt be-
fore night; but about two o'clock in the

afternoon, during the heat of the day, he
found that the sailors Were all gone into the
woods, apparently to lie down to sleep ; and
although anxiety of mind prevented the pri-
soners from sleeping, he nevertheless ob-

served that they had lain themselves down_ _........?
5:3:

:27:

Qt...'
A3... .
3'

E Em?

   

. :Ewws..SSSS "e Egg:

llims 01f

us on Crus oe dis covm' s

R0131

to the three Prisoners.

/.~'.

Bu:

f

a
o

97' \

(nrm 4"

('n r .1711." 11;.-

i
1

1. him

I'lll'llls'lmi J'vr."
under the shade of a great tree pretty close
to him, and out of sight of the others.

He then determined to discover himself,
and he accordingly marched forward, Fri--
day followed at a short distance, as formi--
dably armed as his master, but not making
quite so spectre-like a figure as he did.

When Crusoe approached the prisoners he
called to them in Spanish, " Who are you,
gentlemen ?" They made no reply, and ap-
peared ready to take to flight. He then ad-
dressed them in English, and said, " Gen-
tlemen, fear nothing ; perhaps you have
found afriend where you little expected one."
" He must then be sent from Heaven," re-
plied one of them gravely, taking off his hat,

" for our misfortunes are past all human help."
" All help comes from Heaven, sir," replied

Crusoe ; " but inform me, though a stranger,

of the means of assisting you, for you ap-
pear" to be in very great distress. I saw you
land, and when you were discoursing with
the villains who broughtyou hither, Isaw one
of them draw his sabre, as though he intendr

ed to kill you."
The poor man trembling and his eyes over-
flowing with tears, replied with an air of as-
tonishment, " Am I speaking to a man, a
God, or an angel '5'"----" Oh ! don't embarrass
yourself about that, sir," said Robinson
Crusoe, " if God had sent an angel to assist
you, he would have appeared better clothed
and armed than you see me. I am really a
man, and moreoveran Englishman, and dis-
posed to render you assistance. I have but
one servant, but we are both armed; tell us
freely, can we serve you ? Explain the nature
of your misfortune l"

" Alas, Sir!" replied he, " the tale is too
long to be told whilst our enemies are so near.
Suffice it to say, that I had the command of
that ship. My crew mutinied against me;

I With difficulty escaped being murdered ; but
whatis almost as bad, theyintend to leave me
in this desolate place with these two men, one
of whomis my mate, the other apassenger."----

" But," said Robinson Crusoe, " what has
become of the rebellious rascals ?"----" There
they are asleep," replied he, pointingto a
cluster of trees, '* andI tremble lest they
should have heard us speak; if so, we shall
all be murdered to a certainty."

Robinson Crusoe inquired whether the
mutineers'had any fire-arms, and learnt that
they had only two muskets, one of which
they had left in the boat.

" Then leave me to deal with them," said
he. " They are asleep; it is an easy matter
to kill them all; but would it not be better
to take them prisoners '2"

The captain replied, that there were two
desperate villafns among them of whom no
good could be expected ; but he thought if
they were secured the rest would willineg
return to their duty; he added, that at that .
distance he could not describe them, but
that he was ready to obey his orders in every
thing.

" Well," said Crusoe, " let us retire, lest
they should wake and perceive us; follow
me to a place Where we may deliberate with-
out interruption."

When they had concealed themselves in
the wood, Crusoe resumed the conversation.
" Sir," said he to the captain, " I am resolv--
ed to risk every thing for your deliverance,
but on two conditions; whilst you remain on
this island you shall renounce all sort of au-
thority, -and if I put arms into your hands,
you shall return them to me the moment I
require them ; you must punctvually obey my
orders, and never attempt to do any thing to
my prejudice. For the second condition, I
require, that if we succeed in retaking the
vessel, you shall carry me and my man to
England, without demanding any thing for
our passage, after having also taken on board
sixteen Europeans Who have been cast by
shipwreck on a neighbouring island. The
captain accepted these conditions with tran-
sport, protesting his readiness to obey all
Robinson Crusoe's directions, and to brave
every danger for his sake.

Crusoe then gave him and his companions
in misfortune three muskets, with powder
and ball, desiring them to march forward and
to act as circumstances might renderneces-
sary. .

.- ,At this moment two of the mutineers awoke
and started up. Crusoe asked the captain if
they were the two men of whom he had
spoken? He answered, "no."--" Well then,"
said Crusoe, " let them escape, since Pro-
vidence seems to have awakened them for
the purpose of saving their lives; as to the
rest, if you do not make sure of them, it is

your own fault."

Animated by these words, the captain ad-
vanced with a musket in his hand and a pis-
tol in his belt. His two companions, who
were going first, made a slight noise which
roused one of the sailors, and he began to
cry out to wake his comrades ; but the mate
and the passenger immediately fired and
killed him on the spot. The other, although
dangerously wounded, rose and called for
help; but the captain ran up to him, telling
him it was too late to implore assistance, and
instantly knocked him down with the butt-
end of his musket.

There still remained three more, but they
begged for mercy. The captain promised to
forgive them on condition that they should
express their abhorrence 0f the crime they
had committed, and assist him faithfully in

o
recovering the ship and carrying her to Ja:
maica, from whence she had come. They

gave him all the protestations of their re-

pentance and future good behaviour that

could be desired. He then bound them
hand and foot.

Friday afterwards went With the mate to
the boat, in order to secure it and to bring
away the sails and oars; they did so, with}
out meeting with any resistance.

Three sailors, who had separated from the
others before all this took place, returned

on hearing the report of the muskets. Find-
ing that their captain, who was before their
prisoner, had now become their conqueror;
they submitted to him, and" allowed him td
bind them like the others.

The victory being now complete, Crusoe
conducted the captain and his companions
to his castle. After they had taken some
refreshment, he related to them his history,
and shewed them all the inventions he had

put in practice during his abode 0n the 1s:
land. I

All that he told the captain, and all that
he showed him," appeared equally to excite
his amazement; above all, he admired his
fortification and the manner in Which he con-

cealed his retreat by means of the trees which
he had planted there many years before.
Crusoe informed him, that what he then saw
was his castle, the place of his residence;
that he had a country-house besides, which
he would show him in due time, but at pre-
sent it was necessary to consider on the
means of recovering the ship. The captain
was of the same Opinion, but confessed that
he did not know how to effect that object.
" There are yet," said he, " twenty-six men

on board, who knowing that by their mutiny
they have forfeited their lives, Will persist in
it through desperation. How then can we

attack them with a number so very inferior
to theirs ?"

Crusoe could not deny the justness of this
conclusion, and he saw that the only thing
to be done was to lay some snare for the crew,
and at least to prevent them from landing.
He was certain that in a short time the sai-
lors, astonished at not seeing their comrades
return, would launch the other boat to go in
quest of them.

He told the 'captain, therefore, that the
first thing they had to do was to stave the
boat, and prevent them from carrying it off.
The captain approved of this advice, and
they instantly set to work. They took from
the boat every thing the sailors had left
there; one bottle of brandy, and another of

rum, some biscuits, a horn full of powder,
and aloaf of sugar of about six pounds weight

wrapped up in a piece of canvass. They
afterwards knocked a large hole in the bot-
tom of the boat and left her on the beach.

+

CHAP. XIV.

ROBINSON CRUSOE ASSISTS THE CAPTAIN
IN RECOVERING HIS SHIP, AND EM-

BARKS FOR EUROPE.

WHAT Robinson Crusoe had predicted
soon took place: the sailors who remained
on board the ship were astonished at not
seeing their comrades return; they fired a
gun and made the usuai signal for the boat.

At the same moment, Crusoe and his par-
ty, with the help of their telescopes, saw
them hoist out their other boat and row t6-
Wards the shore. As the boat approached,

they discovered that there were ten men on
board, and that they all had fire-arms with
them; they could even distinguish their
countenances during a very long time, be-
cause, being driven by the tide, they were

obliged to row up under shore to come to the
same place where the first boat had landed.

The captain thus had a full view of them,
and he observed to Robinson Crusoe that he
saw among them three very brave fellows,

whom he was sure the others had forced into
the conspiracy; but as for the boatswain,
who was the chief officer among them, and
the rest, they were the greatest villains in

the Whole crew.
Crusoe smiled, and replied, that men in
their situation should be above fear; that it

was worth While to run some hazard to ren-
o 3
der his life, Which had 'been subject to so
many reverses, more happy. " Where,"
continued he, " is your conviction that Pro-
'vidence has preserved me in order to save
your life ? Take courage, I see but one em-
barrassing circumstance in the whole busi-
ness."-----" What's that ?" said the captain.
" It is," replied Crusoe, " that there are
three or four honest men among them, Whose
lives should be spared. Had they all been
rogues, I should have believed that Provi-
dence had singled them out, in order to de-
liver them into our hands; rely upon it, all
those Who have landed Will be at our dispo-
sal, and shall die or live as we think fit."
These words, pronounced with a firm voice
and animated countenance, inspired the cap-
tain with fresh courage, and he actively set
to work to assist Crusoe in making prepara-
tions for the attack. As soon as the second
boat was observed advancing towards the
island, they took the precaution of separa-
ting the prisoners, and of placing them
in security. Two of them, of whom the
captain entertained particular suspicion,
were by 'Crusoefs desire conducted to his
'cave, guarded by F riday and one of the cap-
tain's companions. T hey left them some
provisions, and assured them that if they re-
mained quiet they should in a few days be
set at liberty; but if they made the least at-
tempt to escape, no mercy would be shewn
them.

The other prisoners were better off; two,
indeed, on whom the captain could not
place reliance, were kept pinioned; but the
other three, Crusoe took into his service,
on the recommendation of the captaina and
upon their giving a solemn promise to live
and die in the service of their master.

The men who arrived in the second boat
pushed her ashore after them when they
landed. Crusoe was glad to see this. He
was afraid lest they should leave it at an-
chor, with some hands to guard it, in which
' case it would have been impossible for them
to gain possession of it.

They immediately ran to the other boat;
but finding a hole knocked in her bottom,
and all her tackle carried off, they appeared '
in great consternation. They then gave
two or three loud shouts to make their com-
panions hear; but finding it was of no avail,
they made a general discharge of their fire--
arms.

All was silent, except the echo which re-
peated the report of the discharge. They
at first seemed inclined to return to the
ship; they launched the boat, and all jump--
ed into it. They had not however rowed
far, when they again returned. Three of
them were left in the boat; the others pro-
ceeded up the country in search of their
companions. Crusoe was greatly disap-
pointed on seeing this: it would have been
to no purpose for him or his pe0ple to seize
the seven men who had landed, if the rest
escaped, for in that case the boat would not
fail to give the alarm, when a fresh party
would either be sent ashore, or the ship
would set sail.

However, the evil was without remedy;
the boat rowed from the shore, and cast an-
chor at some distance. All that could now
be done, was to await the event.
The seven sailors who had landed kept
close together, walking by the side of the

hill, at the bottom of which lay the habita-

tion of Robinson Crusoe. On reaching the
top of the hill, from which they could see
a great part of the woods and vallies of the
island, especially on the north-east side,
where the land was lowest, they began to
shout again till they were tired; and not
daring to penetrate further into the country,
they sat down to consult together. Had
they taken it into their heads to go to sleep,
as the first party had done, they would have
rendered an essential service to Robinson
Crusoe and his companions; but they were
too full of terror, although they had no idea
of the kind of danger they had to fear.

The captain thought he could guess the
subject of their conversation, and, suppo-

sing they meditated a second discharge of
their fire--arms to make their comrades hear,

prOposed that they should fall upon them a1-
together as soon as they had fired, and thus

force them to surrender. Crusoe thought
this was a very good idea, provided it was
cleverly executed; but, unfortunately, an
opportunity did not present itself.

After a long consultation, the sailors rose
and marched down towards the sea. They
had apparently formed such dreadful appre-
hensions of the dangers which awaited them,
that they gave their companions over for
lost, and determined to return to the ship
and set sail.

The captain seeing that they were really
about to depart, was reduced to despair;
but Crusoe soon thought of a stratagem to
bring them back again, which perfectly
succeeded.

He ordered the mate and Friday to pro--

ceed to the western side of the island, and

when they should come to some rising
ground, to halloo as loud as they could, and
then stop, and to begin again as soon as the

sailors answered them; and to continue do-
ing so at certain intervals, until they brought
them into the woods, and then to return to
him.

The sailors were just getting into the boat
when the mate and Friday first called out.
They heard them instantly, and ran towards
the part of the island from which the sound
appeared to proceed. Finding a creek in

their way they called for the boat. Having
rowed across the creek, they placed the boat

under the guard of two of their party.

This was just What Crusoe wished for;
leaving Friday and the mate to execute his
orders, he and the rest of his companions
marched round and surprised the two sailors
who guarded the boat. One of them was
in it, the other was lying on the beach half
asleep. He started up suddenly on the ap--
proach of Crusoe and his party. The cap--
tain, who was nearest, rushed upon him,
knocked him down with the butt-end of his
musket, and then called to the one Who was
in the boat to surrender, or he was a dead
man. He did not hesitate long, on finding

himself attacked by five men, his comrade
killed, and besides he was one of those of

whom the captain had spoken favorably : he
not only surrendered, but even joined the
captain, and promised to serve him faithfully.

They then dragged the boat ashore, threw-
the body of the sailor, who had been killed,
into the sea, in order to prevent his compa-
nions from knowing what had happened.

It is impossible to express the astonish-
ment of the sailors whom Friday and the
mate had enticed into the woods, when, on
their return, they saw the tide had ebbed,
the boat stuck fast in the sand, and without

guards. They heard them call to one ano-
ther in the most pitiable manner, that they

were in an enchanted island, that if it was
inhabited by men they should be all mur-
dered, and if it was haunted by spirits, they
should be carried off and devoured.

They began to halloo again, and to call
their companions by name; but received no

answer. Crusoe and his party then saw
them, by the help of the little daylight which
remained, running about and wringing their

hands in despair. Some jumped into the
boat to repose, for they were much fatigued;
others ran up and down the shore, like men

who had lost their reason.
Crusoe could easily have attacked them;

but his design was to take. them at his ad-
vantage, in order that as few as possible
might be killed, and not to risk the lives of

his followers. He resolved therefore to
wait, in the h0pe that they would separate ;
but that they might have no chance of es-
caping, he drew his ambuscade nearer, or-
dering every one to crawl on his hands and
feet, in order to get as close to them as pos-
sible without being discovered.

The boatswain who was the chief leader
of the mutiny, and who now proved himself
more terrified and cowardly than the others,
in a few minutes advanced towards their
hiding place, with two of his companions.
The captain was so irritated against this
principal rogue, that he could scarcely allow
him to approach near enough to be sure of
him. He however checkedhimself ; butafter
having waited patiently for another minute
or two, he rose up suddenly with Friday and
fired at them.

The boatswain was killed on the spot;
one of the two who accompanied him was
wounded in the body, but he did not die

until two hours after the other fled. On
1)
hearing the noise of firing, Crusoe advanced
with all his army which consisted of eight
men; he was himself generalissimo; Friday
was his lieutenant-general; their privates
were the captain and his two companions,
and the three prisoners whom they had
trusted with arms.

The night was very dark, so that it was
impossible for the mutineers to know what
number they had to engage with. Crusoe
ordered the man whom they found in the
boat, and who surrendered, to call them by
their names, to learn whether they were
willing to capitulate.

The sailor began to cry aloud, " Tom
Smith! Tom Smith!" " Is it you, John '2"
answered Smith. " Yes, yes," replied the
other. " For God's sake throw down your
arms or you are all dead men this instant."

" To Whom must we surrender?" said
Smith; " where are they?"--" They are
here," replied J ohn ; " it is our captain with
fifty soldiers he has obtained from the gover-
nor of the island. He has been looking for'
you more than two hours; the boatswain is
killed; William Fry is dangerously wound-
ed; I am a prisoner of' war myself, 'and if
you do not surrender you are lost."

" Will they give us quarter," inquired
Smit , " if we throw down our arms ?" " I
will ask the captain," said J ohn. The cap-
tain began to speak to Smith himself: " You
know my voice, Smith," cried he, " if you
surrender you shall all have your lives, ex-
cept Will Atkins." " For God's sake, cap-
tain," cried Atkins, " give me quarter?
What have I done more than the others?
they are all as guilty as I am." This how-
ever was untrue, for he was the first who
had ill used the captain, by tying his hands
and using the most insulting language. The

captain accordingly replied, that he would
promise nothing, that he must surrender at
discretion, and trust to the mercy of the
governor; by this high sounding title he de-
signated Robinson Crusoe.
Upon this they all threw down their arms,
begging for mercy, and Crusoe sent J ohn
\ and two others to bind them :. afterwards his
great army of fifty men advanced and seized
them. As for the generalissimo he kept out
of sight, for reasons of state.

The captain severely reproved them for
their bad conduct.

They all appeared very penitent, and
begged hard for their lives, in a. very hum-
ble manner. He replied that they were not
his prisoners; but the governor's of the is-
land. " You intended," continued he, " to
leave me on a desart island, but it pleased
God to ordain that this place should be in-
habited, and even governed by an English-
man. The Governor could hang you all,
but having given you quarter, he probably
means to send you to England to be deli-

vered up to justice; Atkins however ex-
cepted; I am ordered by the governor to

advise him to prepare for death, as he Will
be hanged to-morrow morning."

This fabrication produced a wonderful ef-

fect. Atkins fell on his knees, and entreated
the captain to intercede for him With the
governor, and the others conjured him for
God's sake to prevent their being sent to

England.
As Robinson Crusoe had determined in
his mind to employ these sailors as the in-
struments of recovering the ship, he cone
trived to' play his part of governor, Without
shewing himself. In that capacity he gave
orders that the captain should come to him;
one of the men then called: " captain, the
governor wishes to speak with you." " Tell
his excellency," replied the captain, " that
I will this moment obey his orders." The
prisoners were now completely in the snare,
they doubted not that the governor was
near them with a numerous party.

When the captain came, Crusoe commu-
nicated to him his design of seizing the ves-
sel. He approved it very much, and re-
solved to put it in execution next morning.
The better to effect their object, Crusoe was
of opinion that it would be advisable to di-
vide the prisoners: he directed the captain
and his two companions to take Atkins and
two of the worst of the party, and convey
them to his cave, where they would find two
of their companions who had been there for
a considerable time.

P3
He sent the rest to his country-house,
which was surrounded by a strong enclosure,
as the reader has already been informed.

To the latter he sent the captain next
morning, instructing him to discover their
sentiments, in order to learn whether it
would be prudent to employ them in the
projected scheme. He spoke to them of
their bad conduct, and of the misery they
had brought on themselves; and he observed
that although the governor had spared their
lives, they would certainly be hanged if he
sent them to England. " Nevertheless,"
added he, " if you promise to assist me in
the just attempt of recovering my ship, the
governor Will formally pledge himself to
obtain your pardon."

It may easily be judged what effect such
a proposition would produce on the unhappy
men: they threw themselves on their knees
before the captain, and promised with the
most solemn imprecations, that they would
be faithful to the last drop of their blood,
that they would follow him wherever he
wished, that they would always consider
him as their father, since they should owe
their lives to him. " Well," said the cap-
tain, " I will inform the governor of your
promises, and will do all in my power to
prevail on him to favour you." He then left
them, in order to report the conversation to

Robinson Crusoe,

Not wishing to neglect any thing which
could ensure the success of the scheme,
Crusoe desired the captain to return and say

that the governor had consented to select

five of them to employ in the enterprise, but
that he would detain as hostages the two
others, with the three prisoners whom he
had in his castle ; and that he would hang
them all five on the seashore, if their com-
rades were so perfidious as to fail in the
fulfilment of their promises.

There was in all this an air of severity
which convinced them the governor was in
earnest.

The five whom the captain selected joy-
fully accepted these terms; and the hostages
were as much interested as their commander
in exhorting them to do their duty.
The captain now had nothing to do but
rig and man the two boats for the expedi-
tion; this was soon done. _

He then embarked with his party ; in One
boat were the passenger With fourof the sea-
men, and in the other the captain, the mate,
and four of the sailors who had surrendered.

It was about midnight When they disco-
vered the ship. As soon as they were within
hearing, he ordered J ohn to call out and in-
form the crew that they had brought back the
first boat With the sailors, but that they had
been a long time before they found them.

J ohn in this manner held them in conver-
sation until the boat came up to the ship's
side.

The captain and the mate going first on
board, instantly knocked down the second
mate and the carpenter, and being faithfully
assisted by the others, they soon secured
all who were on the decks.

They then began to fasten the hatches in

order to prevent those below from coming to
the assistance of their comrades, when the
sailors in the second boat, entering at the
fore-chains secured the forecastle of the
ship, and took prisoners three of the men
whom they found in the cook's cabin.

Thus being master of all above-board,
the captain ordered the mate to take three
men with him and to force their way into
the cabin of the new captain. The- latter
having taken the alarm, rose, and assisted
by two sailors and a cabin boy, was prepar-
ing a vigorous resistance.

The mate having by means of a crow-bar
forced open the door, the new captain and
his men boldly fired upon him and his com-
panions. Two were wounded by this dis-
charge; but the mate, although he had his
arm broken, shot the new captain through the
head, upon which his companions surren-
dered. All opposition was now at an end,
and the captain recovered his ship without

further bloodshed.

He instantly informed Robinson Crusoe
of the success of his enterprize by firing se-
ven cannon, as had been agreed upon be-
tween them. Crusoe was standing on the
beach full of care and anxiety; he heard the
happy signal with transports of joy.

The next morning the captain went ashore.
He embraced Crusoe in the most tender
manner, and pointing towards the vessel,
" my dear friend," said he, " my dear pre-
server, behold your ship; it belongs to you,
as well as we, and all we possess."

Crusoe cast his eyes ,towards the sea, and
there indeed he saw the ship Which was at
anchor and very near the shore according to
the captain's orders.

He was so overpowered with joy, that for
a long time he was not able to utter a word.
When he came to himself he embraced the
captain in his turn, declaring him his de-
liverer, and saying he regarded him as a
man sent by Heaven to his assistance. But
the captain denied that Robinson Crusoe
was under any obligations to him, and there
arose between them a long contest of gra-

titude and generosity.
After these mutual protestations, and ac-
knowledgments, the captain told Crusoe that

he had brought him some refreshments, and.\ I
\\
u
v

.\\;
3\\

K
K" ' ':\\:\\~_'

x

I"

v 111* 8 012. Mm

:% :V

<<-
\\

.
\'
5

. _ r.

\'
\\\

\\

 
    
  

/

     
  

. ';"-;"1' .' -

3n"

{,9

'13.;

4.;

,u
'21-";2- ('5 '_ .:.:-' - '
2) 1' g

Huuuu- -

.~ .\

2-' Va. -. -. .. -
'SSS'W'~Q~'E'2fifi\'C/x w... .\ _ "AN;

5
\'--'.:--' . - __ ~-\ -~. . ,~ L ,
" Vb" \\\x\\c\* . _ -
SSSS\:~1~\\..\ ..\\\ ' -. --.. ---- - \q- 3;... -\ Afi
ask}: '~:' '5'~'~~\'."""'\%.;\\\>\)~SS5Y=\ C/m~ $12.. '
-'=*\1'SSt--:\\\\\V'- \fi'v \\\'-. --.-=~.~;':-.--~'-i~3:=<<
same 1:1:331'3-':$*\i\\\\\'\\. :zs:~'C/SS~$3SS&\so
. _. -\-SS\'~\\\_\: Sit ' \ ----.'\""._-" 93":
S&\\\\\\\\\'SSssmm'm'%\\SSSSC/SS<<- _

The C :IPtzfin offers his Ship to Robinson
Crusoe . Mn. m'h'.

)I'lfi/t;-"/ll'll;'7l.' V.,..I.J(s:la?. lngJlu/Tic 11.771! 7 ' I 'i .. '1' lhh'li" .
he called to the men in the boat to bring
ashore the presents intended for the gover-
nor. They were indeed presents fit for a
governor, and for a governor who was to
dwell in the island, instead of one who, like

Robinson Crusoe, intended to quit it.

T hese presents consisted of a case of hot-
tles filled with cordial waters. There were
also seven bottles of Madeira wine, each
containing two good pints, two pounds of
excellent tobacco, two great pieces of beef,
six pieces of pork, a sack of peas, and about
a hundred weight of biscuit; a box of su-
gar, another filled with flour; two bottles
of lime juice, and a great number of other
things both useful and agreeable. But what

pleased Robinson Crusoe more than all the
rest was six shirts, quite new, an equal num-
ber of good cravats, two pair of gloves, two
pair of shoes, a pair of stockings, a hat, and
a complete suit of clothes.

Crusoe having caused all these presents

. '0 be carried to his habitation, began to

nsult with the captain, respecting the way
- vhich they should dispose of their pri-

l\ '
soners. This was very necessary, especially
with regard to the two leaders of the mutiny
whose confirmed and incorrigible wicked--
ness was well known. The captain was con-
vinced that kindness was as incapable of re-
forming them as punishment, and that if he
took them on board it must be for the pur-
pose of conveying them,in irons, to England,

or the first English colony they arrived at,
to be delivered over to justice.

The captain being so humane as to regret
the necessity of this course of proceeding,
Crusoe observed that he would undertake to
bring the two men he spoke of, to ask as a
favour, permission to remain on the island.

Having received from the captain full per-
mission to act as he pleased on this point,
he sent Friday and two sailors to the cave,
and desired them to bring the five prisoners,
bound, from thence to his country-house,
and to guard them until he came.

In a short time he proceeded to his coun-
try--house, dressed in the clothes which had
been presented to him by the captain, and
accompanied by that officer.
He was then Openly addressed as the go--
vernor. He first caused the prisoners to be
brought before him, and told them that he
was perfectly acquainted with their conspi-
racy against the captain, and of their in-
tention of committing piracy with the ship
they had seized ; that they might see their
new captain hanging at the yard-arm as a
reward for his villainy, and that he wished
to know what they had to allege against
being punished as pirates taken in the fact?

One of them answered that they had no-
thing to plead, except that the captain had
promised them their lives, and that they im-
plored forgiveness. Crusoe replied that he
did not know what to do for them, since he
was going to quit the island and to embark
for England; and that with regard to the
captain, if he took them With him it could
only be With the intention of delivering them
over to justice to be tried for mutiny, which
would lead them straight to the gallows.

He added, that he thought the best thing
they could do was to remain on the island,

Q
from whence he and all his pe0ple intended
to depart.

They received this proposal with gratitude,
saying, that they infinitely preferred staying
there to the fate which awaited them in
England ; but the captain pretended to ob-
ject to this proceeding. Upon which Ro-
binson Crusoe replied with an aii'of assumed
irritation, that they were his prisoners and
not the captain's ; that having offered them

a favour he was not a man to fail in keep-
ing his promise, that he would set them at
liberty as he had found them, and that the
captain might catch them again if he could.

He did as he had said, and unbinding

them, desired them to retire into the woods,
promising to' give them fire-arms, ammu-
nition, and the necessary directions to enable
them to live comfortably.

He then informed the captain that he in-
tended to remain one night longer on the
island in order to prepare every thing for his '
voyage, and urged him to return to the ship

to keep all in order.
' When the captain was gone, Crusoe de-C B-U S 0 E"--_...PSlf'SSPS

'____--_.--.-_--..__ _._-_.--. ".--

 

Robinson Crusoe leaving the Ishnd.
7'446471.

12:55.th Iv n'im'lai'. bffim'zlr. (21M afJTEPmZ; .

t ' , ' ~ ' o ' n .
' ' - ' - -.\ .. a .'.. - . . -
13C/: . , 4 .L 1-,.,. .3:..~.-;,~. um, xv + .u .'.- .r. .<<mm
sired the five sailors to come to his habita-
tion. Finding them still firm in their reso-
lution of remaining in the island, he gave
them a description of the place, and taught
them his method of making bread, planting '
corn, and drying grapes, in a word, all that
was necessary to render them comfortable.

He left them his arms, namely five mus-
kets, three fowling pieces, and three sabres,
and about a barrel and a half of gunpowder.

He also taught them his manner of rear-
ing goats, of milking and fattening them,
and making butter and cheese. He more-.
over promised that the captain should leave
them a large supply of gunpowder, and
some kitchen-garden seed.

The next morning when the boat rowed
up to the shore, Robinson Crusoe, accom-
panied by Friday, entered it to proceed to
the ship; he carried with him the jewels
and money that he had formerly regarded
With so much disdain. He did not forget
his umbrella, his large cap, his fur cloak and

his old parrot; they Were memorials of his

misfortune, which would do him honour,
Q 2
and Which he proposed to show to his old
acquaintances in England, if they were yet
alive.

The Englishmen wh om he left in the island
"" accompanied him to the boat,repeating their
thanks, and promising to follow the direc-
tions he had given them./'

When Crusoe arrived 'at the ship, he sent

a supply of provisions to the men on the

island.
The wind proved favourable, and towards
evening they set sail. Crusoe never turned

his eyes from the island as long as it re-
mained in sight: by habit we become at-
tached even to the scenes of our misfortune.

\Vhen he could no longer see the hospitable
sho're Which had shielded him from the fury

of the waves, he fell on his knees, and re-
turned thanks to God for his happy deliver-

ance. He had lived in exile twelve years,
two months and nineteen days.
CHAP. XV.

ROBINSON CRUSOE ARRIVES IN ENGLAND.
MEETING WITH HIS FATHER.

As it had been previously agreed on, they
set sail for Europe. The vessel touched at

the island to which Robinson Crusoe had

sent the Spaniard and Friday's fatherin quest
of the unfortunate men who had suffered

shipwreck. The captain took them on board,
having first informed them that their deliver-

ance was one of the conditions that Crusoe
had imposed on him. They embraced their
deliverer with transports of joy and grati-

tude, of which it is impossible to form a just
idea.

Friday's father, who was unable to part
with his son and benefactor, embarked also.
The passage was very favourable. In

twenty-four days the vessel entered Cadiz
harbour, where the Spaniards and Portu-

. guese having landed, it was but avery short
time sailing from thence to Portsmouth.
On his return to his native country, Ro-
binson Crusoe hastened to revisit the spot
where, twenty years before he had left his
family, overwhelmed with sorrow and des-
pair. When he beheld the towersikof Hull,
the most melancholy recollections Crowded
on his mind. " Does my father still live 7."
thought he, " or has he lingered into his
grave pronouncing curses on an ungrateful
son, who proved the torment of his old
age ?" A friend, at whose house he called,
and who with difficulty recognized him,
consoled him by the information that his
father was still living, though worn out by
age and infirmities, and that he was some-
times heard to regret the son whom a pas-

sion for useless travelling had, for a long
series of years, separated from his home.

Robinson Crusoe thought it best .not to
appear suddenly in the presence of his fa.-

ther, lest the agitation it might create should
be attended with fatal consequences. He
acquainted him of his return through the
medium of a friend, who promised to com-
municate the circumstance with every ne-
cessary precaution. The good old man

.. mg
wished to see him immediately. Fathers
are ever indulgent to the errors of their
children. But Crusoe had expiated his
faults in so terrible a manner, that it was

more natural to seek to afford him consola-
tion than to reprove him. " Oh! my father !"
" Oh! my son !" These, for a considerable
time, were the only words they could utter.
All Crusoe's family were overjoyed at
seeing him again, and every one was eager
to make him forget what he had suffered, by
shewing him marks of attention and friend-
ship. Friday and his father soon became a
part of the family, where every one wished
to serve as their guides and protectors.
Robinson Crusoe was now finally settled
in the country that gave him birth. His
history was generally known, and he be-
came the object of public curiosity. When
young people congratulated him on the re-

solution and skill with which he baffled ad-
verse fortune in his island, he constantly
replied 2--" .My young friends, all my strength
" proceeded from G01) ; when I disregarded
" him, I was plunged into confusion and dis-
" order. By encountering difliculties in his
" name I overcame them ; by Oflering up my
" labours to him they became fruitful. But
" notwithstanding all the mercy he has shewn
. " me, the recollection qf my sins still fills me
" with repentance. lily youngfriends, if you
" wish to enjoy peace (f mind, without which
" there is no real happiness, despise not the
" counsels 9}" your Parents, and never lose
" sightqf the homage dueto THEALMIGHTY !"

THE END.

 

H. Bryer, Printer,
Britlcwell Hospital, London.