\ \\si\ 3' M'
":  \

\

._ >>\ _\ \
' \\'\\ "

.\

'

\ \
, "\u.
:\:.\\\\\ \\The Baldwin Library

Kmfiuie'fi"From Ute Original Fronlispizcc lo "Romnmn Crusoe.THE

LIFE 'AND ADVEN TUBES

\
OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

0F Yonx, MARINER.

ILLUSTRATED WITH

ONE HUNDRED AND TEN WOOD ENGRAVINGS.' -

   

NEW YORK
POLLARD & MOSS
1887CONTENTS.

 

SECTION I. '

PAGH
Robinsmt'x Family. sou--His Eiopemeut from his Parents........................... 1
' SECTION II. .
First Adventures at Sea, and Experimm of a. Maritime Lira--Voyage to
Guinea................................................................................................... 5

SECTION III.
Bobimou's Captivity at. Saucer--Mm will) Xury.--Arrival at the zrazlis. 11

SECTION IV.

He settles in tho Brazile m: n "mam-Makes another Voyage. and is Shin-
wrecked

a
mono-<<o.~u..--.....-<<nmmn<<<<uunu........u......u .3

' SECTION v. .

Robinson finds himself in a Dt-solntc [slum--Prawns I. Stock of Articles
' from the \Vreck.--('.unstruu.s his Habitation .......................................... 8f

SECTION VI.

Gan-ins all his Riches, Proflsions, go. into his Habitation--Dreams: of
Solimde.--Cousolacory Reflection"; .......... ................................. .

 

 

 

SECTION VII.

Robinson's Mode of Reckoning Tilnm--Dilfiunltias arising from want of
Timur-He arranges his Habitation:mm................................ ............. . 42

SECTION VIII.

Robinson's Jonrnnl....DntaIis of his Domestic Economy and Contrivanoek
--Shock of an Earnhq'mke .........................:........................................... :46

SECTION 111'.
Robinson obtains more Articles non: the Wreck--Ilia Illness and "fiction 53

SECTION X.

His metronome-His Comfort in Reading the Scriptuma'L--Makes an Emu-
Iiou inw the Interior of the him--Forms his " Bower " .....

out-coo." 57iv comma-s.

PAGE

SE CTI ON X I.
Robinson makcs'n Tour to Explore his Island ........................._........' "..."... 65

SECTION x11'.
Re returns to his Cam--His Agricultural labours and Snows: ................. 69

SECTION XIII.
His Manul'nutum at Pottery, and Contrivance for baking Brond.................. 74

, SECTION XIV.

Moditates his Escape from the lsland.--Builds a Gama--Failure of his
Boheme.--kosiymtion to his 00ndition.--Makes himself a new Dress 78'

SECTION XV.

He makes a smaller Canoe, in which he attempts to miise round the Island.
---His perilous situation at Sta--Ho returns home...................................... 84

SECTION XVI.

Be rears 3. Flock of Goats--His Diam--fiis Domestic habits and style of
Living--Increasing Prosperity ............... 80

SECTION XVII.
Unexpected Alarm and Cause for Apprehension.--- He Fortifles his Abodo-- 98

SECTION XVIII.
Pmautions against Surprise.--Rohinson discovers that his 1:: and has been
visited by Cannibals................................................................................. 99
SECTION XIX.
Robinson discovers a Cave which wrves him as s Retreat against the
Savages.............>>..................................................... .... 108
_ SECTION XX
Another Visit of the Savages--Robinson sees" them dnncing.-- Perceives the
Wreck oi aVesul ..... .... ..................................... . .............. ..... .. ......... 108
SECTION XXI.
Es visits the Wreck and obtains many Stores from it.----Apsin thinks of
quitting the lsland.--Has s. remnrkahlo Dmm........ ....... . ......... ...... ....... 112
SPCTION XXII.
Robinson rescues one of their Captivss from the Savages. whom he names
Fridsymud makes his Servant ....... . ...... ..... 116
\
SECTION XXIII.

Robinson instructs and civil-2268 hi- msn Friday--Endom'ours to give him
an Idea. of Christianit ..... .. .....m........ .

4

....................................... 124
SECTION XXIV.
PAGE

Robinson and Friday build a Canoe to carry them to Friday's Country.--
Thcir Scheme prevented by the arrival of a Party of Savages ...... . ........... . 131

SECTION XXV.

Robinson releases a. Spaniard.--Friday discovers his Father.--Am'ommoda-
tion provided for these new Guests--who are afterwards sent to liberate
the other Spaniards--Arrival of an English Vessel ............

SECTION XXVI.

Bobinsor discovers himself to the English Captain--Assists him in reducing
his mutinous Crew.--who submit to him .....

SECTION XXVII.

Atkins entreats the Captain to spare his Life.--The latter recovers his Vessel
from the Mutiueers.--And Robinson leaves the Island.............................. 163

SECTION XXV [I I.

Robinson goes to Lisbon,where he finds the Portuguese Captain, who renders
him an Account of his Property in the Brazils.--Sets out on his Return to
England by Ipud................. ....... ..... ................. ............... 171

SECTION XXIX. '

Friday's Encounter with a. Bean--Robinson and his fellow Travellers
attacked by a. Flock of Wolves.--- His Arrangement of his mum, and
Marriage after his Return to Ensland................ .. 179

SECTION XXX.

He is seized with a, Desire to revisit his Islanq.--Loscs his Wife--is tempted
to go to Sea. seam--Takes out .a Cargo for his Oolouy ...... ..... ..... .. 137

SECTION XXXI.
Robinson's Ship relieves the Crew of a French Vessel that had caught Fire... 190

SECTION XXXII.

RA-lieves the Crew of a Bristol Ship, who are starving--Arrives at his

................... 137

 

unuupuuum ...... 152

 

 

.............................................--.-.-..-.....u..-.............. 193

SECTION XXXIII.

Robinson and Friday so ashore--The latter meets with his Fathom--Account
of what passed. on the Island afler Robinson's quitting it ..

 

 

SECTION XXXIV.

The Account continued.----Quarrols between the Englishmen.--A Battle
between two Parties 0: Savages who visit the Island--Fresh Mutiny
among the Settlers ......... -..... 205vi commune. ' "

SECTION XXXV.

PAGE
The mutinous Englishmen are dismissed from'the Islands--Return with

several captive Savages.--Take the Females as Wives 222

SECTION XXXVI.

Several Savages killed; the Remainder leave the Hunt--A Fleet or them
afterwards arrive--A general Battle--Tho Savages are overcome, and
tranquillity restored ......... ........... . ..... .... ........... . ...... .. :88

SECTION xxxvu.

Robinson learns (tom the Spaniards the Dilllculties they had toenoountcr.---
He furnishes the People with Tools, ae-- l'he Fronch Eeclwinstlc............ 246

SECTION XXXVIII.

Encounter with Savages at Sea--Friday's Death--Robinson finds his former
Partner in the Brazilx.--Ssils for the East Indies .... 254

SECTION XXXIX.

The Vessel touches at Madagwmrrim'ray with the Nativee,--who are mas-
sacred by the Crew.--'l'lm Sailors afterwards refuse to sail with Robinson,
who is left by his Nephew. the Captain, in Bengal........................... ...... 25v

 

 

SECTION XL.

Meets with an English Merchant with whom he makes some trading
Voyages--They are mistaken for Pimtea.--Vnnquish their Pnrsucrs.----
Voyage to OhlIim--Blecouitrc with the Cuuehin-Chinese.---Ix!and or Formosa
--Gulr of Nanquht--Apprehcnslon of falling into the Hands of the Dutch. 208

SECTION XLI.

Journeyto Faun--Robinson joins a. Caravan proceeding to Moscow--Ren-
contree with the Tartar: .. 284

 

SECTION XLIl.

Route through Mnscovy.--Robinson and 11-8th Merchant destroy an Idol.
---The whole Caravan in great Peril from the Pursuit of the Pagans.--
Tobolski.--Dcpnrtnre from Tob(;lski.--Encounter with a Troop of Robbers
in the Desort--Bohinson reaches Archangel, and finally arrives in England 295BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE

OF THE '

AUTHOR . OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

DANIEL Daron, the author of numerous works of fiction, among
which the " History of the Plague " has attained a certain popularity,
and " Robinson Crusoe " a lasting and world-wide renown, was born
in tlie'parish of _ St. Giles, Cri )plegate, in the city of London, in the
year 1661. He was educate at a dissentin school at Newington
Green; his father,'astrict dissenter, intending rim for the priesthood.
But this project Seems to have been abandoned, for some unknown"
reason, and young Daniel became a. tradesmen, like his father. Some-
thino' of the roving, restless nature, so admirably described in
" Robbinson Crusoe," seems to have been inherent in Defoe himself ;
for his life is full of strange vicissitudes, and he appears continually
involved in trouble on one account or another. We find lmn taking
part in the most ill-considered and unfortunate enterprise of his
time, the Rebellion of Monmouth, and narrowly escaping what the
cynical spirit of the time dubbed "a merry o-round at rope fair,"
namely, death by strangulation, for the 0 once. In after-life he
was hotly embroiled in the political quarrels of his age. At one
time he was compelled to stand in the pillory, as a punishment for
writinrr a well-tinted and thoughtful pamphlet on "The shortest wa
with the Dissenters." The opulaee, s'mpathizing with and a -
miring him, crowned the pilory with owers, and converted his
penance into a triumph; but this could not relieve him frum the

urdcn of the heavy tine he was compelled to pay, and which ham-
pered him for years afterwards. At another time he sutl'ered' a long
nnpnsonment, obtaining his release after two years by the interven-

.tion of Harley, Earl of Oxford. But he had not the art of advancing
his fortunes, though his evident merit procured him em loymcnt in
several matters of consequence; and, at the end of his on life, he

Was in poverty and neglect. He died in his native paris of St. -

Giles, Cripplegate, April 24:, 1781, at the age of seventy, and was
interred in Bunhill Fields burial-ground.

The political works of Defoe are numerous, and had a sensible
efl'eet on.the times in which he lived. A thoronvh Englishman, out-
spoken, vehement, and uncompromisin , he glionted out lustily
against abuses and wrong-doing wherever he found them; and in many
respects his ideas were greatly in advance of his time. Some of his
schemes may have been visionary and impracticable; but it.is pleasant.
to hear his sturdy voice raised, and to see his nervous pen wielded so
unihnchingly in advocacy of his principles, and to mark howunvaryingly
those principles point to moderation, mercy and the law of kindness.

~

0nii. BIOGRAPHICAL norrcz. . ' .

His Review, which he conducted for nine years, may certainly be
considered as the pioneer of the Spectator, Taller, Guardian, and
other collections of essays which enriched the literature of the first
half of the eighteenth century.

His political writings, however, have mostly passed away with the
trcuhlous times which gave them birth, and to which their interest
was confined. It was as a writer of fiction that Defoe was to
achieve more lasting fame. Two, at least, of his works have a value
and a significance uite irrespective of time and p1ace,--the one as a
record of a nation: calamity, the other as a wonderful piece of ima-

inary autobiography. These two books are the "History of the
lague of 1665," and the " Adventures of Robinson Crusoe."

At the time when the scourge was decimating' London, Daniel
Defoe was only four years old. It could not, t erefore, be from
memory that he so vivrdly described its incidents; though, doubtless,
in his youth he heard many an anecdote about the pestilence and its
ravages, from men of maturer years, on whose memories it must have
made an indelible impression. But his chief talent la in the
management of detail and accurate description; and it is illicult to
imagine, as we read the graphic record of the state of the terror-
stricken, desolate city, t at we have not before us the real daily
notes of an actual indweller in the city of the )lngue. In ltobinson
Crusoe the same marvellous ower is shown, at in a much hi her
decree. With matchless skill, the doubts and sorrows, the snil'ts
and expedienis, the little domestic triumphs and disappointments of
' the ship-wrecked mariner in his solitar home are put before the

readerm the ver form most calculate to enlist his interest and
sympathies. 80 t ioroughly has the author identified himself with the
hero of his romance, that Defoe disappears, and it is ltobinson Crusoe
himself who becomes a living personality, and moves and speaks
before the reader, and becomes as clearly and distinctly personified
as any hero of real life.

The first edition of Robinson Crusoe was published in 1719. In
the century and a half that has since elapsed, hundreds of edif
tions have a peared in all European languages. Everywhere the

. book has worlied its way; and as or the German version, "Robinson
de Jungere" is chronicled as one of the greatest successes of the
eminent Hamburgh firm of Cnmpe and Co.

In the present volume, the original text, slightly shortened, has
been adhered to. The operation of modernizing the language, ne--
cessary,. erhaps, in a scientific work, would have taken away one of
the chic charms from the narrative of the simple sailor, who is
therefore left to tell his tale in his own rou h, pathetic, old-fashioned
way. The drawings are from an eminent 'erman pencil, and apart
{Lem their artistic value, serve the purpose of thoroughly illustrating

e text.
ROBINSON'S FAMILY, ETC.--EIS EWPEMBNT FROM HIS PARENTI.

I was born in the year 1632, in the cit of York, of a good family,
though not of that country, my father .in a foreigiibr of Bremen,
named Kreutznaer, who settled first at Hal . He got 9. od estate
by merchandise, and leavi of his trade, lived afterwar s at York;
from whence he had marrie my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and after whom I was
so called, that is to say, Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual
corru tion of words in England, we are now called, nay, we call
ourse ves, and write our name, Crusoe; and so my companions always
called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenantcolonel to an
English 'ment of foot in Flanders, formerly commanded by the
famous Co onel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards. What became of m second brother, I never
knew, an more than my father and mot or did know what was
become 0 me. '

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my
head began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts. My
father, who was very aged, had given me a competent share of
learnin , as far as house education andacountry free school enerall
30, an designed me for the law; but I would be satis ed witi
nothin but gain to sea; and my inclination to this led me so
strong y against t e will, na , the commands of my father, and
against all the entreaties an persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that pro ension of
nature, tending directly to the life of misery which was to efall me

1 B2 ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 01111803.

~ My father, a wise and grave aian, gave me serious and excellent

counsel against what. he foresaw was my design. He called me one
mornin r into his chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and
cxpostu ated very \varmly with me upon this subject; he asked me
what reasons, more, than a mere wandering inclination, I had for
leaving his house, and my native-country, where I might be weli
introduced, and had a prospect of raising? my fortune, 'by application
and industry, with a hfe of ease and casure. He told me it was
men of desperate fortunes, on one ban , or of superior fortunes, on
the other, who went abroad upon adventures, aspiring to rise by
enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings of nature
out of the common road; that these things were all either too far
above me, or too 'far below me; that mine was the middle state, or
what might be>>.called the upper station of low life, which he had
found, by long experience, was the best state in the world, the most
suited to human ha piness ; not ex osed to the miseries and hard-
shi s, the labour an sufferings, of t e mechanic part of mankind,
and) not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of
the up er part of mankind : he told me, I might judge of the ha pi-
ness of, this state by one thing, viz., that this was the state 0 hle
which all other people envied; that kings have frequently lamented
the miserable consequences of being born to great things, and wished
they had been placed in the mid le of two extremes, between the
mean and the rest; that the wise man gave his testimony to this
as the just stan and of true felicity, when he prayed to have "neither
povert nor riches." .

He ade me observe it, and I should alwa s find, that the calami-
ties of life were shared amon the upper an lower part of mankind;
but that the middle station ad the fewest disasters, and was not
exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of man-
kind; nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as those were, who, b vicious
living, luxury, and extravagancies, on one hand, or, byl har labour,
want of necessaries, and mean and insufficient diet, on t e other hand,
bring distem ers upon themselves by the natural consequences of
their way of 'ving; that the middle station of life was calculated for
all kind of virtues, and all kind of .enjoyments; that peace and
plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance,
moderation, quietness, health, society, all agreeable diversions, and
all desirable pleasures were the b essiugs attending the middle
station of life; that this we men went silently and smoothly throu h
the world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with t e
labours of the hands or of the head, not sold to the life of slaverr
for dail bread, or harassed with erplexed circumstances, which rob
the so of peace, and the body 01 rest; not enraged with the passion
of envy, or secret burning lust of ambition for great things; but, in
easy circumstances, sliding gently through the world, and sensiblyI l
communes or nosmson 03.0303. 8

tasting the sweets of living, without the bitter; feelin that they are
happy,l and learning by every day's experience, to ow it more
sens: . '

Afteg this he ressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate
manner, not to p ay the young man, nor to precipitate myself into
miseries which nature, and the station of life I was born m seemed
to have provided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking
my brea ; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me
fairly into the station of life which he had been just recommending
to me; and that if I was not very easy and ha py in the world, it
must be my mere fate, or fault, that must hin er it; and that he
should have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty
in warninn' me against measures which he knew would be to my hurt;
in a word, that he would do very kind thin for me if I would
stay and settle at home as he directed; he to d me I had m elder -
brother for an example, who had run into the army, where e was
killed during the Low Country wars; that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me; and I would have leisure, hereafter,
to reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might be
none to assrst in my recovery. '

I observed the tears run own his face very plentifully, especially
when he spoke of my brother who was killed, and that, when he
spoke of m liavino' leisure to reuent, and none to assist me, he was
so moved, t lat he broke of the discourse, and told me his heart was
so full, he could say no more to me. -

1 was sincerely all'eeted with this discourse ;- as, indeed, who
could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of going abroad any
more, but to settle at home, according to my father's desire. But.
alas! a few days wore it all off : and, in short, to prevent an of
my father's further importunities, in a few weeks after I reso ved
to run quite away from him. However, 1 did not act so hastily,
neither, as my first heat of resolution rompted; but I took my
mother, at a time when I thought hera litt e pleasanter than ordinary,
and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing
the world, that I should never settle to anythinv with resolution
enough to go through with it, and my father had better give me his
consent than force me to go without it; that I was now ei hteen
years old, which was too late to o apprentice to a trade, or c erk to
an attorney; that [was sure, i? I did, should never serve out
my time, and I should certainly run away from my masterbefore my
time was out, and go to sea; and if she would speak to my father to
let me make but one voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did
not like it, I would go no more; and 1 would promise by a double
diligence, to recover the time I had lost.

This put my mother in a great passion : she told me she knew it
would he to no purpose to Speak to my fat her upon any such a sub.
ject; that he knew too well what was my interest to give his consent

324' nvmx'waes or mamson causes.

to anything so much for my hurt; and that she wondered how I
could think of any such thing, after such a discourse as I had from
my father, and such kind and tender expressions as she knew my
father had used : that for herlpart, she would not have so much hand in
my destruction; and I sho d never have it to say, that my mother
was willing when my father was not. '

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as 1 have
heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him_; and that
my father, after showing a great concern at it, said to her With a sigh :
" l.'hat boy mi ht be happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes
abroad, he w' l he the most miserable wreteh that ever was born 5
1 cannot give consent to it."

 

It was not till a1most a year after this that I broke loose; though
in the meantime I continued obstinately deaf to all roposals of
settling to business, and frequently expostulating with my father
and mother about their being so positively determined against what
they knew my inclinations rompted me to. But being one day at
Hull, whether I went casu y, and without any purpose of making
an elopemeut at that time, and one of my companions then goin
to London by sea in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with
the": by the common allurernent of seafaring men, viz., that it should
cost me nothing for my passage, I'eonsulted neither father nor
mother any more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but left
them to hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing,
or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or conse-
quences, and in an ill hour, God knows.
FIRST ADVENTURES AT SEA, AND EXPERIENCE OF A MARITIME LIN}.
VOYAGE 'IO GUINEA.

ON the 1st September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for
London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,-
began sooner, or continued longer, than mine. The ship had no
sooner got out of the Humber, than the wind began to blow, and the
waves .to rise, in a most frightful manner; and as I had' never been
at sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in
mind; I began now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and
how justly fwas overtaken by the judgment of Heaven, for wickedly
leaving my father's house. All the good counsels of my arents, my
father's tears, and my mother's entreaties, came now rcsh to my
mind; and m conscience, which was not yet come to the itch of.
hardness to w rich it has been since, re 'roachcd me with t 8 con-
tempt of advice, and the abandonmento my duty. ' .

All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though nothing like what
I have seen many times since; no, nor what I saw a few days after;
but, such as it was, enough to affect me then, who was but a youn
sailor, and had never known anything of the matter. I expecte
every wave would have swallowed us up, and that ever time the
ship fell down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow oft e sea, we
should never rise more; and in this agony of mind I made man
vows and resolutions, that if, it would please God to sriare my 1i 6
this voyage, if ever I t my foot once on dry land, would
directly home to my fat or, and never set it into a ship- again wh e

1* . '

A
I lived; that I would take his advice, and never run myself into
such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness
of his observations about the middle station of life; how easy, how
comfortable, he had lived all his days, and never had been exposed
'to tempests at sea or troubles on shore; and I resolved that I would,
like a true repenting rodigal, go home to m father.

These wise and scher thoughts continue during the storm, and
indeed sometime after; but the next day as the wind was abated,
and'the sea calmer, I began to be a little inurcd to it. However, I
was very grave that day, being also alittle seasick still; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charm.
ing fine evening followed: the sun went down perfectly clear, and--
rose so the next morning; and havinglittle or no wind, and a smooth
sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most
del' htful that I ever saw.

I ad slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but
ver cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea that was so rough

a'n' terrible the day before, and could be so calm and pleasant in a
little time after.

 

And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion,
who had indeed enticed me away, came to me, and said, " Well, Bob,"
clapping me on the shoulder, "how do you do after it? ' I warrant
you you were frightened, wa'n't you, last night, when it blew a on -

- full of wind ?"--" A cap-full, do you call it?" said I; " 'twas a terrible
storm."--" A storm you fool ?" replies he, " do you call that a storm!
Why, it was nothing at all; .give us but a good ship, and sewroom,
and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; you are but
afresh water sailor, Bob; come, let us-make a bowl of punch, and
we'll forget all that. ' D'ye see what charming weather 'tis now?"
To make short this sad part of in story, we went the way of all
sailors; the punch was made, and was made drunk with it; and in
one niglt's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my ast conduct, and all my resolutions for the future.

In a word. as t e sea was returned to its smoothness of surface and
settled calmness by the abatement of the storm, so the hurry of
my thoughts bein over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallowe up b t 0 sea forgotten, and the current of my former
desires returns , I entirely ri'orgot the vows and promises I had
made in my distress. -

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads f
the wind having been contrary and the weather calm, we had
made but little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to
come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary,
viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days, during which time a great
many ships from Newcastle came into the same roads, as a common
harbour where the ships might wait for a wind for the river Thames.

"We had not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided up
the river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and, after we had lain
four or five da 8, blew very hard. However, the roads being reckoned
as good as a rarbour, the anchorage good, and our ground tackle
very strong, our men were unconcerne' , and not in the least appre-
hensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the
manner of the sea. But the eighth day, in the morning, the wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our topmaSts, and
make everything snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as

ossible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rode

orecastle in, ship ed several seas, and we thought, once or twice our
anchor had come ome; upon which our master ordered out the sheet
anchor; so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and cables veered
out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to
see terror and amazement in the faces of even the seamen themselves.
The master was vigilant in the business of preserving the ship; but,
as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly
as to himself several times, " Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be
al lest; we shall be all undone ;" and the like.

The storm was so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the
master, the boatswain, and some others, more sensible than the rest,
at their prayers, and ex nectina every moment the ship would go to
the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under all the rest of
our distresses, one of the men, that had been down on purpose to see,
cried out, " We have sprun, a leak l" another man said " there was
four foot water in the hol ." Then all hands were called to the

pump. At that very word my heart as I thought, died within me,
and fell backwards upon the side of m bed, where I sat in the
cabin. However, the men roused me, an told me that I, who was
able to do nothing before, was as well able to pum as another; at
which I stirred u and went to the pump, and wor ed very heartily,
-While this was oin , the master seeing some light colhers, who,
not able to ride out t re storm, were obliged to slip and run away to
sea, and would not come near us, ordered us to fire a gun as a signal
of distress. I, who knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised,
that I thou ht the ship had broke, or some dreadful thintzllappened.
In a word, was so su rised, that I fell down in a swoon. As this
was a time when every ody had his own life to think 31', no one
minded me, or what was become of me; but another man step (:6
up to the pump, and thrustincr me aside with his foot, let me ic,
thinklilng I had been dead 3a and it was a great while before I came to '
m se . ,

yWe worked on; but the water increasin in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and t ough the storm. organ
to abate alittle, yet as it was not possible she could swim till'we
might run into a port;---so the master continued firing guns for help;
an a light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat
out to help us. It was' with the utmost hazard the boat came near
us, but it was im ossible for us to get on board, or for the boat
lie near the shi 3 side ;. till at last the men rowing very heartily,
and venturing tieir lives to save ours, Our men cast them a rope
over our stem with a buoy to it, and then veered it- out a great
length, which they, after greatlabour and hazard, took hold of, and
we hauled them close under our stern, and got all into the boat.
It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to
think of reaching their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and
only to pull her in towards shore as much as we could; and our
master promised them, that if the boat were staved upon shore, he
would make it good to their master; so partly rowing and artly
driving, our boat. went away to the northward, sloping towards the
shore almost as far as Winterton-Ness. , -

We were not much more than a uarter of an hour out of our ship-
when we saw her sink; and then understood, for the first time,
what was meant by a ship founderin in the sea. I must acknow-
ledge, I had hardly e cs to look up w en the seamen told me she was
sinkinv; for, from tiat moment, the rather put me into the boat
than that I might be said to go in.. lily heart was, as it were, dead
within me, partly with fri ht, partly with horror of mind, and the
thoughts of what was yet Eefore me. '

W lllc we were in this condition, the men et labouring at the oar
to bring the boat near the shore, we coultl see (when, our boat
mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore) a reat many
people running alonq the strand, to assist us when we 3 tould come
near; but we made )ut slow way towards the shore; nor were we
able to reach it, 'till being past the li hthouse at Winterton, the
shore falls otf to the westward, tower s Cromer, and so the land
broke off a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in, and,
though not without much difficulty, got all safe on shore, and walked
afterwards on foot to Yarmouth ; where, as unfortunate men, we were
used with great humanity, as well by them "istrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by the particu ar merchants and owners
of ships; and had money given us sufficient to carry us either to

London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have

gone home, I had been happy: and my father, an emblem of cur

 

blessed Saviour's arable, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for,
hearing the ship fwent in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it Was
a great while before he had any assurance that I was not drowned.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was
the master's son, was now less forward than I; the first time he spoke '
. to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three
a days, for we were separated in the town to several quarters; I say the '
first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered, and, looking
very melancholy, and shaking his head, he asked me how I did;
telling his father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only
fora trial, in order'to go farther abroad. His father talked very

gravel to me; exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt - .

l'rovi ence to my ruin; told me, I might see a visible hand of
Heaven against me; " and, young man," said he, " depend n on it, if
you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet with not ring but
disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are fulfilled
upon you." -

We parted soonafter, for I made him little answer, and I saw him
no more; which way he went, I know not; as for me, having some
money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as
well as on the road, had many stru gles with myself what course of
life I should take, and whether I slionld go home or go to sea. As
to going home, shame opposed the host motions that offered to my10 anveswaes or summer: cnnsoa.

thoughts ; and it immediately occurred to me how I should be laughed
at among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not m
father and mother only, but even everybody else. From whence
have often observed, how incongruous and irrational the common
tcm )er of mankind is, es ecially of youth, to that reason which
oug it to guide them in suc 1 cases, viz., that they are not. ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for
which they ought justly to be esteemed fools; but are ashamed of
the returning, which only can make them be esteemed wise men.

I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or as the
sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea. .

It was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good company in Lon-
don; I became acquainted with the master of a ship, w )0 tad been
on the coast of Guinea, and who having had very good success there,
was resolved to go again. He, takin a PS1ch to my conversation,
which was not at all disagreeable at t rat time, and hearinu me say I
had a mind to see the world, told me, that if I would go that voyage
with him, I should be at no expense; I should be his messmate and
his companion; and if I could carry anything with me, I should have
all the advantage of it the trade would admit, and perhaps I might
meet with some cncour cment. I embraced the offer, and, entering
into strict friendship wit 1 this captain, who was an honest and plain-
dealiug man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a small adventure
with me; which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend fthe ca -
tain, I increased very considerably; for I carried about forty poun s
in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy. This
forty pounds [ mustered together by the assistance of some of my
relations whom I corresponded with; and who I believe, got -my
father, or at least, my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure. This was the only voyage which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and which owe to the int rity and
honesty of my friend the captain; under whom also got a
competent knowledge of mathematics and the rules of navigation,
learned how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an observa-
tion, and, in short, to understand some things that were needl'ul to
he understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to instruct me, I
took delioht to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and'a merchant; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces
of gold dust for m adventure, which yielded me in London, on
my return, almost t iree hundred pounds, and this filled me with
those aspiring thoughts which have smce so completed my ruin. Yet

even in this voyage I had my misfortunes, too; particularly, that 1:

was continually sick, being thrown into a violent calentuge b the ex-
cessive heat of the climate; our principal trading being n_p0n_ t ie coast,
from the latitude of fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself.
BOBINSON'S CAPTIVITY AT SALIJEE-ESCAPE WITH XURY--ARRIVAL
AT THE BRAZILS. deg

I WAS now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my great
misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same
voyage again; and I embarked in the same vessel with' one who was
his mate m the former voyage, and had now got the command 'of the
ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that ever man made; for
though I did not carry uite a hundred ounds of my new-trained
wealt , so that I had two lundred pounds eft, and which I Iodged
with my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into
terrible misfortunesin this voyage; and the first was this, via--our
ship, making her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather
between those Islands and the African shore, was sur rised, in the
grey of the morning, by a Turkish rover, of Sallee, w to gave chase
to us, with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
canvass as our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to get clear;
but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly come
up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight, our ship having
twelve guns and the rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon
he came up with us; and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our
quarter, instead of athwart our stern, wile intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a broadsxde
upon him, Wlllcll made him sheer off again, after returnino our fire,
and pouring in also his small shot from near two hundred men
whom he had on board. However, we had not a man touched, all12 mvnnrunas or sonmson cnusoz.

our men keeping close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to
defend ourselves; butlaying us on board the next time upon our
other quarter, he entered sixl y menu on our decks, who immediately
fell to cutting and hacking the-sai and ri gin". We plied them
with small shot, half-pikes, owder-ehests, an such like, and cleared
our' decks of them twice. Iloirever, to cut short this melancholy
part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three of our men
illed, and eight wounded, we were' obliged to yield, and were
carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belon ing to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so drea ful as at first I appre~
bended; nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's court,
as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the captain of the
rover as his proper prize and made his slave, being yo and nimble
and fit for his business. At this surprising change 0 my circum-
stances, from a merchant to a miserable stave, 1 was perfectly over-
whelmed ; and now looked back u on In father's prophetic discourse

to me, that I should be miscrab e, an have none to relieve me-.

which I thought was now so effectually brought to pass, that it could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken me, and
1 was undone, without redemption. But, alas! this was but a. taste

of the misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of'

this story. .

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his house,
so I was in hopes hewonld take me with him when he went to sea
again, believing that It would, some tlme or other, be his fate to be
taken by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and that then I
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away, for when he went to sea he left me on shore to look after his
little nrarden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house;
and w ien he came home train from his cruise, he ordered me to lie
in the cabin, to look after he ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method I
might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least proba-
bilit in it. Nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational;
for had nobody to communicate it to that would embark with me;
no "fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman there but
myself; so that for two years, though I often pleased myself with
the imagination, yet 1 never had the least encouraging prospect of
putting it in practice.

' After about two cars, an odd circumstance presented itself,
which put the old t nought of making some attempt for my liberl.

again into~my head. My patron lying at home longer than usual,
without fitting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of
money, he used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener,
if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnacle, and go out into
the road a fishing; and as he always took me and a young Moresco
with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and 1 proved
very dext'erous in catching fish, insomuch that sometimes he would
send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the.
Moresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time, that going a. fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick,,that though we were not half a league
from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowin , we knew not
whither, or which way, we laboured all day, and a] the next night,
and when the morning came, we found we had pulled OR to sea,

 

instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were at least two

leagues from the shore; however, we got well in again, thoughwith

a great deal of labour, and some danger, for the wind began to blow

pretty fresh in the'morning; hut partictflarly we were all very
ungry. '

But our patron, warned by this disaster; resolved to take more
care of himself for the future; and having 1 in by him the long-
boat of our English shi he had taken, he reso v he would not
a fishing any more wit out a compass and some rovision; so e
ordered the carpenter ot' the ship, who was an nglish slave, to
build a little state-room or cabin in the middle of the longboat, like
that of a barge, with a lace to stand behind it, to steer and haul
home the main sheet, an room before for a hand or two to stand
and work the sails. She sailed with what we called a leg-of-mutton
sail, and the boom 'ibbed over the top of the cabin, which lay Very
snug and low, and lied in it room for him to lie, with a slave or two,
and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles

'of such liquor as he thought fit- to drink, and particularly his bread,
rice, and coll'ee.

We gveut frequently out with this boat a fishing, and as Iwaa14 Aluminum or nonrnsorr causes.

most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me.
It happenedthat he had appointed to go out in this boat, either
[or pleasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction
in t at place, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and

3 had therefore sent on board the boat, overnight, alarger store of' '

V provisions than ordinary, and had ordered me to get ready three
usees, With powder and shot, which were on heard his ship, for that
they desi ne _some sport of fowling as well as fishing.
_1 got a things ready as he directed, and waited the next morning
With the boat washed clean, her ensi n and pendants out, and every-
thing to accommodate his guests: w en, by and by, my patron came

 

on board alone, and told me his guests had put olfgoing, u on some
business that fell out, and ordered me, with a man an boy, as
usual, to go out with the boat, and catch them some fish, for that
his friends were to su at his house; and commanded, that as soon
as I had got some {is , I should bring it home to his house; all
which I prepared to do:

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my
thoughts, for new I found I was like to have a little ship at m
command; and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish myselt,
not for a fishing business, but foravoyage; thou I1 I knew not,
neither did I so much as consider, whither I shoul steer; for any
. where, to get out of that place, was my way,

My first contrivance was .to make a pretence to s eak to this Moor,
to get something for our subsistence on board; or I told him we
must not presume to eat of our patron's bread; he said, that was
true; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit, of their kind,
and three jars With fresh water, into the boat. I knew where my
patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident, by the make,
were taken out of some English prize, and I conve ed them into the
boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had een there before
for our master. I conveyed also a eat lump of beeswax into the
boat, which weighed above half a findred-weight, with a parcel, of.
twine or thread, ahatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of
great use to us afterwards, especially the wax, to make candles.
Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came into also;
his name was Ishmael, whom they call Muley, or Moley; so 1 called to
him; " Moley," said I, " our patron's guns are on board the boat, can
you, not get a little powder and shot? It may be we may kill some
alcamies (fowls like our curlews) for ourselves,and I know he keeps the
gunner's stores in the shi ."--" Yes," says he, " I will bring some ;"
and accordingly he brong it a great leathern pouch, which held about
a pound and a half of powder, or rather more, and another with shut;
that had five or 'six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into
the boat; at the same time I found some (powder of my master's in
the great cabin, with which I filled one o the large bottles in the
case, which was almost empty, pouring what was in it into another;
and thus furnished with every t iing needful, we. sailed-out of port to
fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we
were, and took no notice of us ;, and we were not above a mile out
of the port, when we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish.
The wind blow from N N. E., which was contrary to my desire; for,
had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have made the coast of
Spain, and at last reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions
were, blow which way it would, I would be gone from the horrid
place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for when I'
had fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see
them, I said to the Moor: "This will not do; our master will not be
thus served; we must stand further off." He, thinking no harm,
agreed; and being at the head of the boat, set the sails ; and as I
had the helm, I run the boat near a league farther, and then brought
to, as if I would fish. Then giving the boy the helm, I stepped lor-
ward to where the Moor was, and I took him b surprise, with my
arm under his waist, and tossed him clean over card into the sea.
He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me,
begged to be taken 1n, and told me he would go all the world over -
with me. He swam so strong after the boat, that he would have
reached me very quickly, there being'but little wind; upon which
I stepped into the' cabin, and fetclnn one of the fowling-pieccs,
I presented it at him, and told him, had done him no hurt, and
if he would be quiet, I would do him none. " But," said I, " you
swnn well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is cahn; make the .
best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm; but if you
come near the boat, I will shoot you through the head; for I am
resolved to have my liberty." So he turned himself abOut, and swam
for the shore; and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for
he was an excellent swimmer.16 ADVENTURES or nonmson cnnson.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me and
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him.
When he was gone, 1 turned to the boy, whom they called Xury,
and said to him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to me 1 Will make you
a great man; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me
(that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's heard), 1 mustthrow you
into the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently,
that I could not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, an
go all over the world With me. -

 

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out
directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to wmdward, that
they might think me gone towards the Straits' mouth (as indeed any
one that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do); for
who would have supposed we were sailing on to the southward, to the
truly Barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure to
surround us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never
once go on shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, 01
more merciless savages of human kind 2" '

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course,
and steered directly south and by east, bending my course a little
towards the "cast, that I mi ht keep in with the shore; and having a
fair fresh gale of wind, an a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail,
that I_ believe by the next day, at three o'clock in the afternoon,
when I made the land, I could not be less than one hundred and
fifty miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
domilnions, or indeed of i any other 'king thereabout; for we saw 110
cc I e. .
9 Jet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dread "ul
apprehensions I had of falling into their hands,-that I would not stop,
or 0 on shore, or come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I
landg sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind shifting to
the southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in
chase of me, they also would now give over; so I ventured to make
to the coast, and came to an anchor in the month of a little river;
I knew not what or where, neither what latitude, what country,
what nation, or what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see, any
people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came
into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon
as it was dark, and discover the country ; but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful 1101883 of the barking, rearing,
and howling of wild creatures, of we kn-W not what kinds, that the
poor boy was read to die with fear, and be ed of me not to go on
snore till day. " ell, Xury," said I, " thenfigwill not; but it maybe
we shall see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."
" Then we may give them the shoot- an," says Xury, laughi v, " make
them run awa . ' fuch English ury spoke by conversing amon
ns slaves. owe er, I was glad to see the be so cheerful, and
gave him a dram out of our patron's case of bottles to cheer him up.
After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We dropped our
little anchor, and lay still all night; I say still, for we slept none ; for in.
two or three hours we saw vast creatures (we knew not what to call
them), of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and run into the
water, wallowimr and washing themselves, for the leasure of cooling
themselves; and they 'made such howlings and ye 'ngs, that I never
Indeed heard the like. - '

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I too; but we
were both more frightened when we heard one of these creatures
swnnming towards our boat; and we could hear by his blowing: that
he was a monstrous, huge and furious beast. Poor Zury cried to me
to we: h the anchor and row away. " No," says I, " Xury, we can slip
our ca le with a buoy to it, and go off to sea; they cannot follow us
far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the creature within two
oars' length, which surprised me; however, I immediately stepped
to the cabin door, and takim1r up my gun, fired at him; upon
which he immediately turned, about, and swam to the shore
again.

It is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hideous cries
and howlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as
higher wrthm the country, upon the noxse or re on of the gun ; a
thing, I believe, those creatures had never heard) before. This con-
vmced me there was no going on shore for us in the night upon that

Wast- : 2and how to venture on shore in the day, was another question
a c O
too; for 'to have fallen into the hands of any of the savages, had
been as bad as to have fallen into the paws ol hons_and tigers; at
least, we were equall apprehensive of the danger of it.

Be that as it woul , we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or
other for water, for we had not a pmt left_ in the boat; when and
whereto get it was the point. -Xury said, if I would let him go on
shore with one of the 'ars, he would find if there was any water, and
bring some to me.' asked him why he would go; why I should
not go, and he stay in the boat. The hov answered With so much

 

affection, that he made me love him ever after. Says he, " If wild
mans come, they eat me, you go away.--" Well, Xur ," said I, " we
will both go ; and if the wild mans come, we will kill t em; they shall
eat neither of us." So I gave Xury a iece of rusk bread to eat, and
a dram out of our patron's case of bott es, which I mentioned before;
and we hauled in the boat as near the shore as we thought was
proper, and so waded to shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and
two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming
of canoes with savages down the river; but the boy, seeing a low
place about a mile up the country, rambled to it; and, by and by,
. saw him come runmng towards me. I thonght he was pursued by
some savage, or frightened by some wild beast, and I therefore ran
forwards to help hnn; but when I came nearer to him, 1 saw some-
thing hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature that he had

. shot, like a hare, but different in colour and longer legs; however,
we were very glad of it, and it was very 00d meat; but the great
joy that oor Xury came with, was to te me he had found good

.water, an seen no wild mans.WV".-. -... . ..

wvsnrunzs or" noamson causon. _ '19

fix I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well

- that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Vcrd Islands also,

lay not far from the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation, to find what latitude we were in, and did not exactly
know, or at least remember, what latitude they were in, I knew not
where to look for them, or when to stand off to sea towards them,
otherwise I might now have easily found some of these islands. But
m hope was that if I stood 'alon this coast till I came to the part
w ere the English traded, I shou d find some of their vessels upon
their usual design 'ot trade, that would relieve and take us in.

B the best of my calculation, the place where I now was, must
be tliat country which, lyin between the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions and the Negroes, hes waste, and uninhabited, except by
wild beasts; the Negroes havin abandoned it, and gone farther
south, for fear of the Moors, an the Moors not thinking it worth
inhabiting, by reason of its barrenncss; and, indeed both foreskin
it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leo ards, an
other furious creatures which harbour there; so that the lvioors use
it for their hunting only, where the go like an army, two or three
thousand men at a time; and, in eed, for near a hundred miles
together upon this co:ust, we saw nothing but a .waste, uninhabited
country by day, and heard nothing but howlings and roaring of
wild beasts by night. -

Once or twice, in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of
Tenerifi'e, being the top of the mountain 'l'eneriffe, in the Canaries,
and had. a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither;
but having tried twice,.I was forced in again by contrary winds; the
sea also going too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue
my first esign, and keep along the shore.

After this stop we made on to the southward continually, for ten
or twelve days, hving very sparingly on our provisions, which began
to abate very much, and going no oftener into shore than we were
obliged to for fresh water. My design in this, was to make the
river Gambia. or Senegal; that 18 to say, anywhere about the Cape
dc Verd, where I was in hopes to meet some European ship; and if '
I did not, I knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the
islands or perish among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, w rich sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or
to the East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands; and in a word
I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either that I
must meet 'some ship, or perish.

When I had ursued this resolution about ten days longer,
I--began to see t. at the land was inhabited; and in two or three
places, as we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to

- look at us; we could also perceive they were quite black and stark

naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but
any was my tetter counsellor, and saidto me, " No go, no g1." Hew-
c 2
ever, I hauled in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them; and l
found they ran along the shore b me a good wav. I observed
they had no weapons in their han , except one, who had a long
slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and that they wouh
throw them a great way With good aim; so I kept at a distance, but
talked to them by signs, as well as I could, and particularly made
SlgllS for something to eat. They beckoned to me to stop my boat,
and they would fetch me some meat; upon this I lowered the top of
my sail, and la by, and two of them ran up into the country ; and
in less than haf an hour came back, and brought with them two
pieces of dry flesh and some corn, such as the produce of their
country ; but we neither knew what the one or the other was; how-
ever, we were willing to acce t it. But how to come at it was our
next dispute, for I was not or venturing on shore to them, and
they were as much afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all,
for they brought it to the shore, and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then came
close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make
them amends; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige
them wonderfully; for-- while we were lying by the shore, came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great
fury, from the mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we
could not tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual or
strange; but I believe it was the latter, because, in the first place,
these ravenous creatures seldom appear'but in the ni ht; and, in the
second place we found the people terribly frightene , especiall the
women. ' The man that had the lance, or dart, did not fly from t mm,
but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon anylof the Negroes,
but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam about, as if they had
come for their diversion; at last, one of them began to come nearer
our heat than I at first expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had
loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both
the others. As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and
shot him directly in the head; immediately he sunk down into the
water. but rose instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was
struggling for life, and so indeed he was; he immediately made to
the shore ; but between the wound which was his mortal hurt, and the
strangling of the water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is unpossihle to express the astonishment of these poor crea-
tures, at the noise and fire of my gun; some of them were even
ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror;
but when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and
that I made signs for them to come to the shore, they look heart
and came to the shore, and began to search for the creature. I
found him b his blood staining the water; and by the help of a
rope, which slung round him, and gave the Negroes to ha , the
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most curious leo )ar ,
s )otted, and fine to an admirable dc rec; and the Negroes he (1 up
tieir hands with admiration, to thini what it was I had killed him
wit i. .- -

The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire, and the noise
of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the mountains
from whence they came; nor could. I, at that distance, know what
it was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of this

 

creature, so I was willing to have them.take it as a favour from me;
which, when I made signs to them that they might take him, they
were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to work with him;
and though they had no knife, yet with a sharpened piece of wood,
they took ofi' his skin as readily, and much more readil , than we
could have done wrth a knife. They offered me some 0 the flesh,
which I declined, making as if I would give it them, but made
Signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought me a
great deal more of their Provisions, which, though I did not under-
stand, et 1 accepted. then made signs to them for some water,
and he d out one of my jars to them, turning it bottom upwards, to
show that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to some of their friends, and there came two
women, and brought a great vessel made-tot earth, and burnt, as I
suppose, 1n the sun; this they set down to me, as before, and I sent
Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all three.
I was nowfumished with roots and corn, such as it was, and
water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward for eleven
days more, without offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land
run a great length into the sea, at about the distance of four
or five leagues before me; and the sea beinv ver calm, I kept a
large oiling, to make this point. At length, doub 'ng the oint, at
about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on he other
side, to seaward; then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed,
that this was the Ca )e de Verd, and those the islands, called, from
thence, Cape de Ver Islands. However, they were at a great dis-
tance, and I could not well tell what I had best to do; for if I
should be taken with a gale of wind, I might reach neither.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin,
and sat me down, Xury having the helm; when, on a sudden, the
any cried out, " Master, master, a shi with a sail!" and the foolish
boy was frightened out. of his wits, t linking it must needs be some
of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were
gotten far enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin,
and immediately saw, not only the ship, but what she was, viz. that
it was a Portuguese ship, and, as thought, was bound to the
Coast of Guinea, for Negroes.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to
come in their way; but after I had crowded to the utmost,
and. began to despair, they, it seems, saw me, by the help at their
perspective glasses, and that it was some European boat, which, they
supposed,-must belong to some ship that was lost; so they shortened
sail; and in about three hours' time I came up with them.

They'asked me what I was in Portu ese, and in Spanish, and in
French; but I understood none of twin; but, at last, a Scotch
sailor who was on board, called to me, and I answered him, and told
him I was an Englishman, that I had made my escdpe'out of slavery
, from the Moors, at Sallee; they then bade me come on board, and

VC?' kindly took me in, and all my goods.

t was an inexpressible by to me, which any one 'will believe, that
I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable, and
almost ho eless condition as I was in; and I immediately ofi'ered all
I had to t e captain of the shi , as a returir for my deliverance; but
be generous! told me, he won d take nothin from me, but that all
I had shoul be delivered safe to me, when came to the Brazils.
I will carry you thither in charity, and these things will help to buy
your subsistence there, and your passage home again.
EB SETTLES IN THE BRAZILS AS A. PLANNER--MAKES ANOTHER
VOYAGE, AND IS SHIPWRECKED. '
- Q

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the perform-
ance, to a tittle: for he ordered the seamen, that none should oifcr
to touch anything I had.- then he took everything into his own'
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of them,'that I
mi ht have them, even so much as m' three earthen jars. . -

e had a very good v0 8 to the mails, and arrived in the Bay
dc Todos los Santos, or aints' Bay, in about twenty-two da s
after. And now I was once more delivered from the most miserab e
of all conditions of life; and what to do next with myself, I was now
to consider. F

The generous treatment the. captain gave me, I can never enough
remember: he would take nothin of me for my passage, gave me
twenty ducats for the'leopard's s 'n, and forty for the lion's skin,
which I had in my boat, and caused everything I had in the shi to
be punctually dehvered to me; and what I was willing to sel , he
bought of me; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a
piece of the lum of bees-wax,--for I had made candles of the rest ;

' in a word, I ma e about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of
all my cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here, before I was recommended to the house
of a good henest man, like himself, who had an ingenio as they call
it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house.) I lived with him some
time, and acquainted myself, by that means, with the manner of
planting and of making sugar; and seeing how well the plant-era
lived, and how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could t a
license to settle there, I would turn planter among them: en eav-
ouring, in the meantime, to find out some way to get my money,
which I had left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose,
getting a kind of letter of naturalization, 1 purchased as much land
that was uncured as mp money would reach, and formed a plan for
my plantation and sett ement; such a one as might be suitable to
the stock which I proposed to myself to receive from England.

I had a neighbour, a Portu uese of Lisbon, but born of English
arents, whose name was Wefis, and in much such circumstances as
was. I call him my neighbour, because his plantation lay next 'to

mine, and we went on very sociably together. My stock was but
low, as well as his; and we rather planted for food than anything
else, for about two years. However, we began to increase, and our
land he an to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some to acco,.and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for
planting canes the next year.

1 was, in some degree, settled in my measure for carrying on the
plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship t rat took
me up at sea, went back; for the ship remained there, in providing
his landing, and preparing for his vo age, near three months; when
telling him what little stock I haddeg ett behind me in London, he
gave me this friendly and sincere advice: " Scnhor Inglez," says be
(for. so he always called me,) "if, you will give me letters, and a pro-
curation here in form to me, with orders tothe erson who had your
money in London, to send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons
as I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this country, I
will bring you the produce of them, God Willing, at m return: but
smce human affairs are all subject to changes an disasters, I
would have you give orders for but one hundred pounds sterling,
which, you say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first, so that if it come safe, on may order the rest the same way;
and, if it miscarry, you may rave thc'other half to have recourse to
for your supply." This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the best course I
could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese
ca tain, as he desired me. ' '

wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my
adventures; whereupon she not only delivered the money, but, out
of her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very handsome
present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London, vesting this hundred 'pounds in English
oods, suchas the captain had written for, sent them directly to
rim at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me at the Brazils: I

found means to sell them to a very ,reat advanlage; so that- I
might say, I had more than four times t e value of my first cargo,_,.,..,_v ..- . .

uwnxruruzs or nonmson cursors. 25

and Was _now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the
advancement of my plantation; for the first thing I did, I bou ht
me a Negro slave, and a European servant also , 1 mean anot er
besides one whom the captain brought me from Lisbon.

Having lived almost four years in the Brazils, and be inning to
thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, I ha not only
learned the language, but had contracted an acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as among the mer-
chants at St. Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my dis-
courses among them, I had fre uently given them an account of m
two voyages to the, coast of uinea, the manner of trading wit
the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase on the coast for
tnfles--such as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets, bits of glass;
and the like--pot only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth;
&c., but Negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers. '

 

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these
heads, but especially to that art which related to the buyin
Negroes; Wthl was a trade, at t at time, not only not far entered
into, but, as far as it was, had been carried on by the assientos, or
permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and engrossed from
She pubuc; so that few Negroes were bought, and those excessively

car.

It happened, hang in company with some merchants and planters
of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three
of them came to me the next mornin , and told me the had been
musmg very much upon what I ha? chscoursed with them of the
last niggt, and they came to make a secret proposal to me: and,
after enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had a mind tr
fit out a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well
as I, and were 'straitened for nothing so much as servants; that as
it was a trade that could not be carried on, because they could not
publicly sell the Negroes when they came home, so they desired to
make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and
divide them amon their own plantations; and, in a word, the
question was, whet er I would go as their supercargo in the dep, to
manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea; and they 0 cred
me that I should have an equal share of the Negroes, without pro-
vidiug any part of the stock.

. I, 1. rat was born to be my own destro er, could no more resist the
offer, than I could restrain mv first ram linidesigns. In a word, I
told them I would go with all myJ heart, if t ey would undertake to

look after my plantation in my a seuce, and would dispose of it as I

should direct, if I miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and en-

' tered into writings or covenants to do so, in case of my death;

making the captain of the ship that had saved my life, as before, my

universal heir; but obligin him to dis ose of my effects as I had
directed in my will; one-h f of the pro uce being to himself, and the
other to be shipped to England.

The ship being fitted out, and the cargo furnished, and all things
done as by agreement, b partners in the voyage, I went on board in
an cvrl hour again, the rst of September, 1659, being the same day
sioht years that I went from .my parents at Hull, in order to act the
rehcl to their authority, and the fool to my own interest.

We passed the Line in about twelve days' time, and were, by our
last observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern lati-
tude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite out of our
knowled e; it began from the south-east, came about to the north-
west, an then settled in the north-east ; from whence it blew in
such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together we could do
nothing but drive, and seudding away before it, let it carry us
whithersoever fate and the fury of the winds directed; and, during
these twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to be
Ewaflowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save their

ves.

About the twelfth day, the weather abating a'little, the master
made an observation as well as he could. He found that he had got
_ upon the coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the
river Amazon, toward that of the Oronoco, commonly called the
Great River; and as the ship was leaky and very much disabled he
was for going back to the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that ; and lookin over the charts of the
sea coast of America with him, we conclude there was no inhabited
country for us to have recourse to, till we came within the circle of
the Carribee islands, and therefore resole to stand away for Barbs
does ; which by keeping ofi' to sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay or

ulf of Mexico, .we might easily erform, as we hoped, in about
fifteen days' sail; whereas we could) not possibly make our voyage to
the coast of Africa without some assistance, both to our ship and
ourselves.

With this design, we changed our course, and steered awa N. W.
by W. in order to reach some of our English islands, where hoped
for relief; but our voyage was otherwise determined; for in the'
latitude of twelve de recs eighteen minutes a second storm came
upon us, which carriefns away with the same impetuosity westward,-
and drove us so out of the very way of all human commerce, that
had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we stood a greater-chance
of being devoured by savages than ever returning to our own-
countr . -

In t Iis distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men
earl in the mornin , cried out, " Land!" and we had no sooner run out
of t re cabin to 100 /out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world
we were, than the ship struck u on a sand, and in a moment, her
motion being so stopped, the sea roke over her in such a manner,
that we expected we should all have perished immediately; and we '
were immediately driven into our close quarters, to shelter .us from,
the very foam and spray of the sea. .

The ship navin thus struck u on the sand, and sticking too fast
for us to expect er getting 0 , we were in a dreadful condition
indeed, and had nothing to do, but to think of saving out lives as.
well as we could. We had a boat at our stern just belore the storm,
but she was first staved by dashin against the ship's rudder, and, in the
next place, she broke away, an either sunk, or was driven off to'
sea; so there was no hope from her; we had another boat on board,
but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing; however,
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in
plieces every minute, and some told us she was actually broken
a rea .

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat, and
with the help of the rest of the men, they got her flung over the
ship's side; and getting all into her, we let go, and committed our-.
selves, being eleven in number, to God's mere , and the wild sea;
for thou h the storm was abated .considerab y, et the sea went
dreadfu y high upon the shore, and might be we called den wild
see, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm. '

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a half,
as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern
of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup de grace. In a word, it
took us with such fury, that it overset the boat at once; and separa-
ting us, as well from the boat as from one another, gave us time
hardly to say, " 0 God!" for we were all swallowed up in a
moment. _28 ADVENTURES "01' 303111302! causes.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, when
I sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet I could not
deliver myself from the waves so as to draw my breath, till that
wave having driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards
the shore, and having s ent itself, went back, and left me upon the
land almost dry, but h 1' dead with the water I took in. I had so
much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that seeing myself
nearer the main land than I expected, I ot upon my feet, and
endeavoured to make on towards the land as (fast as I could, before
another wave should return and take me up again; but I soon found
it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as
high as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no
means or strength to contend with; my business was to hold my
breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I could; and so, by swim.
ming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot myselftowards the shore, if
possnble; my greatest concern now being, that the wave, as it would
carry me a great way towards the shore when it came on, might not
carr .me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea.

'1' 1e wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty or
thirty feet deep in its own body; and I could feel myself carried
with a mi hty force and swiftness towards the shore, a very great
way; but I held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward
with all'm might. I was ready to burst with holdin iny breath;
when, as . .feit m self rising up, so, to my immediate re ief, I found
my head and han s shoot out above the surface of the water; and
though it was not two seconds of time that 1 could _kcep myself so,

, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. ' l was
covered "n with water a good while, but not so long but I held it
out; and ndinv the water had spent itself, and began to return, I
struck forward, against the return If the waves, and felt round
again with my feet. I stood still a tcv .unments, to recover re'ath,
and till the water went from me, and ti en bunk to my heels, and ran
with what strength I had farther towards tne shore. But neither
would this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pourinor

gm after me again; and twice more I was lifted u by the waves an
carried forwards as before, the shore being very t.

. The last time of these two had well ni h been fatal to me ; for the
sea, having hurried me along, as before, anded me, or rather dashed
me, ainst a piece of rock, and that with such force, that it left me
some ass, and indeed be! less, as to my own deliverance; for the
blow, taking my side and reast, beat the breath, as it were, uitc
out of my body ; and had it returned again immediately, I must rare
been strangled in the water; but I recovered a little before the
return of the waves; and, seeing I should again be covered with the
water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of rock, and so to hold my
breath, if ossible, till the wave went back. Now as the waves were
not so high as the first, being nearer land, ,1 held my hold till the
wave abated, and then 'fetched another run,- which brought me so
near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did
not so swallow me up as to carry me away; and the next run I took,
I got to the main land! where, to m great comfort, I clambered up
the clifl's of the shore, andusat me own upon the grass, free from
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look up and
thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there was,
. Some minutes before, scarcely any room to hope. I believe it is im-
possible to express, to the lite, what the ecstasies and transports of
the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the grave ; and

,

 

I did not wonder now at the custom, viz., that when a malefactor,
who has.the halter about his neck, is tied up, and 'ust going to he
turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him-- say, 1 do not
wonder that they bring a sur on with it, to let blood that very
moment they tell him of it, hat the surprise may not drive the
animal spirits from the heart, and overwhelm him.

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, liftin up my hands, and my whole
being, as I may say, wra ped up in t 1e contemplation of my deliver.
ance; making-a thousan gestures and motions, which I'caunot des-
cribe; reflecting upon my comrades that were drowned, and that
there should not be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I

.never saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three of

their has. one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.0

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel--when the breach and froth
of the sea being so big I could hardly see it, it lay so far elf--and
" considered, Lord! how was it possible I could get on shore? "

 

,I began to look around mete see what kind of a place I was
in, and what was next to be done; and I soon found my comforts
abate, and that. in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance ; for I was
wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink.
to comfort me; neither did I see any pros ect before me, but that
of perishing with hunger, or being devoure by wild beasts; and that
which was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no wea on
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to de end
myself ainst any other creatures that might desire to kill me for
theirs. agn a wor , I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-

ipe, and a little tobacco. Night coming upon me, I began, with a

eavy heart, to consider what would be my lot if there were any
ravenous beasts in that country.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, was, to get up into a
thick bush tree. I walked about a furlong from the shore, to see
if I could nd any fresh water; which I did, to my great joy; and
having drunk, and at a little tobacco into my mouth to prevent
hunger, I went to t e tree, and (getting up into it, endeavoured 'to
piace myself so as that, if I shoul fall asleep, I might not fall; and

ving cut me a stick, for my defence, I took up my lodging; and
having been excessively fatigued, I fell asleep, and sle t as com-
f rtab e as, I believe, few could have done in my son 'tion 5 and
found myself much refreshed.
ROBINSON FINDS HIMSELF IN A DESOLATE ISLAND--PROCUBES A
STOCK 0P ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK --' CONSTRUCTS I118
HABITATION.

WHEN I woke it was broad day. the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before ;. but that
'whieh surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted off in the
night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and
was driven up almost as far as the rock which I at first mentioned,
where I had been so bruised by the wave dashing me against it.'
This being within about a mile from the shore where I was, and the
slu seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that
at east I might save some necessary things .for my use. .

When I came down from my a artment in the tree, I looked about
me again, and the first thin I ound was the boat; which lay, as
the wind and sea had tossed er u , upon the land, about two miles

'on my right hand. I walked as at as I could upon the shore to
have got to her; but found a neck, or inlet, of water, between me
and the boat, which was about half a mile broad; so I came back
for the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
hoped to find something for my present subsistence. '

A httle after noon, I found the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed
so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the shi :
and here I found a fresh renewing of m grief ; for I saw evident y,
that if we had kept on board, we had een all safe; that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore, and had not been so miserable as to be
left entirely destitute of all comfort and company, as I now was.
This forced tears from my e es again; but as'there was little relief
in that, I resolved, if possihle, to ct to the ship: so I pulled off
my clothes, for the weather was ot to extremity, and took the
water: but when I came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater
to know how to get on board: for as she lay ground, and high out
of thewater, there was nothing in my reach to ay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of rope,
which I wondered I did not see at first, hang down b the fore-
ehains so low, as that with great difficulty I got hold 0 it, and b
the hel of that rape got into the forecastle of the ship. Here
found tiat the ship was bilged, and had a great deal of water in her
hold ; but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern la lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost to the water. gy this means all her uarter was free, and
all that was in that part was dry; for you-may e sure my first work
was to search and to see what was spoiled and what was free: and,
first, I found that all the ship's provisions were dry and untouched
0y the water; and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the
bread-reom, and filled m pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went
about other things, for had no time to lose. I also found some
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which I
had indeed need enough of, to spirit me for what was before me.
NowI wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many
things which I foresaw would be very necessary to me. '

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had,
and this extremity roused my application: we had several spare
yards, and two or three lar e spars of wood, and a spare topmast or
two in the ship; I resolve to fall to work with these, and flung as
, many overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every one
with a rape, that they might not drive awa . hen this was done,
I went down the ship's srde, and pulling tliem to me, I tied four of
them fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a
raft, and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them, cross-
ways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it was not
able to bear any rcat weight, the pieces being too light: so I went
to work, and wit. the carpenter's saw I cut a spare to mast into
three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great dea of labour
and pains. But the hope of furnishing myself! with necessaries,
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to have
done upon another occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight.
My next care was what to. oad it with, and how to preserve what I
laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I was not'long considering
this. I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get,
and having considered well what I most wanted, I got three of the
seamen's chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered
them down upon my raft; these I filled with provisions, viz. bread,
rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goats' flesh (which we
lived much upon), and a little remainder of ' ur0pean corn, which
had been laid by for some fowls which we had brought to sea with
us, but the fowls were killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together, but, to my great disappointment, I found afterwards
that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found
several cases of bottles belouving to our skipper, in which were
seme cordial waters; and, in all, five or six a] ons of rack. These
I stowed by themselves, there beino no nee to put them into the
chests, nor any room for them. While I was doin this, I found
the tide began to flow, though very Calm; and I ha the mortifica>>
tion to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore,
upon the sand, swim away; as for m breeches, which were only
linen, and open-knead, I swam on board in them, and my stockings.
However, this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found
enough, but took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had
other things which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to, work
with on shore: and it' was after long searching that I found the
carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me,~and
much more valuable than a ship-lading of gold would have been
at that time. I got it dpwn to my raft, even whole as it was,
without losing time to look into it, for I knew in general what it
contained. . .

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were -
two very good fowling-pieees in the eat cabin, and two pistols;
these I secured first, with some ow er-horns and a small bag of
shot, and two old rusty swords. knew there were three barrels of
powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but with much search I found them, two of them dry and
good, the third had taken water. These two I got to my raft, with
the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and
bevan to think how I should get to shore with them, hamg-neither
san , oar, nor rudder; and the least capful of wind would have ever-
set all my navigation. I hoped to find some creek or river which I
might make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo.- .

As I im ined, so it was; there appeared before me a little
opening of a{fire land, and I found a stroncr current of the tide set
mto it; so I guided in raft, as well as? could, to get into the
middle of the stream. ut here I had like to have suffered a second
shipwreck, which, if 1 had, I think it verily would have broken my
neart; for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran'agronnd at

one end of it upon a shoal, and, not being aground at the other end,
1)
it wanted but a little that. all my cargo had slipped off towards the
end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did my utmost,
by settin my back against the chests, to keep them in their places,
but coul not thrust off the raft with all my strength; neither durst
I stir from the posture 1 was in, but holding up the chests with all
my might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time
the rising of the water broufiht me a littlemore upon a level; and
a little after, the water sti rising, my raft floated a ain, and I
thrust her off with the oar I had into the channel, and t ien driving
up hi her, I at length found myself in the mouth of a little river,
With and on both sides, and a strong current or tide runnin up.
I looked on both sides for a roper p ace to get to shore, for was
not willing to be driven too high up the river; hoping, in time, to
see some shi at sea, and there ore resolved to place myself as near
the coast as could,

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to
which, wrth great pain and difficulty, I guided my raft, and at last
got so near, as that, reaching Epound With my oar, I could thrust

er directly in; but here I had .e to have dipped all my cargo into
the sea again; for that shore lyin pretty steep, that is to say,
sloping, there was no place to land, ut where one end of my float,
if it' ran on shore, wouid lie so high, and the other sink lower, as
before, that it would endanger my car 0 again. All that I could do
was to wait till the tide was at the big est, keeping the raft with my
oar like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a
flat piece of ground, which I expected the water would flow over;
and so it did. As soon as 1 found water enough, for my raft drew
about a foot of water, I thrust her upon that at piece of ground,
- and there fastened or moored her, by stickino' my two broken oars
into the ground, one on_one side, near one en , and one on the other
side, near the other end: and thus I lay till the water ebbed away,
and left my raft and 'all my, cargo safe on shore. '

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place
for my habitation, and where to stow my oods, to secure them from
whatever might happen. Where I was yet knew not; whether
on the continent, or on an island; whither inhabited, or not in-
habited ; whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a
hill, not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep and high,
and which seemed to overtop some other hills, which lay as in a
ridge from it, northward. I took out one of the fowlinm ieces, and
one of the pistols, and a horn of powder; and thus arme , travelled
for discovery up to the top of that hill; where, after I had, with
great labour and difficult , got up to the top, I .saw my fate, to my
great affliction, viz. that was in an island, env1roned in every way
with the sea, no land to be seen, except some rocks, which lay a
great way off, and two small islands. less than this, which lay about

three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I saw
rod reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of whom,
owever, I saw none; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not

their kinds; neither, when I killed them, could I tell what was fit
for food, and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great bird,
which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a cat wood. I
believe it was the. first 11 that had been fired t ere since the
creation of the world: I ad no sooner fired, but from all parts of
the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls, of many
sorts, making a confused screaming, and crying, ever one according
to his usual note; but not one of them of any kin that I knew.
As for the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its
colour and beak resembling it, but it had no talons or claws more
than common. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.

I now be an to consider that I might yet get a great many things
out of the Slip, which would be useful to me, and particularly some
of the rigging and sails, and such other things as mi ht come to
land; an I resolved to make another voyage on bear the vessel,
if possible. And as I knew that the first storm that blew must
necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things '
apart, till I got everything out of the ship that I could get. Then
I called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should
take'baek the raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved
to go as before, when the tide was down; and I did so, only that I
stripped before I went from my but; having nothing on but a
phctquered shirt, a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my
ee . '

I got on board the ship as before, and pre ared a second raft;
and raving had experience of the first, I neit er made this so un-
wxeldy, nor leaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things
very useful to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two
or three bags of nails and s ikcs, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two
of batehets; and, above all: that most useful thin called a grind-
stone. All these I secured together, with several t ings belonging
to the er; particularly, two or three iron crows, an two barrels
of mus et bullets, seven muskets, and another fending-piece, with

. some small quantity of powder more; a large bag full of small shot,'
and a great roll of sheet lead; but this last was so heavy, I could
not heist it up to get it over the ship's side. Besides these things,
I took all the men s clothes that I could find, and a s are fore-top-
sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and with this loaded my
second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great
comfort.

Havin got my second cargo on shore--thou h I was fain to open
the barre s'of powder, and bring them b parces, for they were too
heavy, being large oasks--'-I went to war to make a little tent, with
the sails, and some poles which I cut for that purpose; and into

. D.

0
this tent I.brouSSht every thing that I knew would 5 oil either with
rain or sun; an I piled all the empty chests and casEs up in a circle
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt either from
man or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with
some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without;
and spreading one of the beds upon the round, laying my two istols
Just at my head, and my gun at length y me, I went to bed or the
first time, and slept very quietly all night, for I was very wear and
heavy; for the night before I had slept little, and had laboure very
- hard all day, as well to fetch all those things from the ship, as to get

them on shore.

 

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid
up, I believe, for one man: but I was not satisfied still; for while
the ship sat upright in that )osture, I thought I ought to get every
thing out of her that I co (1; so every day, at low water, I went
on board, .and brought away something or other: but particular]
the third time I went, I brought away as much of the rigging as
could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with- a
piece of spare canvass, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought away all
the sails first and last; only that I was fain to cut them in pieces,
and bringbas much at a time as I could; for they were no more

0

useful 1. e sails, but as mere canvass only.
But that which comforted me still more was. that, last of all, after
I had made five or six such voyawes as these, and thpught I had
nothing more to expect from the Szllip that was worth my meddling
with; I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread, an
three large runlets of mm or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel
of fine flour ;, this was surprismg to me, because 1 had given over
expectin any more provisions, except what was spmled by the
water. I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it
up, parcel by parcel, in ieces of the sails, which I cut out; and, in
a word, I got all this sa e on shore also. .

The next day I made another voyage, and now havmg plundered
the ship of what was portable and ht to hand out, I began w1th the
cables, and cutting the great cable into pieces such as I could move,
I got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the iron work I
could get; and having cut down the spritsail-yard. and the mizen--
yard, and everythin I could, to make a large raft, I loaded it With
all those heavy 'goo s,'and came away: but my good luck b 11 now
' to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so overla en, that
after I was entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of
my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it
overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water; as for
myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to
my cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especiall the iron, which 1
ex ected would have been of great uSe to me: iowever, when the
ti e was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of
the iron, though with infinite labour; for I was fain to go for it into
the water, a work which fatigued me ver much. After this I went
eve (19. on board, and brought away w rat I could get.

I ad een now thirteen days ashore, and had been eleven times
on board the ship; in which time I had brought away all that one
pair of hands could well be supposed ea able to bring; though I

clieve verily, had the calm weather hel , I should have brought
away the whole ship, piece by piece, but preparing the twelfth time,
to go on board, I found the wind began to- rise: however, at low
water, I went on board; and though I thought I had rummaged the
cabin so effectually, as that nothing could be found, yet I discovered
a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
razors, and one (pair of large seissars, with some ten or a dozen of
good knives an forks; in another I found about thirty-six pounds
in menu , some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight,
some go d, and some silver. .

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money; " 0 drug!" I ex-
claimed, " what art thou good for? Thou art not worth to me, no,
not the taking off the ground; one of those knives'is worth all this
heap: I have no manner of use for thee; e'en remain where thou
art, and'go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth
saving." However, upon second thoughts, I took it away; and
wrapping all this in a piece of canvass, began 'to think of making

4 .
another raft; but while I was preparing this, I found the sky over-
cast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew
a fresh gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me, that It
was in vain to retend to make a raft with the wind elf shore ; and
that it was my usiness to be gone before the tide of flood began, or
otherwise I m'aht not be able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly
I let myself own into the water, and swam across the channel
which lay between the ship and the sands, and even that wrth
difficult enough, partly with the weight of the things I had about
me, andy partly the roughness of the water; for the wind rose very
hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.

 

But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay, with all my
wealth about me very secure. It blew ver hard all that night, and
in the morning, when I looked out, behol no more ship was to be
seen! I was a little surprised, but recovered myself with this
satisfactory reflection, "viz, that I had lost no time, nor abated no
diligence, to get everything out of her, that could be useful to me,
and that, Indeed, there was little left in her that I was able to bring
arvay, if I had had more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything
out of her, except what might drive on shore, from her wreck; as,
indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were
of small use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself
against either savages, if any should appear, or_wild beasts, if any
were in the island; and I had many thou hts of the method how to
do this, and what kind of dwelling to m c, whether I should make
a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth ; and, in short, I resolved
upon both; the manner and description of which, it may not be
imyln'oper to give an aecbuut of.

soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement, par-- .

ticularly because it was upon a low, moorish ground, near the sea,

/

\
and I believed it would not. be wholesome; and more particularly
because there was no fresh water near it: so I resolved to find a
more healthy and convenient spot of ground. -

I consulted several things in my situation, which I found would
be pro er for me; first, air and fresh water, I just now mentioned:
secon , shelter from the heat of the sun: thirdly, security from
ravenous creatures, whether men or beasts: fourthly, a view to the
sea, that if God sent any ship in si ht, I might .not lose any advan-
tage for my deliverance, of which was not willing to banish all my
expflctation yet.

search for a lace pro er for this, I found a little plain on the
side of a rising hill, whose ront towards this little plain was steep
as a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from the
top. On the side of this rock, there was a hollow place, worn a
little way in, like the entrance ordoor of a cave; but there was not
really any cave, or way into the rock, at all.

On the flat of the reen, just before this hollow place, I resolved
to pitch my tent. his lain was not above one hundred - ards
broad, and about twice as ong, and lay like a green before my oor;
and, at the end of it, descended irregularly every way down'mto the
low ground by the seaside. It was on the N.N.W. side of' the hill;
so that it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a
W. and by S. sun or thereabouts, which, in those countries, is near
the setting. ' .

Before set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the hollow
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from
the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and
ending.

In this half-circle I illitCth two rows of strong stakes, driving

them into the ground t' they stood very firm like piles, the biggest
end be' out of the round, about five feet and a half, and
sharpens on the top. '1 6 two rows did not stand above six inches
from one another.
' Then I took the pieces of cable which I cut in the ship, and laid
them in rows, one upon another, within the circle, between these '
two rows of stakes, up to the top, placi 0' other stakes in the inside,
leaning against them, about two feet an a half high, like a spur to
a post; and this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast
could get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and
labour, es ecially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the
place, an drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to he not by a door, but by a
short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when I was in, I
lifted over after me; and so I was completely fenced in and fortified,
as I thought, from all the world, and consequently sle t secure in
the night, which otherwise I could not have done; t ough, as it
appeared afterwards, there wasno need of all this caution against

, the enemies that I apprehended danger from.
CARRIES ALL HIS RICIIES, PROVISIONS, ETC. INTO H's IIIL'BITATION--
DREARINESS 0F SOLITUDB--CONSOLATORY REFLECTIONS.

IN'ro this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my
riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have
the account above; and I made a large tent, which, to preserve me
from the rains, that in one art of the year are very violent there, I
made double, viz., one sm er tent within, and one larger tent above
it, and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which lhad
saved amon the sails.

And now lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought
on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed avcry good one, and
belonged to the mate of the shin.

Into this tent I brought my provisions, and everything that
would spoil by the wet; and havmg thus enclosed all my goods, I
made up the entranee, which till now I had left open, and so passed
and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.

When I had done this I began to work my way into the rock, and
bringin all the earth and stones that I dug down out through my
tent, I aid them up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, so
that it raised the ound within about a foot and a half; and thus I
made me a cave, Just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar
to my house. It cost me much labour and many days, beforeallnonmson causes. 41

these things were brought to perfection; and therefore, I must go
back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts. At
the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the
setting up of my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of ram
falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened,
and after that, a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of
it. I was not so much surprised with the' lightning as I was with
a thou ht which darted into my mind as swift as the -li htning
itself : 5my owder! My very heart sunk within me when I t ought,
that at one bIast all my powder might be destro ed; on which not
my defence only, but the providing me food, as thought, entirely
depended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger,
though, had the powder taken fire, I should never have known who
had hurt me. ' -

Such impressions did this make upon me, that after the storm was
over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and
applied myself to make bags ancLboxes to separate the'powder, and
to keep it a little and a ittle in a parcel, in ho e that whatever
might come, it might not all take fire at once; an to keep it so
apart, .that it should not be possible to make one art fire another.
I finished this work in about a fortnight; and I t ink my powder,
which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weight, was
divided into not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that
had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that; so I placed _
it in my new cave, which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the
rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
mi ht come to it, marking ver carefully where I laid it.

the interval of time wh' e this was doin , I went out at least
Once every day with my gun. One day I k' ed a she-goat, which
had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me'
heartily; but when the old one fell, thekid stood stock still by her, '
till I came and took her up; and not only so, but when I carried the
old one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to
my enclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the kid
in my arms, and carried it over mi pale, in hopes to have bred it up
tame; but it would not eat ; so was forced to kill it, and eat it
myself. These two supplied me with flesh a great while, for I eat
sparingly, and preserved my provisions (my bread especially) as
much as possibly I could.

And now being about to enter into a melancholy relation of a '
scene of silent life, such erhaps, as was never heard of in the world
before, I shall take it rom its be inning, and continue it in its
order. It was, by my account, the ' 0th of September, when, in the
manner as above said, I first set foot upon this horrid island; when
the sun being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almo'st just over
in head: for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be inthe'latitude

o nini.degrees'twenty-two minutes north of the Line.-
ROBINSON'S MODE OF RECKONING TIME--DIFHCUL'I'IES ARISING mom
WANT 0F TOOLS--11E ARRANGES HIS HABITATION.

Ann. I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my
thoughts that I should lose my reckonin of time for want of books,
and pen and ink, and should even forge the Sabbath days from the
working days: but, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife into a
large post, in capital letters; and making it into a great cross, I set
it up on the shore where I first landed, viz., "I came on shore here
on the 30th of September, 1659." Upon the sides of this square
post I out every day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch
was as long again as the rest, and eve first day of the month as
long again as that long one: and thus kaept my calendar, or weekly,
month , and yearly reckoning of time.

But it happened, that among the many things which I brought out
of the ship, in the several voyages which, as above mentioned, I
made to it, I got several things 0 less value, but not at all less
useful to me, which I found some time after, in rummagin the chests :
as inparticular, pens, ink, and paper; several parcels mt c captain's,
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; three or four compasses,
some mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books
of navigation; all of which I huddled together, whether I might
want them or no: also I found three very good Bibles, which came to
.me in my cargo from Englandand which had packed up among my
things; some Portuguese books also, and, among them, two or three
popish prayer-books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog, and
two cats, of whose eminent histor I ma have occasion to say some- '
thing, in its place; for I carried oth tie cats with me; and as for
the 0g he Jumped out of the ship himself, and swam on shore the
day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty ser-
vant to me for many years: I wanted nothing that he could fetch
me, nor any company that he could make up to me, I only wanted
to have him talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed
before, 1 found pens, ink, and pa er, and I husbanded them tonne
utmost; and I shall show that w 'e my ink lasted, I kept things
very exact, but after that was gone I could not; for I could not
makean ink by any means that I could devise. '

And t 's put me 1n mind that I wanted many things, notwithstand.
ing all that I had amassed together; and of these, this of ink was
one; as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or remove the
carth; needles, pins, and thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want
that without much difficult . V

This" want of tools madye ever work I did [go on heavily: and it
was nearly a whole year before I ad entirely nished m httle pale.
or surrounded my habitation. The piles or stakes, w rich were as
heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing
in the woods, and'more by far in bringing home; so that I spent
sometimes two days in cutting and bringm home one of those posts,
and a third in drivin it into the groun ; or which purpose, I got a
heavy peace of woo at first, but at last bethought me of one of the
iron crows; "which, however, though I found it answer, made driving
these \ posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what
need have been concerned at the tediousness of an hing I had
to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in; nor h I any other
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could foresee,
except the ranging the island to.seek for food; which I did more or
less, every day. '

I have already described my habitation, which was a tent under
the side of a rock, surrounded with a stro 0 pale of posts and cables;
but I might now rather call it a wanker I raised a kind of wall
against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside: and after
some time I think it was a year and a half) I raised rafters from it,
leaning to t e rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees,
and such things as I could get, to keep out the rain; which I found,
at some times of the year, very violent.

I have already observed how I broucht all my goods into this pale,
and into the cave which I had made behind me. But I must ob-
serve, too, that at first this was a confused heap of ' goods, which, as
they lay' in no order, so they took up all my place; I had no room to
turn myself : so I set myself to enlarge my cave, and work further44 anvmmmns or ROBINSON causes.

into the earth; for it was a loose sand rock, which yielded easily to
the labour I bestowed upon it; an when I found I was prett
safe as to the beasts of prey, I worked sideways, to the right han ,

 

into the rock, and then taming to the 'right again, worked uite
out, and made me a door to come out in the outside of my pa c or
fortification. '
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were, a back way
to Ely tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to stow my
00 s. '
g And now I began to apply myself to make such necessar thin s as
I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a table; or wit out
these I was not able to ean the few comforts I had in the world ;,
I could not write, or eat, or 0 several things with so much pleasure,'
without a table; so I went to work. And here I must need ob-
serve, that as reason is the substance and original of mathematics,
so that by statin and squaring everything by reason, and by making
the most rationa judgment of thin 5, every man may he, in time,
master of every mechanic art. I ha never handled a tool in my
life; and yet, in time, by labour, ap )lication, and contrivance I found
at last, that I wanted nothing but could have made, especially if I
had had tools. However, I made abundance of things, even without
tools; and some with no more tools than an adzc and a hatchet, which
erhaps were never made that way before, and that with 'infmite
llabour.' For example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but
to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and how it flat on
either side with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank,
and then dub it smooth With my adze. It is true, by this method, I
could make but one board of a whole tree; but this I had no remedy
for but patience, any more than I had for a prodigious deal of time
and labour which it took me up to make a plank or board: but my
time or labour was little worth, and so it was as well employed one
way as another.

I made me a table and a chair, in the first place; and this I did
out of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft from the
shi . But when I wrought out some boards, as'above, I made large
she ves, of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another, all
along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron work
on; and, in a word, to separate every thing at large in their
places, that I might easily come at them. I knocked pieces into
the wall of the rock, to hang my guns, and all thin that would
hang up; so that had my cave been seen, it looked h 'e a general
magazine of all necessary, things; and I had every thin v so ready
at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see al my goods
in such order, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so

rent.
3 And now it was that I b an to keep a journal of every day's em-
ployment; for, indeed, at 1st, I was in too much hurry, and not
only as to labour, but in much discomposure of mind; and my
journal would, too; have been full of man dull things.

Some days after this, and after I had een on board the ship and
got all that I could out of her, I could not forbear getting up to the
top of a little mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a
sh : then fancy that, at a vast distance, I spied a sail, please my-
sel with the hopes of it, and, after looking steadily, till I was almost
blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus
increase my misery by my folly.

But having got over these thin in some measure, and having
settled my household stuff and ha itation, made me a table and a
chair, and all about me as handsome as I could, I began to keep my
journal: of which I shall here give ou the copy (though in it Will be
told all these articulars 'over again as long as it lasted; for having
no more ink, was forced to leave it off.
ROBINSON'S JOURNAL--DETAILS OF HIS DOMESTIC ECONOMY All!)
CONTBIVANCES--SHOCK. OF AN EARTHQUAKE.

THE JOURNAL.

SEPTEMBER 30th, 1659. I, roor miserable Robinson Crusoe, being
shipwrecked, during a dreat ful storm, in the oiling, came on shore
on this dismal unfortunate island, which I called the ISLAND or
Desmm; all the rest of the ship's company being drowned, and
myself almost dead. -

OCTOBER. 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the shi
had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore ain muc
nearer the island. . I oped, if the wind abated, I might get on
board, and get some food and necessaries out of her for my relief.
I spent great part of this day in pefixlexing myself on these thin ;
but, at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went u on the son as
near as I could, and then swam on board. This day also it continued
raining, thou h with no wind at all.

From the st of October to the 24th. All these do. 5 entirely
spent in many several voyages to get all I could out o the ship;
which I brought on shore, ever tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain
also in these days, though wit some intervals of fair weather: but
it seems this was the rain season.

001'. 25. It rained night and all day, with some ants. of
wind; during which time the ship broke in pieces (the wind lowmg
a little harder than before) and was no more to be seen, exce t the
wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent this ay in
covering and securing the goods which I had saved, that the rain
mi ht not spoil them.

' 'rom the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all my
goods to my habitation, though some part of the time itramed ex-
ceedingly hard. - 7

The 3lst, in the mornin , I went out into the island with my gun,
to see for some food, and discover the countr ; when I killed a she-

at, and her kid followed" me home, which afterwards killed also,

ccause it would not feed. -

NOVEMBER 1. I set up .mv tent under a rock, and lay there for
the first night; making it as large as 1 could, with stakes driven in
to swing my hammock upon. - .

Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work, of
going out with my un, time of sleep, and time of diversion; viz.,
every morning I wa ked out with my gun for two or- three hours, if
it did not ram; then employed myself to work till about .eleven
o'clock ; then eat what I had to live on; and from twelve to two I
lay down to sleep, the weather being excessively hot; and then, in
the evening, to work again. The working part of this day and the
next was wholly employed in making my table, for I was yet but
a very sorry workman: though time 'and necessit made me a
complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe t ey would any
one e se.

Nov. 13. This day it rained; which refreshed me exceedingly,
and cooled the earth: but it was accompanied with terrible thunder
and lightning, which frightened me dreadfully, for fear of m
powder. As soon as it was over I resolved to separate my 31.0ch
of powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it might not
he in danger. '

Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my tent, into the' rock,
to make room for my further convemence.

.No'rn. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, viz., a
pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket: so I desisted from
my work and began to consider how to supply these wants, and make
me some tools. As for 'ickaxe, I made use of the iron crows, which
were proper enough, t ough heavy: but the next thing was a
shovel or spade; this was so absolutely necessary, that, indeed, I
could do nothing efi'ectually without it; but what kind 0! one to
make I knew not.

Nov. 18. The next day, in searching the woods, I found a tree of
that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils,-they call the iron tree,
fromits exceeding hardness: of this, with great labour, and almost
spoiling my axe, I cut a piece; and brought it home, too, With diifia
cult enough, for it was exceeding heavy. The excesswc hardness
of the wood, and my having no other way, made me a long while
upon this machine: for I worked it ell'ectually by little and little,
into the form of a shovel or spade; the handle exactly sha cd
like ours in En land, only that the broad part, having no iron 3 rod
upon it at the ottom, it would not last me so long however. it
served well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to;
but never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long
in making.

 

Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still, because of my
makin these tools, when they were finished I went on; and working
every ay, as my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days
entirely in widening an deepening my cave, that it might hold my
goods commodiously. - '

DECEMBER 10. I began now to think my cave or vault finished;
when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great quantity
of earth fell down from the top and one side; so much, that, in short,

,it frightened me, and not without reason too; for if I had been under
it, I should never have wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster,
I had a great deal of work to do over again, for I had the loose
earth to carry out; and, which was of more importance, I had
Elbe ceiling to prop up, so that I might be Sure no more would come
own. - v
DEC. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly; and got
two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of
board across over each ost: this I finished the next da ; and
setting more posts up wit boards, in about a week more I ad the
roof secured; and the posts standing in rows, served me for parti-

tions to art off my house.
DEC. 7. From this da to the 20th, I placed shelves, and knocked

up nails on the posts, to ang ever thing up that could be hung up:
and now I b an to be in some or er within doors.

DEC. 20. carried everything into the cave, and began to furnish
my house, and set up some ieces of boards, like a dresser, to order
- my victuals upon; but boar began to be very scarce with me; also

I made me another table. - '

Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats and no breeze; so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food; this time I
spent in putting all my things in order within doors.

 

JANUARY 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early and late with -
my and lay still in the middle of the day. This evemng, gsz
furt or into the valle which lay towards the centre of the 13 n
I found there were p enty of goats, though exceedmgly shy, and hard
to come at- however, I resolved to try if I could not brmg my dog
to hunt them down. Accordingly, the next day, I went out with my
dog, and set him upon the goats: but 1 was mistaken, for they all
faced about upon the dog: and he knew his danger too well, for he
would not come near them.

JAN. 3.' I began my fence or wall; which, being still jealous of
nay being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thick an
s ron .

Duging this time, i made my rounds in the woods for game every
day when the rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveries, 1n

these walks, of something or other to my advantage; particularly, I
5 ' n
found a kind of wild pigeons, who build, not as wood-pigeons, in a
tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks: and,
taking some young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and
did so; but when they grew older, they flew all away; which, per-
haps, was, at first, for want of feeding them, for I had nothin to
give them; however, I frequently found their nests, and got t eir
oung ones, which were very good meat. In the middle of all my
abours it happened, that in rummaging my things, I found a little
bag; which, as I hinted before, ha been filled with corn, for the
feeding of oultry; not for this voyage, but before, as '1 en pose,
when the 5 ip came from Lisbdn. What little remainder 0 corn
had been in the bag was all devoured b the rats, and I saw nothing,
in the bag but husks and dust: and sing willing to have the b
for some other use (I think it was to put powder in, when I divide
it for fear of the lightning, or some such use), I shook the husks of
'corn out of it, on one side of my fortification, under the rock.

It was a little before the great rain now mentioned, that I threw
this stuff away; takinqr no notice of anything, and not so much as
remembering that I had thrown anything there: when, about a month
after, I saw some few stalks of somethm green shooting out of the
ground, which I fancied might be some p ant I had not seen; but I
was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a longer time, I
saw about ten or twelve ears come out, which were perfect green
Barley, of the same kind as our European, nay, as our English

ar e . . .

I at first thought these the pure productions of Providence for my
support; and, not doubting that there was more in the place, I went
over all.that part of the island where I had been before, searching in
every corner, and under ever rock, for more of it; but I could not
find any. At last it occurre to my thou hts, that I had shaken out
a bag of chicken's-meat in that place, an then the wonder began to
cease; and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to God's
providence began to abate, too, upon the discovering that all this
was noth' but what was common; though I ought to have been
as thank for so strange and unforeseen a providence, as if it had
been miraculous: for it was really the work of Providence, as to me,
that should order or a point that ten or twelve ains of ,corn should
remain uns oiled, w en the rats had destro e all the rest, as if it
had been opped from heaven; as also, t at I should throw it
out in that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a
high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown
g. an'ywlaere else, at that time, it would have been burned up and

estro e .

I egrefull saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in their
season, which was about the end of June; and, laying up every corn,-
I resolved to sow them all again; hoping, in time, to have some
quantity sufficient to supply me with bread. But it was not till the
fourth year that I could allow myself the least grain of this com
to eat, and even then but 8 aringl , as I shall show afterwards in its
order; for I lost all that sowe the first season, by not observing
the proper time; as I sowed just before the season, so that it;
.never came up at all, at least not as it would ave done: of which
in its place.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks
of rice, which I reserved with the same care; an whose use was
of the same kin , or to the same purpose, viz., to make me bread,
or rather food; for I found ways to cook it up without bakin ,
though I did that also after some time--But to return to my Uourn .

I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to get my
wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up; contriving to get
into it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that there
might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.

APRIL 16. I finished the ladder; so I went u with the ladder
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and et it down in the
inside: this was a. complete enclosureto me; for within I had room

_ enough, and nothing could come at me from without, unless it could
first mount my wall.

The very, next day after this wall was finished, I had almost all
my labour overthrown at_ once, and myself killed; the case was
thus :--A8 I was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, 'ust at the
entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened by a s ock of an
earthquake !

-I was so much amazed, with the thing itself (having never felt the
like, nor discoursed with any one that had) that I was like one dead
or stupified; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like
one that was tossed at sea: but the noise of the falling of the rock
awaked me, as it were; and rousing me from the stupificd condition
I was in, filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing but the hill
falling upon my tent and my household goods, and burying all at
once; this sunk my very soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time,
I began to take courage; yet I had not heart enough to over my

' wall a in, for fear of being buried alive; but sat at upon the
groun greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do.
All this while I had not the least serious religious thought; nothing
but the common " Lord, have mercy on me! ' and when it was over
that went away too. ,

. This set me thinking about what I had best do; conclud-
mg, that if the island was sub'ect to earthquakes, there would be
no living for -me in a cave, but must consider of building me some
httle hut in an open place, which I might surround with a wall, as 1
had done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men;
for if I staid where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be
buried alive. _ 2

n
With these thou hts, I resolved to remove my tent from the lace
where it now stoo , being 'ust under the hanging recipice o the
hill, and which, if it shoul be shaken again, wo d certainly fall
11 on m tent. I spent the next two days, being the 19th and 20th
0 Apri , in contriving where and how to remove m habitation. I
resolved that I would 0 to work with all speed to uild me a wall
with piles and cables, 50. in a circle as before, and set my tent in it
when it was finished; but that I would venture to stay where I was
till it was read , and fit to remove to. This was the flat.

APRILflQ. he next morning I began to consider of means to put

this measure into execution; and I was at a great loss about the

 

tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of hatchets (for we
carried the hatchcts for traffic with the Indians); but with much
chop ing and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of notches,
' and ull: and though I had a grindstone, I could nor turn it and
grind m tools too. This caused me as much thought as a states-
man wo d have bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge
upon the life and death of a man. At length contrived a wheel -
With a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty.

APRIL 28, 9. These two whole days I took up in grinding my
tools, my machine for turning my grindstonefierforming very well.

APRIL 30. Having perceived that my bre had been low a great
while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-
cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.
'BlOBINSON OBTAINS MORE ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK--
ILLNESS AND AFFLICTION.

MAY 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-side, the tide
being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary,
and it looked like a cask; when I came to it I ound a small barrel,
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven
on shore by the late hurricane; and looking towards the wreck itself,
I thought it-seemed to lie higher out of the water than it used to do.
I examined the barrel that was driven on shore, and soon found it
was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it farther on the
shore for the present, and went on upon the sands, as near as' I could
to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed.
The forecastle, which lay buried in the sand, was heaved up at least
six feet; and the stern which was broke to pieces, and parted from
the rest, by the force of t 1e sea, soon after I had left rummaging her)
was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side: and the san was
thrown so high on that s1de next her stern, that I could now walk
quite up to her when the tide was out.

This wholly diverted my thou hts from the design of removing my
habitation ; and I busied myse f mightily, that day especially, in
searching whether I could make any way mto the ship; ut I found
nothing was to be expected of that kind, for all the inside of the ship
was choked u with sand. However, as I had learned not to des air
of withing, resolved to pull everything to pieces that I coul of
the s ip, concluding that everything I could get from her would be

of some.use or other to me.
5
MAY 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam through,
wlnch I thouOht held some of the upper part or quarter-deck to-
gether; and w en I had .cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well
as I could from the side which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I
was obliged to give over for that time.

MAY 4. I went a fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat
of, till I was wear of my sport; when just goin to leave off, I
can ht a young do phin. I had made a lon line 0 some rope-yarn,

. but had no hooks; yet I frequently can t fish enough, as much
as I cared to eat; all of which I dried in t e sun, and ate them dry.

Mn 5 to 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck;
and with hard labour I loosened some things so much, with the crow,
that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of the
seamen's chests; but the wind blowin from shore, noth' came to
land that day but pieces of timber, an a hogshead, which ad some
Brazil pork in it. I continued this work every day to the 15th of
June, exce t the time necessary to get food; which I alwa s
appointed, dbring this part of my employment to be when the ti e
was it , that I might be ready when it was ebbed out; and by this
time had ottcn timber, and plank, and iron work, enough to have
built a goo boat, if I had known how'; and I also got, at several
rinses, and in several pieces, near one hundred weight of the sheet-
ea .

- J UNE 16. Goi down to the seaside, I found a large tortoise, or ,
turtle. This was t e first I had seen; which, it seems, was only to
my misfortune, not any defect of the ]place or scarcity; for had I
happened to be on the other side of t e island, I mi ht have had
hundreds of them eve day, as I found afterwards; I) perhaps had

paid dear enou h for t em.
JUNE 17. s ent in cooking the turtle. I found in her three.

score eggs; and er flesh was to me, at that time, the most savoury
and pleasant that I ever tasted in my life; having had no flesh, but
of oats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place.

UNE 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thou ht at
this time, the rain felt cold, and I was somewhat chilly; w 'ch I
knew was not usual in that latitude.

JUNE 19. Very ill, and shivering. as if the weather had been

cold.
J UN! 20. No rest all ni ht ; violent pains in my head, and feverish.

J mm 21. Very ill; frig tened almost to death with the apprehen-
sions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help; prayed to God,
for the first time since the storm ofi' Hull; but scarce knew what I
said, or why, my thou hts being all confused.

. .11c UNE 22. A little etter; but under dreadful apprehensions of
arc ness.

J UNR 28. Very had again; cold-and shivering, and then a violent

headache.
J Um; 24. Much better.

JUNE 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me seven hours;
cold fit, and hot, wrth faint sweats after it.

J UNE 26. Better; and having no vituals to eat, took my gun, but
found m self very weak; however, I killed a she-goat, and With -
much di culty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. I
would fain have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.

J UN'E 27. The ue again so violently that I lay. a~bed all day,
' and neither ate nor ank. I was ready to perish for thirst; but so
weak, I had.not the strength to stand up, or get myself any water
to drink. Prayed to God again, but was light-headed; and when I
was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only. lay
and cried, "Lord, look 11 on me! Lord, ity me! Lord, have mere
upon me!" I su pose I 'd nothing else or two or. three hours; t'
the fit wearing o , Ifell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night.

When I awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and
exceeding thirsty; however, as I had no water in my whole habita-
tion, 1 was forced to lie~till morning. '

Ihad, alas! no divine knowled e: what I had received by the ,
good instruction of my father wast en worn out, by anuninterrupted
series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant
conversation with none but such as were, like myself, wicked and
profane to the last dc e. I do not remember that I had, in all
that time, one thong t that so much as tended either to looking
upward towards God, or inward towards a reflection upon my own
ways; but a certain stu idity of soul, without desire of good, or
consciousness of evil, ha entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all
that the most hardened, unt ' ' , wicked creature among our

common sailors, can be supposed to e; not having the least sense,
either of the fear of Godhm danger, or of thankfulness to him, in
deliverances.

It is true, when I first lgot on shore here, and found all my' ship's
crcv-' drowned, and myse spared, I was s rised with a ind of
ecstacy, and some transports of soul, which, ad the ace of God
assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness; at it ended
where it b an; in a mere common flight of joy, or,.as I ma say,
bein lad was alive, without the least reflection u on the ' tin-
guis e goodness of the hand. which had preserve me, and had
singled _me out to be reserved when all the rest were destroyed, or
an inquiry-why provi ence had been thus merciful to me; just the
same common sort of joy which seamen have, after they are ot safe
ashore frOm a shipwreck ; which they drown all in the next owl of
'unch, and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of my .

e was like it, ' Even when I was, afterwards, on due consideration,
made sensible of my condition,--how I was cast off on this dreadful
place, out of the reach of human kind, out of all hope of relief, or
prospect of redemption, -as soon as _I saw but a prospect of living,
and that I should not starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of
affliction wore off, and I became to be very easy, ap lied myself to
the works proper for my. preservation and su ply, an was far enough
from being afilieted at my condition, as a ju gment from heaven, or
as the hand of God against me; these were thoughts which very
seldom entered into my head.

 

But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisure view of the
miseries of death came to place itself before me; when m spirits
began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper, an nature
was exhausted with the violence of the fever; conscience, that had
slept so long, bevan to awake; and I reproacbed myself with my
past life, in whic I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness,
provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and
to deal with me in so vindictive a manner.

" Now," said I, aloud, " my dear father's words are come to pass;
God's justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me.
I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a
station of life wherein I might have been happy and easy; but I
would neither see it myself, nor learn from my parents the blessing
of it. Ileft them to mourn over my folly; and now I am left to
mourn under the consequences of it." Then I cried out, " Lord, be my
help, for I am in eat distress." This was the first rayer, if I may

call it so, that I 6. made for many years. But return to my
Journal. ' '
ms Heaven--ms comom: IN READING me scamme--
nms AN EXCURSION mro run m'rmuon or THE remn--
romrs HIS "BOWEB."

Im 28. Havin been somewhat refreshed with the sleep Ihad
had, and the fit Eemg entirely 011', I got u , and considered now
was m time to get something to robes and support m self
when should be ill. The first thing I did was to fill a ar e
case-bottle with water, and set it u on my table, in reach of my be, ;
and to take off the chill or aguis disposition of the water, I put
about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed them together.
Then I ot me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals,
but eoufd eat very little. I walked about, but was very weak, and
withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable con:
dition. dreading the return of my distemper the next day.

Now,'as the apprehension of the return of ' my distemper terrified
me very much, it occurred to my thought, that the Brazilians take
no physic but their tobacco for almost all distempers; and I had a
piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite
cured; and some also that was green, and not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt: for in this chest I found a
cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what I
looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay
there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before,
and which, to this time, I had not found- leisure or so much as
mclination, to look into. I say, I took it out, and brought both
that and the tobacco with me to the table. What use to make of
the tobacco I knew not, as to my distemper, nor whether it was.
good for it or not; but I tried several experiments with it, as if 1
was resolved it should hit one way or other. I first took a piece of
a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth ; which, indeed, at first, almost
stu ified my brain; the tobacco being green and stro , and such
as fhad not been much used to. Then took some an steeped it
an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when
I lay down: and lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held
my nose close over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it; as
well for the heat, as almost for sufl'ocation. In the interval of this
operation, I took 11 the Bible, and began to read: but my. head was
too much disturbe by the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that
time; only, having opened the book casuall , the first words that
occurred to me were these: " Call On'me in t 6 day of trouble, and
I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." These words were
very apt to m case ;_ 'and made some impression upon my thou hts
at the time 0 reading them, though not so much as the did ter-
wards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no soun , as I may
say, to me; the thing was so remote, so im ossible in my appre-
hension of thin , that, as the children of reel said when they
were promised esh to eat, "Can God spread a table in the wilder-
ness? ' so I began to say, " Can even God himself deliver me from
this place P" And as it was not for many years that any hopes
appeared, this (prevailed very often upon my thoughts: but, however,
t e words ma 6 a great impression upon me, and I mused upon
them very often. It now grew late: and thetobaeeo had, as I said,
dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep: so I left my lam
burning in the cave, lest I should want anything in the night, an
went to bed. But before I lay down, I did what 1 never had done
in all my life: I kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the
promise to me, that if I called 11 on him in the day of trouble, he
would deliver me. After my bro en and imperfect prayer was over,
I drank the rum in which I lad steeped the tobacco; which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce get it
down; immediately 11 on this I went to bed. I found presently the
rum flew up into my end violently; but I fell into a sound sleep,
and waked no more till bl: the sun, it must necessarily be near three-
o'clock in the afternoon t e next day; nay, to this hour, I am artly
of opinion, that I sle t all the next day and night, and till a cat
three the day after; or otherwise, I know not how I should lose a
day out of my reckoning in the da s of the week, as it appeared
some years after I had done ; for ' I'bad lost it by crossmg and
re-crossing the Line, I should have lost more than one da ; but
certainly lost a day'in my account, and never knew which way.
Be that, however, one we or the other, when I 'awaked I found
myself exceedinlgly refres ed, and m spirits lively and cheerful:
w en I got up was stronger than was the day before, and my
stomach better, for I was hungry :- and, in short, I had no fit the
next day, but continued much altered for the better. This was the

29th.
The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad with

my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a seafowl or

 

two, something like a brand goose, and brought them home; but
was not very forward to eat them; so I ate some more of the turtle's
_ eigs, Whlcll were very good. This evening I renewed the medicine,

w 1ch I had suppose 'd me good the day before, viz. the tobacco'
steeped m rum; onl I did not take so much as before, nor did I
chew any of the l , or hold my head over the smoke: however, I_
was not so well the next day, which was the 1st of July, as I hoped
I shpluld have been; for I had a little of the cold fit, but it was not
muc . ' -

J ULY 2 and 3. I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
30:3: myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I

l' .

JULY 4-. In the morning I took the Bible; and beginning at the
New Testament, I began seriously to read it; and Imposed u on
myself to-read a while every'mormng and every night; not bin ng
myself to the number of chapters, but as long as iny thoughts
should engage me. It was not long after I set seriously to this
work, that I found my heart sincerely affected with the wickedness of
my past life. The words, " All these things have not brought thee to
repentance," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging
of God to ive me repentance, when 1t happened providentially, the
ver same ay, that, reading the scripture, I came to 'these words,
" 8.18 exalted a Prince - and a Saviour; to give repentance and to
give remission." I threw down the book; and with my heart as
well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of jo , I
cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou exalted
I'rmce and_Sav10ur ! we me re cntanee." This was the first time
m all my life I eoul sa , in t e true sense of the words, that I
prayed; .for now I praye with a sense of my condition, and with a
true ser1 ture View of hope, founded on the encouragment of the

word of ad: and from this time, I ma , I b t b
that God would hear me. Y "3' 68w 0 ave hora

 

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed 'in
walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a 'tt e at a
time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick-
ness: for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to what
weakness I was reduced. The application which I made use of was
perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured'an aguc before":
neither can I recommend it to anffy one to practise, by this experi-
ment: and though it did carr 'o the fit, yet it rather contributed
to weakening me; for I had r quent convulsion in my nerves and
limbs for some time: I learned from it also this, in particular; that
beinfilabroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my
healt that could be, especially in those rains which came attended
with storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came in
the dry season was almost always accompanied with such storms, so
I found that this rain was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October. -

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months: all
possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely
taken from me; and I firmly believed that no human shape had ever
set foot 11 on that place- Having secured my habitation, as I
thought, [y to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more
erfect discovery of the Island, and_ to see what other productions
I might find, whjlch I yet knew nothing of. .

It was on the bth of July that I began to take a more articular
'surve of the island itself. I went up the creek first, w ere, as I
hinte , I brought my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about
two miles up, that the tide did not flow any iugher; and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, very fresh and good :
but this being the dry season, there was hardl any water in some

arts of it; at least, not any stream. On the anhs of this brook
{found many pleasant savannahs or meadows, lam, smooth, and
covered with rass; and on the rising parts 0 them, next to the
higher ground; (where the water, as it might be supposed, .never
overflowed), I found a great deal of tobacco, green, an rowmg to
a very rent and strono stalk: and there were divers ot er lants,
which had no knowledge. of, or understanding about, an that
might, perha s, have virtues of their own, which I could not find
out. I searc ed for the cassava root, which the Indians, in all that
climate, make their bread of ; but I could find none. 'I saw large
plants of aloes, but did not understand them. I.saw several sugar-
canes, but wild; and, for want of cultivation, miperfect. I con-
tented myself with these discoveries for this time; and came back,
musing with m self what course I might take to know the virtue
and goodness 0 any of the fruits or plants which I should discover;
but could bring it to no conclusion; for; in short, I had made so
little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the
plants in the fields; at least, very little that might serve me to any
purpose now in m distress. -

The next day, t 1e 16th, I went up the same we. again; and after
oin something farther than I had gone the day efore, I found the
mo and the savannahs begin to cease, and the country beetms

more woody than before. In this part I found different fruits ; and
particularly I found melons u on the ground in reat abundance,
and grapes upon the trees: t ie vines, indeed, ha spread over the
trees, and the clusters of grapes were now just in their prime, very
ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I was ex-
ceedingly glad of them, but I was warned by my experience to eat
sparingly of them , remembering that when I was ashore in Barbary,
t e eating of gra es killed several of our Englishmen, who were
slaves there, by t rowing them into fluxes and fevers. I found,
however, an excellent use for these grapes; and that was to cure or
dry them in the sun, and kce them as dried- rapes or raisins are
kept; which I thought woul be (as indeed t ey were) as whole.
some and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes were to _be had.

Having spent three days in this journey, I came home, so I must
now call my tent and my cave.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with deg eat

pleasuresthe fruitfulncss of that valley, and the pleasantness o the
' situation; the security from storms on that side; the water and the
wood; and concluded that.I had pitched upon a place to fix my
abode in, which was by far the worst part of the'country. Upon
the whole, I began to consider of removing my habitation. and tn

 

look out for a placeeq'ually safe as where I was now situate; if
possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the island.

I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent much of my time
there for the whole remaining part of the month of July; and
though, upon second thoughts, I resolved not to remove, yet I built
me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a
stron fence, bein a double hedge, 'as high as I could reach, well
stake and filled etween with brushwood. Here I lay very secure
sometimes two or three nights together; always (going over it with
a ladder, as before: so that I fancied now I ha my country and
2y seagcoast house. This work took me up to the beginning of

u .

bout the beginning of August, I had finished my bower, and
began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August, I found the grapes I
h hun up were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good
raisins o the sun; so I began to take them down from the trees-
and it was very happy that I did so, as the rains which followed
would have spoiled t em, and I should have lost the best part of my
winter food; for I had above two hundred large bunches of them. '
No sooner had' I taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to m cave, but it began to rain: and from hence, which was
the 14th 0 August, it rained, more or less. every da till the middle
of October; and sometimes so violently, that I coul not stir out of

my cave for several days.i

mvnnrunns or nonmson causes. 63

In this season, I was much sur rised with the increase of my
family. 1 had been concerned for t c loss of one of my cats, who
ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead; and I heard no
more other, till, to my astonishment, she came home With three
kittens. This was the more strange to me, because, about the end

 

of August, thou h I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my
gun, yet I thoug t it was quite a different kind from our European.
cats: yet the young cats were'the same kind of house-breed as the
old one; and both of my cats being females, I thought it ver
strange. But from these three, I afterwards came to be so cpestere '
with cats that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wil beasts,
and to drive them from my house as much as possible.

' From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain; so that I
could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In
this confinement, I be to be straitened for food, but venturin out
twice, I one day kills a goat, and the last day, which was the 4th,
found a very lar e tortoise, which was a treat to me. My food was
now re lated t us: I ate -a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a
piece 0 the goat's flesh, or of. the turtle, broiled for my dinner, .(for,
to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or.stew anythmg,)
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for my supper.

During this confinement in my cover from the rain, I worked daily
two or t_ ree hours at enlarging my cave; and by de ees worked it
on towards one side, till I came to the outside of the ill: and made
a door, or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lyin so
open: for as I had managed myself before, I was m a er ect
enclosure; whereas now, I thought I lay exposed; and yet could
not perceive that there was any living thin to fear, the biggest
creature that I had as yet seen upon the island being a goat.

SEPTEMBER 30. I was now come to the unhappy anniversary of
my landing: I cast up the notches on my post, and found I had
been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as
a solemn fast! setting it a art for religious exercise, prostrating
myself on the round with t ac most serious humiliation, confessing
my sins to Go , acknowledging his righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to him to have mercy on me through esus Christ; and
having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till
the going down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit .and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I be 11 it. I had all
this time observed no sabbath-day; for as at first had no sense of
religion upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted to distin uish
the weeks, by making a lon rer notch than ordinary for the sab ath-
day, and - so did not really now what an of the days we're: but
now havin cast u the days, as above, I ound I had been there a
year; so divide it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for
a sabbath: though-I found, at the end of my account, I had lost a
day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning
to fail me, I contented myself to use it more splaringly ; and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my 'fe.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear. regular
to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide for them
accordingly; but I bought all m experience before I had it.

While my corn was growing, made a little discovery, which was
of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, and the
weather began-to settle, which was about the month of November,
Imade avrsit up the country to my bower; where, then 11 I had
not been for some months, et I found all things just as had left
them. The circle or double edoc that I had made was not only firm
and entire, but the stakes which I had cut out of some trees that grew
thereabouts, were all shot out and grown with iono- branches, as
much as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year alter lo ping its
head; but I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were
cut from. I was, surprised, and yet very well leased,.to see the
young trees grow; and I pruned them, and le them to grow as
much alike as I could: and it is scarce credible how beautiful a
figure they grew into in three years: so that, though the hedge
made a circle of a'oout twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees,
for such I might now call them, soon covered it, and it was a com-
plete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry season. This made
me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in
a' semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which
I did: and placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight
yards distance from my fence, they grew present] ; and were at
first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwar 3 served for a
defence also; as I shall observe in its order., 3
ROBINSON MAKES A TOUR 'I'O EXPLORE HIS ISLAND.

I FOUND now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided,
not into summer and winter as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons
and the dry seasons, which were generally thus: From the middle
of February to the middle of Apt" , rainy; the sun being then on

or near the efiluino'x. From the middle of A ril till the middle of
t

August, dlil'y; e sun heinfg. then north of the ins. From the middle
A t t' the middle 0 October, rainy; the sun being then come

bac to the Line. From the middle of October till the middle of
February, dry; the sun being then to the south of the Line;
' The rain seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes shorter,
as the wine hap sued to blow; but this was the general observation
I made. After {had found, by experience, the ill consequences of
being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with provisions
~ beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out; and I sat within
doors as much as possr le during the wet months. In this time I found
. much employment, and very suitable also to the time; as I found
great occasion for many thinas which I had no way to furnish myself
with, but by hard labour and constant application; particular y, I
tried many ways to make myself a basket; but all the twigs I could
get for the pur ose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of exce ent advantage to me now, that when I was a boy, I
used to take great delight in standing at a basket-maker's in the

town where my father hved, to see them make their wicker-ware;
6 r.
and being, as hoys usually are, very ollicious to help, and a great
observer of the manner how they worked those things, and sometimes
lending a hand, I had by these means full knowledge of the methods
of it, so that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it came into
my mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes
that grew, might (possrbly be as tough as the sallows, willows, and
osiers, in Englan , and I resolved to try. Accordingly, the next
day, I went to" my country-house, as I called it, and cutting some of
the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could

 

desire; whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to,
cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there was reat plenty
of them. These I set up to dry within my circle or edwe; and
when they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave; and there,
during the next season, I employed myself 'in making, as well as
I co d, several baskets; both to carryr earth, or to carry or lay up
anything I had occasion for. Though I did not finish them very
handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose;
and thus, afterwards, I took care never to be without them; and as
my wicker-ware decayed, I made more; especiall stroncr deep
baskets to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when should come
to have any quantity of it.

I mentioned before, that I had great mind to see the whole island;
and that I had travelled u the brook, and so on to where I had
built my bower, and where had an opening quite to the sea, on the
other side of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across to
the sea-shore, on that side; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my
dog, and a larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two
biscuit-cakes,.andagreat hune of raisins in my pouch, for my store.
I be an m journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower
stood, as aybove, I came within view of the sea, to the west; and it
being a clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an island or con-
tinent I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from W. to W.
S.W. at a very great distance; by my guess, it could not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

 

I could not tell what part of the world this might be ; _ otherwise
than that I knew it must be part of America, and as I concluded
by all my observations, must be near the Spanish dominions; and
perfis was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have landed,

it been m a worse condition than I was now. I therefore ac-
quiesced 1n the disposition of Providence, which I began now to
own and to believe ordered everything for the best ; I say, I quieted
my mind with this, and left 011' afflicting myself with fruitless wishes
of bemg there. Besides, after some reflection upon this ail'air,
I considered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly
one time or other, see some vessel pass or repass one way or other;
but if not, then it was a. savage coast between the Spanish country
and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the worst of savages;
for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to murder and
devour all human beings that fall into their hands.

.Wl'tll these considerations, walking very leisurely forward, I found
tlns side of the island, where I nowwas, much pleasanter than mine;
the open or savannah fields sweetly adorned with flowers and ass,
and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots; an fain
would have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and
taught it to speak to me. .I did, after taking some pains catch a

r, young parrot; for I knocked it down with a stick, and, having recov-

' ered 1t,.I brought it home; but it. was some years before I could
make him s can ; however, at last I taught him to call me by my
name very amiliarly.

+ r 2
I was exceedingly amused with this journey. I found in the low
grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and foxes; but they diifered
greatly from all the other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy
myself to eat them, though I killed several. .But I had no need to
be venturous; for I had no want of food, and of that which was very
good too , especially these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle,
or tortoise. '

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was su rised to see that I
had taken up my lot on the worst side of the is ad; for here indeed
the shore was covered with innumerable turtles; whereas, on the
other side I had found but three in a year and a half. Here was
also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds; some of which I had
not seen before, and many of them very good meat, but such as I knew
not the names of, exce t those called penguins.

I'confess this side 0 the country was much pleasanter than mine;
yet I had not the least inclination to remove; for as I was fixed in my

abitation, it became natural to me; and I seemed all the while Iwas
here to be as it were upon a journe , and from home. However, I
travelled along the seashore toward: the east, Isuppose about twelve
miles, and then setting up a great pole upon the seashore for a mark,
I concluded I would 'go home again; and that the next journey I
took should be on the other side of the island, east from my dwelling,
and so round till I came to my post again; of which in its place.

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I could
easily keep so much of the island in my view, that I could not miss
finding, my first dwelling by viewing the country ; but I found myself
mistaken; for being come abdut two or three miles, I found myself
descended in a very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, and
those hills covered with wood, that I could not see which was my way>>-
by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew
very well the position of the sun at that time of the day. And it
happened to my farther misfortune, that the weather proved hazy for
three or four days while I was in this valley; and not being able to
see the sun, I wandered about ver uncomfortable, and at last was
obliged to find out the seaside, 100 for my post, and come back the
same way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned homeward,
the weat er being exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet,
and other things very heavy.
HE RETURNS 10 ms CAVE--HIS AGRICULTURAL mouns AIM)
SUCCESS. \

IN this journey, my do surprised a young kid and seized upon it;
and I running to take Eold of it, caught 1t and saved 1t ahve from
the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if I could; for I_ had
often been musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid .or
two, and so raise a breed of fame goats, which might supply me With
food when my powder and shot were ll 3 Jent. made a collar for
this little creature, and with a string whic I had made of some rope
yarn, which I always carried about me, I led him along, though with
some difficulty, tillI came to my bower, and there I enclosed him
and left him; for I was very impatient to be at home, .from whence
I had been absent above a mont h.

I reposed myself here aweek, to rest and regale myself after my long
journey; during which, most of the time was taken up in the weighty
affair of makina a cage for m Poll, who began now to be more do-
mestic, and to he mi ht wel ac uainted with me. Then I began to
think of the poor ki w iich I ha penned within my little circle, and
resolved to fetch it home, or give 1t some food; accordingly I went,
and found it where I left it (for indeed it could not ct out,) but was
almost starved for want of food. I went and cut Eonghs of trees,
and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and having fed
it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away; but it was so tame
with being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it, .for it
followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature be-
came so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it was from that time
one of my domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards,
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy the
life I now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, than the
wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my days;
and now havrng chan ed both my sorrows and my joys: my very
desires altered, my ai'ections, changed and my delights were per-
fectly new from what they were at my first coming, or indeed for the
two years past. Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting,
or for viewing the country, the an uish of my soul at my condition
would break out upon me on asu den, and my very heart would die
' within me, to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was
in 3 and how I was a prisoner, locked u with the eternal bars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wil erncss, without redemption.
In the midst of the greatest composures of my mind this would
break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands and
weip like a child: sometimes it would take me in the middle of my
wo , and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the
ground for an hour or two together: and this was still worse to me ;

ut if I could burst into tears, or give vent to my feelings by words,
it would go oll' ; and my grief havmg exhausted itself would abate.

Thus, and in this disposition of nnnd, I began m third year; and
though I have not iven the reader the tron le ol'y so particular an
account of my wor 3 this year as the first, yet in general it ma be
observed, that I was very seldom idle, havmg regulafly divide my
time, according to the several daily em ployments that were before me;
such as, first, My duty to God, and reading the scriptures, which
I constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day: secondly,
Going abroad with my gun for food, which generally took me up three
hours every jnorning, when it did not rain: thirdly, The ordering,
curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for my
supply; these took up great part of the day, when the sun was in
the zenith the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that
about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be sup osed
to work in; with this exception, that sometimes I changed my liours
of hunting and workin , and 'went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in t e afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added the
exceedingly laboriousness of m work; the many hours which, for
want of tools, want of help, an want of skill, everythin I did took
up out of my time: for example, I was full two an forty days
making me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave;
whereas, two sawycrs, with their tools and a sawliit, would out six
of them out of the same tree in half a day.

My case was this; it was a large tree that was to be cut down,
because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I was three
da 3 cutting down, and two more in cuttin oil' the boughs, and
re ucing it to a log, or icce of timber. Wit 1 incxpressible hacking
and hewing, I reduced 0th the sides of it into chips, till it was light
enou to move; then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth
and t as a board, from end to end; then turning that side down-
ward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be about three
inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may 'udge the
labour of my hands in such a piece of work; but labour an patience
carried me through that, and many other things; I only observe
this inparticular, to show the reason why so much of my time went
away with so little work, viz. that what might be aI little to be done
with help and table, was a vast labour, and required a Erodigious
time to do alone, and by hand. Notwrthstanding'this, wit 'patience
and labour I went throu h many things; and, indeed, everything
that my circumstances ma e necessary for me to do, as will appear
by what follows.

 

I was now, in the months of November and December, exsecting
my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or ug up
for them was not great; for, as I'observed, my seed of each was not
more than half a beck, having lost one whole crop b sowing in the
dry season: but now my cron romised very well; w en, ona sudden,
I ound I was in danger ot osing it again by enemies of several
sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it; as, first, the
goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who, tasting the
sweetness of the blade, lay in it nioht and day, as soon as it came
uglkand ate it so close, that it couId get no time to shoot up into
8 . -

I saw no remedy for this, but by making an enclosure about it
with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil; and the more,
because it required speed. However, as my arable land was but
small, suited to my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in about
three weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures in the day-
' time, I set my do to guard it at night, tying him up to a stake at
the gate, where e would stand and bark all mght long; so in a
little time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very
strong and well, and began to ripen apace.

 

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my.corn was in the
blade, so the birds were likely to ruin me now, when it was in the .
ear; for going alon by the place to see how it throve, I saw my
little crop surrounded with fowls, I know not of how many sorts, who
stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone. I immediately let
fly among them, for I always had my un wrth me, and killed three
0 them. I took them up, and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England, viz. ban ed them in. chains, for a terror to others.
It is impossible to imagine t lat this should have such an effect as it
had; for the {owls not only never came to the corn, but, in short,
they forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there. This I
was very glad of, you may be sure; and about the latter end of
December, which was our second harvest of the year, I reaped my
com.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down: and all
I could do was to make one as well as I could, out of one of the
broad swords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the

trap. However as my first crop was but small, I had no reat
ch cultyto cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way, for out
nothing off but the ears, and carried it awa in a great basket which
I had made, and so rubbed it out with my ands; and at the end of
all my harvesting, I found that out of my half peek of seed I had
near two hushe s of rice, and 'above two bushels and a half of
barley ; that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure.

However, this was great encouragement to me; and I foresaw
that, in time, it would please God to supply me with bread; yet here
I was perplexed again; for I neither knew how to grind, or make
meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made
into meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I
knew not how to bake it; these things being added to my desire of
having a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I
- resolved not to taste any of this ero , but to preserve it all for seed
against the next season; and, in t e meantime, to employ all m
study and hours of working to accomplish this great work, of ~provi -
intr myself with corn and bread. ' ,

:It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It is a
little wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought much
upon, viz. the strange multitude of littlethings necessary in the pro-
nding, producing, curing, dressin , making, and finishing this one
article of bread. I that was re need to a mere state of nature,
found this to my daily discouragement, and was made more sensible
of it every hour, even after I had got the first handful of seed corn,
which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a
su rise. ' '

irst, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade or shovel
to dig it; well, this 1 con uered by making a wooden spade, as I
observed before; but this id my work in but a wooden manner. '1' he
corn was sown; I had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myself,
and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it
may be called, rather than rake or barrow it. Then I wanteda mill
to rind it, sieves to dress it; yeast and salt to make it into bread,
an an oven to bake it; and yet all these things I did without, as
shall be observed; and the corn was an inest-imable comfort and
advanta e to me; and as I resolved to use none of the corn for bread
till Iha a greater quantity by me, I had the next six months to
applymyselt wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish myself with

utensils proper for the performing all the operations necessary for
makmg corn fit for my use. '
HIS MANUFACTURE OF POTTERY, AND CON'I'BIVANCE FOR BAKING
BREAD.

BUT now I was to prepare more land; for I had seed enough to sow
above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's work at
least to make me a spade; which, when it was done, was but a sorr
one indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to work wit
it; however, I went through that, and sowed my seed in two large
flat ieces of ground, as near my house as I could find them to m
mind), and fenced them in with a good hedge; the stakes of which
were all cut off that wood which I had set before, and knew it would
row; so that, in one year's time, I knew I should have a quick or
'vin hedge, that would want but little repair. This work took me
up fu three months ; becausea great part of the time was in the wet
season, when I could not go abroad. Within doors, that is, when it
rained, and I could not go out, I found employment on the followin
occasions; always observing, that while I was at work, I diverte
myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I
quickly taught him to know his own name, and at last to speak it
out retty loud, Poll; which was the first word I ever heard spoken,
in t e island by any. mouth but my own. This, therefore, was not
my work, but an ass:stant to my work ; for now, as I said, I had a
great employment upon my hands, as follows: I had long studied,
by some means or ot er, to make myself some earthen vessels, which
indeed I wanted much, but knew not where to come at them; how-ADVENTURES or nonmsox causes. 75

ever, considering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I
could find out any clay, .I might botchup some such ot as might,
being dried in the sun, be bar and strong enou h to ear handbag
and to hold anything that was dry, and require to be kept so; and
as this was necessary in preparing corn, meal, &c., which was the
thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and
fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell
how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste; what odd, mis-
shapen ugly things I made; how many of them fell in, and how
many fell out, the clay not being still' enough to bear its own weight;
how many cracked by the over violent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily; and how many fell in pieces with only removing, as well
before as after they were dried; and, in sword, how, after having
laboured hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it, I could not make above two large earthern ugly
things (I cannot call them jars) in about two months' labour.

lfiiwever, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifted --
them very gentl up, and set them down again m two great wicker
baskets, which had made on purpose for them,.that they might not
break; and as between the 0t and the basket there was a little
room to spare, I stuffed it all of the rice and barley straw; and
these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my
dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet I
made several smaller things with better success; such as httle round
pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and everything my hand turned-
to; and the heat of the sun baked them very hard. .

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen
pnt to hold liquids, and bear the fire, which none of these could do.
t happened some time after, making a prett lar fire for cookin

my meat, when I went to put it out alter h done with it,
found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
.bu'rnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeabl sur-
prised to see it; and said to.myself, that certainly they mig t be
madeto burn whole, if they would burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire,,so as to make it bum
some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the otters burn in,
or of glazin them with lead, though I had some lens to do it with;
but I place three large (pipkins and two or three pots in a pile, one
upon another, and place my fire-wood all round it, with a great
heap of embers under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel round
the outsrde, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-
.hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all; when
I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six
hours, till I found one of them, thou h it did not crack, did melt or
run; for the sand which was mixe with the clay melted by thed
76 ADVENTURES or ROBINSON causes.

violence of the heat, and would have rim into glass, if I had gone on;
so I slacked my fire gradually, till the pots began to abate of the red
colour; and watching them all night, that I might not let the lire
abate too fast, in the morning I had three very good, 1 will not say
handsome, pipkins, and two other earthern pots, ashard burnt as'
could be desired; and one of them perfectly glazed With the running '
of the sand. _ .
My next concern was to get a stone mortar to beat some corn m;
for as to the mill, there was no thought of arrivmg to that perfection
' of art with one air of hands. To supfly this want I was at a great
loss; for, of trades in the world, was as perfectly un ualified
for a stone-cutter as for any whatever; neither had I any too 5 to go
about it with. I spent many'a day to find out a great stone big .
enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar; but could find none

 

at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I had no way
to dig or cut out; nor, indeed, were the rocks in the island of
sufficient hardness, as they were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which
would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break
the corn without filling it With sand; so, after a great deal of time
lost in lookin fora stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out
for a block 0 hard wood, which I found indeed much easier; and
getting one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded and formed
it on the outside with my axe and hatchet; and then with the
help of the fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow in it, as theanvsn'runes or nomsson 0351102. 77

Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a eat
heavy pestle, or heater, of the wood called iron-wood; and t is I
prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of corn, when

proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my corn into
meal, to make my bread. '

The baking art was the next thing to beeonsidered, and how I should
make bread w en I came to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast;
as to that part, there was no supplying the want, so I did not con-
cern myself much about it; but, for an even I was indeed puzzled.
At length I found out an expedient for that also, which was this: I
made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep, that is to say,
about two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I
burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by; and
when I wanted to bake, I made a. great fire upon my hearth, which.
-I had paved with some square tiles, of my own making and burning
also; but I should not call them s uare. When.the firewood was
burned into embers, or live coals, drew them forward upon the
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there let them lie till the hearth
was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers, I set down my
leaf, or loaves, and covering them with the earthen ot, drew the
embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in an add to the
heat ; and.thus,-as well as in the best even in the world, I baked my
barley loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastryeook into
the bargain; for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the
rice; but made no pics, as I had nothing to put into them except
the flesh of fowls or goat-s.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to
build my barns bigger; I wanted a place to lay it u in; for the
merease of the corn now yieldedme so much, that I had of the
4 barley about twenty bushels, and of rice as much, or more, insomuch '
that now I resolved to begin to use it freely; for m bread had
been quite gone a great while; I resolved also to see w lat quantity
would be sufficient for me a, whole year, and to sow but once a

year.

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice
wereomueh more than I could consume m a year; so I resolved to
sow Just the same quantity every ear that l sewed the last, in
hopes that such a quantity would mi; provide me with bread, &0.

 

.7.
MEDITATES HIS ESCAPE FROM THE ISLAND--BUILDS A CANOE-

FAILURE OF HIS SCHEME--RESIGNATION TO 1118 CONDITION--
MAK'ES HIMSELF A NEW DRESS.

ALL the while these things were doing, you may be sure my thoughts
run man times upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the
other si e ol' the island; and I was not without some secret wi3bedeg
that I was on shore there; fancying, that seeing the main land, and
an inhabited country, I might find some way or other to convey
myself farther, and perhaps at last find some means of escape.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with the
shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles
on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain; then I thou ht I
would go and lo'ok at our ship's boat, which, as I have sai , was
blown up upon the shore a mat way, in the storm, when we were
first cast away. She lay near y where she did at first, but not uite,
having turned by the force of the waves and the winds, most
bottom upward, against a hiah ridge of beachy rough sand; but no
water about her as before. 'If I had had hands to have refitted her,
and to have launched her into the water, the boat would have done
very well, and I might have gone back into the Brazils with he:mvnx'runns or 3031x533 5308013. 79

easily enough; but I might have foreseen that I could no more turn
her and set her 11 right upon her bottom, than I could remove tne
island; however, \vent to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and brought tin-m to the boat, resolving to tr what I could do;
suggesting to m self, that if i could but turn ier down, and repair
the damage she ad received, she would be a very good heat, and _I
might venture to sea in her.

. spared no pains, indeed in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent

I think, three or four weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible
to heave her up with my little strength, I fell to-dig ing away the
sand, to undermine her, and so as to make her fall own, setting

icces of wood to thrust and guide her right in the fall. But when

had done this, I was unable to stir her 11 again, or to get under
her, much less to move her forward towar s the water; so Iwas
forced to give it over; and yet, thoughI gave over the hopes of the
boat, my desire to venture over the main increased, rather than
diminished, as the means for it seemed impossible.

At length, I began to think whether it was not possible to make
myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those climates
make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without hands, of the
trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possible, but easy,
and pleased myself extremely with the idea of making it, and with
my having much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or
Indians; but not at all considerin the particular inconvenience
which I lay under more than the In ians did, viz. the want ofhands
to move it. into the water when it was made.

.1 went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man
did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with the
desrgn, without determining whether I was able to undertake it; not
but that the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my head;
but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer:
Let.us first make it; I warrant I will find some way or other to
get It. along when it is done.

This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of m
fancy, prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar tree, and _
question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building
ol the Temple at Jerusalem ; it was five feet ten inches diameter at
the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, where it lessened and then iarted into,
branches. It was not without infinite labour that'I fellc this tree;
I was twenty days hacking and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen
more getting the branches and limbs, and the vast spreadi'n head of
It, cut off ; after this, it cost me amonth to shape it and du it to a
pronortion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it might
swrm upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three mouths more
to cleanthe inside, and work it out seas to make an exact boat of it;
-. this I dld, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by . .Q

' folly of

80 . ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very hand- .
some periagua; and big enough to have carried me and all my
car .

at all my devises to get it into the water failed me; thou h they
cost an inexpressible labour too. It lay about one hundre yards
from the water, and not more; but the first inconvenience was, it
was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this discourage-
meat, I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so malce a
declivity; this I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of ams;
but who grudge pains that have their deliverance in View? Vhen
this was worked through, and this difficulty man o'ed, it was still
much the same, for I could no more stir the canoe t an I could the
other boat. Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved

 

to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I
could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this
werk; and when I began to enter upon it, and calculate how dee
it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be thrown out, -
found by the number of hands I had, having none but my own, that
it must have been ten or twelve years before I could have gone
throu h with it; for the shore lay so high, that at the 11 per end it
must have been at least twenty feet deeg; this attempt, t ough with
great reluctanc , I was at length oblige to.give over also. -
This grieve me heartil ; and now I saw, though too late, the

e 'nning awork efore we count the cost, and before we
judge right y of our own strength to go through with it.

In the middle of this work, finished my fourth year in this place.
and kept my, anniversary with the same devotion and with as much
comfort as efore; for, b aconstant study and serious application
to the word of God, and g the assistance of his grace, I gained a
different knowledge from what I had before; I entertained different
notions of thin s; I looked now upon the world as a thing remote,
which I had not ring to do with, no expectation from, and indeed, no
desires'about: in a word, I had nothing to do with it, nor was even
likely to have; I thought it looked, as we may perhaps look upon
it hereafter, viz. as a place I had lived in, but was come out oi it
and well might I say, as father Abraham to Dives, " Bet'ween me and
thee is a great gulf fixed."

. \ 0 ,r'.;:'._-.'
- .4 53'." "v: .f.'
fl\ 1' . I 5:"

\ is . ,
with>> -'
- ..( ~ 4 .~ :_. .
. ~_; a"? ' " .

   

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to
myself, in the most lively colours, how I must have acted 1f . I had
ot nothing out of the Ship. I could not have so much as got any
ood, except fish and turtles; and that, as it was long before _ found
any of them, I must have perished, like a mere savage; that if I had
killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way' to flay or
open it, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to out it
u , but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it to pieces With my
c aws, like a beast. .
These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of Provi-
dence to me, and very thankful for my present condition, With all its
hardships and misfortunes; and {his part also I cannot but recommend
to the reflection of those who are apt, in their misery, to say, "Is

any affliction like mine?" Let them consider how much worse the,
- . e

l
cases of some eoplc are, and their case would have been, if ProvL
deuce had thong it fit. . _ .
With these reflections I worked my mmd up, not only to aresrg-
nation to the will of God in the present dis osition of my circum-
stances, but even to .a sincere thankfulness or my condition; and
that I, who was yet a living man, ought not to complain, seemg
I had not the due punishment of my sins; that I enjoyed so many
mercies that I had no reason to have expected in that place, that
ought never more to relpine at my condition, but to reyorce, and to
give daily. thanks for t at daily bread, which nothing but a. crowd

 

of wonders could have brought; that I ought to consider I had been
fed 15 a miracle (even as great as that of feedirig Eli'ah by ravens),
nay, y a long series of miracles; and that con (1 hard] have
named a place, in the uninhabited (part of the world, w ere I
could have been cast more to my a vantage; a place where, as I
had no society, which was my aflliction on one hand, so I found no
ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life; no
venomouspr poisonous creatures, which 1 might feed on to my hurt;
no savages to murder and devour me. In a word, as my life was a
life of sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I
wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to make myself
sensible of God 3 goodness to me, and care over me in this condition;
and after I did make a just improvement of' these things, I went
ally, and was no more sad. _

y clothes now began, to decay mightily; as to linen, I had
none for a great while,. except some chequered shirts which 1
found in the chests of the other acumen, and which I carefully

'I

anvns'runss or ROBINSON causes. 83

preserved, because many times I Could bear no clothes on but a
shirt, and it was a very great help to me that I had, among all
the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts.

I began to consider about putting the few rags I had, which I
called clothes, into some order. 'I had worn out all the waistcoats
I had, and my business was now to try if I could not make 'aekets
out of the great watch-coats that (I, had b me, and with sue other
materials as I had; so I set to work a tailbring, or rather, indeed, a
botching, for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped would
serve me a great while.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that
I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them up, stretched
out with sticks, in the sun," by which means some of them were so
dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others I found very
useful. The first thing I made of these was a great cap for in
head, with the hair on the outside, to shoot off the rain; and this
performed so well, that after this I made me a suit of clothes wholly
of the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at the
knees, and both loose; for they were rather wanting to kee me cool
than warm. I must not omit to acknowlcd e that trey were
wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, was a worse tailor
However, they were such as I made very good shift with; and when
I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and
cap being uppermost, I was kept very dry.

After this, I spent a great deal of time and pains to make me an
umbrella. I made one and covered it with skins, the hair upwards,
so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house, and kept of the sun
so_ ell'eetually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather
w1th greater advantage than I could before in the coolest; and
when I had no need of it, could close it and carry it under my
arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely com-
posed by resigning to the will of God, and throwing myself
wholly upon the disposal of his rovidence. This made my life
better than sociable; for when- began to regret the want of
conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus conversing mutu-
ally with my own thoughts, and as I hope I ma say with even
God himself, by ejaculations, was not etter t an the utmost
enjoyment of human society in the world?

 

o2
HE MAKES A. SMALLER CANOE, IN WHIP}! HE ATTEMPTS TO CRUISE

IROUND THE ISLAND--HIS PEBILOUS SITUATION AT SEA--H3
RETURNS HOME.

I" CANNOT say that after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing
happened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in the same pos-
ture and place, just as before; the chief things 1 was employed in,
besides my yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and curing
my raisins, of both which I always kept up just enough to have suffi-
cient stock of one year's provision beforehand; I say, besides this
yearly labour, and my daily pursuit of going out with my gun, I had
one labour, to make me a canoe, which at last I finished; so that by
digging a canal to it six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it
into the creek, almost half a mile.

However, though my little periagua was finished, et the size of
it was not at all answerable to the design which I ha in view when
I made the first; I mean, of venturing over to the term time, where
it was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my
boat assisted to at an end to that design, and now I thought no
more of it. As had a beat, my next design was to make a cruise
around the island; for as I had been on the other side in one place,
crossing, as I have already described it, over- the land, so the dis-
coveries I made in that little journey made me very eager to see
other parts of the coast ; and now 1 had a boat, I thought of nothing
but sailing round the island.
It was on the sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or
my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I
found it much longer than I expected ; for though the island itself
was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sea, some
above water, some under it; and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying
dry half a leaoue more, so that I was obliged to go a great way out
to sea to double the point.

When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my enter-
prise, and come back again, not knowing how fai- it might oblige me
to go out to sea, and above all, doubting how I should get back
again ; so I came to an anchor with a piece of a broken grappling
which I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore, climb-
ing up on a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw
the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, 1 erceived a
strong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran to t e east, and
even came close to the point; and I took the more notice of it,
because I saw there might be some danger that, when I came into
it, I might be carried out to sea by the strenoth of it, and not be
. able to make the island again; and, indeed, bad I not got first upon
this bill, I believe it would have been so; for there was the same
current on the other side of the island, only that it set off at a farther
distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore ; so I
had nothing to do but to get out of the first current, and I should
present] be in an eddy. -

I lay me, however, two days, because the wind blowing pretty
fresh at E. S. E., and that being just contrary to the said current,
made a great breach of the sea upon the point; so that it was not
safe for me to keep too close to the shore, for the breach, nor to go
too far off, because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated overnight,
the sea was calm, and I ventured; but I am a warning piece again to
all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point,
when I was not even my boat's length from the shore, but I found
myself in a great depth of water, and a current like the sluice of a
null; it earned my boat along with it with such violence, that all I
could do could not keep her so much as on the ed e of it; but I
found it hurried me farther and farther out from the e dy, which was
on my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all I
could do with my paddles signified nothing; and now I be to give
myself over for lost; for as the current was on both si es of the
'5 Md. I knew in a few leagues' distance they must join again, and
then 1 was irrecoverably gone ; nor did Isee any possibility of avond-
mg It; so that I had no prospect before me but of perishing, not by

the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starvmg for hunger.
s - -'
had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could
lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh
water, that is to say, 'one of my earthen pots; but what was all this
to being driven into the vast ocean, where there was no shore, no
main land or island, for a thousand leagues at least?

It is scarce possible to ima ine the consternation I was now in,
being driven from my belove island (for so it appeared to me now
' to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost
despair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till
indeed m stren th was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as
much to t e nort ward, that is, towards the side of the current
which the- eddy lay on, as ossibl I could; when about noon, as the
sun assed the meridian, thou llt I felt a little breeze of wind in
my ace, springing up from 8.3. . This cheered my heart a little,
and especially when, in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
gentle gale. By this time I was got at a frightful distance from the
island, and had the least cloudy or haz weather intervened, I had
been undone another way too; for I ha no compass on board, and
should never have known how to have steered towards the island, if
I had but once lost sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I
applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, stand-
ing away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch
away, I saw even by the cle'arness of the water some alteration of
the current was near; for where the current was so strong, the
water was foul; but perceiving the water clean', 1 found the current
abate; and presently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a
breach of the sea upon some rocks; these rocks I found caused the
current to art again,- and as the main stress of it ran away more
southerly, saving the rocks'to the north-east, so the other returned
by the repulse ot the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back
again to the north-weat, with a very sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them
upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder
them, or who have been in such-like extremities, may guess what
my present sur rise of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into
the stream of t iis eddy; and the wind also freshenmg, how gladly I
spread mv sail to it, running cheerfully before the wmd, and with a
strong tide or eddy under foot. '

This eddy carried me about a leaguein my way back again directly
towards the island, but about two leagues more to the northward
than the current which carried me away at first; so that when I
came near the island, I found myself Open to the northern shore of _
it, that is to say, the other end of the island, Opposite to that which ,
I went out from. -

When I had made something more than a league of way by the
help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and served me no
farther. However, I found that being between two great currents,
viz. that on the south side, which had hurried me away, and that on
the north, which lay about a league on the other side; I say,
between these two, in the wake of the island, I found the water at
least still, and running no wayg' and having still a breeze of wind
fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not
making such fresh way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a league of
the island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this dis-
aster stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, and
casting of! the current more southerly, had, of course, made another

'\

    

eddy to the north; and this I found very strong, but not directl
setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but almost full
north. However, havmg afresh gale I stretched across this eddy,
slanting north-west; and, in about an hour, came within about a
{21111: of ' the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to
When Iwas on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks
for my dehverance, resolvm to lay aside all thoughts of my deliver-
fince y my boat; and refres mg myself with such things as I had, I
rought my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had spied

uIlder some trees, and laid me down to 516 b ' ' -
the labour and fatigue of the voyage. 6P, emg quite spent With
I now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had
enough to do for many days to sit still, and to reflect upon the
danger 1 had. been in. I would have been ver glad to have had my
boat again on my side of the island; but I new not how it was

racticable to get it about. As to the east side of the island, which
I had gone round, I knew well enough there was no venturin that
way; my very heart would shrink, and m very blood run eh' , but
to think of it; and as to the other side 0 the island, I did not know
how it might be there ;'but supposing the current ran with the same
force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other, I
might run the same risk of being driven down the stream, and
earriedfby the island, as I had been before of being carried away
from it; so, with these thoughts, I contented myself to be without-
[any boat, thou h it had been the product of so many months' labour
to make it, an of so many more to gIet it into the sea.

In this government of my temper remained near a year, lived a
very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and my thoughts
being very much composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted
in resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I
lived really very happily in all things, except that of society.

I improved myse in this time in all the mechauie'exerclses which
my necessities put me upon applying myself to ; and I believe I could,
upon occasion, have made a very good carpenter, especially consider-
' how few tools I had. '

esides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen-
ware, and contrived well enou h to make them with a wheel, which
I found infinitel easier and etter; because I made things round
and aim cable, w rich before were filthy things indeed to look upon.

_ But I t rink I was never more vain of my performance, or more joy-

ful for anything I found out, than for m being able to make a
tobacco-pipe: and though it was a ver ug y clumsy thing when it
was done, and on] burned red, like ot ier earthenware, yet it was
hard and firm, au would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly com-
forted with it, for I had always been used to smoke.

I began now to perceive m powder abated considerably; this was
a want which it was impossih efor me to supply, and I began ser-
iously to consider what I must do when 3 ould have no more
pow er, that is to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as
is observed, in the third year of my being here, kept a young kid,
and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes of getting a he-goat; but
I could not by any means hrintr it to pass, ti Eh kid grew an old
mat; and as I could never find in my heart to ' her, she died at

t of mere age. .
HE BEARS A PLOCK. OF GOATS--HIS DAIRY--HIS DOMESTIC H_A.BIT3
AND STYLE 0F LIVING--INCREASING PROSPERITY.

BEING now in the eleventh year of my residence, and as I have said
my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap
and snare the goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them
alive. I dug several large pits in the earth, in places where I had
observed the oats used to feed, and over those pits I placed hurdles,
of my own ma mg too with a reat weight upon them; and several
tunes I put ears of bar e and ry rice, without setting the trap; and
I could easily crceive t rat the goats had gone in and eaten up the
corn, for I cou d see the marks of their feet. At len th I set three
traps in one night, and going the next morning, I found them all
standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This was very discourag-
ing: however, I altered my traps; and one morning I found in one
of them a large old he-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a
male and two females. -

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was so
fierce, l durst not go into the 't to him; that is to say, to go about
to bring him away alive, whieli was what I wanted. I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it answer my
end; so I even let him out, and he ran away, as if he had been
frightened out of his wits. I went to the three kids, and taking them

one by one, I tied them with strings together, and with some difliculty
. broug it them all home. . V
3:
90' ADVENTURES or ROBINSON causon.

It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing them
some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be tame. And
now I found that if I expected to supply myself with goats' flesh

' when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way; when, erha s, I might have them about my house like a
flock of sheep. gut t en it occurred to me, that I must keep the
tame from the wild, or else the would always run wild when the'r
grew up; and the onl wa for this was, to have some enclosed piece
of ground, well fence , eit rer with hedge or pale, to keep them in so

 

gfi'ecfiually, that those within might not break out, or those without
rea in.

But this was not all; for now I not only had goats' flesh to feed
on when I leased, but milk too; a thing which, indeed, in the be-
ginning, I id not so much as think of, and which, when it came into
my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise; for now I set up my
dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And. as
Nature, who gives supplies of food to every creature, dictates even
naturally how-to make use of it, so I, that had never milked a cow,
much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, only when I was a
boy, aftera great man essays and miscarriages, made me both butter
and cheese at last, an also salt (though I found it partly made to m
band by the heat of the sun upon some of the rocks of the sea), an

never wanted it afterwards.
It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my little
family sit down to dinner. There was my mfl'fsty, the prince and
lord of the whole island; I had the lives of my subjects at my
absolute command; I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it
awa ; and no rebels among all m subjects.

T en to see how like a km" I ined too, all alone, attended by my
servants; Poll, as if he had been my favourite, was the only eison
permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now grown very o d and
crazy, and two cats, one on one side of the table, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a 'mark of
special favour. ' .

My own figure was ancouth enough. I had a eat high shapeless
cap, made of a goat's skin, with a flap hanging own behind, as well
to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain of from running into
my neck; nothin being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon
the flesh, under tie clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to
about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of open-knead breeches of
the same; the breeches were made of the skin of an old lie-goat,
whose hair hung down such a length on either side, that, like anta-
loons, it reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and s mes I
had none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know what ~
to call them, like buskins; to flap over my legs, and lace on either
Slde like spatterdashes, but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed
were all the rest of my clothes.

.I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together
wrth two thongs of the same, instead of buckles; and in a kind oi
- frog on either side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a

litt e saw and a hatchet; one on one side and one on the other. I
had another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same manner,
wluch hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left
arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin too; in one or
which hung m powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried
my basket, an on my shoulder my gun; and over my head a-grcat
clumsy ugl goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most
necessary tring I had about me, next to my gun. As for my face,
the colour of it was not so mulatto--like as one might expect from a
man not at all careful'of it, and living within nine or ten degrees ot
the equinox. My heard I had once suffered to grow till it was about
a nutter of a yard long; but as I had both scissars and razors
su icient, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip,
wluch I had tr m ed into a large'pair of Mahometan whiskers, such
as I had seen wol'n by some Turks at Sallee; for the Moors did not
wear such, though the Turks did; of these mustachios or whiskers,
I Will not 3:? they were lone enough to hang my hat upon them, but
they were 0 a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as, in
England, would have passed for frightful.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one my little fortification or tent with the
wall about, it, under the rock, with the cave behind me, which, by
this time, I had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one within
another. One of these, which was the driest and largest, and had a
door out beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, be 0nd
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up with the arge
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and with fourteen or
fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each,
where I laid u my stores of provision, es ecially my corn, some in
the ear, cut 0 short from the straw, and t 3 other rubbed out with
my hand.

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or piles, those
piles grew all like trees, and were by thistime grown so big, and
sprea so very much, that there was not the least appearance, to
an one's view, of any habitation behind them.

ear this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land,
and upon lower ground, lay m two pieces of corn land, which I
kept uly cultivated and sowe , and which duly yielded me their
harvest in its season; and whenever I had occasion for more corn, I
had more land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, 1 had my country seat; and I had now a tolerable
plantation there also: for, first, I had my little bower, as I called it,
which I kept in repair; that is to say, 'I kept the hedge which
encircled it in constantly fitted up to its usual hei ht, the ladder
standing always in the inside: I kept the trees, whic at first were
no more than my stakes, but were now grown ver firm and tall,
always cut so, that they might spread and grow thic and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which the did effectually to my
mind. In the middle of this I had my tent a ways standing, being a
piece of a sail spread over poles, set up for that purpose,'and wlncli
never wanted any re air or renewing; and under this I had made
me a squab or couc l, with the skins of the creatures I had killed,
and with other soft things; and a blanket laid on them, such as be-
longed to our sea bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch.
coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent
from my chief seat, 1 took up my country- habitation.
UNEXPECTED ALARM AND CAUSE FOR APPREHBNSION--EE' PORTI-
FIES HIS ABODE.

I'r happened one day, about noon, going towards my boat, I was
exceei in ly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on the
shore, w ich was very plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one
thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition; I listened, I looked
round me, but I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to
a risin ground, to look farther; I went up the shore and down the
shore, ut it was all one; I could see no other impression but that
one. I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to
observe if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room for
that, for there was exactly the print of a foot, toes, heel, and every
' art of a foot: how _it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the
east imagine; but, after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a
manperfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my forti-
fication, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified
to. the last degree; looking behind me at every two or three ste )s,
mistakino every bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a is-
tance to e a man. Nor is it possible to describe how many various
shapes my alfiighted imagination represented things to me in, how
many Wild ideas were found every moment in my fancy, and what

strange unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughtsby the way.
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after
this), Ifled into it like one pursued; whether I went over by the
ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I
had called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor could I remember
the next morning; for never frightened hare fled to cover, or fox to
earth with more terror of mind than I to this retreat.

I presently concluded that it must be some of the savages of the
main land over against me, who had wandered out to sea in their
canoes, and, either driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had
made the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away C/ (rain
to sea; being as 10th, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate is nd

as I would have been to have had them.

 

Whilethese reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very
thankful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts
at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by which they would
have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place, and
perhaps have searched farther for me: then terrible thoughts racked
my imagination about their havino' found my boat, and that there
were people here; and that if so, fshould certainly have them come
again in greater numbers, and devour me: that if it should happen
so that they should not find me, yet they would find my enclosure,
destroy all my corn, and carry away all my flock of tame goats, and
1 should perish at last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious ho e, all that former com
fidence in God, which was founded 11 on suc wonderful experience
as I had had of His goodness, as if e that had fed me by miracle
hitherto could not preserve. bv His power, the provision which He
had made for me by His goodness. I reproached myself with my
laziness, that would not sow any more com one year than would-
just serve me till the .next season, as if no accident would intervene
to prevent my enjoying the crap that was upon the round; and
this I thought so Just a reproof, that I resolved for t e future to
have two or three year's corn beforehand, so that, whatever might
come, I might not perish for want of bread.

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflections,
it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a mere
chimera of m own, and that this foot might be the print of my
foot, when came on shore from my boat; this cheered me up

 

a little too, and I began to persuademyself it was all a delusion,
that it was nothing else but my own foot: and why might I not
come that way from the boat, as well as I was going that way to
the boat? Again, I eonsid red also, that I could by no means tell
for certain, where I had tro , and where I had not: and that if, at
last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had played the part
of those fools, who try to make stories of spectres and apparitions,
and then are frightened at them more than anybody.

Now I began to take courage, and to cop abroad again, for I
had not stirred out of my castle for three uys and nights, so that I
began to starve for provisions; for I had little or nothing within
doors but some barley cakes and water: then I knew that my goats
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening diversion;
and the'poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for
want of it: and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of them' and almost
dried up their milk. . Encouraging myself, therefore with the belief
that this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet,
and that 1 might be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began.
to go abroad again, and went to my country rouse to milk m flock:
'but to see with what fear I went forward, how often I 100 ed be-
hind me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down mv
basket, and run for my life, it would have made any one think I
was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had been late! most
terribly frightened; and so, indeed, I had. However, as went
down thus two or three days, and having seen nothing, I began to
be a little bolder, and to think there was really notlnn in it but
mfi own imagination; but I could not persuade myself ully of this
ti I should go down to the shore again, and see this print of a foot,
and measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitude or
fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot: but when I
came to the place, first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I
laid .up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere there-
about: secondly, when I came to measure the mark with my- own
foot, I found my foot not 'so large by a great deal. Both these
things filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me the
vapours again to the highest degree, so that I shock with cold like
one in an ague; and I went home again, filled with the belief that
some man or men had been on shore there; or, in short, that the
island was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware;
and what course to take for my security, knew not. '
'0 what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear!
It deprives them of the use of those' means which reason offers for
their relief. The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw
down my enclosures, and turn all m tame cattle wild into the
woods, est the enem should find t em, and then frequent the
island in prospect of t e same or like boot ; then to the sim le
thing of diggin up m two corn fields, lest t iey should find sue a
rain there, an still e prom ted to frequent the island; then to
emolish my bower and tent, t at they might not see any vestiges of
habitation, and be prompted to look farther, in order to find out the
pe-'Mns inhabiting.
these were the subject of the first night's co itations, after I was
come home again, while the a prehensions whiei had so overrun my
mind were fresh upon me, an my head was full of vapours, as above.
Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrif ing than
danger itself when apparent to the eyes; and we find the urden of
anxrety greater, by much, than the evil which we are anxious about;
and, WlllCll was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this
trouble from the resignation I used to practise, that I heped to have.
I looked, I thought, like Saul, who complained not only that the
Philistines were upon him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did
not now take due ways to compose my mind, b eryin to God in my
distress, and restin upon his providence, as had (fone before, for
my defence and de 'verance; which, if I had done, I had at leastanvenruass or nonmsozv CRUSOE. 97

been more cheerfully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps
carried through it with more resolution. ,

This confusion of m thoughts kept me awake all night; but in
the morning I fell as eep; and haying, by the amusement of my
mind, been as it were tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very
gopndly, and Waked much better composed than I had ever been

e ore. .

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large as
to brin a door through again, which door, as I said, came out be-
yond w ere my fortification joined to the rock: upon malurely con-
sidering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification,
in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall,
'ust where I had lanted a double row of trees about twelve years

efore, of which made mention: these trees havin been planted
so thick before, they wanted but few piles to be riven between
them, that they might be thicker and stronger, and my wall would
be soon finished: so that I had now a den le wall; and my outer
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and everythi I
could think of, to make it strong, having in it_ seven little h es,
about as big as I might put my arm out at. In the inside of this
I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, with continually bring-
ing earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and
we kmg upon it; and through the seven holes I contrived to plant
the muskets, of which I took notice that I had got seven on shore
out of the ship: these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them
into frames, that held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all
the seven guns in two minutes' time: this wall I was many a weary
31mm}! 111 nishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was

one.
' When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for
a great length every way, as full with stakes, or sticks, of the osier-
hke wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand;
msomuch, that I believe I might set- in near twenty thousand of
them, leavmg a pretty large space between them and my wall, that
I might have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter
from theyoung trees, if they attempted to approach in outer wall.

Time, in two (years' time, I had a thick grove; an in five or six
years time I ha a wood before my dwelling, growing so monstrous
thick and stron , that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no
men of what kin soever, would ever imagine that there was anythin
beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the way in which I proposed
to myself to go in and out (for I left no a'venue,) it was by setting
113:0 ladders, One to a part of the rock which was low, and then
th0ke m, and left room to place another ladder upon that; so when

e two ladders were taken down, no man'living could come down

to me without doin himself mischief ' and if th h d
they were still on the outside of my 'oiiter wall. ey a come down,
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for
my own preservation; and it will be seen, at length, that they were
not altogether without just reason, though I foresaw nothing' at
that time more than my mere fear suggested to me.

. While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other
afi'airs; for I had a great concern for my little herd of goats; they
were not only a ready sn ply to me on every occasion, and began to
be sufficient for me, wit rout the expense of powder and shot, but
also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; and I was
loth to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up
_ over again. _

For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but
two ways to preserve them; one was, to find another convenient

 
    
   
 

\
C "

       

 

place to dig a cave under ground, and to drive them into it ever
night; and the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of Ian ,
remote from one another, and as much concealed as 1 could, where
I might keep about half a dozen young goats in each place; so that
if any disaster happened to the flock in general, I might be able to
raise them again with little trouble and time; and this, though it
would require a great deal of time and labour, I thought was the
most rational design.

Accordinoly, I spent some time to find out the most retired arts
of the islan ; and I pitched upon one, which was as private, in eed,
as my heart could wish for; it was a little damp piece of round, in
the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where as is 0 served, I
almost lost myself once before, endeavourinSSto come back that way
from the eastern part of the island. Here found a clear piece of
land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was almost
an enclosure by nature; at least it did not want near so much
lfiibplur to make it so as the other pieces of ground I had worked so

ar at.
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST SURPRISE--ROBINSON DISCOVERS THAT ms
ISLAND HAS BEEN VISITED BY CANNIBALS.

1 IMMEDIATELY went to work with this piece of ground, and in less
thana month's time I had so fenced it round, that my flock, or herd,
call it which you please, who were not so wild now as at first they
might be supposed to he, were well enough secured in it; so, with-
out any further delay, I removed ten young she-goats, and 'two he-
goats to this iece ; and when they were there I continued to perfect
the_ fence, til I had made it as secure as the other, which, however,
I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal.
All this labour I was at the expense of purely from my apprehensions
on the account of the rint of a man's foot which I had seen; for,
as yet, I never saw any iuuian creature come near the island; and I
ha now lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed, made my
life much less comfortable than it was before, as may be well imanined ,
by any one who knows what it is to live in the constant snare o the
fear of man.

After I had thus secured one part of my little living stock, I went
about the whole island, searching for another private place to make
such. another deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of
the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea,. I
thought I saw a_boat upon the sea, at a rest distance. I had
found a perspective glass or two in one 0% the seamen's chests,
which I saved out of our shi , but I had it not about me; and
this was so remote, that I coul not tell what to make of it, though

looked. at it till my eyes were not able to look any longer;
whether it was a boat or not, I did not know, but as I descended

H2
from the hill I could see no more of it, so I gave it.over; only I
resolved to go no more out without a perspective glass in my pocket.
When I was come down the hill to the end of theusland, where,
indeed, I had never been before, I was presently convmced' that the
seein r the print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in the
islan as I imagined; and, but that it was a special provxdence that
l was cast upon the side of the island where the savages never came,
I should easxly have known that nothing was more frequent than for
the canoes from the main, when they happened to be too far out at
sea, to shoot over to that side of the islan for harbour; likewise, as
they often met and fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken
any risoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, according
to t neir dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill an
eat them; of which hereafter..

When I was come down the hill to the shore as I said above,
bein the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly con-
foun ed and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the
horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands,
feet, and other bones of human bodies; and, particularly, I ob-
served a place where there had been a fire made, and a circle
dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies
of their fellow-creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I enter-
tained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while:
all my ap rehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of
inhuman rutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human
nature, which, though I had heard of it often, yet I never had so
near a view of before.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still
awhile, as amazed, and then recovering myself, I looked up with the
utmost affection of my soul, and with a flood of tears in my eyes,
gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as these;
and that, though I had esteemed m present condition very miser-
able, had yet given me so many com orts in it, that I had still more
to ive thanks for than to complain of : and this, above all, that I
hacfi even in this miserable condition, been comforted with the
knowledge of Himself, and'the hope of His blessing, which was a
felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery I had
suffered or could when

I could not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the
other heat round the island to me, lest I should meet with some of
these creatures at sea: in which if I had happened to have fallen
into their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.

Time, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger of being
discovered by these people, began to wear off my uneasiness about
them; and I oegan to live just in the same composed manner as
before, only with this difference, that I used more caution, and kept
my eyes more about me, than I did before, lest I should happen to
be seen by any of them; and particularly, I was more cautious of
firipg my gun, lest any of them being on the island should happen
to near it.

It would take up a larger volume than this whole work is intended
to be, to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded
upon, in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least
frightening them so as to prevent their coming hither any more.

i ometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where
they made their fire, and putting in five or six pounds of unpowder,
which, when they kindled their fire, would consequent y take fire,
and blow up all that was near it; but as, in the first place, I should
be unwilling to waste so much powder upon them, my store being
now within the quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure
of its going: off at a certain time, when it might surprise them:
and, at best, that it would little more than just blow the.fire about
their ears and fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake
the place: so I laid it aside; and then proposed that I would place
myself in ambush in some convenient ace, with my three guns all
double-loaded, and, in the middle of t eir bloody ceremony, let fiy V
at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or
three at every shot: and then fallin in upon them with my three

istols and my sword, I made no dou tbut that if there were twenty

should kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some
weeks; and I was so full of it, that I often dreamed of it, and
sometimes that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I
went so [far with it in my imagination, that I employed myself
several. days to find out preper places to put myself in ambuseade,
as I said, to watch for them; and 1 went frequently to the place
itself, which was now rown more familiar to me: but while my
mind was thus filled witi thoughts of revenge, and a puttin twent
or thirty of them to the sword as I may call it, the horror I
had at the place, and the signals of the barbarous wretches devour-
mg one another, abetted my malice. Well, at length, I found a
place in the side of the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely
wait till I saw an of their boats coming; and might then, even
before they would e ready to come on shore, convey myself, unseen,
mto some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely; and there I might sit and
observe all their fearful doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together, as that it would be next to
Impossible that I should miss my shot, or that I should fail woundin
three or four of them at the first shot. In this place, then, I
resolved to fix m ,desian; and, accordingly. I prepared two

musketsgpnd my or ' ary owling-piece, The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of slu 3 each, and four or five smaller bullets, about
the size of pistol-bu lets; and the fowling-piece I loaded with near
a handful of swan-shot, of the largest size: I also loaded my
pistols with four bullets each; and in this posture, well rovided
with ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepare myself
for my ex edition.

After had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in my
imagination, put it in practice, I continually made my tour ever.
morning ,u to the top of the hill, which was from my castle, as
called it, a out three miles, or more, to see if I could observe any
boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or standina over
towards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty, after 1I had,
for two or three months, constantly kept my watch, but came
always back without any discovery: there having not, in all that
time, been the least appearance, not only on or near the shore, but
on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could much every
wa .

is long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long
also I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be
all the while in a suitable form for so outrageous an execution as the
killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for an offence, which I had
not at all entered into a discussion of in my thou hts, any further
than my assions were at first fired by the horror conceived at the
'unnaturafcustom of the people of that country ; who, it seems, had
been suffered by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiated
passions; and, consc ucntly, were left, and perhaps had been so for
some ages, to act sue horrid things, and receive such dreadful cus-
toms, as notning hut nature, entirely by Heaven, and actuated by
some hellish degeneracy, could have run them into. But now, when,
as I have said, I began to he weary of the fruitless excursion, which
1 had made so long and so far every morning in vain, so my opinion
of the action itself began to alter; and I began, with cooler and
calmer thoughts, to consider what I was going to en age in: what
authority or call I had to pretend to be judve an executioner
upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so
many ages, to sufi'er, unpunished, to go on, and to be, at it were, the
executioners of his judgments one upon another
mnmson mscovnns A cave, wnrcn snnvns am as A urns:
AGAINST THE sauces.

IN this disposition I continued for near a year after this. I kept
myself more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell, except
upon my constant employment, viz. to milk my she-goats, and man-
age my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other
part of the island, was quite out of danger; for certain it Is, that
these savaoe people, who sometimes haunted this island, never came
with any thoughts of finding anythino here, and consequently; never
wandered off from the coast; and I rdoubt not but they mig t have
been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had
made me cautious, as well as before.

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I confess
that these anxieties, these constant dau ers I lived in, and the con-
cern that was now upon me, put an en to all invention, and to all
the contrivances that I had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now upon my hands
than that of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick
of wood now, for fear the noise I might make should be heard;
much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason: and, above all, I
was mtolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which i:
vmble at a great distance in the day, should betray me. For this
reason, I removed . that part of ,my business which required fire,
such as burning of pots, i was, 81c. into m new apartment in the
woods; where. after I had) cen some time, found, to my unspeak-

O
able consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a
vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the
mouth of it, would be so hard as to venture in: nor, indeed, would
airy man else, but one who, e me, wanted nothing so much as a
s e retreat.

While I was cutting down some wood here, I erceived that be-
hind a very thick branch of low brushwood, or an erwood, there was
a kind of hollow place : I was curious to look in it, and gettin with
diflieulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large: fiat is
to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another

 

with me: but I must confess to you that I made more haste out
than I did in, when, looking farther into the place, and which was
perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, which
twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth shining
directly in, and making the reflection. Plueking up m courage,
took up a firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the stie flaming in
my hand: I had not gone three steps m, but I was almost as much
frightened as I was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of
a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as of
words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back,
and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put me into a
cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer
for it, that my hair might not have lifted it of. But still pluckin
up my spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself a little wit
consider-mg that the power and presence of God was everywhere, and
was able to protect me, upon this I stepped forward a ain, and by
the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little over my read, I saw
lying on the round a most monstrous, fri htful old he-goat, just
makmg his wfil, as we say, and gasping. for 'fe, and dying, indeed,.

'
of mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
and he essayed to et up, but was not able to raise himself; and I
thought with m as f he might even lie there ; for if he had frightened
me, so he woul certainly fright any of the savages, if any of them
should be so hardy as to come in there while he iad any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look round
me, when I found the cave was but very small, that is to say, it
might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, neither
round nor square, no hands having ever been employed in making it
but those of Nature. I observed also that there was a place at the
farther side of it that went in farther, but was so low that it re.
'quired me to- creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and
whither it went I knew not: so having no candle, I gave it over for
that time; but resolved to come again the next day, provided with
candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskcts, with some wildfire in the pan.
Accordingly, .the next day I came provided with six large candles

of my own making (for I made very good candles now of goat's tal-
low, but was hard set for candle-wick, using sometimes rags or

rope-yarn, and sometimes the dried rind of a reed like nettles); and
fiomg into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I

ave said, almost ten yards; whic , b the way, I thought was a
venture bold enou h, considerin that I {new not how 'far it might

0, nor what was eyond it. en I had got through the strait, I
ound the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but never
was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to
look round t e sides and roof of this vault or cave; the wall reflected
a hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles. What it
was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or
gold, which I rather' supposed it to be, I knew not. The place I
was in was a most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind, as could
be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and
had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any
damp 3r wet on the sides or roof: the onl difficulty in it was
the entrance; which, however, as it was a place of security, and
such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so
that I was really rejoiced at the discover , and resolved, without any
delay, to brmg some of those thin whic 1 I was most anxious about
to the lace; particularly, I reso vcd to bring hither my magazine
0f pow er, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling-pieces, for I had
three in all, and three muskets, for of them I had eight in all: so I
kept at my castle only five, which stood ready mounted like pieces
of cannon on my outmost fence, and were ready also to take out upon
any expedition. Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
happened to open the barrel of powder which I took up out of the
sea, and which had been wet; andl found that the water had pene-'-106 anvnn'ruaes or nonmsox 0103303..
0

trated about three or four inches into the powder on every side,
which caking and growimr hard, had preserved the inside like a ker-
nel in the shell ; so that fhad near Sixty pounds of very good pow-
der in the centre of the cask : this was a very agreeable discovery to
me at that time; so I carried all away thither, never keeping above
two or three pounds of owdcr with me in my castle, for fear of a
:uil' rise of any kind: I so carried thither allthe lead I had left for
u ets. '

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which were
said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come
at them ; for I persuaded myself, while I was here, that if five
hundred sav (res were to hunt me, they could never find me out; or,
if they did, 11they would not venture to attack me here. The old

oat, whom I found expiring, died in the mouth of the cave neat
ay after I made this discover : and I found it much easier to dig
a great hole there, and throw rim in and cover him with earth, than

to drag him out; so I interred him there, to prevent offence to my
nose. '

 

O

-I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this island; -
and was so naturalised to the place, and the manner of livin , that
could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no savages wonl come
to the tplace to disturb me, I could have been content to have capitu-
lated or s endin the rest of my time there, even to the last
moment, t' I ha laid me down and died, like the old goat in the
cave. I had also arrived to some little diversions and amusements,
which made the time pass a rest deal more pleasantly with me than
it did before; as, first, I ha taught my Poll, as I noted before, to
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulate] and
plain, that it was very pleasant to me: for I believe no bir ever
spoke plainer; and he lived with me no less thansix and-twent-
years: how long he might have lived afterwards I know not, thong 1

know they have a notion in ' the Brazils that they live a hundred
years. My dog was a very pleasant and loving com anion to me for
no less than sixteen years of my time, and then 'ed of mere old
e. As for my cats, they multiplied to that degree, that I was
0 liged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them from devour-
ing me and all I had; but, at length, when the two old ones I
brought with me were gone, and after some time continually drivin
them from me, and letting them have no provision with me, they a
ran wild into the woods, exec t two or three favourites, which I
kept tame, and whose youn , w en they had any, I always drowned;
and these were part of m family. Besides these, I alwa s kept two
or three household kids a out me, whom I tau ht to fee out of my
hand; and I had two more parrots, which ta ked pretty well, and
would all call Robin Crusoe, but none like my first; nor, indeed,
did I take the pains with an of them that I had done with him. I
had also several tame sea-- owls, whose names I knew not, that I
caught upon the shore, and cut their win 3; and the little stakes
which I had planted before my castle wall eing now grown up to a
' good thick grove, these fowls all lived among these ow trees, and
red there, which was very reeable to me: so that, as I said
above, I began to be very we contented with the life I led, if I
could have been secured from the dread of the savages. But. it was
otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall
meet with my story, to make this just observation from it, viz. How
frequently, in the course of our lives, the evil which in itself we seek
most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into, is- the most dread--
ful'to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by
which alone we can he raised again from the affliction we are fallen
.mto. I could give many examples of this in the course of mv un-
accountable life, but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable

thanin the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in
this island. ' '
ANOTHER VISIT OF THE SAVAGES--ROBINSON SEES THEM DANCING---
PERCEIVES THE WRECK OF A VESSEL.

IT was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-
third year ; and this being the southern solstice (for winter I can.
not call it), was the particular time of my harvest, and required my
bein much abroad in the fields; when goin out pretty early
in t e morning, even before it was thoroug da light, I was
surprised with seein a light of some fire upon the s ore, at a dis-
tance from me of a out two miles, towards the end of the island
where I had observed some savages had been, as before; and not
on the other side, but, to my great afiliction, it was on my side of
the island.
, I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short
within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised;
and yet lad no more peace within, from the apprehensions I
had that if these savages, in rambling over the island, should find
my corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improvements,
they would immediately conclude that there were people in the
lace, and would then never give over till they had found me out.
In this extremity, I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the
ladder after me, and made all things without look as wild and as-
natural as I could. '

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of
defence: I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is to say,
m muskets, which were mounted u on mlyf new fortification, and
all my pistols, and resolved to defen myse to the last gasp; not
forgetting seriously to commend myself to the divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of
the barbarians. I continued in this posture about two hours; and
began to be mi hty impatient for intellioence abroad, for I had
no spies to send out. After sitting awhile longer, and musmg
what I should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in :fiv
norance any longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of the h' ,
where there was a flat place, as I observed before, and then pull-
ing the ladder up after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the
top of the hill; and pulling out my perspective glass, which I had
_ ta en on pur ose, I laid me down flat on the ground, and b an

to look for t e place. I presently found there were no less t an
'nine naked savaoes, sitting round a small fire they had made, not
to warm them, for they had no need of that, the weather being
extremely hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of their barbar-
ous diet of human flesh, which they had brought with them, whe-
ther alive 0r dead I could not tell.

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon
the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to me to
wait for the return of the flood to go away again. It is not easy
to imagine what confusion this sight ut me into, especially seeing
them come on my side of the islanghand so near me too; but
when I considered their coming must be always with the current of
the ebb, I began, afterwards, to be more sedate in my mind, being
satisfied that might go abroad with safety all the time of the tide
of flood, if they were not on shore before; and havino made this
observation, I went abroad about my harvest work with the more
composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to the
westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call

' it) away. I should have observed, that. for an hour or more before
they went off, they went a dancing; and I could easily discern their
postures and gestures by m glass. I could not perceive, by my
mcest observation, but that t ey were stark naked, and had not the
least covering upon them; but whether they were men or women,
1 could not distinguish.

As soon as 1 saw them shipped and one, I took two guns upon
my shoulders, and two istols in my ir e, and my reat sword by
my s1de, Without a scab ard, and wit all the spec Iwas able to
make, went away to the hill where I had discovered the first appear-
'ance of all; andas soon as I got thither, which was not in less than
two hours (for I could not go apace, being so loaden with arms as
I was), I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages at
that pllaoce; and looking out farther, I saw. they were all at sea to-
gether, making over for the main. This was a dreadful sight to me,
especially as, goin down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror, which the ismal work they had been about had left behind
it, viz. the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh, of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretehes with merriment and sport.
I wore out a year and three months more before I ever saw any
more of the savages.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen months'
interval, was very great; I slept unquiet, dreamed always fright-
ful dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night; in the
day, great troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the night,
- I dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the reasons why I
might justify the doing of it. It was in the middle of May, on the
sixteenth da , I think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would
reckon, for marked all upon the post still; I say, it was on the
sixteenth of May that it blew a very reat storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and thun er, and a very foul nightlit
was after it. I knew not what was the particular occasion of it,
but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with very serious-
thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised with the noise
of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise
quite of a different nature from any I had met with before; for the
notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I
started up in the greatest haste imaginable, and. in a trice, clapped
my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me;
and mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill the very
moment that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, whic
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard; and, by the sound,
knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was driven down.
the current in my boat. I immediately considered that this must
be some ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or some,
other ship in compan , and fired these guns for signals of distress,
and to obtain hel . had the presence of mind, at that minute, to
think that though I could not help them, it mi ht be they might
help me: $01 brought to ether all the dry woo I could get at
sand, and making a od andseme pile, I set it on fire upon the
hill. The wood was ry, and blazed freely; and though the wind
blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out: so that I was certain, it
there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it; and nc
doubt they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up I heard another
gun, and after that several others, all from the same quarter. I plied
my fire all night long, till daybreak; and when it was broad day.
. and the air cleared u , I saw something at a mat distance at sea,

full east of the island: whether a sail or a hul I could not distin-
guish, no, not with my class; the distance was so great, and the
weather still something hazv also; at least it was so out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that it
did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor;
and being eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in
m hand, an ran towar 3 the scuth side of the island, to the rocks
where I had formerly been carried away with the current; and get-
ting up there, the weather by this time being perfectly clear, 1 could
plainly see, to m great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in
the m ht upon t rose concealed roeks.which I found when I was out
in myioat; and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the
stream, and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were the ocea-
sion of m recovering from the most deswrate, hopeless condition
that ever had been in, in all my life. hus, what is one man's
safety is another man's destruction; for it seems these men, who.
ever they were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being
wholl under water, had been driven upon them in the night, the
wind lowing hard at E.N.E. Had they seen the island, as I must
necessarilv su pose they did not, they must, as I thought, have en-
deavoured to have saved themselves on shore by the zhelp of their
boat; but their firing oil" guns for help, es ccially when they saw, as
I imagined, my fire, filled me with many roughts: First, I imagined
that upon seeing my light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and endeavoured to make the shore; but that the sea gom
very high, they mi ht have been cast away: other times I imagine
that they might are lost their boat. before, as might be the
case many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon
their ship, which many times obliges men to stave, or take in
pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard with their
own hands: other times I imagined they had some other ship or
shi s in company, who, upon the signals of distress the had made,
ha taken them up and carried them olf : other times I aneied they
were all one off to sea in their boat, and being hurried awa by the
current t mt I had been formculy in, were earned out into t re great
ocean, where there was nothing but misery and perishing; and that
perhaps, they might by this tune be starving, and in a condition to
tank of eating one another.
BE VISITS THE WRECK AND OBTAINS MANY STORES FROM 13""

. AGAIN THINKS 0F QUITTING THE ISLAND.

TILL the last year of m being on this island, I never knew whether
any were saved out of that ship or no ; and had only the affliction,
some days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore
at the end of the island which was next the shipwreck. He had no
clothes on- but a. seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen
drawers, and a blue h'nen shirt, but nothing to direct me so much
as to guess what nation he was of: he had nothin in his pockets
but two pieces-of-eight and a tobacco pipe :--the- ast was to me of
ten times more value than the first.
It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my
boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on
board that might be useful to me. but that did not altogether
press me so much, as the possibility that there might be yet some
iving creature on board, whose life I might not only save, but
might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree. And
this thought clung so to my heart, that I could not be uiet night
or day, but I must venture out in my boat on board t is wreck;
and committing the rest to God's providence, I thou ht the im-
pression was so strong upon my mind that it could not 6 resisted,
that it must come from some invisible direction, and that I should
be wanting to myself if I did not go.
' Under the power of this impressmn, I hastened back to my castle,
prepared everything for my voyage took a quantity of bread, a cat
at of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (or I
had still a great deal of that left) and a basket of raisins; and thus
loading myself with everything necessary, I went down to my boat,

got the water out of her, put

er afloat, loaded all my cargo in her,

and then went home again for more. My second cargo was a great
e

bag of rice, the umbr

a to set up over my head for a shade, another

laro-e ot of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves,
or bar ey-cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a

cheese: all

and ra in to God to
lingy tile canoe along the shore, came at last to the utmost

padd

3

which, with reat labour and sweat, I carried to my boat;
'rect my voyage, I put out; and rowmg, or

point ot the island on the north-east side.
-Having hauled my boat into a little_ creek on the shore, I stepped
out, and sat me down upon a rising bit of ground, very pensive and

 

anxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage: when, as I was
musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood

come on;
hours.

upon which my going was impracticable for so many

I resolved, the next morning, to set out with the first of the tide,
and reposino myself for the night in my canoe, under the great

watch-coat

finentioned, I launched out. I went at a great rate directly

for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came u to it. It was a
dismal sight to look at: the ship, which}?! its buil ing, was Spanish,
t

stuck fast, j ammed in between two rocks;

he stern and quarter of her

were beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her forcastle, which
stuck in the rocks, had run on with reat violence, her mainmast
and foremast was brought by the boarg, that is to say, broken short
of; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared
firm. When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her. who,

10'

f
seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as I called him
jumped into the sea to come to me. I took him into the boat, but
found him almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake
of my bread, and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been
starvmg a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor creature
some fresh water, with which, if I would have let him, he would
have burst himself. After this, I went on board; but the first sight
I met with was two men drowned in the cook room, or forecastle of

 

.the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as
indeed Erobable, that when the shi struck, it being in a storm, the
sea bro e so high, and so continua. y over her, that the men were
not able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in
of the water, as much as if they had 'been under water. Besrdes
the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had life; nor any
goods, that I could see, but what were spoiled by the water.

I found, however, besides several chests, a little cask full of liquor,
of about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat 'with much
difficulty. There were several muskets in the cabin, and a great
powder-horn,with about four pounds of powder in it: as for the
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took the
powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted ex-
tremely; as also two little brass kettles, a cop ier pot to make
chocolate, and a gridiron: and with this cargo, an the dog, I came
away, the tide beginning to make home again; and the same evening,
about an hour within night, I reached tie island again, weary and
fati rued to the last de ree. I reposed that night in the boat ; and
int e morning 1 reso ved to harbour what I had got in my new
cave, and not carry it home to m castle. After refreshing myself,
I ot all my cargo on shore, and egan' to examine the particulars.
I Found on emptying the chest among other things some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about a dozen and a
half of white linen handkerchicfs and coloured neckcloths; the
former was also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe
my face in a hot day. Upon the whole, Igot very little by this voy-
age that was of any use to me: for, as to some money, I had found
I had no manner of occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt under
my feet; and I would have given it all for three or four pair of
English shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly wanted,
but had none on my feet for many years.

I lived in this condition near two years more; all the time filled -
with projects and designs, how, if it were possible, I might get away
from this island; and I believe verily, if I had the boat that I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I
knew not whither.

It was one of the nights of' the rainy season in March, the four-
and-twentieth year of in first setting foot in this island of solitari--
ness, I was laying in my cd awake. I had no uneasiness of mind
more than ordinary, but could by 'no means close my eyes, that is, so
as to sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than as
follows: '

I ran over the whole histor of my life by abridgment, as I may
call it, to my coming to this is and; and also since I came to this
island. In my reflections upon the state of my case, since I came
here, I was comparing the appy posture of m affairs in the first
years of m habitation, with the hfe of anxiety, ear, and care, which

had live ever since I had seen the print of a foot in the sand.

Then I came to reflect seriousl upon the real danger I had been
in for so many years; and how had walked about in the greatest
security, and with all possible tranquility, when perha 5 nothing
but the brow of a hill, at great tree, or the casual approac l of night,
had been between me and the worst kind of destruction, viz. that of
falling into the hands of cannibals and savages. I would unjustly
slander myself, if 1 should sa I was not sincerely thankful to my
great Preserver, to whom all t iese unknown deliverances were due.

I made this conclusion, however, that my only way to go about
an attempt for an escape, was, if possible, to get a savage into my
possession ; and, if possible, it should be one of their risoners
whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should brin t iither to
kill; but these thoughts were still attended with this di culty, that
it was im ossible to effect this without attacking a whole caravan of
them, an killing them all; and my heart tremblbd at the thoughts
of shedding so much blood, though it was for my deliverance.

However, after many disputes with myself, I determined, if
possible, to get one of the savages into my hands, cost what it would: '
so I resolve to put myself upon the watch to see them when they
came on shore, and leave the rest to the event.

13
ROBINSON RESCU'ES ONE OF THEIR CAPTIVES FROM THE SAVAGES,
WHOM HE NAMES FRIDAY, AND MAKESJdIS SERVANT.

ABOUT 9. year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by
long musmg had, as it were, resolved them into nothing, for want
of an occasmn to ut them into execution), I was surprised, one
morning early, wit I seeing no less than five canoes all on shore
together on m side the island, and the people who belonged to
themall lande , and out of my sight. The number of them broke
all my meaSures; for- seeing so many, and knowing that they
always. came four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not
tell what to think of it, or how to take my measures, to attack
twent or thirty men single-handed; so lay still in my castle, per-
plexe and discomforted: however, I put myself into all the same
postures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just
ready for action, if anything had presented. Having waited a good
while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at length, being
very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clam-
bered up to the top of the bill, by my two st es, as usual; stand-
ing so, owever, that my head did not appear a ove the. hill, so that
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the '
help of my pers ective (glass, that they were no less than thirty in
number; that t ey ha a fire- kindled, and that they had meat
dressed. How they had cookeddt I knew not, or what it was; but
the were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures
andy figures, their own way, round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, 1 perceived, by my erspee-
tive, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats, w ere, it
seems, they were laid by, and were now brought out for the
slaughter. I perceived one of them immediate] fall, being knocked
down, I suppose, with a club or wooden swor , for that was their
way, and two or three others were at work immediately, cutting
him open for their cookery, while the other vrctnn was left standing
by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that. very moment,
this poor wretch seeing himself a little at liberty, and unbound,
nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he started awa from
them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands, 'rcctly
towards me, 1 mean towards that part of the coast where my habi-
tation was. I was dreadfully frightened, I must acknowledge, when
I perceived him run my way, and especiallywhen, as I thought, I
saw him pursued by the whole body. However, I kept my station,
and my spirits began to recover, when I found that there was not
above three men that followed him; and still more was I encouraged
when 1 found that he outstri ped them exceedingly in running, and
gained ground of them, so tnat if he could but hold it for half an

our, I saw easily he would fairly get away from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek, which I men-
tioned often in the first part. of my story, where I landed my
cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must necessarily
swim over, or the poor wreteh would be taken there: but when the
savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though the
tide was then up; but longing in, swam through in about thirt
strokes, or thereabouts, andcd, and ran on with exceedin strength
and swiftncss. When the three ersons came to the cree , I found
that two of them could swim, ut the third could not, and that,
standing on the other side, he looked at the others, but went no
farther, and soon after went softly back again; which, as it hap-
pened, was very well for him in the end. I observed that the two
who swam were yet more than twice as long swimming over the
creek as the fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was
the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant,
and that I was called plainl by Providence to save this poor
creature's life. I immediate y ran down the ladders with all
possrble expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both at the
cot of the ladders, as I observed above, and getting up again, with
the same haste, to the top of the hill, I crossed toward the sea, and
having a very short cut, and all down hill, laced myself in the way
between the pursners and the pursued, ha ooing,aloud to him that
fled, who, looking back, was at first, perhaps, as much frightenedmt
me as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come back;
and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that fol-
lowed: then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him
down with the stock of my piece. I was 10th to fire, because 1
would not have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would
not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke too,
they would not have easil known what to make of it. Havinw
knocked this fellow down, t to other who pursued him stopped, as ii
he had been fri htened, and I advanced apace towards him: but as
1 came nearerfi perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and
was fitting it to shoot at me: so I was then nebessitated to shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor
savage who fled but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies
fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so fri rhlened with the fire
and noise of my piece, that he stood stock sti l, and neither came
forward nor Went backward, though he seemed rather inclined to
fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way; then stop ed
again, and then a little further, and then stopped a ain; an I
could then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he ha been taken
prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his two enemies were.

beckonedto him again to come to me, and (gave him all the signs
of encouragement that I could think of; an he came nearer and
nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve ste s, in token of
acknowledgment- for havino' saved his life. I smi ed at him, and
looked pleasantly, and bec oned to him,to come still nearer: at
length e came close to me; and then he knecled down again,
kissed the round, and laid his head u on the ground, and taidng
me by the cot, set my foot upon his read: this, it seems, was in
token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him up, and
made much of him, and encoura ed him all I could. But there
was more work to do yet; for perceived the savage whom I .
knocked down was not killed but stunned with the blow, and began!
to come to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the
savage, that he was not dead: upon this he spoke some words to
me, and thn ugh I'~ could not understand them, yet I thought they
Were pleasant to hear; for they were the first sound of a man's
"voice that .a had heard, my own excepted, for above twentyofive
years. But there was no time for reflectionsnow; the savage who
Was knockc: down recovered himself so far as to sit up on the
ground, and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid; but
when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the man, as if I
would shoot him: upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made
a motion to me to lend him my sword which hun naked in a belt
by my side, which I did. He no sooner had it, at he runs to his
enemv, and, at one blow, out off his head so cleverly, no execu-
toner in Germany could have done it sooner or better; which I
thought ve strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never
saw a swor in his life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it seems, as I learned afterwardsythey make their wooden
swords so sharp, so hea , and the wood is so hard, that they will
cut off heads even with t em, ay, and arms, and that at one blow
too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to me,.in sign 0!
triumph, and brou ht me the sword again, and with abundance 01
gestures, which I 'd not understand, laid it down. But that which
astonished him most was to know how I killed the other Indian so
far 03' : so pointing to him, he made sio'ns to me to let him go to
him; so I bade him go as well as I coul . When he came to him,
he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turning him first on one
side, then on the other, looked at the wound the bullet had made,
which, it seems,'was just in his breast, where it had made a hole,
and no reat quantil y of blood had followed, but he had bled in-
wardly, or he was quite dead. He took up his bow and arrows,
and came back; so I turned to go away, and beckoned him to
follow me, making signs to him that more might come after them.
Upon this he made signs to me. that he should bury them with
sand, that they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed; and
so I made signs to him a aln to do so. He fell to woi'k; and, in
an instant, he had scrape a hole in the sand with his 'hands, bi
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and
covered him; and did so by the other also: _I believe he had
buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away,
I conveyed him, not to my castle, but quite away, to my cave, on the
farther part of the island. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of
raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was
indeed in rest-distress for, by his running; and having refreshed
him, I ma e signs for him to go and lie down to siee , showing him
a place where I had laid some rice straw, and a b anket upon it,
which I used to sleepu on myself sometimes; so the poor creature
lay down and went to s eep. '

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectl well-made, with
straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall, and we] shaped, and, as I
reckon. about twenty-six years of age. He had a very ood conno
tenance, not a fierce and surly aspect; but seemed to rave some-
thing very manl in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and
softness of an European in his countenance too, especially when he
smiled. His hair was thing and black, not curled like wool; his
forehead very high and large; and a great vivacity and sparkling
sharpness in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite black,
out very tawny; and yet not an n ly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the
Brasilians and Virginians, and ot ier natives of America are, but of
a bright kind of adun olive-colour, that had something in it very
agreeable, though not ver easy to describe. His face was round
and plump; his nose smal , not flat like the Negroeg; a very good
mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and as white as
ivory. ,

After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he
awoke again, and came out of the cave to me, for I had been milking
my goats, which I had in the enclosure 'ust by: when he cspied me,
he came running to me, laying himself own ' in upon the ground,
with all the possible signs of an humble, thank ul disposition, makin
a great many antic gestures to show it. At last, he lays his hea
flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon
his head, as he had done before; and after this made all the signs to
me of subjection, servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me
know how he would serve me as long as he lived. I understood

 

him in many things, and let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In a little time I began to speak to him and teach him to
speak to me; and, first, I let him know his name should be FRIDAY,
which was the day I saved his life: I called him so for the memory
of the time. I likewise taught him to say Master: and then let him
know that was to be my name: I likewise taught him to say Yes
and No, and to know the meaning of them. I gave him somemilk
in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and son
my bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which -
he quickly com lied with, and made signs that it was very good for
him. I kept t rare with him all that night; but as soon as it was
day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know that I
would give him some clothes: at which he seemed very glad, for he
was stark naked. As we went by the place where he had buried
the two men, he pointed exactly to the s at, and showed me the
marks he had made to find them again, ma ing signs to me that we
should dig them' up ain, and eat them. At tlns I appeared very
angry, expressed my a ,horrenee of it, and beckoned with my hand'
to him to come away, which he did immediately, with rest submis-
sion. I then led him up to the top of the hill, to see ' his enemies
Were gone; and pulling out m glass, I looked, and saw plainly the
tlace where they had been, at no appearance of them or their
canoes: so that it was plain they were gone, and had left their
two comrades behind them, without any search after them.

But I was not coutent with this discovery; but having now more
courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man Frida
with me, iving him the sword in his hand, with the how an
arrows at is back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him ca one gun for me, and I two for myself ; and away

\

we marched to t. Ie place where these creatures had been, for I had>>

a mind now i.) get some further intelligence of them. When I
came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my
heart sunk wrthin me, at the horror of the'speetaule: indeed, it
was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday made
nothin of it. l'he place was covered with human bones. the
gronn dyed with their blood, and great pieces of flesh left here
and there, half-eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the
tokens of the triumphant feast. they had been makin there, after a
victory over their enemies. 1 saw three sculls, five ands, and the
bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts
of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me understand that
they brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that three of them
were eaten up, and that he, fiointin to himself, was the fourth;
that there had been a great attle etween them and their next
king, whose subjects, it seems, he had been one of, and that they
had taken a great number of risoners ; all which were carried to
several places by those who ha taken them in the fight, in order to

feast upon them, as was done here by these wretches upon those

thiy brou ht hither.

cause Friday to gather up all the sculls, bones, and flesh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make a
great fire upOn it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had
still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a
cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the
very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he durst
not discover it: for I had, by some means, let him know that I

. would kill him if he offered it.

When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and there I
fell to work for my man Friday: and, first of all, I gave him a pair
of ham drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner-'3 chest i
mentioned which I found in the wreck; and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well, and then I made him a jerkin o!

goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow (for-I was now grown a.

tolerable good tailor); and I gave him a "good cap, which I made 01

nare'slizkin,\ very convenient and fashionable enough; and thus he
was clothed for the present, tolerably well, and was mighty well
pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It- is
true, he went awkwardly in those clothes at first: wearing the
drawers was ver awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat
galled his shoul ers, and the inside of his arms; but after a little
easing them where he complained they hurt him, and using himseh '
to them, he took to them at length very 'well.

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I began
to consider where I should lodge him; and that I mi ht do well for
him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a litt e tent for him
in the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last and in the outside of the first. As. there was a door or
entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case,
and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little
within the entrance; and causing the door to open in the inside, I

\

 

. p . . .
could 1n no way come at me in the inside of my innermost w

without making so much noise in getting over that it must needs
waken me: for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of_
long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the
hill; which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead of
lathe, and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice-straw,
which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or place which was
left to go in or out by the lhdder, I had placed a kind of trap door,
which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but would have fallen down, and made a real: noise:
as to weapons, I took them all into my side every nig t. But I
needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more faith-
ful, loving, sincere! servant than Frida was to me; without pas-
sions. sullenness, or designs, perfectly o liged and engaged--his very

barred it up in the night, takino in my ladders too; so that Friday

c
afiections were tied to me, like those of a child to a father; and I
dare say, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine upon
any occasion whatsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of this
put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no
precautions as to my safety on his account.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with
wonder, that however it had pleased God. in his providence,
and in the government of the works of his hands, to take from
so great a part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which
their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that he
has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the
same affections, the same sentiments of kindness and obligation, the
same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sence of grati- -
tude, sincerity, tihelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and
reccaving good, that he has given to us; and that when he pleases
to offer them occasions of exerting these they are as ready, nay, more
. ready, to apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed,
than we are.

With my new companion I was reatly delighted, and made it my
business to teach him ever thing Slat was proper to make him use-
ful, handy, and helpful; at especially to make him s eak, and
understand me when I s oke: and he was the aptest sc nolar that
ever was; and particular y was so merry, so constantl diligent, and
so pleased when he could but understand me, or ma e me under-
stand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now
my life began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself, that
could I have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was
never to remove from the place where I lived.
ROBINSON INSTRUCTS AND CIVILIZES HIS MAN FRIDAY--ENDEAVOUBS
TO GIVE HIM AN IDEA 0P CHRISTIANITY.

AFTER. I had been two or three dogs returned to my castle, I thought
that, in order to bring Frida o ' from his horrid we of feeding,
and from the relish of a canni al's stomach, I ought to et him taste
other flesh; so I took him out with me one morningxto the woods.
I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of m own flock, and
bring it home and dress it; but as Irwas going, saw a she-goat
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I
caught hold of Friday ;--" Hold," said I; "stand still ;" and made
signs to him not to stir: immediately I presented my iece, shot, and
killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who had? at a. distance,
indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor
could imagine how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled
and shook, and looked so amazed, that I thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at,' or erceived 1 had
killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to feel whet er he was not
wounded, and, as I found resently, thought I was resolved to kill
him: for he came and knee ed down to me, and embracing my knees,
said a great many things I did not understand ;- but I could easily
see the meanino was, to pray me not to kill him. . "
I soon foun a way to convince him that I would do him _no
harm; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and painting
to the kid which 1 had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it,
which he did; and while he was wondering, and looking to see how
the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again. By and by, I saw
a great fowl, like a hawk, sittin upon a tree, within shot; so to let
Friday understand a little what would do, I called him to me ain,
ointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thoug it it
had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and
to the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall,
I made him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird:
accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and immediatel he saw
the arrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, notwit standing
all {had said to him; and I found he was the more amazed, because
he did not see me ut an thing into the u, but thought that there
must be some won erful und of death an destruction m that thing,
able to kill man, beast, or bird, or any thing near or far off; and
the astonishment this created in him was such, as could not wear
off for a long time; and I believe, if I would have let him, he would
have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would
not so much as touch it for several days after; but he would speak
to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by
himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not
to kill him. Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did,
but stzged some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had
flutter away a good distance from the place where she fell: how-
ever, he found her, took her up, and brought her to me; and as I
had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took this advan.
tage to charge the gun again, and not'to let him see me do it, that
I might be ready for any other mark that mi ht present; but
nothing more offered at that time: so I brought Iiome the kid, and "
the same evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I
could; and having a pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad
of it, and liked it veg well: but that which was strangest to him,
was to see me cat s t with it. He made a sign to me that the
salt was not good to eat; and putting a little into his month, he
seemed to nauseatc it, and-wbuld spit and sputter at it, washino
his mouth with fresh water after it- on ,the other hand, I took
some meat into my mouth without salt, and I-pretented to spit and
sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it
would not do; he would never care for salt with his meat or in his

broth :1 at least, not a great while, and then but very little.
_ Baving thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved
to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I did,
by han m it before. the fire on a string, as I had seen many people
do in ng and, setting two oles up one each side of the tire, and
one. across on the top, an tying the string to the cross stick,
lettm the meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much:
but w en he came to taste the flesh, he took so man ways to tell
me how well he liked it, that I could not but understand him ; and at
last he told me, as well as he could, that he would never eat man's'
flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.

_ 'I'he neat day I set him to work to hearing some corn out, and
sifting 1t 1n the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and he

 

soon understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had
seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of '
it: for after that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it too;
and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as
well as I could do it myself.

I began now to consrder, that having two mouths to feed instead
of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest,-and plant a
larger quantity of cdrn than I used to do: so I "marked out a larger
piece of land, and began the fence in the same manner as before,
in which Friday worked not only very willingly and very hard, but
did it very cheerfully: and I told him what it was for; that it was
for corn to make more bread, because he was now with me, and
that I might have enough for him and myself too. He appeared
ver sen31ble of that part, and let me know that he thought I
ha much more labour u on me on his account than I had for '
myself; and that he Woul work the harder for me, if I. would tell

him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of
almost every thing I had occasion to call for, and of every place .I
had to send him to, and talked a great deal to me; so that, In
short, I began now to have some use for my tongue again, which,
indeed, I had very little occasion for before, that is to say,_ about
speech. Besides the lpleasure of talking to him,I had a Singular
satisfaction in the fel ow himself: his simple, unfeigncd honesty
appeared to me more and more ever da , and I began really to
love the creature; and, on his side, he ievcd he loved me more
than it was possible for him ever to love any thing before.

I had a nnud once to try if he had any hankering inclination to
his own country again; and having taught him hnghsh so well
that he could answer me almost any question, I asked lnm "whether
the nation that he belonged. to never con uered m battle?" At
which he smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we a ways fight the better: "_
that is, he meant, always get the better in light; and so we began
the following discourse:--

MAsrsn. " You always fight the better? how came you to be
taken prisoner then, Friday :'"

FRIDAY. "M nation beat much, for all that."

MASTER. "th beat? If your nation beat them, how came
you to be taken?" .

FRIDAY. "They more money than my nation in the place where
me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overheat
them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation tak
one, two, great thousand." '

MASTER. " But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?"

FRIDAY. "They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time."

MASTER. "Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they take? Do they carry them away and eat them,
as these did?"

FRIDAY. " Yes, my nation eat man's too; eat all up."

MASTER. "Where do they carry them?"

FRIDAr. " Go to other place, where they think."

MASTER. " Do they come hither? "

FurDAY. " Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place."

MASTER. "' Have ou been here with them?"

FRIDAY. " Yes, I rave been here; " (Spoints to the NW. side of
the island, which, it seems, was their si e.)

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among
the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part 'of the
island, on the same man-eating occasions he was now brought for:
and some time after, when I took the courage to carry him to that
side, being the same [ formerly mentioned, he presently knew the
place, and told me he was there once when they ate up twenty men,
two women, and one child: he could not tell twenty in English, but
be numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing
to me to tell them over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows; that
after I had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it was from
our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost.
He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that, after
a little way out to sea, there was a current and wind, always one
wa in the morning, the other in the afternoon. This I understood
to e no more than the sets of the tide, as going out or comin in;
but I afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great graft
and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulf of
which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay; and that this
land which I erceived to the W. and NW. was the great island
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river. I asked
Fridav a thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants, the
sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he knew,
with the greatest openness imaginable; I asked him the names of
the several nations of his sort of people, but could get no other
name than Caribs: from whence I easily understood, that these were
Caribbees, which our ma 3 place on the. part of America which
reaches from the mouth 0 ~ the river Oroonoko .to Guiana, and on-
wards to St. Martha. He told me that up a great we beyond the
moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon, w rich must be
west from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me,
and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; and
that they had killed much mans, that was his word: by all which I
understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had
been spread over the whole country, and were remembered by all
the nations, from father to son. -_

I inquired if he could tell me how I might o from this island anc
get among those white men; he told me: " es, yes, you may go in
two canoe." I could not understand what he meant, or make him
describe to me what he meant by two canoe; till, at last, with great
dilliculty, I found he meant it must be in~a large boat, as big as two
canoes. This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me
very well: and from this time 1 entertained some hopes that, one -
time or other, I might find an opportunity to make my esca e from
this place, and that this poor savage mi ht be a means to heibme.

During the ion time that Friday ha now been with me, and that
he be an to epea to me, and understand me, I was not wantin to
lay agoundation of reli ious knowledge in his mind; particular y I
asked him, one time, w 10 made him? The poor creature did not
understand me at all, but thought I had asked him who was his
father; but I took it up by another handle, and asked him who
made the sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods?
He told me, it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all; he
could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old, much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the moon or
the stars. , I asked him then, if this old person had made all things,
why did not all thin s worship him? He looked very ave, and
with a erfect look oig innocence, said: " All things say 5: to him."
I asks him "if the people who die in his country went awa any
where?" He said, " Yes: they all went to Benamuekee;" t en I
asked him "whether these they ate up went thither too?" He
said, "' Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowled e of
the true God: I told him that the great Maker of all things 'ved
upthere, pointing up towards heaven; that he governed the world

 

by the same. power and providence by which he made it; and that
he was ommpotent, and could do everything for us, give everything
to us, take everything from us; and thus, by degrees, I opened his
e es. l":le listened With great attention, and received with leasure
t e notion of Jesus Christ bein sent to redeem us, an of the
manner of making our prayers to 0d, and his hein' able to hear us,
even in heaven. He told me one day, that if our od could hear us
. up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their Ben-
amuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till
they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to speak to
him. I asked him i ever he went thither to speak to him? He
said: "No ;" they never went that were young men; none went
thither but the old men, whom he called their Oowookakee: that is,
as I made him exglain to 'me, their religious, or clergy' ; and that

the went. to say (so he called sayino ra ers , and then came
bac , and told them what Benamuckee seiid.p y )

K
I endeavoured to clear u this fraud to my man Friday; and told
him, that the pretence of t eir old men gom<r up to the mountains
to say 0 to their god Benamuekee was a (ilieat: and that their
bringing word from thence what he said was much moreso ; that if
they met with any answer, or spake with any one there, it must be
an evil spirit; and then I entered into a long discourse about the

devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to
man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the
world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin; how he
had' a secret access to our passions and to our affections, and to
adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be our
own tempters,~and run upon our destruction by our own choice.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must
acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the same principle
will find, that in laying things open to him, I rcallv informed and
instructed myself in many tlungs that either I did not know, or had
not fully considered before, but which occurred naturallmo my
mind upon searching into them, for the information of t ' poor
savage: and I had more affection in my inquiry after things upon
this occasion than ever I felt before: so that, whether this poor wild
wreteh was the better for me or no, I had great reason to be thank-
ful that ever he came to me; my icf sat lighter upon me; xx
habitation grew comfortable to me eyond measure; and when
reflected, that in this solitary life vhich I had been confined to, I
had not only been moved to look up to Heaven myself, and to seek

. to the hand that had brou ht me here, but was now to be made an
instrument, under Provi ence, to save the life, and, for aught -I
knew, the soul, of a poor savage,'and bring him to the true know-
ledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know
Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon
all these things, a secret joy ran throuwh ever y part of m soul, and
I frequently rejoiced that ever I was zbrou ht to this p ce, which
I had so often thought the most dreadful 0 all afflictions that could
passihly'have hefallen me.
BOBINSOII AND FRIDAY BUILD A CANOE TO CARRY THEM TO FRIDAY'S
COUNTRY--THEIR SCHEME PREVENTED BY THE ARRIVAL OF A
PARTY 01' SAVAGES.

Amen Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he
could understand almost all I said to him, and speak prett fluently,
though in broken English, to me, I ac uainted him Wit my own
history, or at least so much of it as re ated to my comm to this
place; how I had lived here, and how long; I let him into t e mys-
tery, for such it was to him, of gunpow er and bullet, and tauvrht
him how to shoot. I ave him a knife, which he was wonderfthy
delighted with; and made him a belt with a fro hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangers in; and in the rag, instead of
a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon, in some cases, but much more useful upon other occasrons.

I described to him the country of Europe, particularly England,
which I came from; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we
behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of
the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been
on board of, and showed him, as near as I could, the place where she
lay; but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. I showed
him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped, and
which I could not stir with my whole strength then; but was now
fallen almost all to pieces, Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood
musmgfia great while, and sand nothing. I asked him what it was
he stu ed upon? At last, he says : " Me see such boat like come
to place at m nation." I did not understand him a good while;
'33", at last, w en I had examined farther into it, I understood by
him, that a boat such as that had been, came on shore ugon the

x
country where he lived; that is, as he explained it, was driven
thither by stress of weather. I presently imagined that some
European ship must have been cast awa upon their coast, and the
boat might et loose, and drive ashore ; at was so dull, that 1 never
once thougit of men makin their escape from a wreck 'thither,
much less whence they mig it come; so I only inquired after a
deseri )tion of the boat.

Fri ay described the boat to me well enough; but brought me
better to understand him when he added with some warmth. " We
save the white mans from drown." Then I presently asked him, if
there were any white mans, as he called them, in the boat? " Yes,"
he said; "the boat full of white mans." I asked him how many?
He told u on his lingers seventeen. I asked him then what became
of them; e told me, " They live, they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for Ipresently imagined
that these might be the men helongling to the ship that was cast
away in the sight of my island, as now called it; and who, after
the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost,
had saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild
shore among the savages. Upon this, I inquired of him more criti-
cally what was become of them; he assured me they lived still there;
that they had been there about four years; that the savages let them
alone, and gave them victuals to live on. I asked him how it came
to pass they did not kill them, and eat them, He said, ".No, they
make brother with them ;" that is, as I understood him, atruce; and
then he added, " They no eat mans but when make the war fight :"
that is to say, they never eat any men but such as come to light
with them, and are taken in battle.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my desi n of
going over with him to the continent, that I told rim we won d o
and make a boat as big as that, and he should go home in it. fie
answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad.' I asked
him what was the matter with him? He asked me again, "Why you
angry mad with Friday? What me done P"I asked him what he
meant? I told him I was not angry with him at all. " No an ry P"
says he, repeating the words several times; " Why send Fridayglnme
aWay tomy nation P "--" Why," says I, " Friday, did not on as you
wished you were there P"---" Yes, yes," says he, " wish he 0th t ere ;
no wish' Friday there, no master there." In a word, he would not think
of going there without me. "I go there, Friday l" says I; "what shall I
do there P" He returned very quick upon me at this : " You do great
deal much good," sa 3 he; " you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame
mans; you tell them now God, pray God, and live new life."--"Alas!
Friday," says I, " thou knowest not what then sayest; I am but an
ignorant man myself."--" Yes, yes," as s_ he, " you teaches me good,
you teachee them good."--" No, no, l'riday," sa 3 1, "you shall go
without me, leave me here to hve by myself, as did before." He
looked confused again at that word; and runninw to one of the hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. "What
must I do with this?" sa 3 I to him. "You take kill Friday," says he.
" What must I kill you or?" said I again. He returns verg flv'ek,
" What you send Friday away fori' Ta e kill Friday, no son .riday
away." This he Spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand_1n his
eyes: in a word, I so lainly discovered the utmost affection in him
to me, and a firm rcso ution in him, that I told him then, and often
after, that I would never send hint away from me, if he was willing
to stay with me. .

Upon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse, a settled afl'ec-
tion to me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I found all
the foundation of his desire to go to his own country was laid in his
ardent affection to the eople, and his hopes of my doing them good ;
a thing, which as I liatrno notion of myself, so I had not the least
thought, or intention, or desire, of undertaking it. But still I found
a strong inclination to my attempting an escape, as above, founded
on the supposition gathered from the discourse, viz. that there were
seventeen beardc'd men there: and, therefore, without any more
delay, I went to work with Friday, to find out a great tree proper to
fell, and make a large pcri area, or canoe, to undertake the voyage.
There were trees enough in t to island to have built a little fleet, not
of periaguas, or canoes, but even of good large vessels; but the
mam thing I looked at was, to get one so near the water that we
might launch it when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed
at first. At last, Friday itched upon a tree; for I found he knew
much better than I what lzind of wood was fittest for it ; nor can I
tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down, exce t
that it was very like the tree we call fustie, or between that and t 9
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to
make it for a boat, but I showed him how to cut it with tools;
which, after I had showed him how to use, he did very handily : and
in about a month's hard labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome; especially when, with our axes, which I showed him how
to handle, we cut and hcwed the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get
her along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers, into the water;
but when she was in, she would have carried twenty men with great
ease

I was near two months rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for
I finished them very complete, making a small stay, and a sail, or
foresail, to it, to assist, if we should turn to windward ; and, which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with.
l was but abunvling shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and
even necoSSity of such a thin , I applied myself with so much pains

to do it; that at last I broug it it to pass; though, considering the
many dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me
almost as much labour as making the boat.

When the settled season began to come in, as the thou ht of my
design returned with the fair weather, I was reparing dafly for the
voyage, and the first thing I did was to lay y a large quantity of
provisions, being the stores for our voyage; and intended, in a week
or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I
was busy one morning upon something of this kind, when I called to
Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a
turtle, or tortoise, a thing we generally got once a week, for the sake
of the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long one,
when he came running back, and flew over my outer wall, or ence,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and

 

before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me, "Oh master!
0 master! 0 sorrow . 0 bad!"--" What's the matter, Friday P"
says I. "O yonder, there, " says he, " one, two, three canoe: one,
two, three l" By this way of s eaking, I concluded there were six;
but, on inquiry, I found it was ut three. "Well Frida , " says I,
" do not be frightened l" So I heartened him up as w as I could:
however, I saw the piper fellow was most terribly scared: for nothing
ran in his head but t at they were come to look for him, and won]

cut him in pieces, and eat him; and the poor fellow trembled so that
I scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I
could, and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him. "But," says I, "Friday, we must
resolve to fight them." "Can you fight, Friday P"--" Me shoot,"
says he; " but there come many great number."--"No matter for
that," said I, again, "our guns will fright them that we do not
kil ." So I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he .
would defend me, and stand b me; and do 'ust as I bid him. He
said, "Me die, when you bid ie, master." 0 Iwent and fetched a
gooddram of rum and gave him; for I had been so good a husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he had drank it, I
made him take the two fowlin -pieces, which we always carried, and
. loaded them with large swan-s rot, as big as small pistol-bullets; then
I took four muskets, and loaded them with two s ugs, and five small
bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets
each; I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side; and gave
Friday his, hatchet. When I had thus prepared myself, I took m
persgective glass, and went up to the Side of the hill, to see what
coul discover; and I found quickly by my glass, that there were

 

one-audtwenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that
their whole busmess seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon
these three human bodies; a barbarous feast mdeed! but nothin
more than, as I had observed, was usual with them. I observe
also, that they were landed, not where they had done when Friday
made his esca e, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was low,
and where a t 'ck wood came almost close down to the sea. This,
vnth the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down again to
filday, and told him that I was resolved to 50 down to them and
kill them all; and asked him if he would stan by me. He had now
ot over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the dram
had given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
would die when I bid die. . '
In this fit of fury, I took and- divided the arms which I had
charged, as before, between us; I gave Friday one istol to stick in
his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and took one pistol,
.and the other three is myself; and in this posture we marched
out. I took a small ottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a
large .bag with more powder and bullets; and, as to orders, I charged
him to kee close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do any-
thing, till fbid him; and, in the mean time, not to speak a word.
In t is posture, Ifetehed a compass to my right hand of near a mile,
as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, so that I micht
come within shot of them beforeI should be discovered, which I had
seen, by m glass, it was easy to do.

I entere the wood; and, with all possible wariness and silence,
Friday following close at my heels, I marched till I came to the skirt
of the wood, on the side which was next to them, only that one
corner of the wood, lay between me and them. Here I called softly
to Friday, and showin him a great tree, which was just at the cor-
ner of the wood, I ha e him go to the free, and bring me word if he
could see there plainly what they were doing. He did so; and came
immediately has to me, and told me they might be lainly viewed
there; that they were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners, and that another lay bound upon the sand, 9. little
from them, which, he said they would kill next, and which fired all
the very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation,
but one of the bearded men he told me of, that came to their
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the ve naming
the white bearded man; and, going to the tree, I saw plain y, b my
glass, a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, wit: his

ands and his feet tied with flags or things like rushes, and that he
was an European and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty
yards nearer to them than the place whefe I was,which by going a little
way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and that then I
should be within half a shot of them: so I withheld my passion,
though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going back
about twenty paces, 1 got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till I came to the other tree; and then came to a little rising
ground, which gave me a full view of them. at the distance of about

eighty yards
ROBINSON RELEASES A SPANIARD--FREAY DISCOVERS HIS FATHER
--ACCOMMODA'I'ION ,PROVIDED FOR. THESE NEW GUESTS--WHO

ARE APTERWARDS SENT TO LIBERATE THE OTHER SPANIABDS--
ARRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH VESSEL.

I m now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, all close~huddled together, and had
just sent the other two to butcher the Boer Christian, and bring lnm
perhaps, limb by limb, to their fire; an they were stoo mg down to
untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday--" Now, riday,".sa1d
I, " do as I bid thee." Friday said he would. "Then, Friday," said I,
" do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothin ." So I set downpne
of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon tie ground, and Friday
dld the like by his; and with the other musket I'took my aim at
the savages, bidding him to do the like; then askin him if he was
ready, he said, "Yes." "Then fire at them," said ; and the same
moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that .
he shot, he killed two'of them, and wounded three more; and on my
side, I killed one, and wounded two. The were, you may be sure,
in dreadful consternation; and all of t em who were not hurt
Jumped up upon their feet, but did not immediate] know which way
to run, or which wa to look, for they knew not {yr-om whence their
destruction came. iday kept his eyes close upon me that, as I
had bid him, he might observe what I did; so. as soon as the first
shot was made, I t rew down the piece, and took up the fowlin -
piece, and Friday did the like: he saw me coekand present; -he did
the same again. " Are you ready, Friday?" said I. " Yes," says he.
" Let fly, then," says , "in the name of God!" And with that I

fired alggn among the amazed watches, and so did Friday; and as our
pieces were now loaden with what I called swanoshot, or small pistol
ullets, we found only two drop, but so man were wounded, that
they ran about yelling and screaming like ma, creatures, all blood ,
and most of them miserably wounded, whereof three more fell quic y
after, thou 11 not quite dead.

"Now, * riday," said I, laying down the discharged pieces, and taking
up the musket which was yet loaden, "'follow me ," which he did with
a great deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood, .and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I perceived
they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so
too; and runnino' as fast as I could, which hi the way was not very
fast, being loaded with arms as I was, I ma 6 directly towards the

poor Victim, who was, as I said, lying uponthe beach, or shore,

 

between the place where they sat and the sea. The two butchers,
who were just going to work with him, had left him at- the surprise
of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had
'umped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way.

turned to Friday, and bade him step forward, and fire at them; he
understood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to be
nearer them, he shot at them, and I thou ht he had killed them all,
for I saw them all fall of a heap into the oat, though I saw, two of
'them u again guickly: however, he killed two of them, and
wounde the thir , so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as
if he had been dead -

While my man Friday fired at them, I ulled out my knife, and
cut the flags that boun the poor victim; oosing his hands and feet,
I lifted him up and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was.
He answered in Latin, Christianns; but was so weak and faint that
he could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket,
and gave it him, making si us that he should drink, which he did;
and gave him a piece of read which he ate. Then I asked hiir
what countryman he was : "Es agniole ;" and being a little recovered,
let me know, by all the signs ie could ossibly make, how much he
was in my debt for his dehveranee. " i nor," said 1, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, "we will t afterwards, but we must
fight now; if you have any strength left, take this pistol and sword,
.and lay about you. He took them very thankfully; and no sooner
had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour into
him, he flew upon his murderers like afury, and had out two of them
in pieces in an instant; for the truth is the whole was a surprise to
them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise
of our pieces, that they fell down for mere amazement and fear, and
had no more power to attempt their own escape than their flesh had
to resist our shot: and that was the ease of those five that Friday
shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they had
received, so the other two fell with the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being willing to
keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol and
sword; so I called to Frida , and bade him run u to the tree from
whence we first fired and fete i the arms which lay t ere that had been
discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and then giving him
my musket, I sat down in self to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me when trey wanted. While I was leading these
pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard
and one of the savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the samelike wea on that was to have killed him be-
fore, if I had not prevented it. 'Fhe Spaniard, who was as bold and
brave as could be im o'ined, though weak, had fought this Indian a good
while, and had whim two great wounds on his head; but the
sav e being a stout, lust fellow, closing in with him, had thrown
him own, being faint, an was wringing my sword out of his hand;
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitted the sword,
drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the bed ,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to he p
111m, _could come near him.

.Friday being now left to his libert , pursued the flying wretches,
with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and with that he
dispatched those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at first
an fallen, and all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
00min to me for a gun I ave him one of the fowling-pieces, with
which e pursued two of t e savages, and wounded them both; but,
as he was not able to run, they both 0t from him into the wood,
Where Friday pursued them, and kill one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded, yet had
plunged himself into the sea, and swam, with all his might, of? to
those who were left in the canoe, which three in the canoe, with one
wounded, that we know not whether he died or no, were all that
esca ed our hands of one-and-twenty. The account of the whole is
as ollows: three killed at our first shot from the tree; two
killed at the next shot; two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed
by Frida of those at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the
wood; t reekilled b the Spaniard; four killed, being found dro ped
here and there of t eir wounds, or killed by Frida in his c ase
of them; four escaped in the boat, whereof one woun ed if not dead.
--Twenty-one in all.

Those who were in the canoe worked hard to et out of gun-shot,
and though Friday made two or three shots at t rem, I did not find
that he hit any 01 them. Friday would fain have had me take one
of their canoes, and ursue them; and indeed I was very anxious
about their escape, est, carrying the news home to their people,
'they should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of the

 

canoes, and devour us by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue
them by sea, and runnin to one of their canoes, I jumped in,"and
bade Friday follow me; ut when I was in the canoe I was surprised
to find another oor creature lie there, bound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, or the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what was the matter; for he had not been able to look
up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels, and
had been tied so long, that he had really but little life in him.

I immediately cut. the twisted flags or rushes, which they had
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not
stand or speak, but groaned most iteousl , beheving, it- seems, still,
that he was only unbound to be ki led. hen Frida came to him,
I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his de 'verance; and,
pulling out my bottle, made him give the pnor wreteh a" dram;
which, with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat
up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look
in his face, it would have moved any one to tears to ave seen how
Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him,cricd, laughed, halloocd,
'nmped about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands,

eat his own face and head; and then sang and 'umped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a good while efore I could make
him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came
a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to ex ress how it moved me to see what
ecstacy and filial affection ha worked in this poor savage at the
sight of his father, and on his being delivered from death ; nor .mdecd
can I describe half the extravagancies of his affection after this; for
he went into the boat, and out of the boat a great many times: when
he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom for many minutes together,
to nourish it; then he took his arms and ancles which were numbed
and stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands:_and I, erceiving what the matter was, gave him some rum
out (pf my bott e to rub them with, which did them a great deal of

o . _
g0This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other
savages, who were now almost out of sight; and it was happy for us
that we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours* after, and
before they could have got quarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-west, which was
against them, that I could not suppose that their boat could live, or
that they eVer reached their own coast.

But, to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father, that I
could not find in my heart to take him off for some time: but after
I thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he
came jumping and laughing, and leased to the highest extreme;
then I asked iim if he had given iis father any bread. He shook
his head, and said, " None; uoly dog eat all up self." I then gave
him a cake of bread, out of allittle pouch I carried on purpose; I
also gave him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but
carried it to his father. I had in my pocket two or three bunches of
raisins, so I ave him a handful of them for his father. He had no
sooner given is father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the
boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such a '
rate; for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that I ever saw: I
say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out of sight, as it were, in
an instant; and though I called, and halloocd out too, after him, it
was all one, away he went; and in a Quarter of an hour I saw him
come back again, though not so fast as he went; and as he came
nearer I found his pace slacker, because he had something in his
hand. When he came up to me, I found he had been quite home
for an earthen jug, or pet, to bring his father some fresh water,'and
that he had two more cakes or loaves of bread; the bread he gave
me, but the water he carried to his father; however, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived his father
mpre than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just
fainting With thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was
any water left; he said "Yes ; " and 1 bade him ivc it to the poor
Spamard, who was in as much want of it as his ather; and I sent
pne of- the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard too, who was
mdeed ve weak, and was reposmg himself upon a green lace
under the s ade of a tree; and whose limbs were also very sti , and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with.
When I saw that, upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he
sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began to eat, I went to
him and gave him a handful of raisins; he looked up in my face
with allt e tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear
m any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had
so exerted himself in the fight, that he could not stand up upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was really not able,
his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit
still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum,
as he had done his father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, eve two minutes, or
perhaps less, all t e while he was here, turn his cad about to see
if his father was in the same place and posture as he left him
sitting: and at last he found that he was not to be seen; at which
he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with that swift-
ncss to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the

round as he went; but when. he came he only found he had lain

'mself down to ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me pre-
sently; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up,
if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he should carr him '
to our dwellin , where I would take care of him; but Fri ay, a
lusty strong fc ow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and
carried him away to the boat, and set him down softl upon the side
or gunuel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside 0 it; and then,
lifting him quite in, he set himself close to his father; and pre-
sently step ing out again, launched the boat off, and paddled it
along the s lore faster than I could walk, though the wind blew
pretty hard too: so he brought them both safe into our creek, and
caving them in the boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As
he assed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went. He
tol me, " Go fetch more heat: " so away he went like the wind, for
sure never man or horse ran like him; and he had the other canoe
in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so he waftcd me
over, and then went to help our new guests out of the boat, wlueh
he did; but they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor
Friday knew not what to do. . .

To remedy this, I went to work in :3, thought, and calling to
Friday to bid them sit down on the b while he came to me, I.
soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay them on, and Frida and I
carried them both up together upon it, between us. But w en we
got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we were at a
worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them over, and
I was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work again; and
Friday and ' I, in about two hours' time, made a ver handsome
tent, covered with old sails, and above that with bong s of trees,
being in the space without our outward fence, and between that and
the grove of young wood which I had planted; and here we made

 

them two beds_of such thin s as I had, viz. of good rice straw,
With blankets laid upon it, to 'e on, and another to cover them, on
each bed.
. M'y island was now peopled, and I thou ht myself rich in sub-
ects; and it was a merry reflection, which? frequently made, how

ea king I looked. First of all, the whole country was my ownmere
property, so that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly,
my people were "perfectly subfiicted: I was absolutely lord and
lawgiver, they . owed their 'ves to me, and were ready to lay
down their lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me. It was
remarkable. too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three
different religions: my man Friday was a Protestant, his father was
a Pagan and a canmbal, and the Spaniard was a Papist: however,
I allowed hberty of conscience t roughout my dominions.--But
this 18 by the way.

_As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and
given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think
of making some provision for them; and the first thing I did, I
ordered Friday to take a yearling oat, betwixt a kid and a goat,
out of my particular flock, to be k' led; when I cut off the hinder
quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work to
boili and stewmg, and made them a very good dish, I assure you,
of fies and broth, having put some barley and rice also into the
broth; and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no fire within
m inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and having set a
table for them, I sat down, and ate my dinner also with Ihcm, and, as
well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them. Friday was my
interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard
too: for the Spaniar spoke the language of the savages pretl y well.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take
one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskcts and other fire-
arms, which, for want of time, we had left u on the place of battle;
and, the next day, I ordered him to go and ury the dead bodies of
the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presentl be
offensive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of t cir
barbarous feast, and which I could not think of doing m 'self ; nay,
] could not bear to see them, if I Went that way; al which he
punctually performed, and efl'aced the very appearance of the savages

' eing there; so that when I went again, I could scarce know
where it was, otherwise than by the corner of- the wood pointing
to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects; and first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he
thought of the escape of the savages in that cande, and whether we
might ex set a return of them, with a power too rent for us to
rcsrst. is first opinion was that the sava es in tie boat could
never live out the storm that blew that ni t they went off, but
must of necessity be drowned, or driven south to those other shores,
where they were as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned,
if they were cast away: but, as to what they would do if they came
safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion, that they
were so dreadfully fri htencd with the manner of their being
attacked, the noise, an the fire, that he believed they would tell ,

the eople they were all killed by thunder and lightnin , not by the
hand) of man; and that the two which appeared, viz. riday and I,
were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them,
and not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew: because he
heard them. all cry out so, in their language, one to another; for it
was implosmble for them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and
speak t under, and kill ata distance, without lifting'u the hand, as
'was done now: and this old savage was in the rig t; for, as I
understood since, by other bands, the savages never attempted to go
over to the island afterwards, they were so terrified by the accounts
given by those four men (for, it seems, they did escape the sea),
that they believed whoever went to that enchanted inland would he
destroyed by fire from the gods This, however, I knew not; and
therefore was under continual apprehensions for a good while, and
kept always upon my uard, with all my army: for, as there were
now four of us, I wo d have ventured upon a hundred of them,
fairly in the open field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes a pearing, the fear of
their eomin were off, and I began to take my ormer thoughts of a
voyage to 511e, main into eonsi eration; being likewise assured by
Friday's father that I might depend upon good usage from their
nation, on his account, if I would go. But my thoughts were a
little suspended when I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard,
and when I understood that there were sixteen more of his country-
men and Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and made their
escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages,
but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I
asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and found they were a
Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata, to the Havannah,
being directed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly hides
and silver, and to bring back what Lurepcan goods the co d meet
with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen on oard, whom
they took out of another wreck; that five of their own men were
drowned, when first the ship was lost, and that these escaped
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on
the cannibal coast, where they ex eeted to have been devoured
every moment. He told me the lad some arms with them, but
the were perfectly useless, for t iat they had neither powder nor
bal , the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a
little, which they used at their first landing, to provrde themselves
some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and
if they had formed no desi n of making their escape He said they
had many consultations 8. out it; but that having neither vessel,
nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their councils
always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he thought
they would reeeivea proposal from me, which might tend towards an
esca e; and whether, if they were all here, it might not be done. I
told 'm, with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and iJl-usage
of me, if I put my life in their hands, for that gratitude was no in-
herent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, so much as they did
bv the advant es they expected. . .

He answere with a great deal of candour and ingenuousncss,
that their condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible 0!
It, that he believed they would abhor the thought of us' any man
ankmdly that should contribute to their deliverance; alrlid: that, if I
pleased, he- would go to them with the old man, and discourse with

them :gout it, and return again, and bring me their answer; that
1.
he would make conditions with them upon their solemn oath, that
they should be absolutely under my leading, as their commander and
captain: and that they should swear, upon theholy sacraments and
gospel, to be true to me, and go to such Christian country as that I
should agree to, and no other, and to be directed wholly and abso-
lutely b my orders, till they were landed safely in such country as
I inten ed ; and that he would bring a contract for them, under
their hands, for that purpose. _ .

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if
possnble, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them
to treat. But when we had ot all thin in readiness to go, the
Spaniard himself started an o jection, w 'ch had so much prudence
in it, on one hand, and so much sincerity, on the other hand, that. I
could not but be very well satisfied in it ; and, by his advice, put off
the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a year. The case'
was thus: He had been with us now about a month, during which
time I had let him see in what manner I had rovided, with the
assistance of Providence, for my sup ort; an he saw evidently
what stock of corn and rice I had la) up; which, though it was
more than sufficient for myself, yet it was not sufficient, without
good husband , for my family, now it was increased to four; but
much less wou d it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he
said, sixteen, still alive, should come Over; and least of all would it
be sufficient to victnal our vessel, if we should build one, for a voy-
age to any of the Christian colonies of America; so he told me he
thought it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig
and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow,.
and that we should wait another harvest, that we might have a
supply of corn for his countrymen, when they should come; for
want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to think
themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one dilficulty into an-
other.. " You know," says he, "the children of Israel, though they
rejoiced at first for being delivered out of E ypt, yet rebelled even
against God himself, that delivered them, w ien they came to want
bread in the wilderness."

His caution was so scasonable, and his advice so good, that I
could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I
was satisfied with his fidelity :' so we fell to digging, all four of us, as
well as the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and in
a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had got as
much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed two and twenty
bushels of bark: on, and sixteen Jars of rice; which was, in short,
all the seed _we ad to spare: nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves
barley sufficient for our own food, for the six months that we had
to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning from the time we set
our seed asrdc for sowing ; for it is not to be supposed it is six months

an the ground in that country.
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of tame
oats as much as I could; and, for this purPose, I made F'riday an'd
t ie Spaniard go out one day, and myself w1th Friday the next day
(for we took our turns), and b this means we got about twenty
young kids to breed up with t e rest; for whenever we shot the
dam, we saved the kids, and added them to our flock. But, above
all, the season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a ro-
digious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that, I believe, ha we
been at Alieant, where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could
have filled sixty or eighty barrels: and these, with our bread, was a
great part of our food, and was very good living, too, I assure you,
lor it IS exceedingly nourishing.
It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the

 

most lentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was
enoug to answer our end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley
we brought in and threshed out above two hundred and twenty
bushels, and the like in firoportion of the rice; which was store
enough for our food to t e .next harvest, though all the sixteen
Spaniards had been on shore with me; or if we had been ready for a
_voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled our ship to have
carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, any part of Ame-
rica. When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn,
we fell to work to make more wicker-ware, viz. great baskets, in
which we kept it; and the S )aniard was very handy and dexterous
at, this part, and often blame me that I did not make some things
for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.

And now, having a full supfily of food for all the guests I ex-
pected, I gave the Spaniard cave to go over to the main, to see

. 1. 2

,0
what he could do with those he had left behind him there. I gave
him a strict charge not to brine any man with him who would not
first swear, in the presence of himself and the old savage, that he
would no way injure, fight with, or attack the )crson he should find
in the island, who was so kind as to send for t em in order to their
deliverance; but that they would stand by him, and defend him
against all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely
under and subjected to his command; and that this should be put
in writing, and si ned with their hands. How they were to have
done this, when I new they had neither pen nor ink, was a ques-
tion which we never asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard
and the old savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the

canoes which they might be said to come m, or rather were brought

 

in, when they came as prisoners to be devoured by the savages: I
gave each of them a musket, with a firelock on it, and about eight
charges of powder and ball, charging them to be very good husbands
of both, and not to use either of them but upon urgent occasions. '

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me, In
view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some days.
I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried ra es, sufficient for
themselves for many days, and sufficient for a t re Spaniards for
about eight days' time; and wishing them a good voya e, I saw
them go; agreeing with them about a Signal they should rang out
at their return, b which I should know them again, when they
came back, at a istance, before they came on shore. They went
away with a fair gale, on the day that the moon was at full, by my
account in the month of October; but as for an exactmekonmg of
days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover .1t 0am; nor
had I kept even the number of years so Eunetually as to e sure I
was right; though, as it proved, when .afterwards examined my
account, I found I had kept a true reekomng of years.

0.,
Tt was no less than eight days I had waited flor them, when a
strange 'and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not
perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch
one morning, when my man Friday came nmning in to me, and
called aloud, " Master, master, they are come, they are come!" I
jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could

et my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way, was
Ey this time grown to a very thick wood; I say, regardless of dau-

 

er, I went without rm arms, which it was not my custom to do;

ut I was surprised, w icn turnin' my eyes to the sea, I presently
saw a boat about a league and a alt' distance, standing in for the
shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call. it, and the wind
blowmg fair to brin them in: also I observed presently, that they
did not come from t at side which the shore lay on, but from the
southernmost end of the island. Upon this, I called Frida in, and
bade him he close, for these were not the people we ~'looke for, and

that wpspiight not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective glass, to see
what I could make of them; and having taken the. ladder out, I
climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was appre-
hensive of auythin , and to take my view the plainer without being
discovered. I ha scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my e e
plain] discovered a ship lyin at anchor, at about two leagues an a
all' distance from me, S.S. ., but not above a league and a half
-from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to be an
English ship, and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in; tho.ngh the joy of
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen, and, consequently, friends, was such as I
cannot describe; but et I had some secret doubts hang about me--
I cannot tell from w ence they came, bidding me keep upon my
guard. In the first place, it occurred to me to consider what busi-
ness an English ship could have in that part of the world, since it
was not the way to or from any part of the world where the En lish
had any traffic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive t em
in there, as in distress; and that if they were really English, it was
most probable that they were here upon no ood design; and that I
had better continue as I was, than fall into t e hands of thieves and
murderers.

I had not kept myself long in tms posture, but I saw the boat

draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at,
for the convenience of landing; however, as they did not come
quite far enough, they did'not see the little inlet where I formerly
landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore u on the beach, at
about hal a mile from me, which was very happy or me; for other-
wise they would have landed just at my door, as I may say, and
would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps ave plun-
dered me of all I bad. When they were on shore, I was fully satis-
fied they were En lishmen, at least most of them; one or two I
thought were Dutc , but it did not prove so, there were in all
eleven men, whereof three I found were unarmed, and, as I thought,
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on
shore, the took those three out of the boat, as prisoners; one of
the three could perceive using the most assionate gestures of
. tntreaty, affliction, and deSpair, even to a kind) of extravagance; the
other two, 1 could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and
appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the
meanin of it should be. Friday called out to me in English, as
well as e could; " 0 master! you see English mans eat prisoner as
well as savage mans."--" Why, Friday," says I, "do you think they
are going to eat them then ? "--" Yes," says Friday, "the will eat
them." " No, no," says I, "Frida ; I am afraid they wi l murder
them, indeed, but you may be suret ey will not eat them."
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was,
but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every
, moment when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw
one of the villains lift u his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen
call it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I expected to
see him fall every moment; at which all the blood in my body
seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished .heartin now for my
Spaniard, and the savage that was one with him, or that .I had any
way to have come undiscovered wit ' shot of them, that I might
have rescued the three men, for I saw no fire-arms the had amen
them : but it fell out to my mind another way. After I ad observe
the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I
observed the fellows run scattering about the island, as if they
wanted to see the country. I observed that the three other men

   

.had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat down all
three upon the ground, very penswe, and looked like men in despair.
This put me in mind 0' t e first time when I came on shore, anp
be an to look abo J, me: how I gave myself over for lost; how,
w' (11}' I looked around me; what dreadful ap rehensions I had; and
how lod ed in the tree all ni ht, for fear of being devoured by wild
beasts. I knew nothing t at night of the suppl I was to re-
ceive by the providential driving of the ship nearer t e land by the
storms and tide, by which I have been so long nourished and sup-
ported; so these three oor desolate men knew nothing how certain
of deliverance and supp y they were. So little do we see before us
in the world, and so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the great Maker of the world, that He does not leave His creatures
so a solutely destitute, but that, in the worst circumstances, they
have always something to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer
their deliverance than they imagine; nay, are even brought to their

deliverance by the means by winch they seem to be brought to their
destruction.J
LSS
4
ea
Vk
'3

 

SECTION XXVI.

ROBINSON DISCOVEBS HIMSELF TO THE ENGLISH CAPTAIN--ASSIST!
HIM. IN REDUCING HIS MUTINOUS CREW-- WHO SUBMIT T0 BEL.

IT was just at the to of high water when these people came on
shore; and partly wh' a they rambled about to see what kind of a
place they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent,
and the water was e bed considerably away, leaving their boat
aground They had left two men in the boat, who, as ' found after-
wards, having drunk a little too much brandy, fell asleep; however,
one of them wakinga little sooner than the other, an finding the
boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest,
' who were straggling about; upon which they all so'on came to the
boat: but it was ast all their stren h to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and t e shore on that si e being a soft oozy sand, almost
like a quicksand. In this condition, like true seamen, who are
perhaps the least of all mankind given to forethought, they 1gave it
over, and away they strolled about the country again; an heard
one of them say aloud to another, callin them off from the boat,
" Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you? s e'll float next tide: " by
which I was fully confirmed in the main imfilfliry of what country.
men they were. All this while I kept myse very close, not once
daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place of
observation; near the top of the hill; and very glad I was to think -
how well it was fortified. I knew it was no_less than ten hours
before the boat could float again, and by that tune it would be dark,
and I might be at more liberty to see'their motions, and to hear
their discourse, if they had "any. In the meantime, I fitted myself
up for a battle, as before, though with more caution, knowmg I
had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first: I ordered
Friday also, whom I had made an excellent marksman wrth his gun,
to load himself with arms. I took myself two fowlmg-pleces, and
I gave him three muskets. ' My figure, indeed, was very fierce; I
had my formidable goats' skin coat on, With the great ca I have
mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my bet, and a
gun upon each shoulder.

It was my desi n, as I said above, not to have made an attempt
till it was dark: but about two o'clock, being the heat 0 the day,
1 found that, in short, they were all gone straggling into the woods,
and as I thought, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, however,
sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of an of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them an learn some-
thing of their condition; immediately I marched m the figure as
above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable
for his arms as I, but not makin quite so staring a spectre-like
figure as I did. I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish,
" What are ye, gentlemen?" They started at the noise; but were
ten times more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought I
erceived them just going to fl from me, <<when I spoke to them in
'nglish: " Gentlemen," said I? " do not be surprised at me; per-
ha )8 you may have a friend near, when you (11d not expect it."
" ~e must he sent direct] from Heaven then," said one of them
very gravely to me, and pufiing 0E his hat at the same time to me;
"for our condition is past the help of man."--"All help is from
Heaven, sir," said I: "But can you put a stranger in'the way how
to help you P for you s em to be in some eat distress. I saw you
when you landed; and when you seemefr to make supplication to
the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword
to kill you." '

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling,
looking like one astonished, returned, "Is it a real man or an
angel P"--" Be in no fear about that, sir," said I; " if God had sent
an angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and
armed after another manner than you see me: pray lay aside your
fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you: you
see I have one servant o y; we have arms and ammunition; tell
as freely, can we serve you? What is your case?"--" Our case,"
said he, "sir, is too long to tell you, while our murderers are so
near us; but, in short, 811', I was commander of that ship, my men
3164 ADVENTURES or ROBINSON causes.

have mutinied inst me; they have been hardly revailed on not to
murder me; an at last have set me on shore in t 's desolate place,
with these two men with. me, one my mate, the other a passenger,
where we expected to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited,
and know not yet what to think of it."--" here are these brutes,
your enemies?" said I: " Do you know where they are gone? "--
" There the lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; " my
heart trem'b es for fear they have seen us, and heardHyou speak; if
they have, they will certainly murder us all."---" ave they any
fire-arms ? " said I. He answered, " They had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the boat."--" Well then," 'said I, "leave the
rest to \me ; I see they are all asleep, it is an easy thing to kill them
all: but shall we rather take them prisoners?" He told me there
were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce safe to

 

show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the
rest would return to their duty. I asked him which they were?
He told me he could not at that distance distinguish them, but he
would obey my orders in anything I would direct. " Well," says I,
"let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and
we will resolve further." So they willingly went back with me, till
the woods covered us from them. '

"Look on, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance,
are you w' in to make two conditions with me i' " He anticipated
my pro osals, y telling me, that both he and the ship, if recovered,
should e whol y directed and commanded b me 'in every thing;
and, if the ship was not recovered, he would 've and die with me
in what part of the world soever I would send him; and the two
other men said the same. " Well," says I, " my conditions are but
two: first, That while you stay in this island With me, you will not
pretend to any authority here'; and if I put arms in your hands,
you will, upon all oecasron, give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine upon this island; and, in the mean time, be governed
by my orders: secondly, That if the ship is, or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England, passage free."

He gave me all the assurancesthat the invention or faith of man
could devise, that he would comply with these most reasonable
demands; and, besides, would owe his life to me, and acknowledge
it upon all occasions, as long as he lived. "Well then," said ,
"here are three muskets for you, with powder and ball: tell me
next what you think is pro er to be done." He showed me all the
testimonies of his gratitu e that he was able, but offered to be
wholly guided b me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing
anything; but t e best method I could think of was to fire upon
them at once, as they la , and if Any was not killed at the rst
volle , and ofl'ered to en mit, we might save them, and so put it
who y upon God's providence to direct the shot." He said very
modestly, "that he was loth to kill them, if he could help it: but
that those two were incorricible villains, and had been the authors
of allthe mutiny in the 5 ip, and if they escaped, we should be
undone still; for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company and destroy us all." "Well then," says I, "necessrty
legitimates my advice, for it is the on] way to save our lives.
However, seeing him still cautious of s edding blood, I- told him
they should 0 themselves and manage as they found convenient."

n the mi dle of this discourse we heard some of them awake,
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him " if
either of them were the heads of the mutiny?" He said "no."
" Well then," said I, "you may let them escape; and Providence
seems to have awakened them on purpose to save themselves.
pr," says I, "if the rest esca e you, it is our fault." Animated
with this, he took the musket {had given 'm in his hand, and a
pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each a piece
m his hand; the two men who were with him going first, made
some nonse, at which one of the seamen who was awake turned
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it
was too late then, for the moment he cried out they tired; I mean
the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece. They had
so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one of them
was killed on the spot, and the other vcr much wounded; but not
being dead, he started up on his feet, an called eagerly for help to
the others; but the captain ste ping to him, told him it was too
late to cry for he! , he should call upon God to for ive his villany;
and wrth that wor knocked him down with the stoc of his musket,
so that he never spoke more; but there were three more in the
company, and one 0 them was also slightly wounded. By this time
1 was come; and when they saw their danger. and that it was in

O
vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them he
would spare their lives, if they would (give him any assurance of
their abhorrence of the treachery they ha been guilty of, and would
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the shi , and afterwards
in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence t ey came. They
gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be

esired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare their hves,
which I was not against, only that I obliged him to keep them
bound hand and foot while they were on the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to
the boat, with orders to secure her and bring awa the cars and
sails, which they did: and by and by three stragg 'ng men, that
were (ha pily for them) parted from the rest, came back 11 on
hearing tie guns fired, and seeing the captain, who before was tieir
prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitth to be bound also;
and so our victory was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
another's circumstances; I began first, and told him my whole his-
tory, which he heard with an attention even to amazement; and
particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with
provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a- whole
collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when he reflected
from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and
he could not speak a word more. After this communication was at
an end, I carried him and his two men into my apartment, leadin
. them in 'ust where I came out, viz. at the top of the house, where

refreshed them with such provisions as I had, and showed them all
the contrivances I had made, during my long, long inhabiting of
that lace.

I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectl amazing; but
above all, the captain admired my fortification, and row perfectly I
had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, having been
now planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was
impassable in any part of it, but at that one side where I had reserved
my little winding pass e into .it. I told him this was my castle and
my residence, but that hada seat in the country, as most princes
have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him
that too another time; but at present our business was to consider
how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there
were still six-and-twenty hands on board, who having entered into a
cursed cons iracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the
law, would he hardened in it now by des eration, and would carry it
an, knowing that, if they were subdued, t ey would be brought to the
gallows, as soon as they came to England, or to any of the English
colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no attacking them with
so small a number as we were. _

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a
very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, somelhin was to be
resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some
snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and
dcstroyin us. Upon this it presently occurred to me, that in a
little whifie the shi '3 crew, wondering what had become of their
comrades, and of t e boat, would certainly come on shore in their
other boat, to look for them: and that then, perhaps, they might
come armed, and be too strong for us; this he allowed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the
boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her
off ; and taking everythin out of her, leave her so far useless as not
to be fit to swim; accor in l we went on board, took the arms
which were left on board out ot er, and whatever else we found there.

Then we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if the had
gome strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry 0 the

oat. -

' While we were thus preparin our designs, and had first, by main
strength, heaved the boat upon t 1e beach so hi b, that the tide would
not float her 011' at high-water mark, and besi es, had broke a hole'
in her bottom too big to be uickly stopped, and were musing what
we should do, we heard the dliip fire a gun, and saw her make a waft
wrth her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on board; but no
boat stirred; and they fired several times, making other si nals for
the boat. At last when all their signals and firing proved uitless, _
and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of
my glasses, hoist another boat out, and row' towards the shore; and
we found, as they approached, that there were no less then ten men
in her, and that they had lire-arms with them.

' . As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full
view of them as they came, and a plain 'sight even of their faces;
because the tide having set them a little to the east of the other
boat, they rowed 11 under shore, to come to the same place where
the other had lande , and where the boat lay; by this means, I say
we had a full view of them, and the captain knew the ersons an
characters of all the men in the boat, of whom he sai there were
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this con-
spiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as
for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief officer among them,
and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew
and .were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; and
temny apprehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circumstances were
past the operation of fear; that seeing almost every condition that

could l1): was better than that which we were supposed to be in, we
ought to expect that the consequence, whether death or life, would
he sure to he a deliverance.

We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from the
ship, considered of se arating out prisoners; and we had, indeed,
secured them eil'cctua 1y. Two of them, of whom the captain was
less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men, to m cave, were they where remote enough,
and out of danger of heing heard or discovered. or of finding their
way out of the woods if they could have delivered themselves: here
they left them bound, but gave them provisions; and promised them
if they continued there quietly, to ive them their liberty in a day
or two; but that if they attempted t ieir escape, they should be put
to death without mercy. They promised faithful] .to bear their con-
finement with patience, and were very thankful t lat they had such
good usage as to have provisions and light left them; for Friday
gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort;
and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the
entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept

inioncd, indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them:
but the other two were taken into my service, upon the captain's
recommendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die
with us; so with them- and the three honest men, we were seven men
well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well
enough with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain
had said that there were three or four honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other heat la , they ran
their boat into the beach, and came on shore, hauli t 1e boat u
after them, which I was glad to see; for I was afrai they wont
rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her, and so we should not be able
to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first thino they did, they '
ran all to their other heat; and it was. easy to see they were under
a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her,
and a reat hole in her bottom. After they had mused awhile u on
this, trey set up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their
might, to try if they could make their companions hear, but all was
to no purpose; then they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley
of their small arm, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made
the woods ring; but it was all one; these in the cave we were sure
could not hear; and those in our kee ing, though they heard it well
enough, yet durst 've no answer to t iem. They were so astonished
at the surprise of t lie, that, as the told us afterwards, they resolved
to go all on board again to their s ii , and let them know that the
men were all murdered, and the orig-boat stared; acccordingly,
{geydimmcdiutcly launched their boat again, and got all of them on

at . -

3'"
The captain was terribly amazed and even confounded at this,
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving
their comrades over for lost, and so he should still lose the ship,
which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he was
quickly as much frightened the other way.

They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived
them all coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their
conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, viz. to leave
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and 0 up into
the country to look for their fellows. This was a great ' appoint-
ment to us, for now we were at a loss what to do; as our seizing
those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us, if we let the
boat escape; because they would then row away to the ship, angl-

 

then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our
recovering the ship would be lost. However we had no remedy but
to wait and see what the issue of things might resent. The seven
men came on shore, and the three who remame in the boat put her
off to a good distance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait
for them; so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the
boat. Those who came on shore kept close to ether, marchino
towards the top of the little hill under which my ha itation lay; and
we could see t em plainly, though thy? could not perceive us. We
could have been very glad if they we (1 have come nearer to us, so
that we might have fired at them, or that the would have gone
farther off, that we mi ht have come abroad. ut when they were
come to the brow of t e hill, where the could see a great way into
the valleys and woods, which lay towar the north-east part, and
where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they were
weary; and not carinw, it seems, to venture far from the shore, nor
far from one another, they sat down together under a tree, to con-
sider of it. Had they thought lit to have gone to sleep there, as the
other part of them had done, they had done the job for us; but they
were too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep,
though they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation
of theirs, viz. that perha 5 they would all fire a volle again, to en.
de'avour to make their fe ows hear, and that we shoul al sally upon
them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and
they would certainly yield, and we should have them without blood-
shed, ' I liked this preposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come u to them before they could load their pieces again.
But this 'even di not happen; and we lay still a long time, vcr
irresolute what course to take. At length I told them there woul
be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then, if they did not
return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them
and the shore, and so might use some.stratagem with them in the
boat to get them on shore. We waited a great while, though very
impatient for their removing; and were very uneasy, when, after long
consultations, we saw them all start up, and march down towards the
sea: it seems they had such dreadful apprehensions u on them of the
danger of the place, that they resolved to go on bear the ship again,
give their companions over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, I imagined
it to be, as it reall was, that they had given over their search, and
were for oing baei in; and the captain, as soon as I told him
my thoug its, was rea y to sink at the apprehensions of it: but I
presently thouvht of a stratagem to fete them back again, and
which answered my end to a tittle. I ordered- Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to go over the little creek westward, towards the place
where the savages came on shore when Frida was rescued, and as-
soon as they came to a little rising ground, at a out half a mile dis-
tance, I bade them halloo out, as loud as they could, and wait till
they found the seamen heard them- that as soon as ever they heard
the seamen answer them, they should return it again; and then keep-
in"?l out of sight, take a round, always answering when the others
h ooed, to draw them as far into the Island, and among the woods,
as possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such "ways as I
directed them.

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed: and they resently heard them, and answering, run along
the shore westward: towards the voice they heard, when they were
presently stopped by the creek, where the water being up, they could
not get over, and called for the boat to'comc up and set them over;
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. '6'

as, indeed, I expected. When they had set themselves over, I
observed that the boat being <<one a good my into the creek, and, as
it were, in a harbour within the land, the took one of the three men
out of her, to o alena with them, an left only two in the boat,
having fastened ier to the stump'of a little tree on the shore. This
was that I wished for; and immediatel leaving Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to their business, I took t re rest with me, and crossing
the creek out of their sight, we snr riscd the two men before they
were aware; one of them lying on t ie shore, and the other being in
the boat. The fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking,
and goin to start up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon
him, and necked him down; and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few arguments
to ersuade a single man to yield, when he saw five men upon him,
am his comrade knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one of
the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the
crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not only to yield, but after-
wards to join very sincerely With us. In the mean time, Friday and
the captain's mate so well managed their business with the rest, that
the drew them, by halleoing and answering, from one bill to another,
an from one wood to another, till they not only heartily tired them,
but left them where they were very sure they could not reach back to
the boat before it was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily tired
themselves also, by the time they came. back to us.

We had nothing new to do but to watch for them in the dark and
to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them It was
several hours after Friday came back to me be'h'e they came back
to their boat; and we could hear the for-earnest of them, long before
they came quite up, calling to those behind to come along; and could
also hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired they were,
and not able to come any faster, which was very welcome news to
us. At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to
express their confusion when they found the boat fast "round in the
creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. a? resolved to
wait, to see'if they did not separate; and, therefore, to make sure of
them, I drew my ambuscadc nearer, and ordered Friday and the cap-
tain to cree upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as
they could, t at the might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.

They had not been Ion in that posture, when the boatswaingwho
was the principal ringlea er of the mutiny, and had now shown him-
self the most dejected and dispiritcd of all, came walking towards
them, with two more of the crew ; the captain was so ea er at. having
this principal rogue so much in his power, that he ceul hardly have
patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him, for they only

eard his tongue before: but when they came nearer, the captain and

Friday,:tarting up on their feet, 1et fly at them. The boatswain was
4 ' H
killed 1: on the spot; the next man was shot in the body, and fell
just by rim, though he did not die till an hour or two after; and the
third ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediate] advanced
with my whole arm , which was now ei ht men, viz. myse f, general-
issimo; Friday, my 'eutenant-general; t e ca tain and his two men,
and the three prisoners of war, whom we rad trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see
our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat, who was
now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could brin them to
a parley, and so might 1"" new reduce them to terms; whie fell out
just as we desired; for, indeed, it was easy to think, as their condi-
tion then was, they would be willing to *a itulate. So he calls out
as loud as he could, to one of' them, "Four Smith! Tom Smith!"
Tom Smith answered immediately, " Is that Robinson ?" For it
seems, he knew the voice. The other answered, " A , ay; for God's
sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yielr, or you are all
dead men this moment."--" Who must we yield to ? Where are they ?"
says Smith again. " Here they are," says he; "here's our captain
and fifty men withhim, have been huntingr you these two hours: the
boatswain is killed, Will Fry is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and
if you do not yield, you are all lost."--" Will they give us quarter
then?" says Tom .Smith, "and we will yield."---" 1 wrll o and ask,
if vcn promise to yield," says Robinson: so he asked t re captain;
and the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith, you know m
voice; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit, you sh ,
have your lives, all but Will Atkins."
ATKINS ENTREATS THE CAPTAIN TO SPARE HIS LIFE--THE LATTER
RECOVERS HIS VESSEL FROM THE MUTINEERS--AND ROBINSON
LEAVES IRE ISLAND.

UPON this Will Atkins cries out, " For God's sake, captain, give me
quarter; what have I done? They have all been as bad as 1:"
which, by the way, was not true; for it seems, this Will Atkins was
the first man that laid hold of the captain when they mutinied,
md used him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving him inju-
rious langua e: Heivcver, the captain told him he must lay down
his arms at iscretion, and trust to the governor's mercy; by which
he meant me, for they all called me- governor. In a word they all
laid down their arms, and begged their lives; and I sent the man
that had parleyed with them, and two more, who bound them all;
and then my great army of fifty men, which particularly with those
three, were in all but er ht, came up and seized upon them, and upon
their boat; only that I ept myseltaud one more out of sight for
reasons of state.

Qur next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing the
Slilp: and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with them,
he expostulated with them 11 on the villany of their practices with
- lnm, and at length upon the urther wickedness of their desi n, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress in t e end,
and perhaps to the gallows. They all appeared very penitent and
begged hard for their lives. As for that he told them that they
were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of the island; that
they thought they had set him'on shore on a barren, uninhabited
island ; but it had pleased God so to direct them, that it was inhabit-

M 2
ed, and that the governor was an Englishman; that he mi ht hang
them all there, if he (pleased; but as he had given them a uartcr,
he supposed he woul send them all to England, to be de t with
there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded
by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would be
1mm in the morning.

'l'llough all this was but a fiction of his own, yet it had the desired "
elfect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to hear the captain to inter-cede
with the governor or his life; and all the rest begged of him, for
God's sake, that they might not be sent to England.

 

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance" was come,
and that it would be a most easy thing to brin these fellows in to
be hearty in ctting possession of the ship; so retired in the dark
from them, t rat they might not see what kind of a' governor they
had, and called the captain to me: when I called, as at a good
distance, one of the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the
captain, " Captain, the commander calls for you ;" and presently the
captain re lied, " Tell his excellency I am just a--co ' ." This more
perfectly cceived them, and they all believed that tfie commander
was just by with his fifty men. Upon the captain's coming to me, I
told him my project for seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully
well, and resolved to put it into execution the next morning. But,
in order to execute it with more heart, and to be secure of success,
I told him we must divide the prisoners, and then he should 0 and
take Atkins and two more of the worst of them, and sen 'thcm
pinioned to the cave where the others lay. This was committed to-

riday and the two men who came on shore with the captain. They
were conveyed to the cave as to a prison: and it was indeed a dis-
mal place, especially to men in their condition. The others I
ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have iven a full
description: and as it was fenced in and they pinione , the place
was secure enough, considering they were upon their behaviour.
To these in the morning I sent the captai a, who was to enter into
a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and tell me whether he
thought they might be trusted or no to go On board and surprise the
ship. 'He talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition
they were brought to, and that though the governor had given them
quarter for their lives as to the present action, yet that if they were
sent to England, they would all be hanged in chains, to be sure: but
that if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship,
he would have the governor's engagement for their pardon.

An_ one may guess how readily such a proposal would be ac.
cepte by men in their condition; they fell down on their knees to
the captain, and )romiscd, with the deepest im recations, that they
would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should owe
their lives to him, and would go with him all over the world : that
they would own him as a father as long as they lived. "Well," says
the ca tain, " I must go and tell the governor what you say, and see
what _ can do tobring him to consent to it." So he brought me an
account of the temper he had found them in, and that he verily be--
licved they would be faithful. However, that we might be very
secure, I told him he should go back again and choose out those five,
and tell them that they mioht see he did not want- men, that he
would take out those five tohc his assistants, and that the governor
would keep the other two, and the three that were sent prisoners to
the castle (my cave) as hostages for the fidelity of those five; and
that if they proved unfaithfulin execution, the five hostages should
be hanged in chains alive on the shore. This looked Severe, and
convinced them that the governor was in earnest: however, they
had no way left them but to accc t it; and it was now the business
of the prisoners, as much as of t 1e captain, to persuade the other
five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: first the
captain, his mate, and passenger; second, the two prisoners of the
first gang, to whom, having their character from the ca. tain, I had
given their liberty, and trusted them with arms 2 third, t e other two
that I had kept till now in iny bower, pinioncd, but, on the captain's
motion. had now released; fourth, these five released at last; so that
taese were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the cav
for hostages.

WhenI showed mvself to the two hostages, it was with the cap-
tain, who told them I was the person the governor had ordered to
look after them ; and that it was the governor's pleasure they should
not stir any where but by my direction; that if they did, they would
be fetched into the castle and laid in irons: so that as we never
suffered them to see me as the governor, I now appeared as another
person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, the castle, and the

kc, upon all occasions. .
The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his
two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made his
passenger captain of one, with four 'of the men; and himself; his
mate, and live more, went in the other; and they contrived their
business ver well, for they came up to the ship about midnight.
As soon as t iey came within call of the ship, he made Robinson ail
them, and tell them they had brought off the men and the boat, but
that it was along time before they had found them, and the like,
holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's side; when the
captain and the mate entering first with their arms, immediately

 

knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the but end of
their muskets, being very faithfully seconded b their men; they se-
cured all the rest that were upon the main an quarter decks, and _
began to fasten the hatches, to keep~them down that were below;
when the other boat and their men entering at the fore-chains,
secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle which went down
into the cook-room, makin three men they found there prisoners.
When this was done, and safe upon deck, the captain ordered the
mate, with three men, to break into the round-house, where the new
rebel captain la , who having taken the alarm, had got u , and with
two men and a oy had got zfire arms in their hands; an when the
mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new captain and his men
fired boldl among them, and wounded the mate wrth a musket ball,
which bro e his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed
nobody. The mate calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and With his pistol shot the new captain
through the head, upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was
taken eflectually, without any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven
guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to ive
me notice of his success. which you may be sure I was very 31a to
hear, having sat watching u on the share for it till near two o'clock
in the morning. Having t us heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it :having been a day of reat fatigue to me, I slept very
sound, till 1 was something surprised, with the noise of a an; and
presently starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of " governor,
Governor," and resently I knew the captain's voice; when climbing
up to the top 0 the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he
embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and deliverer," sa s he,
"there's your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and a that
belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rude
within little more than half a mile of the shore; for the had weigh-
ed her anchor as soon as they were masters of her, an the weather
being fair, had brought her. to an anchor just against the mouth of
the little creek; and the tide being up, the captain had brought the
pinnace in near the place where I at first landed m rafts, and so
nnded just at- my door, I was at first ready to sink own with the
surprise; for I saw my deliverance, indeed, Visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither
I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I was-not able to answer
him 'one word; but as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by
him, or I should have fallen to the ground. I embraced him as my
deliverer, and we re'oieed together. '

When we had taiked a while, the captain told me he had brought
me some little refreshment, such as t e ship afforded, and such as
the wretches that had been so lonor his masters had not plundered
him of. U on this he called alou to the boat, and bade his men
bring the tliings ashore that were for the governor; and, indeed, it
was a present as if I had been one that was not to be carried away
with them, but as if I had been to dwell upon the island still. First,
he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters,
six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two quarts each), ,
two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve' good pieces of the
ship's beef, and six pieces of ork, with a bag of peas, and about a
hundred weight of biscuits: 1e also bron ht me a box of sugar, a
box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and two ottles of lime juice, and
abundance of other things. But, besides these, and what was a
thousand times more useful to me, he brought me six new clean
shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes,
a hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of
his own, which had been worn but very little; in a word, he clothed
me from head to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as
any one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was
any thing 'in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and un-
easy, as it was to me to wear such clothes at first.

After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things
were brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what
was to be done with the prisoners we had; for it was worth
168 wvenrunns or nonmson censors.

considering whether we might .venture to take them away with
us or no, especially two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible
and refractory to the last degree: and the captain said he knew they
were such rogues, that there was no obligiug them; and if he did
carry them away, it must be in irons, as malel'actors, to be delivered
over to Ijustice at the first Envlish colony he could come at; and I
found tiat the captain himsdlf was very anxious about it. Upon
this I told him, that if he desired it, I would undertake to bring the
two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he should

 

leave them upon the island. "I should be very lad of tha ," says
the captain, " with all mv heart." " Well," says , " I will send for
them up, and talk with them for you." So I caused Friday and the
two hostages, .for they were now discharged, their comrades havimr
erformed their promise: I say, I caused them to go to the cave an
ring up tlielfive men, pmioued as they were, to the bower, and keep
them there till I came. After some time, I came thither dressed in
my new habit; and now I was called the governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to be brought before
me, and I told them I had ot a full account of their villanous
behavxour to their captain, an how they had run away with the ship,
and-were preparing to commit farther robberies, but that Providence
had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into
the pit which they had dug for others. I let them know that by my
direction the ship had been seized; that she lay now in the road':
and they might see. by and by, that their new captain had received
the reward of his vullany,'and that they would see him han in at
the yard-arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what they a to
say Why I should not execute them as pirates, taken in the fact, as
by my commission they could not doubt. but I had authority so to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain
Bromised them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy.
ut Itold them I knew not what mercy to show them; for as for
myself, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
ta en a passage with the captain to go to England; and as for the
Captain, he couldnot carry them to England other than as prisoners,
in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship: the
consequence of which, they must needs know, would be the gallows;
so that lcould not tell what was best for them, unless they had a
mind to take their fate in the island; if they desired that, as I had
liberty to leave the island, I had some inclination to give them their
lives, if they thought the could shift on shore. They seemed very
thankful for it, and said t icy would much rather venture to stay there
than he carried to England to be hanged; so I left it on that issue.
When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told
them I would let them into the story of my living there, and put
them into the way of making it easy to them: accordingly, I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my coming to it; showed
them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn,
cured my grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy. told them the story also of the seventeen S aniards
that were to be expected, for whom I left a letter, and ma e them
. promise to treat them in common with themselves. Here it may be
noted, that the captain had ink on board, who was greatl surprised
that I never hit upon a wa of making ink of charcoal an water, in
of something else, as I ha done things much more difficult.
However, the captain seemed to make some diiliculty of it, as if
he duist not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry
with the captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not ins;
and seeing that I had ofl'ered them so much favour, I would be as
ed as my word: and that if he did not think fit to consent to it,
. would set them at liberty, as I found them; and it' he did not like
it he might take them again, if he could catch them. Upon this
they appeared very thankful, and I accordino'Iy set them at liberty,
and bade them retire into the woods to the place whence they came,
and I would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and some
directions how they should live ver well, if the thought fit. Upon
this I prepared to go on board the 5 ip ; but 1.01 the captain I would
stay that night to prepare my things, and desired him to go on board,
in the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat
on shore next day for me; ordering him, at. all events, to cause the
new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that
these men might see him.
I leg them my tire-arms, viz. live muskets, three fowling-picces,
and three swords. I had above a barrel and a half of powder left;
for after the first year or two I used but little, and wasted none.' 1
rave them a description of, the way I mana ed the oats, and
\irections to milk and fatten them, and to ma e both utter and
cheese: in a word, I gave them every part of my own story, and
told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gum owder more, and some rden seeds, which I told
thein I would ave been very glad of: so I gave them 'the bag of
peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them be
sure to sow and increase them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on board
the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that
night. The next morning early, two of the five men came swunming
to the ship's side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the
other three, banged to be taken into the ship, for God's sake, for the
should be murdered, and begged the ca tain to take them on boar ,
though he hanged them immediately. pon this, the captain pre-
tended to have no power without me; but after some dillieult , and
after their solemn promises of amendment, the were taken on oard,
and were some time after soundly whipped an pickled: after which

thesy proved very honest and quiet fellows.
ome time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the tide

being up, with the things promised to the men; to which the cap-
tain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to be added
which they took, and were ver thankful for. I also encouraged
them, by telling them that if it ay in my power to send any vessel .
to take them in, I would not forget them. .

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for rcli 1103,
the great oat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one 'o m
parrots; a so I forgot not to take the mone I formerly mentione ,
which had lain by me so long useless 1. lat it had rown rusty
or tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had een a little
rubbed and handled; as also the money I found in the wreck of the
Spanish ship. And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as
I found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been
upon it eigln-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days;
bein delivered from this second ea tivity the same day of the month
thath first made my'eseape in the ong boat, from among the Moors
of Sallee. In this vessel, after along voyage, I arrived in England
the 11th of June, in the year 1687, having been' thirty-five years

absent.' lift" Imam 5
.ml 1"". a

SECTION XXVIII.

ROBINSON GOES TO LISBON, WHERE HE FINDS THE PORTUGUESF
CAPTAIN, W110 RENDERS HIM AN ACCOUNT OF 1115 PROPERTY IN
THE BRAZILS.--SETS OUT ON HIS RETURN TO ENGLAND BY LAND.

WHEN I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all the
world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor and
faithful steward, whom I left my money in trust with, was alive, but
had had great misfortunes in the world; was become a widow the
second time, and very low in the world. I made her very easy as to
what she owed me, assurin her I would give her no trouble; but on
the contrary, in ratitude or former care and faithfulness to me, I
relieved her as we as my little stock would afford; which, at the time
would allow me to do "but little for her; but I assured her I would
never forget her former kindness to me; nor did I forget her when '
I had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in its proper place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire: but my father and mother
were dead, and all the family extinct, except that I found two sisters
and two of the children of one' of my brothers, and as I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made for
me: so that in a word, I found nothim to relieve or assist me: and
that the little money I had would not do much for me as to settling
in the world. '

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect;
and this was, that the master of the ship whom I so happily
delivered, and by the same means saved the ship and cargo, havino'

wen a very handsome account to the owners of the manner how
rad saved the lives of the men and the ship, they invited me to meet
them, and seme other merchants concerned, and all together made
me a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present of
almost two hundred pounds sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of my
life, and how little way this would go towards settling me in the
world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and. see if I might not come by
some information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of
what was become of my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had
some years past given me over for dead. With this View I took
shipping for Lisbon, where} arrived in April followin ; my man
Friday accompanying me very honestly in all these ram lines, and
proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions. Whenll came
to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction,
my old friend the captain of the ship who first took me up at sea off
the shore ,of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off going
to sea, having put his son, who was far from a oung man, into his
ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The 0 d man did not know
~ me: and, indeed, I hardly knew him: but I soon brought him to my
remembrance, and as soon brought myself to his remembrance,
when I told him who I was.

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between
us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and or partner.
The old man told me he had not been in the Brazils for a out nine
years; but that he could assure me that when he came away my
partner was living; but the trustees, whom I had joined with him
to take cognizance of my part, were both dead: that, however, he
believed I would have a very good account of the improvement of
the plantation; for that upon the general belief of my being cast
away and drowned, m trustees had given in the account of the ro-
duce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-liscal, who ad
appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, one-third to the
king, and two-thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be ex- .
pended for the benefit of the cor, and for the conversion of the

ndians to the Catholic faith; ut that ifI appeared, or any one
for me, to claim the inheritance, it would be restored; only that the
improvement, or annual production, being distributed to charitable
uses, could not be restored: but he assured me that the steward of
the king's revenue from lands, and the rovicdore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all a ong that the incumbent, that
is to sa , my partner, gave every year a faithful account of the pro-
duce, 0 which they had duly received my moiety. I asked him if
he knew to what height of improvement he had brought the planta-
tion, and whether he thought it mioht be worth looking after; or
whether, on my going thither, I shoul'd meet with any obstruction to
my possessing my just right in the moiety. He told me he could
not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was improved, but this
he knew, that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoy.
ing his part of it; and that, to the best of his remembrance, he had
heard that the king's third of my part, which was, it seems, granted
away to some other monastery or religious house, amounted to above
two hun'rrd moidores a year; that as to my being restored to a
quiet possession of it, there was no uestion to be made of that, my
partner being alive to witness my t't e, and my name being also en.
rolled in the register of the country; also he told me, that the survi-
vors of my two trustees were veav fair honest people, and very
wealthy : and he believed I would not only have their assistance for
putting me 'in possession, but would find a very considerable sum of
money in their hands for my account, being the produce of the farm
while their fathers held the trust, and before it was given up, as
above ; which, as he remembered, was for about twelve years.

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and
inquired of the old ca tain how it came to pass that the trustees
should thus dispose o my ell'ects. when he knew that I had made
lrpy "grill, and had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal

err, c.

He told me that was true; but. that as there was no proof of my
bcin dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain account
shou (I come of my death; and, besides, he was not willing to inter-
meddle with a thing so remote: that it was true he had registered .
my will, and put in his claim; and could he have given any account
of my being dead or aiive, he would have acted by procuration, and
taken possession of the ingenio (so they called the sugar-house), and
have given his son, who was now at the Brazils, orders, to do it.
" Bu , ' says the old man, " I have one piece of news to tell you, which,
perhaps, may not be so acceptable to you as the rest; and that is,

elievmg you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did offer to account with me, in your name, for
six or eight of the first years' profits, which I received." There
beino- at that time great disbursements for increasing the works,
building an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so
much as afterwards it produced: " however," says the old man, "I
, shall give you a true account of what I have received in all, and how
I have disposed of it." '

After a few days' further conference with this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the first six years' income of my plantap
tion, signed by my partner and the merchant trustees, being always
. delivered in goods, viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides
rum, molasses, &c., which is the consequence o a sugar-work; and I
found, by this account, that every year the income considerably in-
creased; but, as above, the disbursements being lar e, the sum at
first was small: however, the old man let me see that \e was debtor
to me four hundred and 'seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty
chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost
in his ship; be having been shinwrecked coming home to lnsbon,
about eleven years after my leaving the place. '1he good man then
began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had been obllged

to make use of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a share
15"
in a new ship. " However, my old friend," says he, " you shall not
want a sup y in your necessity; and as soon as my son returns, you
shall be in y satisfied." Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch. and
gives me one hundred and sixty Portuoal moidorcs in gold; and take-
mg the writings of his title to the ship, which his son was <<one to
the Brazils in, of which he was a quarter art owner, and his son
another, he puts them both into my ban 3, for security of the
rest.

Iwas too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor
man to be able to bear this; and remembering what he had done for
me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generous] he had
used me on all occasions, and particularly how Sincere a riend he
was new to me, I could hardly refrain weeping at what he said to
me , therefore I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to
s rare so much money at that time, and if it would not straiten him?
1 e told me he could not say but it might straiten him a little; but,
however, it was my money, and I might want it more than he.

Every thing the good man said was full of affection, and I could
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took one
hundred of the moidores', and called for a pen and ink to ive him a
recei t for them: then'I returned him the rest, and told iim if ever
I ha possession of the plantation I would return the other to him
also (as, indeed, I afterwards did); and that as to the bill of sale of
his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by any means: but
that if I wanted the money, I found he was honest enough to pay
me; and if I did not, but came to receive what he gave me reason
to ex set, I would never have a penny more from him.

W ten this was past, the old man asked me if he should mt me
into the method to make my claim to m lantationi' I tol him I
thought to 0 over to it myself. He said I might do so, if I pleased:
but that if I, did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
immediately to appropriate the profits to my use: and as there were
ships in the river of Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil he made
me enter my name in a while register, with his allidavit, affirming,
upon oath, that I was alive, and that I was the same person who
took up the land for the planting the said plantation at first. This
being regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration allixed, he
directed me to send it, with a letter of his writin , to a merchant of
his ac uaintance at the place; and then propose my staying with
him ti an account came of the return.

Never was anything more honourable'than the proceedings upon
this procuratiou; for in less than seven months I received a large
packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, for whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed. - '

First, There was'thc account-current of the produce of my farm.
or plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with mr
old Portugal captain, being for six dyears: the balance appeared to
pe one thousand one hundred an seventy-four moidores in my
avour.

Secondly, There was the account 'of four years more, while they
kept the effects in their hands, before the government claimed the
administration, as beinv the effects of a person not to be found,
which they called civil death; and the balance of this amounted to
nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-six crusadoes, being
ahdut three thousand two hundred and forty moidores.

Thirdl , There was the prior of Agustine's account, who had re-
ceived tie profits for above fourteen years; but not being to
account for what was disposed of b the hospital, very honestly
declared he had eight hundred an seventy-two mordores not
distributed, which he acknowledged to my account ;. as to the king's
.part that refunded nothing.

There was a letter of my partner's congratulating me affection-
ately upon my being alive, givmw me an account how the estate had
improved, and what it produced a year; with a articular of the
number of squares or acres that it contained, how p anted, how many
slaves there were u on it, and making two and twenty crosses for
blessinigs, told me he had said so many Ave Marias to thank the
blesse Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very passionately to
come over and take possession of m own; and, m the meantime,
to give him orders to whom he shoul deliver my effects, if I did not
come myself: concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship, and
that of his famil ; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards'
skins, which he had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other
ship he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made a better my
age than 1. He sent me also five chests of excellent swectmeats,
and a hundred pieces of gold uncoincd, not quite so large as moi-
dores. By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me
one thousand two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of
tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in old.

I might well say now, indeed, the latter en of'the Job was better
than the beginning. It is impossible to express the llutterings of
my very heart, when I found all my wealth about me; for as the
Brazrl slnps came. all in fleets, the same ships which brought my
letters brought my goods: and the effects were safe in the river
before the letters came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale' and
grew sick; and had not the old man run and fetched me a cordial. I_

ehcve the sudden surprise of 'oy bad overset nature, and I had died
upon the spot: nay after that continued very Ill, and was so some
hours, till a ph sician being sent for, and something of the real cause
of m illness eiug known, he ordered me to be let blood; after
wlnc I had relief and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not

oecn eased by vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should
have died. ,
I was mw master, all of a sudden, of above five thousand pounds
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the
Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of
lands in England; and, in a word, I was in a condition which I scarce
knew how to understand, or how to compose myself for the enjoy-
ment of it. The first thing I did was to recompense my original
benefactor, my ood old eaplain, who had been first charitable to me
in my distress, Eind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at the
end I showed him all that was sent to me; I told him, that next
to the providence of heaven, which disrosed all thin , it was owing
to him; and that it now lay on me to .eward him, w rich I would do
a. hundred-fold: so I first returned the hundred moidores, I had re-
ceived of him; then I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up
a general release or discharge from the four hundred and seventy
moidorcs, which he had acknowledn'ed he owed me, in the fullest and
firmcst manner possible. After which I caused a rocuration to be
drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of t e annual profits
of my plantation, and appointing my partner to account with him,
and make the returns by the usual fleets to him in my name: and a
clause in the end, being a grant of one hundred moidores a yearto him
during his life, out of the clients, and fifty moidores a year to his son
after him, for his life; and thus I requited my old man.

Havinv settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my ell'ecta
into good ills of exchange, my next dillieult was, which way to

o to Eng and; I had been accustomed enougi to the sea, and yet

had a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time; and
though I could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
upon me so much, that though I had once shipped my baggage, in
order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or
three times.

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, m old pilot, to whom
I communicated every thing, rcssed me earnest y not to go by sea,
but either to go by land to tie Groyne (Corunna), and cross over
the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and
safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover, or to go
up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through France. In a
word, I was so repossessed against my going by sea at all, except
from Callas to Bover, that I resolved to travel all the way by land;
which, as I was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was by
much the pleasanter way: and to make it more so, my old captain
brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon,
who was willing to travel with me; after which we picked 11 two
more English merchants also, and two young Portuguese gent cmen,
the last going.to Paris only ; so that in all there were six of us, and
five servants; the two merchants and the two Portuguese contentin
themselves with one servant between two, to save the charge; an
as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant,amms'rvnes or nosmsox cmrsoz. 177

besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable
of slip lying the place of a servant on the road.

In t 's manner I set out from Lisbon; and our com any being
very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, w rereof the
did me the honour to call me captain, as well because I was the ol -
est man, as because I had two servants, and, indeed, was the original
of the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall
trouble you now with none of my land journal; but some adventures
that happened to us in this tedious and difficult journey I must not
omit. '

When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain,
were willing to stay some time to see the Court of Spain, and to see
what was worth observing; but it being the latter art of the sum-
mer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid a out the middle
of October; but when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were
alarmed at several towns on the way, with an account that so much
snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several
travellers were obliged to come back to Pampcluna, ter having
attempted, at an extreme hazard, to ass on.

When we came to .Pampeluna itse f, we found it so, indeed; and
to me, that had always been used to a hot climate, and to countries
where I could scarce bear any clotheson, the cold was insufferable;
nor, indeed, was it more strange than surprising, to come but ten
days before out of Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm
but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean
mountains, so ver keen, so severely cold, as to he intolerable,
and to endanger tie bcnumbing and perishiug of our fingers and

es. -

We stayed no less than twent days at Pampeluna ; when seeing
the winter coming on, and no h'lrelihood of its being better, for it
was the severest winter all over Europe that had been known in the
memory of man, I proposed that we should all go away to Fonts-
rabia and there take shipping for Bordeaux, which was a very little
voyage. But while I was considering this, there came in four '
French gentlemen, who having been stopped on the French side of
the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who,
traversing the country near the head of Languedoc, had brought
them over the mountams by such ways, that they were not much
mcommoded with the snow; for where they met with snow in any
quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough'to hear them and their
horses. We sent for this uide, who told us he would undertake to
carry us the same wa witlgi no hazard from the snow, provided we
were armed suflicient y to protect ourselves from wild beasts; for, he
said, upon these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to
show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous
for want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told him
)1
we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they were if he
would ensure us from a kind of two legged wolves, which, we were
told we were in most danger from, especially on the French side of
the mountains, He satisfied us that there was no danger of that
kind in the way we were to go; so we readily agreed to follow him,
as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go, and
were obliged to come back again.

Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna, with our guide, on the
15th of November; and, indeed; I was surprised, when, instead of
going forward, he came directly back with us on the same road that
we came from Madrid, about twenty miles; when having passed two
rivers, and come into the plain country, we found ourselves in a
warm climate again, where the country was lileasant, and no snow to
be seen; but on a sudden turning to his eft, he aplplroached the
mountains another way: and though it is true the h" s and preci-
piees looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such meanders,
and led us _ by such wmdin ways, that we insensibly passed the
height of the mountains wit rout being much incumhered with the
snow; and, all on a sudden, he showed us the pleasant fruitful pro-
vinces of Languedoc and Gascon , all reen an flourishing, though,
ingfed, at a great distance, an we ad some rough way to pass
s .

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one
whole day and 9. iii ht so fast, that we could not travel; but he bid
as be easy; we sho d soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we
be 11 to descend every day, and to come more north than before 5
an so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
FRIDAY'S ENCOUNTER WITH A BEAR--ROBINSON AND HIS FELLOW
TRAVELLERS ATTACRED BY A FLOOR OF WOLVES--BIS ARRANGE-
MENT OF HIS AFFAIRS, AND MARRIAGE AFTER. 1118 RETURN TQ

ENGLAND.

IT was about two hours before night, when our guide being some-
thing before us, and not just in Sight, out rushe three monstrous
wolves, and after them' a bear, out of a hollow way, ad'oining to a
thick wood; two of the wolves made at the uide, and ad he been
far before us, he would have been devoure before we could have
helEed him; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other at-
_tac ed the man with that violence, that he had not time, or presence
of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us
most lustily. My man Friday being next me, I bade him ride up,
and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of
the man, he hallooed out as loud as the other, " 0 master! 0 master!"
but, like' a bold fellow, rode directly up to the poor man, and with
his pistol shot the wolf, that attacked him, in the head.

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all
mended our ace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very
difficult, wou d give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw
clearly what had been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the
poor guide, though we did not presently discern what Kind of
creature it was he had killed. .

But never was a fi ht man act! so hardily, and in such a surprisin

manner, as that whic followe , between Friday and the bear, whic
n 2
gave us all, though at first we were surprised and afraid for him, the
greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy crea-
ture, and does not gallop as the wolf does, who is swift and light, so
he has two particular qualities, which generally are the rule of his
actions; first, as to men, who are not his proper prey (he does not
usually attempt them, except they first attack him, unless he be
excessively hungry, which it is probable might now be the case, the
ground being covered with snow), if you do not meddle wnh lum, he
will not meddle with you; but then you must take care to be very
civil to him, and give rim the road, for he is a' very nice gentleman;
he will not go a step out of his wa for a prince; 'nay, if you are
really afraid, your best way is to 100 ' another way, and keep gomg
on; for sometimes if you stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly

 

at him, he takes it for an ali'ront , but if you throw or toss anything
at him and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big as
your finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all other business
aside to pursue his revenge, and will have satisfaction in point of
honour :--this is his first quality: the next is, if he be once atfronted.
, he will never leave you mght nor day, till he has his revenge, but
follows, at a good round rate, till he overtakes on.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, an when we came up to
him, he was helping him off from his horse, for the man was both
hurt and frightened, when, on a sudden, we espicd the bear cofnc out
of the woo , and a vast, monstrous one it was, the biggest b far
that ever I saw. We were all a little surprised when we saw im;
' out when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the
fellow's countenance; " 0, O, O !" says Friday, three times, pomtin
to him; "0 master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand wit
him; me makee you good laugh."

I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased: " You fool,"
says I, "he will eat you up."--" Eatee me up ! eatee me up!" says
Friday, twice over again; '-' me eatee him up, me makee you gooa
laugh; on all stay here, me show you good laug," So down he
sits, an ets off his boots in a moment, and puts on a pair of para 3
(as we 1 the flat shoes they wear, and whic he had in his ockea,
gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun, away e flew,
swift like the wind. .

The hear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with no-
bod , till Frida coming pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear
co d understau him: "Hark e, hark ye," says Friday, "me speakee
with on." We followed at a distance; for now being come down on
the ascony side of the mountains, we were entered a vast great
forest, where the country was plain and prett open, though it had
many trees in it scattered here and there. rida , who had, as we
say, the heels of the bear, came up with him quic ly, and takes no
a great stone and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head, but
di him no more harm than if he had thrown it against a wall; but
it answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so voi of fear, that he
did it purely to make the bear follow him, and show us some Ian 11
as he called it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, e
turns about, and comes after him, taking long strides, and shullling
on at a strange rate, such as would put a horse to a middlin ga110p ;
away runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towar 3 us for
help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver
my man; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the hear
back upon us, when he was going about his own busmess another
way; and especially 1 was angi that he had turned the bear upon
us, and then run away; and 1'} called out: " You dog, 18 this your
making us laugh? Come awa , and take your horse, that we may
shoot the creature." He hear me, and, cried out : " No shoot, no
shoot; stand still, and you get much laugh ;" and as the nimble
creature ran two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a sudden, on
one side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for hls purpose, he
beckoned to us to follow; and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up
the tree, laying his gun down upon the roand, at about five or six
yards from the bottom of the tree. The car soon came to the tree,
and we followed at a distance: the first thing he did, he stopped at
the gun, smelt it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into t e tree,
climbing like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the
fully, as I thought it, of my man, and could not for my life see an ~
thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree, we all ro e
near to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Frida got out to the small end
of a lar e branch, and the bear got about ha t' way to him. As soon
as the hear ot out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker,--" a ! " says he to us, " now you see me teachee the bear
dance ;" so he fails a jumping and shaking the bough, at which the

16
bear began to totter, but stood still, and bevan to look behind him.
to see how he should get back; then, indeed, we dld laugh heartily.
But Friday had not done with him by a great deal; when seeing
him stand still, he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed the
bear could speak English: "What, you come no farther l' pra you
come farther;" so he left jum ing and shaking the tree; an the
bear, 'ust as if he understood w at he said, did come a little farther;
then e fell a jumpin again, and the bear stopped again. We
thought now was a goo time to knock him on the head, and called
to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear; but he cried
out earnestly: " O pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by and then;"

 

he would have said by and by. However, to shorten the story,
Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had
laughing enough, but still could not imagine what the fellow would
do; fer first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off ; and
we found that the hear was too cunning for that too; for he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings fast_with his
great broad claws and feet, so that we could not ima ne what
would be the end of it, and what the jest would be at ast. But
Friday puts us out of doubt guickl , for seeing the bear clino fast to
the bough, and that he woul not 0 persuaded to come anyfmther :
"Well, well," says Friday, "you no come farther, me go; you no
come to me, me come to you:" and u on this, he goes out to the
smaller endlof the bough, where it won d bend with his wei ht, and
gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the bough, till e came
near enough to jump down on his feet, and away he runs to his gun,
takes it u , and stands still. " Well," said _I to him, "Friday, what
will you 0 now? Why don't you shoot him ?"--"No shoot," says
Friday, " not et; me no shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you
one more laug ;" and, indeed, so he did, as you will see presently;
for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back from t e
bough where he stood, but did it might cautiously, loo ' behind
him every ste , and coming backward til he got into the b0 y. of the
tree; then wit the same hinder-end foremost, he came down the tree,
grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, ve
eisurely. At this 'uncture, and just before he could set his hin -
foot on the ground, Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the
muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead. ' en the
rogue turned about, to see if we did not laugh; and when he saw
we were pleased, by our looks, he falls a laug ring himself very loud.
" So we kill bear in my country," says Friday. ' So you kill them P
says 1, "why you have no guns." "No,"r,says he, "no gun, but
shoot great much long arrow." This was a good diversion to us;
but we were still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves run much in my
head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of
Africa, of which I have said something already, I never heard any-
thing that filled me with so much horror.

These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as
Friday would have had us, we should certainl have taken the skin
of this monstrous creature off, which was wort saving; but we had
near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so we left him,
and went forward on our journey. ~

We were not gone half over the plain, when we began to hear the
wolves howl in the wood on our left in a frightful manner, and
presently after, we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards
us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up b an experienced officer. I scarce knew in what manner
to receive t rem, but found to draw ourselves in a close line was the
only way; so we formed in a moment: but that we might not have
too much interval, I ordered that onl ever other man should
fire, and that the others who had not fire sho (1 stand ready to give
them a second volle immediatel , if they continued to advance upon
us; and then that t ose who ha fired at first should not pretend to
load their fuses again, but stand ready every one with a pistol, for
we were all armed with a fuse and a pair of pistols each man; so We
were, by this method, able to fire six volleys, half of us at a time.
However, at present we had no necessity, for upon firing the first
volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the
noise as with the fire; four of them, bein shot in the head, dro ed;
several others were wounded, and went leading off, as we could) see
by the snow. I found they stop ed, but did not immediately retreat;
whereupon, rememberin that had been told that the fiercest crea-
tures were terrified by t 1e voice of a man, I caused all the company
to' halloo as loud as we could; and I found the notion not altogether
mistaken; for upon our shout, the began to retire and turn about.
I then ordered a second volley to e fired in their rear, which put
them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave us
leisure to charge our pieces '11; and that we might lose no time,
we kept going; we had but ittle more than loaded our fuses, and
put ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the
same wood, on our left, only that it was farther onward, the same
wav we were to go. a

The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusk , which
made it worse on our snde; but the norse increasing, we con d easily
perceive that it was the howling and yelling of these hellish creatures;
and on a sudden we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one on
our left, one behind us, and one in our front, so that we seemed to
be surrounded with them, however, as they did not fall upon us, we
kept our way forward, as fast aswe could make our horses go, which,
the way being very rough, was only agood hard trot. In tlus manner
we came in view of the entrance of the wood, through which we
were to ass, at the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly
surprise , when, cominrr nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. On a sudden, at
another opening of a wood, we heard the noise of a un, and looking
that way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and brirfie on him, tlyin
like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full spee .

But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to the
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcasses of another
horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures ; and one of
the men was no doubt the same whom we heard fire the gun, for
there lay a gun just by him fired off; but. as to the man, his head
and the 11 )per art of his body were eaten up. - This filled us with
horror, an we linew not what course to take; but the creatures re-
solved us soon, for they gathered about us rcsentljv, in hopes of
prey; and I verily beheve there were three undre of them. I t
tappened very much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the
wood, but a little way from it, there la some large timber trees,
which had been cut down the summer he ore, and I suppose lay there
for carriage. I drew my little troop in anion r those trees, and
placin ourselves in a line behind one long tree, advised them all
to alig t, and keeping that tree before us for a breastwork, to stand in a
triangle or three fronts enclosing our horses in the cent re. We did
80, and it was well we did; for never was a more furious charge
anvex'ruaes or nonrxsox onuson. 195

' than the creatures made upon us in this place. They came on will;
a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as
I said, was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by
their seeing our horses behind us. I ordered our men to fire as be'
fore; every other man; and they took their aim so sure, that they
killed several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessity to keep a continual firing. for they came on like devils,
those behind pushing on those before.

When we had fired a second volley of our fuses, we thought they
stopped a little; and I hoped they would have gone ofi' ; but it was
on: a moment, for others came forward again; so we fired two
vol e s of our pistols; and I believe in these four firings we had
killc seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many, yet
they came on again. I was loth to spend our shot too hastily; so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better employed,
for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he had char ed my fuse
and his own while we were engaged; but as Isaid, I ed my other
man, and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all
alon the piece of timber, and let it be a large train. He did so;
and rad but just time to get away, when the wolves came up to it,
and some got upon it, when I, snap Jing an uncharged pistol c ose to
the powder, set it on fire; those t at were upon the timber were
scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell or rather jumped in
among us, with the force and fright of the fire: we despatched these
in an instant, and the rest were so frightened with the light, which
the night, for it was now very near dark, made more terrible, that
they drew back a little; upon which I ordered our last pistols to be
fired ofl' in one volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty
lame ones, that we found struggling on the ground, and fell a cutting
them with our words, which answered our expectation; for the
crying and howling they made was better understood by their fellows;
so that they all fled and left us.

1 dIn about an hour more we came to the town where we were to
o e.

'lghe next moraineP our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so
much with the ranliling of his two wounds, that he could go no far-
ther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Tou-
louse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful leasant countr ,
and no snow, no wolves, nor an thing like them; but when we to d
our story at Toulouse, they to (1 us it was nothing but what was
ordinar in the great forest at the foot of the mountains, es ecially
when t e snow lay on the ground; but they inquired muc what
kind of a guide we had got, who would venture to bring us that tray
in such a severe season; and told us it Was surprising we were not

'all devoured.
U}.
I have nothin uncommon to take notice of in my passage through
France, nothing at what other travellers have given an account of,
with much more advantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse
to Paris, and without any considerable stay came to Calais, and
landed safe at Dover, the Mth of January, after having a severe cold
season to travel in.

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in aliltle
time all m new discovered estate safe about me; the bills of
exchange w ich I brought with me havin been very currently paid.

My principal guide and privy counse or was my good ancient
widow; who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought no
gains too much, nor care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted

or so entirely with everything, that I was perfectly easy as to the
security of my effects: and, indeed, I was very happy from the be-
ginning, and now to the end, in the unspotted integrity of this good
gentlewoman.

I now resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils, if I
could find means. For this pur ose, I wrote to my old friend at
Lisbon, who having offered it to t e two merchants, the survivors of
my trustees, who hved in the Brazils, they accepted the offer, and
remitted thirt -three thousand pieces of eight to a correspondent of
theirs at Lis on, to pay for it. Having signed the inslrument of
sale, and sent it to my old friend, be remitted me bills of exchange
for thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate,
reserving the payment 0 a hundred moidores a year to himself
during his life, and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for life,
which 1 had romised them.

Though I liad sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep
the country out of my head; nor could I resist the strong inclination
I had to see my island. My true friend, the widow, earnestly dis-
suaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that, for almost
seven years, she prevented my runnincr abroad; during which tune I
took m two nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into my
care: t m eldest having something of his own, I bred up as a gentle-
man, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate, after
my deeease. The other I put out to a captain of a ship; and after
five ears, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I
put im into a good Slllp, and sent him to sea: and this young fellow
afterwards drew me in, old as I was, to further adventures myself.

In the mean time, I in part settled myself here: for, first of all,
I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction,
and had three children, two sons and one daughter; but my wife
dying, and my nephew coming home with good 'success from a
voyage to S ain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importunity
prevailed, an engaged me to go in his ship as a private trader to
the East Indies: this was in the year 1694.
HE IS SEIZED WITH A DESIRE TO REVISIT HIS ISLAND--LOSES HIS
WIPE--ls TEMPTED TO GO '10 SEA AGAIN--TAKES OUT A CARGO
FOR. HIS COLONY.

WHEN my wife was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me. I
was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the Brazils,
when I first went on shore there; and as much alone, except as to
the assistance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither
what to think" nor what to do. I saw the world busy around me:
one part labouring for bread, another part squandering in vile ex-
cesses or empt pleasures, equally miserable, because the end they
prolposed still ed from them: for the men of pleasure every day
sur cited of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and repent
ance; and the men of labour spent their stren th in daily stru gling
for bread to maintain the daily strength they 1a cured with; so wing
in a daily circulation of sorrow, livin but to work, and working but
to live, as if daily bread were the on y end of wearisome life, and a
wearisome hie the only occasion of daily bread.
This ut me in-mmd of the life I lived in my kingdom, the island,
where Ip suffered no more com to grow, because I did not want it,
and bred no more oats, because I had no more use for them; where
the money lay in t re drawer till it grew mouldy, and had scarce the
favour to be looked upon in twenty years.

My sage counsellor was one; I was like a ship without a pilot,
that could only run before t e wind: my thoughts ran ah away again
into the old alien; my head was quite turned with the whimsies oi
foreign adventures; and all the pleasant, innocent amusements of
my farm, my garden, my cattle, and m family, which before entirely
possessed me, were nothing to me, rad no relish, and were like
music to one that has no car, or icod to one that has no taste; in a
word, I resolved to leave oii' housekee in , let my farm, and return
to London; and in a few months after (fid so.

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before;
I had no relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to do but
to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be said he is
perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one farthing's matter
to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or alive: This also was
the thing which, of all circumstances of life, was the most my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an active life; and I would
often say to myself : " A state of idleness is the very dregs of life;
and indeed I thought I was much more suitably employed when I
was twenty-six days making me a deal board."

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew,
whom, as I have observed before, I'had brought up to the sea, and
had made him commander of -a ship, was come home from a short
v0 age to Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came to me, and
to d me that some merchants of his ac uaintance had been propos-
ing to him to go a voyage to the East ndies 'and to China, as pri-
vate traders--"Arid now, uncle," says he, "if you will go to sea
with me, I will engage to land you upon your 01 habitation in the
island, for we are to touch at the Brazils.

The scheme hit so exactly with my tem er, that is to say, the

repossession I was under, and of which I ave said so much, that
Itold him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants I
' would go with him; but I told him I would not promise to go any
farther than my own island. "Why, sir," says be, "you don't
want to be left there again, I hope? ' " Why," said I, "can you
not take me up again on your return? " He told me it would not
be possible to do so; that the merchants would never allow him to
come that way with a laden ship of such value, it bein a month's
sail out of his way, and mi ht be three or four. " esides, sir,
if I should miscarry," said c, "and not return at all, then you
would be just reduced to the condition you were in before."

This was very rational; but we both found out a remedy for it:
which was to carry a framed sloop on board the shi , which being
' taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship, mi t, b the help
of some carpenters, whom we reed'to carry wit us, e set up
again in the island, and finished, t to go to sea, in a few days.

1 was not long resolving; for, indeed, the nnportuinties of my
nephew joined so effectually with my inclination, that nothing could
oppose me; on the other hand, my Wife being dead, 1 had nobody
concerning themselves so much for me as to persuade me to one
way or the other, except my ancient good friend the wrdov who
earnestly struggled with me to consider my years, my easy circum-
stances, and the needless hazards of a long voyage, and above all,
my oung children. But it was all to no urpose; I had an irre-
sistigle desire to thevoyage; and I told er I thought there was
something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind for
the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if 1
should attem t to stay at home; 'after which she ceased her expos-
tulations, an joined with me, not only in making provision for my
voyage, but also in settling my family afi'airs for my absence, and
provrdinn- for the education of my children.

In or er to this, I'inade my will, and settled the estate I had in
such a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I was
perfectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done them,
whatever might befall me; and for their education, I left it wholly
to the widow, with a suflicient maintenance to herself for her care:
all which she richly deserved, for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or understood it better; and as she lived till
I came home, I also lived to thank her for it. _ _ _

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginninn' of January
1694-5, and I, with my man Friday, went on board in the Downs on
the 8th; havin , besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a
very considerab e caroo of all kinds of necessary things for my
folony, which, if I did not find in good condition, I resolved to

cave so. .

Contrary winds first ut us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at Ga way in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound
two-and-twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster,
that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty;
so that while we lay here, we never touched the ship's stores, but
rather added to them. Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and
two cows, with their calves, which I resolved, if I had a_good pas-
sage, to put on shore in my island; but we found occasion to dispose
0t erwisc of them.
BOBINSON'B SHIP BELIEVES THE CREW OF A FRENCH VESSEL THAT
EAD CAUGHT FIRE.

We set eaten the 5th of February from' Ireland, and had a very
fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it might be about
the 20th of February, in the evening late, when the mate, having the
watch, came into the round-house, and told us he saw a flash of fire.
and. heard a gun fired; and while he was telling us of it, a boy came
_ in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This made us all run

out upon the quarter-deck, where, for a while, we heard nothing;
but in a few minutes we saw a very rcat light, and found that there
was some very terrible fire at a istance; immediatel we had
recourse to our reckonings, in which we all "reed that t ere could
be no land that way in which the fire shows itself, no, not for five '
hundred leagues, for it a peared at W.N.W. Upon this we con-
cluded it mustbe some 5 ip on fire at seadeg and as, by our hearing
'the noise of guns just before, we concluded that it could not be far
01?, we stoo directly towards it, and were presently satisfied we
should discover it, because, the farther we sailed, the 1greater the
light appeared; though, the weather being hazy, we co d not per-
ceive anything but the light for a while. In about half an hour's
sailing, the mud being fair for us, though not much of it, and the
weather clearingup a little, we could plainly discern that it was a
great ship on fire, in the middle of the sea. .'

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, thou 11 not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it; I present y reeollected
my former circumstances, and in what condition was in, when taken
up by the Portuguese captain; and how much more de lorable the
circumstances of the cor creatures belonging to that s 'p must be
if they had no other 8 rip in eompan with them. Upon this, I im-
mediately ordered that five guns s ould be fired, one soon after
another, that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there
~ was help for them at hand, and that they mi ht endeavour to save
themselves in their boat; for thou h'we con] see the flames of the
ship, yet they, it being night, eoul see nothing of us.

bout eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's boat>>
by the help of our perspective glastes ; found there were two of
them, both thron red with people, and deep in the water. We per-
ceived the rowed, the wind being against them; that they saw om
shi , and 'd their utmost to make us see them.

vill'e immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw
them, and hung 9. watt out, as a signal for them to come on board
and then made more sail, standin directly to them. In little more
than half-an-hour we came up wit them; and, in a word, took them
all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for
there were a great many passengers.

U on the whole, we found it was a French merehant~ship of three
hun red tons, home-bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada.
The master gave us along account of the distress of his ship; how
the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence of the steersman;
but on his crying out for help, was, as everybody thought, entirely
put out; but they soon found that some sparks' of the first fire had
gotten into some art of the ship so difficult to come at, that they
could not effeetu y quench it; and afterwards getting in between
the timbers, and Within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into
the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they were
able to exert. _

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the kind-
ness shown to them was wanting; the Frendh, it is known, are
naturally apt to exceed that way. The captain and one of the
priests came to me the next day, and desired to s eak with me and
my nephew: the commander began to consult wit us what should
be done with them; and first, t rey told us that we had saved their
lives, so all they had was little enough for a return to us for that
kindness received. The captain said they had saved some money,
and some things of value, in their boots, eatehed hastily out of the
flames, and if we would accept it, they were ordered to make an
offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere
in our way, where, if possible, they might get a pass as to France.
M nephew was for accepting their mone at first wor , and to con-
ei er what to do with them afterwards; gut I overruled him in that
part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a stranwe country:
and if the Portuguese captain that took me up at sea had served me
so, and took all I had for my. deliverance, I must have starved, or
have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary,
the mere being sold to a Mahometan excepted; and perhaps a Per-
tuguese is not a much better master than a Turk, if not, in some
cases, much worse. --

I therefore told the French ea tain that we had taken them up in
their distress, it was true, but t at it was our duty to do so, as we
were fellow-creatures; and we would desire to be so delivered, if we
were in the like, or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them butwhat we believed they would have done for us, if we
had been in their case, and they in ours; but that we took them up
to save them, not to plunder them; and it would be a most barbar-
ous thing to take that little from them which they had saved out of
the fire, and then set them on shore and leave them; that this would
be first to save them from death, and then kill them ourselves;
save them from drowning, and abandon them to starvin ; and there-
fore I would not let the least thing be taken from t em. As to
settin them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an exceedin

diflie ty to us, for that the shi was bound to the East Indies; and
though we were driven out 0 our course to the westward a very
great way, and perhaps were directed by Heaven on purpose for

their dehverance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully to.changc our ~ ,

voyage on their particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer it to the freighters, with'whom he was under
charter-party to Hursuc his voyage by the way of Brazil: and all I
lmcw we could o for them, was to put ourselves in the wa of
meeting with other ships homeward bound from the West In 'es,
and get them a passage, it possible, to England or France.

The first part of the proposal was so nerous and kind, they
could not but be very thankful for it; but t ey were in a ver great
consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion 0 being
carried away to the East Indies; they then entrcated me, that seein
I was driven so far to the westward before I met with them}
would at least keep on the same course to the Banks of Newfound-
. land, where it was probable I might meet with some ship or SlOnp
that they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence
the came.

Iythouoht this was but a reasonable request on their art, and
therefore? inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I considere , that to
car this whole company to the East Indies, would not only be an
into erable severity upon the oor people, but would be mining our
whole voyage, by devouring all our provisions: so I thought it no
breach 'of charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made
absolutely necessa to us, and in which no 'one could sa we were
to blame: for the awe of God and nature would have orbid that
we should refuse to take up two boats? full of people in such a dis-
tressed condition; and the nature of the thing, as well respecting
ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on shore some-
where or other for their deliverance; so I consented that we would

carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit;
and if not, that I would carry them to Martmico, in the West

Indies.
RELEVES THE CREW OF A BRISTOL SHIP, .WHO ARE STARVING--
ARRIVES AT HIS ISLAND.

Tm! wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather retty good, and
as the winds had continued in the points between .E. and S.E. a
long time, we missed several opportunities of sending them to
France;'for we met several ships bound to EurOpe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been so long
beating up against the wind, that the durst take in no passen ers,
for fear of wanting provisions for t e voyage, as well for 1: cm-
selves as for those that the should take in; so we were obliged to
0 on. It was about a weelz after this that we made the Banks of
ewfoundland; where, to shorten m 'story, we' put all our French
peOple on board a barque, which they ired at sea there, to put them
on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get
provisions to victual themselves with. When 1 say all the French
went on shore, I should remember that a 01mgl priest on board,
hearing we were bound to the East Indies, esire to go the v0 age
with us, and to be set on shore on the coast of Coromandel; w ich
I readily agreed to, for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very
good reason, as will appear afterwards: also four of the seamen
entered themselves on our ship, and proved ver usef'ul fellows.
From hence we directed our course to the est Indies, steering
away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes
httle or no wind at all; when we met with another subject for our
humanity to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.
It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes north,
on the 19th day of March, 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course
17 - 0
SE. and by 8.: we soon ereeived it was a large vessel, and that
she bore up to us, but coul not at first know what to make of her,
till, after coming a little nearer, we found that she had lost her main
topmast, foremast, and bowsprit; and presently she fired a gun, as
a signal of distress: the weather was apretty ood, wind at N.N.W.,
a fresh gale, and we soon came to s c with er.

We .ound her a shi of Bristo , bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been been bown'out of the road at Barbadoes a few
\days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while
the captain and chief-mate were both gone on shore; so that, besides
the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent case for good
artists to brin the shi home. They had been already nine weeks
at sea, and had met wit another terrible storm, after the hurricane
was over, which had blown them quite out of their knowled e to
the westward, and in which they lost their masts, as above. hey
told us they expected to have seen the Bahama islands, but were
then driven away again to the south-east, by a strong gale of wind
at N .N .W., the same that blew now: and having no sails to work
the ship with but a mainconrse, and a kind of square sail upon a

' jury foremast, which they had set 11 , they could not lie near the
wind, but were endeavouring to stan away for the Canaries.

But that which was worst of all was, that they were almost starved

for want of provisions, besides the' fatigues they had undergone:'
their bread and flesh were quite gone; they had not one ounce left
in the ship, and had none left for eleven days. The onl relief they
had was, their water was not all spent, and they had a out half a
barrel of flour left; they had sugar enough; some succades, or
sweetmeats, they had at first, but they were devoured; and they
had seven casks of rum.
' There were a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on board,
'who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail,
unhappily came on board the evening before the hurricane began;
and having no provisions of their own left, they were in a more de-
plorable condition than the rest: for the seamen, being reduced to
such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may _
be sure, for the poor passengers; and they were, mdeed, in a con-
dition, that their miser is Very hard to describe.

I had perhaps not 'nown this art, if m curiosity had not led
me (the weather hcin fair, and t e wind a ated) to go on board
the ship. The secon mate, who, upon this occasion, commanded
the ship,'had been on board our ship, and he told me, indeed, they
had three passengers in the great cabin, that were in a deplorable
condition: "Nay," says he, "I believe they are dead, for I have
heard nothing of them for above two days; and I was afraid to.
in ure after them," said he, "for I had nothing to relieve them with."

e immediatelyapplied ourselves to give them what relief we

could spare- and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my
. nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we had one
away to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of America, to ave
su plied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that.

tut now they were in a new danger ; for they were afraid of

eating too much, even of that httle we gave them. The mate or
commander brought six men with him in his boat; but these poor
wretches looked hked skeletons, and were so weak, that they could
hardly sit to their cars. The mate himself was very ill, and half-
starved, for he declared he had reserved nothing from the men, and
went share and share alike with them in every bit the ate. .

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat be ore him imme-
diately; and he had not eat three mouthfuls before he began to be
sick, and out of order; so he stop ed awhile, and our sur eon mixed
him 11 somethin with some brotli, which he said woul be to him
'_ both cod and p ysic; and after he had taken it, he grew better.

In the meantime, I forgot not the men; I ordered victuals to be

given them; and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it :
they were so exceeding hungry, that they were in a kind ravenous,
an had no command of themselves; and two of them ate with so
muehgreediness, that they were in danger of their lives the next
mormng.

While I kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on board
with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew
that were left on board; but ordered my own boat to go on board
the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men, to carry them a sack
of bread, and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon
charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-room to prevent the men takin it to
eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well boile , and
then to give every man but a very little at a time: and b this -
caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have illed
themselves with that very food that was given them on purpose to
save their lives. .

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin,
and see what condition the poor passengers were in; and if they

were alive, to comfort them, and give t em what refreshment was
proper: and the sur eon gave him a large pitcher, with some of the
prepared broth whic he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them gradually.

I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said cove, havin a great
mind to she the scene of misery which I knew .he ship itse f would
present me with, in a more lively manner than I could have it b
report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, wit
me, and went myself, a little after, in their boat.

I found the poor men on board' almost in a tumult, to get the
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate'observed
his orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door; and the
man he placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have .
patience, kept them off by force: however, he caused some biscuit-
cakes to be di ped in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the
meat, which t icy called brewis, and gave them every one some, to
stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety that
he was obliged to give them but a little at a time. But it was all
in vain; and had I not come on board, and their own commander
and officers with me, and with good words, and some threats also
of giving them no more, I believe they would have broken into the
cook-room b force, and torn the meat out of the furnace; for
words are in eed of very. small force to a hungry belly: however. we

 

,

pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously for the first time,
and the next time gave them more, and at last filled their bellies,
and the men did well enough.

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another
nature, and far beyond the rest; tor the ship's co many had so little
for themselves, it was but too true that they ha at first kept them
very low,.and at last totally ne lected them; so that for six or seven
days 1t might be said the ha really no food at all, and for several
days before very httle. he poor mother, who, as the men reported,
was a woman of sense and ed breedin , had spared all she could
so afl'ectionately for her son, hat at last 5 e entirely sunk under it;
and when the mate of our ship went, she sat upon the floor or deck,
With her back up against the sides, between two chairs, which were
lashed fast, and her head sunk between her shoulders, like a corpse,
though not qmte dead. My mate said all he could to revive and
encourage her, and'wrth a spoon put some broth into her mouth.
She opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak;
yet she understood what he said, and made signs to him, intimatin
,that it was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would
have said they should take care of him. However, the mate, who
was exceedingly moved with the sight, endeavoured to get some of
the broth into her mouth, and, as he said, got two or three spoonfuls
down; though 1 question whether he could be sure of it or not:
but it was too late, and she died the same night. '

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most afl'ectionate
mother's life, was not so far gone: et he lay in a cabin-bed, as on:
stretched out, with hardly any life eft in him. He had a piece of
an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it: however,
being young, and having more strength than his mother, the mate
got something down his throat, and e began sensibly to revive;
though by givnng him, some time after, but two or three spoonfuls
extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up again.

But the next care was the cor maid : she la all along upon the
deck, hard by her mistress, an just like one t iat had fallen down
with an apoplex ', and struggled for life. Her limbs were distorted
one of her an s was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she
griped it so hard, that we could not easily make her let it go : her
other arm lay over her head, and her feet ay both together, set fast _
against the frame of the cabin-table: in short, she lay just like one
in the agonies of death, and yet she was alive too.

We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for when our
surgeon, who was a man of very great knowle ge and ex erience,
had with great application recovered her as to lite he had er upon
his hands as to her senses ; for she was little less than distracted for
a considerable time after, as shall appear presently.

Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to con-
sider, that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country,
where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place: our
business was to relieve this distressed ship's crew, but notlie by for
them; and though they were willing to steer the same course with
us for some days, yet we could carry no sail, to keep pace with a
ship that had no masts: however, as their captain begged of us to
help him to set up a main topmast, and a kind of a topmast to his
jury foremast, we did, as it were, lie b him for three or four days;
an then having, given five barrels .0 beef, a barrel of pork, two
hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other
things we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum,
and some ieces of eight from them for satisfaction, we left them;
taking on oard with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and
the maid, and all their ods. -

The young lad was a cut seventeen years of age; a prett , well
. bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejected with the oss of
his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months
before, at Barbadoes: he beg ed of the surgeon to s eak to me to
take him out of the ship : for c said the cruel fellows ad murdered
his mother: and, indeed, so they had, that is to say, passively; for

they lrpight have spared a small sustenance to the poor helpless
widow, that'mi ht have reserved her life, though it had been but
just enough to eep her a ive: but hunger knows no friend, no rela-
tion, no justice, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable

e

of no compassron

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that it would
carry him away from all his friends, and put him perhaps in as bad
circumstances almost as those we found them in, that is to say,
starvin in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if
he was ut delivered from the terrible crew that he was among;
that the captain (b which he meant me, for he could know nothing
of my ne hew) h saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt
him; an as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she
would be very thankful for it, let us carry them where we would.
The surgeon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their (goods, except
eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be remove or come at;
and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made his com-
mander sign a writin obliging himse f to go, as soon as he came to

'Bristol, to one Mr. ers, a merchant there, to whom the youth

said he was related, an to deliver a letter which I wrote to him,
and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow; which I
suppose was not done, for I could never learn thzit the ship came to
Bristol, but was, as is .most probable, lost at sea; being in so
disabled 9. condition, and so far from any land, that I am of opinion
the first storm she met with afterwards she mi ht founder in' the
sea; for-she was leaky and had damage in her old, when we met
with her.
' I was now in the latitude of nineteen degrees thirty-two minutes,
and had hitherto a tolerable voyage as to weather, though, at first,
the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little
incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c., on the rest of our voy "'6;
but to shorten my story, for the sake of what is to follow, 3 mil
observe, that I came to my old habitation, .the island, on the 10th of
April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty that I found the place;
for as 1 came to it, and went from it, before, on the south and east
side of the island, as coming from the Brazils, so now, coming in
between the main and the island, and having no chart for the coast,
'nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether
I saw it or not. '

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the
ship, sometimes with the Frenchmen's shalIOp, which we had found
a convenient boat, and therefore kept her with their very good will,
at length I came fair on the south side of m island, and present!
knew the very countenance of the place: so brought the ship sa e

to an anchor, broadside with the httle creek where my old habits-
tion was. -

6
nosmsos AND FRIDAY 00 Asnone--rue LATTER nears wmr ms
runes -- ACCOUNT or WHAT PASSED as .rue IsLAxn AFTER
nonmson's q'mrrme 1r.

As soon as I saw the lace, I called for Friday, and asked him if he
knew where he was; he looked about a little, and presently clapping
his hands, cried: "0 yes, 0 there, 0 yes, 0 there," pointing to our
old habitation, and fell dancing and capering like a mad fellow; and
I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim
ashore to the place.

"Well,_ Fnda ," says I, "Do you think we shall find anybody
here or no? an do you think we shall see your father?" The
fellow stood-mute as a stock a good while, but when I named his
father, the poor afi'ectionate creature looked dejected, and I could
see the tears run down his face very plentifully. "What is the
matter, Friday P" says I; "are on troubled because you may see
your father?" "No, no," says he, shakin his head, "no see him
more: no, never more see him again." " by so," said I, "Friday?
how do you know that P" "0 no, 0 no," says Friday; "he long
ago die, long ago, he much old man." "Well, well," sa 3 I, "Friday
you don't know; but shall we see an one else, then P ' The fellow,
it seems had better eyes than I, and e points to the hill just above
my old house; and though we lay half a league off, he cries out
"We see, we see, yes, yes, we see' much. man there, and there, an
there." I looked, but I saw nobod , no, not with a perspective
glass, which was, Isuppose, because could not hit the place; for
the fellow was right, as I found upon inqu the next day; and
there were five or six men all together, who stood to look at the
ship, not knowing what to think of us.

As soon as Friday told me he saw peOple, I caused the English
annex! to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we
were friends; and in about half a quarter of an hour after we per-
' ceived a smoke arise from the side of the creek; so I immediately
ordered the boat out, taking Friday with 'me; and ban mg out a
white flag. or a flag of truce, 1 went directly on shore, ta mg With
me the friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the sto of my
in t ere, and the manner of it, and every particular 0th of
myse and those I left there; and who was, on that account,
extremely desrrous to if) with me. We had besides about sixteen
men well armed, if we ad found any new guests there which we did
not know of ; but we had no need of weapons. ' .
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we
rowed directly into the creek; and the first man that I fixed my
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved. and whom I knew
by his face perfectly well: as to his habit, I shall describe it after-
wards. I ordered nobody to go on shore but myself; but there was

 

no kee ing Friday in the boat, for the afi'ectionate creature had s ied
his fat er at a distance, a'good way off the Spaniards, where in eed
I saw nothing of him; and if they had not let him go ashore, he
would have jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but
he flew away to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. It would
have made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to
have seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joy when he came
to his father: how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face,
took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and in down by
him; then stbod and looked at him, as any one woul look at a
strange picture, for a quarter of an hour together; then down upon
the ground, and stroke his legs, and kiss them, and then get up
agaiilil, dand stare at him; one would have thought the fellow be-
w1tc e . '

It would be needless to take notice of all the Ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard,
who, as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved: he
came towards the boat, attended by one more, car ing a flag of
truce also: and he not only did not know me at firstjut he ha no
thoughts, no notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to
him. "Senhor," said I, in Portuguese, "do you not know me?"
At which he spoke not a word, but giving his musket to the man that
was with him, threw his arms abroad, saying something in S anish
that I did not perfectly hear, came forward and embrace me;
telling me he was ineXcusablc not to know the face again, that he
had once seen as if an anoel came from heaven to save his life: he
said abundance of very handsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard
always knows how; and then beckoning to the erson that attended
him, bade him go and call out his comrades. he then asked.me if
I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me osses-
sion of my own house again, and where I should see they ha made
but mean improvements: so I walked alarm with him; but, alas! I
could no more find the place again than if I had never been there;
for they had planted so many trees, and placed them in such a
posture, so thick and close to one anhther, and in ten years' time
they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessible,
except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves only,
who made them, could find.

I asked them what put them u on all these fortifications: he
told me I would say there was nee enouvh of it, when they had
given me an account how the had passed their time since their
arriving in the island, especially after they had the misfortune to
find that I was gone.

As to the three barbarians so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom, he said, e had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thought themselves much better among the savages,
only that their number was so small: and, says he, had the been
strong enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory; an with
that he crossed himself on the breast. " But, srr," says he, -"I ho c
you will not be diapleased when I shall tell you how, forced y
necessity, we were obli ed, for our own greservation, to disarm them,
and make them our su jeets, who woul not be content with being
moderately our masters,.but would be our murderers." I answered:
"I was heartily afraid of it when I'left them there, and nothing
troubled me at my partin from the island but that they were not
come back, that 1 might ave put them in possession of everything
first, and left the others in a state of subjection, as they deserved;
but if the had reduced them to it, I was very lglad, and should be
very far rom finding any fault with it; {or knew they were a
parcel of refractory, \mgoverned villains, and were fit for any manner
of mischief." -

While I was saying this, the man came whom he had sent
back, and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it
was impossible to guess what nation they were of ; but he made all
clear, both to them and to me. First he turned to me, and pointing
to them, said, "These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe
their lives to you ;" and then turning to them, and pointing to me,
he let them know who I was; upon which they all came up, one by\

one, not as if they had been sailors and ordmar fellows, and the
like, but really as if they had been ambassadors o noblemen, and I
a monarch or great conqueror: their behaviour was to the last de.
gree obliging and courteous, and et mixed With a maul , majestic
gravity, which very well became them; and, in short, t ey had so

. much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
civilities, much less how to return them in kind.

I shall no Ion r trouble the story with a relation in the first
person, which m at me~to the expense of ten thousand raid rs
and said he's, and e told me's, and I told liim's, and the like; but I
shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can 'gather them out
of my memory, from what they related to me, and rom what I met
with in my conversing with them and with the place.

The first thing, however, which 1 inquired into, that I might begin
where I left off, was of their own part; and I desired he would give
me a particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with
the boat, when] sent him to frtch them over. He told me there
was little variety in that art, for nothing remarkable happened to
them on the way, having lad very calm weather and a smooth sea.
As for his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that
they were over'oyed to see him (it seems he was the principal man
among them, t e ca tain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked
in having been dead) some time); they were, he said, the more sur-
prised to see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the

ands of savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him. as
they did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he told them the
any of his deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for
carrying them awa , it was like a dream to them, and their
astonishment, he sai , was somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren,
' when he told them who he was, and told them the stor of his
exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when he showed them t ie arms,
the powder, the ball, and provisions, that he brought them for their
journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a 'ust
share of the Joy of their deliverance, and immediately prepare to
comeawa With him. ,

Their rst business was to get canoes: and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to
trespass upon their friendly sav es, and to borrow two large
canoes, or eriaguas, oh pretence 0 going out a fishin , or for plea. ,.
sure. Int ese they came away the next morning ft seems they
wanted no time to get. themselves ready; for the had no baggage,
neither eTothes nor provisions, nor anything in t is worli' but what
the had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to
ma e their bread. '

They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily
for them, I had the occasion offered for my esea e, as I mentioned

-m my other part, and to get 06' from the islan , leaving three 0!
the most im ndent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains
behind me, t rat any man could desire to meet wrth; to the poor
Spaniards' great rief and disappointment, you may be sure.

The only just t ring the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards
came ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions,
and other relief, as I had ordered them to do; also they gave them
the long pa er of directions which I had left with them, containing
the partic ar methods which I took for managing every part of my
life there; the way how I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and
planted my corn; how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a
word, every thing I did; all this emg written down, they ve to
the Spaniards (two of them understood English well enoug ): nor
did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniardswith anything else,
for they agreed very well for some time. They gave them an
equal admission into the house, or cave, and they began to live very
sociabl ; and the head Spaniard, who had seen retty much of my
metho s, and Friday's father to ether, managed) all their affairs:
but as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the
island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises; and when they came home
at night, the S ianiards provided their sup era for them.

The Spaniards would have been satisfie with this, had the others
but let them alone; which, however, they could not find in their
hearts to do long, but, like the dog_in the .manger, they would not
eat themselves, neither would they let the others eat. The difi'er-
ences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such' as are not
worth relating, but at last it broke out into open way: and it began
with all the rudeness, and insolenee that can be imagined, without
reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to
common sense; and though, it is true, the first relation of it came
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the aecusers, yet
wfhetn I came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a word
0 r . _

But before I come to the particulars of this Ipart, I must supply a
defect in my former relation; and this was, forgot to set down,
amon the rest, that fast as we were weivhing the anchor to set sail,
there appened 'a litt e uarrel on board of our ship, which I was
afraid would have turned to a second mutiny; nor was it a peased
till the captain, rousing up his courage, and taki us to his
assistance, arted them b force, and making two 0 the most re-
fractory fe ows prisoners, e laid them in irons; and as they had
been active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous
words, the second time he threatened to carrythem in irons to
En land, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running away
wit the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
- do it, frightened some other men in the ship; and some of them had
.put it into the heads of the rest that the captain-only gave them
good words for the present, till they should come to some English
port, and that then they should be all put into gaol, and tried for
their lives. The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted' us
with it; upon which it was desired that I, who still passed for a
great man amen them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy
the men, and te them that the might be assured, if they behaved
well the rest of the voya e, a 1 they had done for the time past
should be pardoned. So went, and after passing my honour's
word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so when I caused
the two men that were in irons to be released and forgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night; the
wind also falling calm next morning, we found that our two men who
had been laid in irons had stole each of them a musket, and some
other weapons what powder and shot they had we knew not), and
had taken the s i 's pinnace, which was not yet hauled up, and run
awa with her to is com anions in roguery on shore.- As soon as
we ound this, I ordered the long boat on shore, with twelve men and
the mate, and away they went to seek the re ues; but they could.
neither find them nor any of the rest, for they fled into the woods
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was once
resolved, in 'ustiee to their re uery, to have destroyed their lanta-
tions, burne all their househo d-stufi' and furniture, and left t mm to
shift without it; but having no orders, he let it all alone, left every.
thing as he found it, and bringing the pinnaee away, came on board
without them. These two men made their number five; but the
other three villains were so much more wicked than the , that after
they had been two or three days together, they turned t ie two new
comers out of doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing
to do with them; nor could the , for a good while, be persuaded to
give them any food: as for the paniards, they were not yet come.

When the S aniards came first on shore, the business began to go
forward: the Idpaniards would have persuaded the three English
brutes to have taken in their two countrymen a in, that, as they
said, they might be all one family; but they won d not hear of it:
so the two poor fellows lived by themselves; and finding nothing
but industry and application would make them live comfortably, they
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little
more to the west, to be out of danger of the savages, who always
landed on the east parts of the island.

Here they built them two huts, "one to lodge in, and the other to
lay up their magazines and stores in; and-the Spaniards havin
given them some corn for seed, and especially some of the peas whie

had left them, they dug. planted an enclosed, after the pattern I
had set for them all, and be u to live pretty well. Their fimt crop
of corn was on the roun ; and though it was but a little bit of
land which they had ug .up first, having had but a little time, et
it {bl enough to relieve them, and find them with bread and ot er
ea a es. ,
THE ACCOUNT CONTINUED--QUARBELS BETWEEN THE ENGLISH'MEN
--A BATTLE BETWEEN TWO PARTIES 0F SAVAGES WHO VISIT THE
ISLAND--FRESH MUTINY AMONG- THE SENLERS.

THEY were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three
unnatural rogues, their own cpuntrymen too, in mere humour, and
to insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was
theirs; that the Governor, meaning me, had given them the posses-
sion of it and nobody else had any right to it; and that they should
flimd no houses upon their ground, unless they would pay rent for

em. ' -

The two men, thinking they were 'esting at first, asked them to
come in and sit down, and see whar ne houses they were that they
had built, and to tell them what rent the demanded; and one of
them merrily said, if they were the groun -landlords, he hoped, if
they built tenements upon their land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of landlords, grant a long lease; and
desxred they would get a scriveuer to draw the writin s. One of
the three, cursing and raging, told them they shouid see they
were not m jest; and going to a little lace at a distance, where the
honest men had made a fire to dress t eir victuals, he takes a fire-
brand} and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly set it
on fire; and it would have been burned all down in a few minutes,
if one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and

trod the fire out with his feet, and that not without some difficulty
oo.
18
The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrustin' ,cim
away, that he returned upon him with a pole he had in his and,
and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the
hut, he had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger
they were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they both came
out with their muskets, and the man that was first struck at with
the pole knocked the fellow down that had begun the quarrel with-
the stock of his musket, and that before the other two could come
to help him; and then secing'hthe rest come at them, they stood to-

gather, and presenting the ot cr ends of their pieces to them, bade
them stand off. '

The others 'had' fire-arms with them too; but one of the two hon-
est men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger,
told them, if they ofl'cred to move hand or foot they were dead men,
and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not,
indeed, lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute it brought
them to a parle , and they consented to take their wounded man_
with them and e gone; and, indeed, it seems the fellow was
wounded suiliciently with the blow. However, they were much in
the wrong, since they had the advanta e, that they did not disarm
them eifectually, as they might have one, and have gone immedi-
ately to the Spaniards, and given them an account of how the rogues
had treated them ; for the three villians studied nothin but revenge,
and every day gave them some intimation that they di so.

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of
the re ueries, such as treading down their corn; shooting three
young ids and a she goat, which the oor men had got to breed up
tame for their store; and, in a word p aguing them night and day in
this manner; it forced the two men to such a desperation, that they
resolved to fight them all three, the first time they had a fair Oppor-
tunity. In' order to this, they resolved to go to the castle, as they
called it (that was, my old dwelling), where the three to res and the
Spaniards all lived together at that time, intendintr to ave a fair
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by, to see (pair play; so they
got u in the mornin before day, and came to the lace, and called
the nglishmen by t eir names, telling a Spaniar that answered
that they wanted to speak with them.

It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards, having
been in the woods, had seen one of the two En lishmen, whom, for '-
distinction, I called the honest men, and he ha made a sad com.

iluint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with
irom their three countrymen, and how they had ruined their planta-
tion, and destroyed their corn that they had laboured so hard to
bring forward, and killed the milch goat and their three kids, which
was all they had provided for their sustenance; and that if he and
his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them again, the

should be starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, an
they were all at supper, one of them took the freedom to reprove
the three Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms,
and asked them how'they could be so cruel, they being harmless, in-
ofl'ensive fellows; that they were putting themselves in a way to
subsist b their labour, and that it had cost them a great deal of
pains to ring thi to such perfection as they were then in. '

One of the Eng ishmen returned very briskl : "What had they
to do there? that they came on shore without eave ; and that they
should not plant or build n on the island; it was none of their

round." " Why," says t 1e Spaniard, very calmly, " Senhor
uglese, they must not starve." The Englishman replied, like a
rough-hewn tarpaulino': "They might starve and be hanged; they
should not plant nor build in that place." "But what must they.
do, then, senhor?" said the Spaniard. Another of the brutes
returned: 5' Do? they should be servants, and work for them."
"But how can you expect that of them?" says the Spaniard;
"they are not bought witu your money: you have no right to make
them servants." The Englishman answered: "The island was
theirs; the Governor had given it to them, and no man had anvthing
to do there but themselves;" and with that swore by his Maker
that they would go and burn all their new huts; the should build
none upon their land." " Why, senhor," says the paniard, "by
the same rule, we must be your servants too." " Ay," says the
bold dog, " and so you shall too before we have done with on."
The Spaniard onl smiled at that, and made him no answer. ow-
ever, this little iseonrse had heated them; and starting up, one
says to the other, I think it was he they called/Win Atkins: " Come '
Jack, let's go, and have 'tother brush with 'em; we'll demolish their
castle, I'll warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our '
dominiong."

Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun, a
pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among them-
selves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too, when opportu-
nit ofi'ered; but the Spaniards,- it seems, did not so perfectl
understand them as to know all the particulars, onl that, in genera
the threatened them hard for taking the two Eng ishmen's part.

Vi'hither they went, or how they bestowed their time that evening
the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they wandered
about the country part of the night, and then lying down in the

lace which I used to call my bower, they were weary, and overslept

emselves. The case was this: they had resolved to stay till mid-
night, and so take the two poor men when they were asleep, and, as
they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set fire to their huts
while the were in them, and either burn them there, 'or murder
them as t iey came out; as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was
ver strange thcv should not have been kept' awake.

waver. as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have
said, though a much fairer one'than that of burning and murdering,
it hap ened, and very luckilv for them all, that they were up, and
gone abroad, before t e blood -minded rogues came to their huts.

When they came there, an found the men gone, Atkins, who, it
seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his comrade: "Ha,
Jack, here's the nest, but the birds are flown. 'l'hey mused awhile
to think what should be the occasion of their being gone abroad so
soon, and suggested presently that the S aniards had given them
notice of it; and with that they shook ands,' and swore to one
another that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as
they had made this bloody bargain, they fell to 'work with the poor
men's habitation: they di not set fire, mdeed, to anything, but they
pulled down both their houses, and pulled them so limb from limb,
that they left not the least stick standing, or scarce an sign on the
ground where they stood; they tore all their little co ected house-

old stuff in pieces, and threw ever thing about in. such a manner,
that the poor men afterwards foun some of their things a mile 011'
their habitation. When they had done all this, they'lpulled up all
the young trees which the poor men had planted; p ed up an en-
closure they had made to secure their cattle and their corn; and, in
a word, sacked and plundered every thing 'as completely as a horde
of Tartars would have done. '

The two men were, at this iuncture, gone to find them out, and
had resolved to fight them w lei-ever they had been, though they
were but two to three; so that, had they met, there certainly would
have been bloodshed among them; for they were all very stout,
resolute fellows, to give them their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they
themselves could do to meet: for, as if they had dogged one ano-
ther, when the three were gone thither, the two were here; and
afterwards, when the two went back to find them, the three were
come to the old habitation again: we shall' see their difi'erent con-
duct presently. When the three came back like furious creatures,
flushed with the rage which the work they had been about had ut
thein into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what t ey
had done, b way of scoff and bravado; and one of them, stepping
up to one o the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at
p ay, takes hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and "giving it a
twrrl about, fleerini; in his face, says to him: "And you, Senhor ~
Jack Spaniard, shal have the same sauce, if you do not mend your
manners." The S aniard, who, though a quiet, civil man, was as
brave a man as con d be, and withal a strong, well-made man, looked '
at him for a good while, and then, having no weapon in his hand,
stepped'grave y up to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked
him down, as an ox is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the
rogues, as insolcnt as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard imme
diately: he missed his body, indeed, for the bullets went through
his hair, but one of them touched the tip. of his_ ear, and he bled

retty much. The blood made the Spaniard beheve he was more
hurt than he really was, and that ut him into some heat, for before
he acted all in a perfect calm; But now, resolving to go throu h
with his work, he stoo ed, and took the fellow's musket whom e
had knocked down, an was just ing to shoot the man who had
fired at him, when the rest of the pamards, being In the cave, came
out, and calling to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the
other two, and took their arms from them.

 

When the were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the
Spaniards t eir enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they
began to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have
their arms again; but the Spaniards, considering the feud that was
between them and the other two Englishmen, and that it would be
the best method they could take to keep them from killing one ano.
ther, told them they would do them no harm, and if they would live
peaceably, the would be very willin to assist and associate with
them as they id before; but that t ey could not think of giving
them their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do mis-
chief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened
them all to make them their servants.

The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to act
with reason; but being refused their arms, they went raving away,
and raging like 'madmen, threatening what they would do, though
they had no fire-arms. But the Spaniards, despising their threaten-
ing, told them they should take care how they offered any injhury to
their plantation or cattle, for if they did, they would shoot t em as

they wlcguld ravenous beasts, wherever they found them; and if they
- r
fellinto their hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. 'However
this was far from cooling them, but away they went, raging and
swearing like furies As soon as they were gone, the two men
came back, in passion and rage enough also, though bf another
kind; for, having been at their plantation, and finding it all demo].
ished and destroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had
provocation enough. They could scarce have room to tell their
tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell theirs. And it was strange
enough to find that three men should thus bully nineteen, and
receive no punishment at all

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having thus
disarmed them, made light of their threatenings; but the two Eng-
lishmen. resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains
soever it cost to find them out. But the Spaniards interposed here
too, and 'told them, that as they had disarmed them, they could not
consent that they (the two) should pursue them with fire-arms, and
perhaps kill them. " But," said the grave Spaniard, who was their
governor, "we will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you
will leave it to us; for there is no doubt but they will come to us
again, when their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance: we promise you tomake no peace with them, without

,having a full satisfaction for you; and upon this condition we hope

you will promise to use no Violence with them, other than in your

own defence." The. two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly,
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested they did it
on] to kee them from bloodshed, and to 'make all easy at last.

" or," said, they, " we are not so many of us; here is room enough

for us all, and it is a great pity we should not be all good friends."

At length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing, '

. living for some days with the Spaniards, for their own habitation

was estroyed. . .

, In about five da 3' time the three vagrants, tired with wandering, '
and almost starve with hunger, having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs
all that while, came back to the grove; an finding my Spaniar
who, as I have said, was the vernor, and two more with him walk-

ing by the side of the crcc , they came u in a very submissive,

humb e manner, and begged to be receive again into the family.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had acted so
urmaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the'
Spaniards), that the could not come to an conclusion without con:
suiting the two Englishmen and the rest; ut, however, they would

0 to them, and discourse about it, and they should know in half an

our.. It may be guessed that thiy were very hard put to it: for it
seems, as they were to wait this h f hour for an answer, they begfied

'they would send them out some bread in the meantime, which t ey
did, sending at the same time a lar e piece of goat's flesh, and a
boiledhparrot, which they ate very eartily, for they were hungry
enoug .
After half an hour's consultation, the were called in, and a long
debate ensued; their two countrymen c argin them with the ruin
of all their labour, and a design to murder t em; all which they
owned before, and therefore could not deny new. Upon the whole,
the Spaniards acted the moderator between them; and as they had
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were
naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild
their fellows' two huts, one to be of the same, and the other of
larger dimensions, than they were before; to fence their ground

in where they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room
0 those pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn where
they had spoiled it, and, in a word, to restore every thing _in the
same state as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it
could not be, the season for the corn, and the growth of the trees
and hedges, not being ossihle to be recovered.

Well, they submitte to all this; and as they had lenty of pro<<
visions given them all the while, they w ve or erl , and the
whole society began to live pleasantly an a reeab y teget er again:
only that these three fellows could never e persuaded to work, 1
mean for themselves, except new and then a little, just as they
pleased;'- however, the S aniards told them plainly, that if they '
would but live sociably an friendly together, and study the good of:
the whole plantation, the would be content to work for them, and
let them walk about and e as idle as they pleased; and thus having
lived pretty well together for a month or two, the Spaniards gave
glitfam arms again, an gave them liberty to go abroad with them as

e ore.

It was not above a week after the had these arms, and went
abroad, but the ungrateful creatures egan to be as insolent'and
troublesome as before: but, however, an accident hap ened pre-
sently upon this, which endangered the safety of them , and they
were ob iged to la by all private resentments, and look to the pre-
servation of their 'ves. -

It happened one night, that the Spanish governor, as I call him,
that is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now
the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very
uneasy in the night, and could by no means get'any sleep: he was
perfectly well in body, as he told me the story, only found his
thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran 11 on men fighting and killing
one another, but he was broad aw 'e, and could not by any
means get any sleep: in short, he lay a great while; but growing
more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so
many of them, u on goats' skins laid.thiek upon such couches and
pads as they ma e for themselves, 'and not in hammocks and ship
'eds, as I did, who was but one, so they had little to do, when they
Were willing to rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put

on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps, and they were raeady for
r
going any way that their thouohts guided them. Being thus got up, '
e looked out; but, beintr dar he could see little or nothing; and'
besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my former account is
described, and which were now rown tall, intercepted his sight, so
that he could only look up, and see that it was a clear starlight
night, and hearing no noise he returned and laid him down again;
but it was all one, he could not sleep, nor could he compose him-
self to anythingklike rest; but his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and he new not for what. .

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, goin out
and coming in, another of them waked, and calhntr, asked w o it
was that was 11 . The governor told him how it had3 been with him.
"Say on so? ' says the other Spaniard; "such things are not to
be slig ted, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief working
near us," and, presently he asked him: "Where are the English-
menl> " " They are all in their huts," says he, "safe enough.' It
seems that the Spaniards had kept possession of the main apartment,
and had made a place for the three En lishmen, who, since their
last mutiny, were always quartered by t cmselves, and could not
come at the rest. "Well," says the Spaniard, " there is something
in it, I am persuaded, from my own experience. I am satisfied our
8 irits embodied have a converse with, and receive intelli ence from,
t_e s irits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible worl ; and this
frien 1y notice is given for our advantage, if we knew how to make
use of it. Come," says he, "let us go and look abroad; and if we
find nothing at all in it to justify the trouble, I'll tell you a story to
thg purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my proposing
it.

In a word, they went out, to go to the to of the hill where I
used to go; but they being strong, and a goo company, not alone
as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, an
pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but
were going round through the grove, unconcerned and unwary, when
they were surprised with seeing a light as of fire, a very little way
off fr ~m them, and hearing the voices of men, not'one or two, but of
a great number. \

n all the discoveries I had made of the savages landin on the
island, it was my constant care to prevent them making t e lcast
discovery of their being any inhabitant upon the place; and when
by any' occasion they came to know it, they felt it so effectually,
that't e that got away were scarce able to give any account of it;
for we disappeared as soon as ossible; nor did ever any that had
- seen me escape to tell any one e se, except the three savages in our
last encounter, who jumped into the boat; of whom I mentioned,
_ I was afraid they should tgo home and bring more help. Whether

it was the consequence o the escape of those men that so reat'a
numb." came now together, or whether they came ignorant y, and
by accident, on their usual bloody errand, the S aniards could not,
. it seems, understand; but whatever it was, it had een their business
either to have concealed themselves, or not to have seen them at all,
much less to have let the savages have seen that there were any in.
habitants in the place; or to have fallen upon them so efi'ectuall , as
that not a man of them should have escaped, which could only ave
been by getting in between them and their boats; but this presence
of mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their tranquil.
lit for a great while.

e need not doubt but that the governor and the man with him,
' surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their fel-
lows, giving them an account of the imminent danger they were all
in, an they avain as readily took the alarm; but it was impossible
to persuade them to stay close within, where they were, but they
must all run out to see how things stood.

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had
opportunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the light of
t e three fires they had made at a distance from one another; what
they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not. For, first, the enemy were too many; and, secondly,
the did not keep together, but were divided into several parties,
an were on shore in several places.

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and
when they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore,
they made no doubt but, first or last, some oi' them would chop in
upon their habitation, or upon some other place where they would
see the token of inhabitants; and they were in rent purplexity also
for fear of their flock of goats, which would have been little less
than starving them, if they should have been destroyed; so the first
thin they resolved upon was to deSpatch three men awa before it
was 'ght, two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive a the goats
away to the great valley where the cave was. and, if need were, to
drive them into the very cave itself. Could they have .seen the
savages all together in one body, and at a distance from their canoes,
they resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to have attacked
them , but that could not be obtained: for they were some of them
two miles off from the other; and, as it appeared afterwards were of
two dill'erent nations.

After having mused a great while on the course they should take,
and beating their brains in considerin their present circumstances,
they resolved, at last, while it was st' dark, to send the old savage,
Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, something con-
cermng them; as what they came for, what they intended to _do,
and the like. The old man readily undertook it; and stripping
himself quite naked, as most of the savages were, awav he went.
After he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word that be has
been among them undiscovered; that he found they were two
parties, and of two several nations, who had war with one another,
and had a great battle in their own country; and that both sides
having had several prisoners taken in the fight, they were,_ by mere
chance, landed all on the same island, for the devouring their
prisoners and making merr , but their coming so by chance to
the same place had spoiled their mirth; that they were in agreat
ra e at one another, and were so near, that he believed they .would
figlit again as soon as daylight be to a pear: but he did not

erceive that they had any notion 0 any be 3 bein on the island
but themselves. He had hard] made an en of te in' his story,
when they could perceive, by t ie unusual noise they ma e, that the
two little armies were emed in a bloody fight.

_ Friday's father used 1; e arguments he could to _pursuade our
people to lie close, and not be seen: he told them their safety con-
sisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie still, and the
sav es would kill one another to their hands, and then the rest
wo (1 go away; and it was so to a tittle. But it was impossible to
prevail, especially upon the 'Englishmen; their curiosity was so
Importunate upon their prudentials, that they must run out and see
the battle; however they used some caution too, viz. they did not
go o' enly, just by their own dwellin , but went farther' into the
-woo s, and placed themselves to a vantage, where they might
securely see them manage the fight, and, as they thought, not be
seen by them; but it seems the savages did see' them, as we shall
'find hereafter.

The battle was very fierce; and, if I might believe one of the
Englishmen, one of them said he could perceive that some of them
were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of great oliey
in guiding the fight. The battle, they said, held two hours efore
they could guess which part would be beaten; but then, that party
which was nearest our peop e's habitation began to appear weakest,
and, after some time more, some of them began to fly; and this ut
our men again into a great consternation, lest any one of those t at
fled shoul run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and
thereby involuntarily discover the place; and that, by consequence,
the pursuers would do the like in search of them. Upon this they
reso ved they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came
into the grove, they resolved to sally over the wall and kill them; so
that, if possible, not one should return to give an account of it: they
ordered also that it should be done with their swords or by knocking
them down with the stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting
them, for fear of raising an alarm y the noise.

As they.expected, it fell out: tires of the routed army fled for
life, and crossin the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the
least knowing w lither they went, but running as into a thick wood
for shelter. The scout the ,kcpt to look abroad gave notice of this
within, with this addition, our men's great satisfaction, viz. that
the conquorors had not pursued them, or seen which way they were
gone: upon this, the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would
not suffer them to kilhthe three fugitives, but sending three men
out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in behind
them, surprise and take them prisoners; which was done. 'The
residue of the conquered people fled to their canoes, and got- OR to
sea; the victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but drawin
themselves into a body together, gave two screamin shouts, whic
the supposed was b the way of triumph, and so t e fight ended:
andy the same day, a out three o'clock in the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island
again free to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no
sav es in several years after.

ter they were all one, the Spaniards came out of their den,
and viewing the field of attle, they found about two-and-thirty men
dead on the spot: some were killed with great long arrows, some of
which were found sticking in their bodies; but most of them were
killed with eat wooden swords, sixteen or seventeen of which were
found on he field of battle, and as many bows, with a rent many
arrows. These swords were strange, reat, unwieldy t 'ngs, and
they must be very strong men that use them; most of those men
that were killed with them had their heads mashed to ieces, as we;
may say, or, as we call it In English, their brains knoc ed out, and
several their arms and legs broken; so that it was evident they
fight with inex ressible rag? and fury. We found not one man that
was not stone- ead, for eit er the stayby their enemy till they haste
quite killed him, Or they carry 1 the wounded men that are not
quite dead away with them. .

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while; the
sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared
terrible to the last degree, especially upon supposing that some-
time or other they should fall into the hands of those creatures, who
would not only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we
kill our cattle; and they professed to me, that the thoughts of being
eaten up like beef or mutton, though it was suppose that it was
not to be till they were dead, had something in it so horrible, that
it nauseated their very stomachs, made them sick when they thought
of it, and filled their minds with such unusual terror, that the were
not themselves for some weeks after. - This, as I said, tame even
the three English brutes I have been speaking of, and, for a great
while after, they were tractable, and went about the common
business of the "whole society well enough; planted, sowed, reaped,
and began to be all naturalised to the country. But some time after
this, they fell into such measures again, as brought them into a great

deal of trouble. . '
They had taken three prisoners, as I observed; and these three

being lusty, stout yOung fellows, they made them servants, and
taught them to work for them; and as slaves, they did well enough;
but they did not take their measures with them as I did by my man
Frida , viz. to begin with them upon the principle of having saved
their 'ves, and then mstruet them in the rational principles of life;

 

much less of religion, civilizing and reducingl them by kind usage
and affectionate ar uings; but as they gave t em their food eve
day, so they gave t rem their work too, and kept them fully'employe
m drudgery enough; but they failed in this b it, that the never
had them to assist them, and ii ht for them, as had my man riday,
who was as true to me as the flgesh u on my bones.

But to come to the family art. eing all now good friends, for
common danger, as I said a ove, had eii'ectually reconciled them,
they began to consider their general circumstances; and the first,
thing t at came under their consideration was, whether, seeing the
savages particularly haunted that side of the island, and that there
were more remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way
of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should not rather
move their habitation, and plaht in some more proper place for their
safety, and especially for the seeugity of their cattle and corn.

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would
not remove their habitation; because that, some time or other, they
thought they might hear from their governor Sigain, meanin me;
and if I should send any one to seek them, I sho d be sure to irect
them to that side; where, if they should find the place demolished,
the would conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone;
an so our supply would go too. But as to their corn and cattle,
they eed to remove them into the valley where m cave was,
where t 8 land was as proper for both, and where, indee , there was
land enough; however, upon second thoughts, they altered one art
of their resolution too, and resolved only to'remgvg part of t eir

/ w
cattle thither, and plant part of their corn there; and so if one part
was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one part of prudence
they used, which it was very well they did, viz. that they never
trusted those three savages, which they had made prisoners, with '
knowing anything of the plantation they had made in that valley, or
of any catt e they had there, much less of the cave there, which
they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe retreat; and thither they
carried also the two barrels of powder which I had sent them at my
coming away But, however, they resolved not to change their
habitation, yet the reed, that as I had carefully covered it
first with a wall or orti ication, and then with a grove of trees, so
seeing their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of
which they were now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and
conceal the lace yet more effectually than before. For this purpose,
as I plante trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew
to be trees, for some good distance before the entrance into my
apartments, they went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest
of that whole space of round, from the trees I had set, quite down
to the side of the crest, where, as I said, I landed my floats, and
even into the ver ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leav-
mg an place to and, or any sign that there had been any landing
therea out; these stakes also being of a wood very forward to grow,
as I have noted former] , they took care to have them enerally
much larger and taller tllan those which I had planted; an as they
grew a ace, so they lanted them so very thick and close together,
that w en they had Ibeen three or four years grown, there was no
piercin with the eye any considerable way into the plantation; and
as for t at part which I had planted, the trees were grown as thick
as a man's thigh, and among them they placed so many other short
ones, and so tl ick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisade a quarter
of a mile thic , and it was next to impossible to cnetrate it, but
with a little army to cut it all down; for a little 0g could hardlv
get between the trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all; for the did the same by all the round to
the right hand and the left, an round even to the top 0 the hill,
leaving no way, not so much as for themselves to 'come out, but by
the la der placed 11 to the side of the hill, and then lifted u , and
placed again from the first stage up to the top; and when the adder
was taken down, nothing but what had wings, or witchcraft to assist
it, could come at them. This was excellentl well contrived; nor
was it less than what they afterwards foun occasion for; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has the authority of
Providence to justify it, so it has doubtless the direction of Provi
deuce to set it to work; and if we listened carefully to the voice of
It, I am persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters which
our lives are now, by our own negligence, subjected to: but this by

I

the Way;
19
I return to the story.--They lived two years after this in perfect
retirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They had
indeed an alarm given to them one morning, which put them into a
great consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out early one
morning on the west side, or rather end, of the island (which was
that end where I never went, for fear of being discovered), they
were surprised with seeing about twenty canoes of Indians Just
comin on shore. They made the best of their way home, in huigfiv
enou ; and giving the alarm to their comrades, they ke tclose
that ay and t e next, going out only at night to make t eirobscr-
vation: but they had the cod luck to be mistaken; for wherever
the savages went, they di not land that time on the island, but
pursued some other design. -

And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen; one
of whom, a most turbulent fellow, beiu in a rage at one of the
three slaves, which I mentioned they h taken, because the fellow
had not done something right which be bid him do, and seemed a

 

little untractable in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of . a frog-
belt, in which he wore it by his side, and fell upon the peer savage,
not to correct him, but to kill him. One of the Spaniards, who was
by, Seeing him give the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet,
which he aimed at his head, but struck into his shoulders, so that he
thought he had cut the poor creature's arms of, ran to him, and en-
treatmg him not to murder the poor man, placed himself between
him and the savage, to prevent the mischief. The fellow being
enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet,
and swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage;
which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and With a shovel
which he had in his hand (or they were allWorking in the field
about their com-land) knocked the brute down. Another of the
Englishmen running at thesame time to help his comrade, knocked
the Spaniard down; and then two Spaniards more came in to hel
their man, and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They ha .
none of them any fire-arms, or an other weapons but hatchets and
other tools, cxce t this third Eng ishman; he had one of my rusty
outlasses, with w rich he made at the two last Spaniards and wounded
then: both. This fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more
help coming in; they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The
next question was, what should be done with them? They had
been so often mutinous, and were so very furious, so desperate, and
so idle withal, they knew not what course to take with them, for
they were mischievous to the highest degree, and valued not what
hurt they did to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live
with them.

' The Spaniard who was governor told them, inso many words, that
if they had been of his own country, he would have hanged onem ;
for all laws and all governors were to preserve society, and those
who were'dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out of it;
but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kind-
ness' of an Englishman that they all owed their reservation and
deliverance, he would use them with all possible nity, and would
leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were
their countrymen.

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired
it might not be left to them: "For," says he, " I am sure we ought
to sentence them to 'the gallows :" and with thathe 'ves an account
how Will Atkins, one of the three, hadaplrop'osed to ave all the five
Englishmen join together, and murder the, Spaniards when they
were'in their sleep.

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls .to Will Atkins,
"How Senhor Atkins, would you murder us all? What have you
to say to that P" The hardened villain was. so far from denying it,
that he said it was true: and, that they would do it still,
before the had done with them." " Well, but Senhor Atkins,"
says the paniard, "what have we done to you, that you will kill
us? And what would you get by killing us? And what must
we do to prevent your killing us? Must we kill on, or you kill
us? Wh willyou put us to the necessity of this, enhor Atkins P"
says the paniard, very calmly and smiling. Senhor 'Atkins was in
such a e at the Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had he not
been helldgby three men, and withal had no wea on near him, it was
thou ht he would have attempted to have kille the Sganiard in the
midd e of all the company. This hair-brained carriage ob iged them to
consider seriously what was to be done: the two Enghshmen, and
the Spaniard who saved the oor savage, were of theopinion that
they should hang one of the t e, for an example to the rest; and
220 ADVENTURES or nonrNsON cansos.

that articularly it should be he that had twice'attempted to commit
mur er with 1113 hatchet; and, indeed, there was some reason to
believe he had done it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable
condition with the wound he had received, that it was thought he
could not live. But the governor Spaniard still said no; it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would never con-
sent to put an Englishman to death, thouvh he had murdered half
of them; nay, he said, if he had been killed himself by an En lish-
man, and had time left to speak, it should be that they 5 ould
pardon him. ,

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that
there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful counsels are most apt to
prevail, where they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into
it: but then it was to be considered what should' be done to keep
them from doing the mischief they designed; for all eed, governor
and all, that means were to be used for preserving t e society from
dan er. After a long debate, it was agreed, first, that they should
be isarmed, and not permitted to have either gun, powder, shot,
sword, or any weapon; and should be turned out of the society, and
left to live where they would, and how they would, by themselves;
but that none of the rest, either Spaniards or En lish, should con-
verse with them, speak with them, or have anyt 'ng to do with

~ them : that they should be forbid to come within a certain distance
of the place where the rest dwelt; and if they offered to commit
any disorder, so as to spoil, burn. kill, or destroy any of the corn,
plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle 'belon ing_to the society, they
should die without mercy, and they would s oot them wherever they
could find them.

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to
shift for themselves. They went- away sullen and refractory, as
neither content to o away nor to sta ; but as there was no remedy,
they went, pretentfing to go and hoose a place were they would
settle themselves; and some provisions were given them, but no
weapons.

About four or five days after, they came in for some victuals,
and gave the governor an account where t ey had itched their

. tents, and marked themselves out a habitation an plantation;
and it was a very convenient place, indeed, on the remOtest part of
the island, N.E., much about the place where I had providentially
landed in my first voyage, when 1 was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my foolish attem t to sail round the island.
Here they built themselves two han some huts, and contrived
them in a manner like my first habitation, but close under the side
of a hill, having some trees growin already on three sides of it, so
that by planting others, it would 6 very easil covered from the
sight, unless narrowly searched for. They desire some dried ats'-
skins, for beds and covering, which were given them; an upon
giving their words that they would not disturb the rest, or injure an?
of their lantations, they gave them hatchets, and what other too '3
they co d spare; some peas, barley, and rice, for sowing; and, in a
word, anything they wanted, exce t arms and ammunition. '

They hved in this separate con 'tion about six months, and had
got in their first harvest, thouoh the quantity was but small, the
parcel of land they had planted Being but little; for, indeed, having
all their plantation to term, they had a eat deal of work upon
their hands ; and when they came to m e boards and pots, and
such things, they were quite out of their element, and could make
nothing of it: and when the rainy season came on, for want of a'cave
in the earth, they could not keep their rain dry, and it was in great
danger of spoiling; and this humbledg them much: so thfiy came
and begged the Spaniards to help them, which they very rea ' y did;
and in four days worked a hole m the side of the hill for them, big
enough to secure their corn and other things from the ram: but it
was but a cor lace, at best, compared to mine, and especially as
mine was t en, or the Spaniards-had greatly enlarged it, and made
several new apartments in it.

About three-quarters of a year after this separation, a new frolic
took these regues, which, tonether with the former villany they had
committed, brought mischie enou h upon them, and had very
nearly been the ruin of the whole co ony. The three new associates
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life the led, and that
without lmpe of betterin their circumstances; an a whim took
them, that they would ma e a voyage to the continent, from whence
the savages came, and would try if they could seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them home, so to make
them do the laborious part of their work for them.

The pro'ect was not so preposterous, if they had one no farther:
but they id nothing, and proposed nothing, but ha either mischief
in the esign, or mischief in the event : and, if I may give my opinion,
they seemed to be under a blast from Heaven; for if we Will not allow
a vnsihle curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the
events of things with the divine justice? It was certainly an
apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy that
brought them to the state they were in; and they showed not the
least remorse for the crime, but added new villames to it, such as
the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave, because he
did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he was directed;
and to wound him in such a manner as made him a cripple all his
life, and in a lace where no surgeon or medicine could be had for
his cure; an what was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do
justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it
was, as was afterwards the formed design they all laid, to murder
the Spaniards in cold blood and in their sleep.

19'
THE MUTINOUS BNGLISHMEN DISMISSED FROM THE ISLAND--RE.
'TURN WITH SEVERAL CAPTIVE SAVAGES--TAKE THE FEMALES A8

' WIVES--ARRIVAL OP. SAVAGES.

' BUT I leave observing and return to the story--The three fellows
came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very humble terms
desired to be admitted to speak with them; the Spaniards very
readily heard what the had to sa , which was this :--That they
Were tired of living in t e manner t ey did; and that the were not-
handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and t lat having
no help, the found they should be starved; but if the Spaniards
would give 1; em leave to take one of the canoes which "they came
over in, and give them arms and ammunition pro ortioned to their
defence, they would go overto the main and see their fortunes,
and so deliver them from their trouble of supplying them with any
other provisions. - ~
The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very
honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were run-
ning into; told them they had suffered such hardships upon that
very spot, that they could, without any s int of prophecy tell them
they would be starved, or murdered, and ads them consider of it.
The men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed
here, for the could not work, and would not work, and they could but
be starved ahroad; and if they were murdered, there was an end of
them; they had no wives or children to cry after them: and, in
short, insisted importunatel upon their demand; declaring they
would go, whether the won (1 give them arms or no.

The Spaniards told t rem, with great kindness, that if they were re-
solved to go, the should not go like naked men, and be in no
condition to defen themselves: and that though they could ill spare
their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would
let them have two muskets, a pistol and a eutlass, and each man a
hatchet, which they thought was sufficient for them. In a word,
they accepted the offer; and having baked them bread enough to
serve them a month, and given them as much goat's flesh as they
could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket of dried grapes, a
pot of fresh water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in the
ganog for a voyage over the sea, ,where it was at least forty miles

roa .

The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well have
carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for
them to mana e; but as they had a fair breeze, and flood tide with
them, they di well enough. They had made a mast of a long pole,
and a sail of four large goats'-skins dried, which they had sewed or
laced together; and away they went merrily enou h; the S aniards
called a ter them, Bum viage; and no man ever t ought o seeing
them any more. . .

The S aniards were often saying to one ' another, and to the two
honest nglishmen who remained behind, how quietly and comfort-
ably they hved, now these three turbulent fellows were gone; as for
their coming again, that was the remotest thing from their thou hts
that could be ima ined; when, behold, after two-and-twenty ays'
absence, one of the Englishmen, being abroad upon his plantin work,
sees three stran men coming towards him at a distance, wit guns
upon their shou ders.

Away runs the Eu lishman, as if he was bewitched, comes fri ht-
ened and amazed to t is governor Spaniard, and tells him that t iey
were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the island, but
could not tell who. The Spaniards, pausinga while, says to him,
"How do you mean, you cannot tell who? They are the sav es,
be sure." " No, no," says the Englishman: " they are men in clot res,
with arms." " Nay, then," says the Spaniard, " why are you con-
' corned? If they are not savages, they must be friends; for there is
:0 Christian nation upon earth but what will do us good rather than

arm.'

While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and
standing without .the wood, which was new lanted, hallooed to them,
they resently knew their voices, and so the wonder of that kind

.cease. . But now the admiration was turned upon another question,
via, Vyhat could be the matter, and what made them come back
again . . -

It was not long before they brought the men in, and inquiring where
they had been, and what they had been domg, they ave them a full
account of their voyage in a few words, viz. That t ey reached the
land in two days, or something less; but finding the pee le alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to ght them,
they durst not 0 on shore, but sailed on to the northward six or
seven hours, t' they came to a great o ening, by which they per-
ceived that the land they saw from our is and was not the mam, but
an island; upon entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the ri ht hand, north, and several more west; and hav'nE
resolved to Ian somewhere, they put over to one of the islands wh.e
lay west, and went boldly on shore: that the found the people very
courteous and friend] to them; and that t ey gave them several
roots and some drie fish, and. appeared very sociable; and the
women as well as the men were very forward to supply them with
anything they could get for them to eat, and brought it to them a
great way upon their reads.

. They continued here four days: and inquired, as well as they
could of them, b signs, what nations were this way, and that way;
and were told 0 several fierce and terrible people that lived almost
every way, who, as they made known by signs to them, used to eat
men; but as for themselves, they said, they never eat men or women,
except only such as they took in the wars; and then, they owned,
they made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.

- 'l'he Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind -
and the told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon, an
to two were ; and that their great kin had two hundred prisoners
now, which he had taken in his war, an the were feeding them to
make them fat for the next feast. The Eng ishmen seemed mighty
desirous of seeing those prisoners; but the others mistaking them,
thought they were desirous to have some of them to carry away for
their own eating; so they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting
sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify that the next
morning at sun-rising they would bring some for them; and aecer-
dingly, the next morning, they brought down five women, and eleven
men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to carry with them on their
voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen down to a
seaport town to victual a ship.

. As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their -
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do.
To refuse the prisoners would have been the highest affront to the
savage gentry that could be oli'ered them, and what to do with them
they knew not. However, after some debate, they resolved to
accept of them; and, in return, they gave the savages that brought
them one of their hatchets, an old key; a knife, and six or seven of
their bullets; which, though they. 'd not understand their use,
they seemed articularly pleased With; and then tying the poor crea-
tures' hands gehind them, they dragged the,prisoners into the boat for

0111' men.
The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they
had them, or else they that gave them this noble present would
certainly have expected that they should have gone to work'with
them, have killed two or three of them the next morning, and er
.haps have invited the donors to dinner. But having taken t eir
leave, with all the respect and thanks that could well pass between
people, where on either side, they understood not one word they could
say, they put off with their boat, andcame back towards the first
island; where, when they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at
liberty, there being too man of them 'for their occasion.

In their voyage, they en eavoured to have some communication
with their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them under-
stand anything; nothing they could say to them, or give them, or
do for them, but was looked upon as going to murder them. They
first of all unbound them; but the poor creatures screamed at that,
especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their
throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on
purpose to be killed. If they gave them anythin to eat it was the
same thing; they then concluded it was for fear t iey should sink in
flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill. If thev looked at one of
them more particularly, the party presently concluded it was to see
whether he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first; nay, after
the had brought them quite over, and begun to use them kindly,
an treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or supper for their new masters. '

W ien the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history
or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was; and being told that they had brought them on
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come u "to beg
some victuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the ot er two
Envlishmcn, that is to say, the whole colonv, resolved to go all down
to lthe place and see them; and did so, and Friday's father with them.

When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for when
they had brought them on shore, they bound their hands, that they
might not take the boat and make their escape; there, I say, they
sat, all of them stark naked. First, there 'were three "men, lusty,
comely fellows, well-shaped, straight and fair limbs, about thirty to
thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof two might be
from thirty to forty; two more, not above four or five-and-twenty;
and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen.
The women were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape
and features only tawny; and two of them, had they been erfect
white, would have passed for very handsome women, even in ondon
itself, having pleasant agreeable countenances, and of a very modest
behaviour, es eciall when they came afterwards to be clothed and'
dressed, as t to cal ed it; though, that dress was very indifferent,
it must be con essed.

Q
The sightyyou may be sure, was something uncouth to our
Spaniards, who were, to give them a just character, men of the best
behaviour, of the most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good
humour, that ever I met with; and, in particular, of the most.
modest, as will presently appear: I sa , the sight was ver uncouth,
to see three naked men and five nake women, all toget 1er bound,
and in the most miserable circumstances that human nature could
be supposed to be, viz. to be expecting every moment to be drago'ed
out, and have their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up ikc
a calf that is killed for a dainty. _

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's
father, to go in, and see, first, if he knew any of them, and then, if
he understood any of their speech. As soon as the old man came
in, he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them; neither
could any of them understand a word he said, or a sign he could
make, except one or the women. However, this was enough to
answer the end, which was to satisfy them that the men into whose
hands they were fallen were Christians; that they abhorred eating
men or women; and that they might be sure they would not be
killed. As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such
a joy, and by such awkward gestures, several ways, as is hard to
describe; for, it seems they were of several nations.

The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in the next place,
to ask them if they were willing to be servants, and to work for the
men who had brought them away: to save their lives; at which they
all fell a dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this, and ano-
ther that, anything that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to
intimate that they were willmar to work..

The go'vernor, who found that the having women amon them
would presently be attended with some inconvenience, an mirrht
occasion some strife, and erhaps blood, asked the three men what
the intended to do with t rese women, and whether they intended to
ma e them servants or wives? One of the Englishmen answered
very boldly and readily, that they would make them both; to which
the governor said: " I am not going to restrain vou from it; you
are your own masters as to that; but this I think is but just, for
avoiding disorders and quarrels among ou, and I desire it of you
for that reason only, viz. that you will en me, that if any of you
take any of these women, that while you stay ere, the woman any
of you takes, should be maintained by the man that takes her, and
should be his wife." All this appeared so just, that every one agreed
to it without any difiieulty. .

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if the designed to
take any of them? But every one of them answere no: some of
them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did not like
women that were not Christians: and all togetherdeclared that they
would not have one of them. On the other band, to be short, the
five Englishmen took every one of them a wife; and so they set up
a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in
my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within. The
three servants which were taken in the late battle of the savages

 

lived with them; and these carried on the main part of the colony,
supplied all the rest with food, and assisted them in anything as
they could, or as they found necessity required.

But the wonder of the story was, how five such refractory, ill-
matched fellows should agree about these women, and that two of
them should not pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two --
or three of them were, without comparison more agreeable than the
others; but they took a good way enough to prevent quarrelling
among themselves, for they set the five women by themselves in
one'of their huts, and they went all into the other but, and drew
lots among them who should choose first. _

He that drew to choose first went away by himself to the hut
where the poor naked creatures were, and fetched out her he chose;
and it was worth observing, that he that chose first took her that
was reckoned the homelicst and oldest of the five, which made mirth
enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it: but
the fellow considered better than any of them, that it was appli-
cation and business they were to expect assistance in, as much
as inl anything else; and she proved the best wife of all the
parce .

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and
fetched out one b one, the terrors of their condition returned upon
them again, and t icy firmly believed they were now going to be de-
voured. Accordingly, when the English sailor came in and fetched
out one of them, the rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung
about her, and took their leave of her with such agonies and affec-
tion as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor

e2'
was it ossible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that thev were
not to e immediately murdered till the fetched the old man,
Frida 's father, who immediately let them now that the five men,
who ad fetched them out one by one, had chosen them for their
mves. -

When the had done, and the fright the women, were in was a
little over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and
'n-lped them; and in a few hours they had built them every one a new
hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those the law already were '
crowded with their tools, household stuff, an pronsions. The
three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the two honest ones
nearer, but both on the north shore of the island, so that they con-
tinned separated as before; and thus my island was peopled in three

lnrlzcs; and, as I might say, three towns were commenced to be
ui t. '

And here it is ver well worth observing, that, as it often happens
in the world (what t 1e wise ends of God's'provrdcnce are, in such a
disposition of things, I cannot say),the two honest fellows had the two
worst wives; and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hang-
mg, that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do them-
,se ves good, nor any one else, had three clever, diligent, careful, and
ingeniour wives: not that the first two were bad wives, as to their
temper or humour, for all the five were most willing, quiet, assive,
and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives; at my
meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or
alike cleanly and neat.

Another observation I must make, to the honour of a diligent
application, on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothful, negli-
gent, idle temper, on the at her, that when I came to the place, and
viewed the several improvements, plantings, and management of the
srvernl little colonies, the two men had so far outgone the three,
that there was no comparison. They had, indeed, both of them as
much ground laid out for corn as they wanted, and the reason was,
because, according to my rule, nature dictated that it was to no
purpose to sow more com than the wanted; but the difference of
the cultivation, of the planting, of the fences, and, indeed, of every-
thiner else, was easy to be seen at first view.

The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their
huts, so that when you came to the place, nothing was to be seen
but wood; and though they had twice had their lantation demo-
lished, once by their own countrymen, and once ii the enemy, as
shall be shown in its place, yet the had restoredy all again, and
everything was thriving and flouris ling about them, they had
grapes planted in order, and managed like a vineyard, though they

l themselves never seen anything of that kind; and by their good
ordering their vines, their gra es were as good again as any of the
others. They had also found themselves out a retreat in the thickest

(
. anvnnrunns or nonmson cnuson. 229
art of the woods; where, though there was not a natural cave, as I
ad found, yet they made one with incessant labour of their hands,

and where, when the mischief which followed happened, they
secured their wives and children, so as they could never be found;
they havin , by sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood
which, as said, grew so readily, made the grove un assahle, except
in some places where they climbed up to get over t e ontsrde part,
and then went on by ways of their own leavmg.

 

As to the three re robates, as I justly call them, though they
were much civilized y their settlement, compared to yhat they
were before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the same
Opportunity; yet one of the certain companions of a profligate mind
never left them, and that was their idleness. It is true, they planted
corn, and made fences; but Solomon's words were never better verified
than in them, "I went by the vine ard of the slothful, and it was
all overgrown with thorns ;" for w en the Spaniards came-to view
their crop, they could not see it in some places for weeds, the hedge
had several ga s in it, where the wild oats had got in and eaten up
the corn; perhaps here and there a ead bush was crammed in, to
stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the stable-
door after the steed was stolen: whereas, when they looked on the
colony of the other two, there was the very face of industry and
success upon all they did; there was not aweed to be seen in all
their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges; and they, on the other
hand, verified Solomon's words in another place, "that the diligent
hand maketh rich ;" for every thing grew and thrived, and they had
' .plenty within and without; they had more tame cattle than the
others, more utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more

pleasugg and diversion too.
I It is true, the wives of the three were very hand and clean]
within doors, and having learned the English ways '0 dressing and
cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a
cook's mate on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' victuals
verv nicely and well; whereas the others could not be brought. to
understand it : but then the husband, who, as I say, had been
cook's mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands of the three
wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eggs, and caught fish and
birds; in a word, anything but labour, and t icy fared accordingly.
The diligent lived well and comfortably; and the slothful lived hard
and beggarly; and so, I believe, generally speaking, it is all over
the world.

But I now come to a scene different from all that had happened
' before, either to them or to me; and the original of the story was
this: Early one morning, there came on shore live or six canoes of
Indians or savages, call them which you lease, and there is no dOubt
they came upon the old errand of fee ing upon their slaves; but
that part was now so familiar to the S aniards, and to our men too,
that they did not concern themselves a out it, as I did: but having
been made sensible, b their experience, that their only business was
to lie concealed, an ,that if they were not seen by any of the
savages, they would goofi' again quietly, when their business was
done, having, as yet, not the east notion of there being an inhabi-
tants inthe island; I say, having .been made sensible of t ris, they
had nothing to do but to give notice to all the three plantations to
keep within doors, and not show themselves, only placing a scout in
a proper place. to give notice when the boats went to sea again.
This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all
these measures, and made it known among the savages that there .
were inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the desolation of
almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the savages were
one 011', the Spaniards pecped abroad again; and some of them had
tie curiosity to o to the place where they had been, to see what
they had been oing. Here, to their great surprise, they found
three savages left behind, and lying fast aslce ) upon the ground.
The Spaniards were greatl surprised at this sight, and perfectly
at 9.1055 what to do. l'he punish governor, as it ha ipcncd, was
with them, and his advice was asked, but he )rofessed e knew not
what to do. As for slaves, they had enou i already; and- t8 to
killing them, they were none of them incline to that: the S anish
overnor told me, they could not think of shedding innocent loud:
or as to them, the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded
none of their preperty, and they thought the had no just quarrel
against them, to take away their lives. And Iere I must, in Justice
to these Spaniards, observe, that let the accounts of Spanish cruelty
in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen
men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so
universally modest, temperate, virtuous, so very od-humoured, and
so courteous, as these Spaniards; and as to cruel y, they had nothing
of it in their very nature: no inhumanity, no barbarity, no out-
rageous passions; and yet all of them men of reat coura e and
5 am. Their temper and calmness had appear in their earing
tie insufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice
and humanity appeared now in the ease of the savages, as above.
After some consultation, they resolved u on this: that they would
lie still a while lon er, till, if possible, t ese three men might be
gone. But then t e'governor Spaniard recollected, that the three .
savages had no boat; and if they were left to rove about the island,
they would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it; and so
the should be undone that way. Uplon this they went back again,
an there lay the fellows fast asleep st , and so they resolved to waken
them, and take them prisoners; and they did so. The poor fellows
were stran ely frightened when they were seized u on and bound;
and afraidfiike the women. that the should be mur cred and eaten :
for it seems those people think all t 1e world does as they do, eating
men's flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that, and away
the carried them. -

I't was very happy for them that the did not carry them home to
their castle, I mean to my palace un er'the hill; but they carried
them first to the bower, where was the chief of their country work,
such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, &c. ; and after-
wards they carrred them to the habitation of the two Englishmen. '

Here they were set to work, though it was not much they had for
them to do ; .and whether it was b negligence in guarding them, or
that they thou ht the fellows con (1 not mend themselves, I know
not, but one 0 them ran away, and taking to the woods, they could
never hear of him any more.

They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after, in
some other boats or canoes of savages who came on shore three or
four weeks afterwards; and who, ea ing on their revels as usual
went off in two days time. This thong t terrified them exceedingly;
for the concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that if
this fe ow came home safe among his comrades, he would certainly
give them an account that there were people in the island, and also how
.few and weak they were: for this savage, as I observed before, had
never been told, and it was very happy e had not, how many there
were, or where they lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any
of their guns, much less had they shown him any of their other
retired laces; such as the cave in the valley, or the new retreat
which the two Englishmen had made, and the like.

The first testimon they had that this fellow had given intelligence
of them was, that, at two months after this, six canoes of savages,
with about seven, eight,.or ten men in a canoe, came rowin along
the north side of the island, where they never used to wmeiefore,
and landed, about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about-
a mile from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where this escaped

man had been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been

all there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man of
them would have escaped; but the case differed now very much, for

two men to fifty'WaS too much odds. The two men had the happi-

ness to discover them about a league off, so that it was above an

hour before they landed; and as they landed about a mile from their

huts, it was some time before they could come at them. Now,

having great reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first

thing they' did was to bind the two slaves which were left, and

cause two of. the three men who were brought with the women (who

it seems proved very faithful to them) to lead them, with their two

wives, and whatever they could carry away with them, to their re<<

tired laces in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and there

to bin the two fellows hand and foot, till they heard further.

In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, and
that they had bent their course directly that way, the opened the
fences where the milch goats were kept, and drove t rem all out ;
leavin their goats t0 stmgle in the woods, whither they pleased,
that t re savaoes might tl ' they were all bred wild; but the rogue
who came witi them was too cunning for that, and gave them an
account of it all, for the went directly to the place.

When the two poor rightened men had secured their wives and
goods, they sent the other slave they had of the three who came with
the women, and who was at the place by accident, away to the
Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy
help; and, in the mean time, they took their arms and what ammuni-
tion they had, and retreated towards the place in the wood where their
wives were sent; keeping at a distance, yet so that they might see,
if OSsihle which way the savages took.

hey had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could
see the little army of their enemies come on directly to their
habitation, and, in a minute more, could see all their huts and house-
hold stufl' flaming up together, to their great grief and mortifieation;
for they had aver ' great loss, to them irretrievable, at least for some
time. 'lhe kept t eir station for a while, till they found the savages,
- like wild casts, spread themselves all over the place, rummaging
every way and every place they could think of, in search of prey;
and in articular for the people, of whom, now, it plainly appeared
they had intelligence. .

The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure
where they stood, because it was likely some of the wild people
might come that way, and they might come too many together, thought
it proper to make another retreat about half. a mile farther; believing,

as it afterwards happened, that the farther they strolled the fewer
would be together. .
-
(-1

 

SECTION XXXVI.

SEVERAL SAVAGES KILLED; THE REMAINDBR LEAVE THE ISLAND--

A FLEET OF THEM APTERWARDS ARRIVE--A GENERAL BATTLE--
TKE SAVAGES ARE OVERCOME, AND TRANQUILITY RESTORED.

THEIR next halt was at the entrance into a very thick- rown art of
the woods and where an old trunk of a tree stood, whic was allow
and vastly large; and in this tree they both 'took their standing, re-
solvin to see there what might offer. They had not stood there
long, efore two of the savages appeared runmng directly that way,
as they already had notice where they stood, and were coming up
to attack them; and a little way farther they espied three more com-
ing after-them, and five more-beyond them, all coming the same
way: besides which, they saw seven or eight more at adistance run-
ning another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, like sports-
men beating for their game. ' ' .

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they should
stand and keep their posture, or fly; but, after a very short debate
with themselves, they considered, that if the savages ra d the
country-thus before help came, they mi ht perhaps find out t eir re-
treat in the woods, and then all woul be ost: so they resolved to
stand them there; and if the were too many to deal with, then they
would get u to the top of t e tree, from whence they doubted not

to defegrg' themselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition
lasted, though all the savages that were landed, which was near fifty,'
were to attack them.

Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether they
should the at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take the
middle party, by which the two and the five that followed would be
separated: at length they resolved to let the first two pass by, un-
less they should spy them in the tree, and come to attack them.
The first two savages confirmed them also in this resolution, by
turning a little from them towards'another part of the wood; but
the-three, and the five after them, came forward directly to'the tree,
as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing them
come so straight toward them, they resolved to take them in a line
as they came; and as the resolved to fire but one at a time, )erhaps
the first shot might hit 1 rem all three; for which purpose, the man
who was to fire ut, three or four small bullets into his piece; and
having a fair loop role, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he
took a sure aim, without being seen, waitin till they were within
abour thirt yards of the tree, so that he coul not miss.

While trey were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that had
escaped from them; and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved
that, if possible, he slionld'not escape, though they should both fire;
so the other stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the
first shot, he should be sure to have a second. But the first was too
good a marksman to miss his aim; for as the sav es kept near one
another, a little behind, in a line, he fired, an hit two of them '
directtliy : the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the head ; the
secon , which was the runaway Indian, was shot throu h the body,
and fell, but was not quite dead; and the third had a ttle scratch
in the shoulder, erha s by the same ball that went through the
body of the second; an being dreadfull frightened, though not so
much hurt, sat down upon the groun , screaming and yelling in a
hideous manner. ' .

The five that were behind, more frightened with the noise than
sensible of the danger, stood still at first: for the woods made the
sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling
from one side to another, and the fowls rising from all parts, scream-
ing, and every sort making a different noise, according to their kind;
just as it was when I fired the first gun that perhaps was ever shot
off in the island.

However, all being silent again, and they not knowin what the
matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the p ace where
their companions lay, in a condition miserable enough; and here the
poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that the were within reach of
the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over t ie wounded man, talk-
ing, and, as may be supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be
hurt: and who, it is very rational to believe, told them, that a flash
of the first, and immediately after that thunder from their eds, had
killed those two and wounded him: this, I say, is rations ; for no-
thing is more certain than that, as they saw no man near them, so they
had never heard a gun in all their hves, nor so much as heard of a
gun ; neither knew the. any thing of killing and wounding at a dis-
tance with fire and bul ets: if they had, one might reasonably believe
they would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the fate of
thelr'fellows, without some aiprehensions of their own.

Our two men, though, as t ey confessed to me, it grieved them
to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same time,
had no notion of their danger; yet, having them all thus in their
Bower, and the first having loaded his iece again, resolved to let fly

0th together among them ; and sin 0 ing out, by agreement, whic
to aim at, they~shot together, and 1hilled, or very much wounded,
four of them; the fifth, frightened even to death, though not hurt,
fell with the rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall together,
thought they had killed them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men
come boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns,
which was a wrong step; and they were under some surprise when. '
the came to the place, and found no less then four of them alive,
an of them twover little hurt, and one not at all: this obliged
them to fall upon t mm with the stocks of their muskets ; and first
they made sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause of
all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in the knee, and put
them out of their pain: then the man that was hurt not at all came
and kneeled down to them, with his two hands held up, and made-
pitcous moans to them, by jestnres and si us, for his life, but could
not say one word to them that they coulgd understand. However,
they made signs to him to sit down at the foot of a tree hard by;
and one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope twined, which e
had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two hands behind him,
and there they left him: and with what speed they could made after
the other two, which were gone before, fearing they, or any more of
them, should find the way to their covered place in the woods, where
their wives, and the few goods they had left, lay. They came once
in sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance; however,
theyohad the satisfaction to see them cross over a valley towards the
sea, quite the contrary way from that which led to their retreat,
which they were afraid of; and heino- satisfied with that, they. went

back to the tree where they left theib ner, who, as the suppos-

r riso
ed, was delivered by his comrades, fhr he was gone, an the two

icees of rope-yarn, with which they had bound lum, lay just at the
cot of the tree.

They were, now in as great concern as before, not knowing what
course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what numbers;

so they resolved to go away to the place were their wives were, to
see 'if all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright
enough, to be sure; for though the savagles were their Own country-
folk, yet the were most terribly afrai of them, and perhaps the
more for the nowled e they had of them.

When they came t ere, they found the sava es had been in the
wood, and ver nearthat place, but had not foun it : for it was in-
deed inaccessi le, by the trees standing so thick, as unless the
persons seeking it had been directed by those that knew it, which
these did not: the found, therefore, every thing very safe, only the
women in .a terri 16 f 'n'ht. While they were here, they had the
com fort to have seven 0 the Spaniards come to their assistance ; the
other ten, with their servants, and old Friday, I mean Friday's
father, were gone in a body ro defend their bower, and the corn and
cattle that was kept there, in case the savages should have roved
over -to that side of the country; but they did not spread so far.
With the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages who, as I
said, were their prisoners formerl ; and with them also came the
savage whom the Englishmen ha left bound hand and foot at the
tree: for it seems,.they came that way, saw the slaughter of the
seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brou ht him along with
them; where, however, they were obliged to bin him again, as they
had the two others whowere left when the third ran away .

The prisoners now began to be a burthen to them; an the were
so afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving to ' [them
all, believing they were under an absolute necessity to do so, for
their own preservation. However, the Spaniard governor would not
consent to it; but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent
out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be kept there, with
two Spaniards to ard them, and give them food for their subsis-
tence, which was one; and they were bound there hand and foot
for that night. .

When the S aniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged,
that they co d not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there;
but taking five of the Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets
and a pistol among them, and two stout quarter-staves, away they '
went in nest of the savages. And first they came to the tree where
the men ay that had been killed; but it was eas to see that some
more of the savages had been there, for they h attempted to carry
their. dead men away, and had dragged two of them a ood way, but
had given it over. From thence they advanced to t e first risin
ground, where they had stood and seen their cam destroyed, and
where they had themortification still to see some 0 the smoke: but
neithercould they here see any of the savages. They then resolved,
though with all possible caution, to go forward, towards their ruined
plantation; but a little before they came thither, comin in sight of e
the sea-shore, the saw plainly the savages all ember ed again in
their canoes, in or er to be gone. They seemed sorry, at first, that
there was no way to come at them, to give them a parting blow;
blut, upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid of
tlem.

The poor Englishmen being new twice ruined, and all their im-
provements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and hel them to
rebuild, and to assist them with needful supplies. T eir three
countrymen, who were not yet noted for havin the least inclination
to do any good, yet as soon as they heard 0 itfior they living re-
mote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till was ever), came
and offered their help and assistance, and did, very friendly, work for
several days, to restore their habitation, and make necessaries for
them. And thus, m a little time, they were set upon their legs

rram.

aoAbout two days after this, they had the further satisfaction of
seeing three of the savages' canoes come drivin on shore, and, at
some distance from them, two drowned men: y which the had
reason to believe that they had' met with a storm at sea, whic had
overset some of them, for it had blown very hard the night after
they went ofi.

However, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand, enough
of them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what they had done as
of what had happened to them, and to whet them on to another
enterprise of the same nature; which they,'it- seems, resolved to at-
tempt, with suflicient force to carry all before them: for except what
the first man had told them of inhabitants, they could say little of it
of their own knowledge, for they never saw one man, and the fellow
being Ikilled that had allirmed it, they had no other witness to confirm
It to t rem. -

It was five or six months after this before they heard an more
of the savages, in which time our men were in hopes they ha either
' forgot their former bad luck, or given over hopes of better; when,
on a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no
less than eight-and-twenty canoes, full of savages, armed with bows
and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and such-like en ines of
war; and they brought such numbers with them, that, in s ort, it
put all our people into the utmost consternation.

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side
of the island, our men 'had that night to consult and consider what. to
do; and, in the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed
was their only safety before, and would be much more so now, while
the number of their enemies was so great, they therefore resolved,
first of all, to take down the hats which were built for the two
Englishmen, and drive awa their goats to the old cave; because they
supposed the savages woul go directly thither as soon as it was da ,
to play the old game over again, though they did not now land wit [-
in two leagues of it. In the next lace, theyidrove away all the
flocks of goats they had at the old ower, as called it, which be-
longed to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance of
inhabitants any where as was ossible: and the next morning early
they posted themselves, with alhtheir force, at the plantation of the
two men, to wait for their coming. As they guessed, so it happen.
ed: these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of the
island, came ranging alon the shore, directly towards the place, to
the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men could
judge. Our army was but small, indeed; but that which was worse,
they had not arms for all their number neither. The whole account,
it seems,_stood thus: first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, live En-
glishmen, old Friday, or Friday's father, the three slaves taken with
the women, who proved very faithful, and three other slaves, who
lived with the Spaniards. To arm these, the had eleven muskets,
lire pistols, three fowling-pieces, five mus cts or fowling- icces
which were taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I re uecd,
t-WU swords, and three old halherds. .

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fuse, but they
had every one a halberd, Or a long stalf, like a quarterostafl', with a
great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his side a
ratchet ; also every one of our men had a hatchet Two of the women
could not be prevailed upon but they would come into the fight,
and they had bows and arrows, which the Spaniards had taken from
the savz <<res when the first action happened. which I have spoken of,
where he Indians fought with one another, and the women had
hatchets too. ,

The Spaniard vernor, whom I described so often, commanded
the whole; and ill Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for
~wickedness, was a most darin , bold fellow, commanded under him.
The savages came forward 11 e lions; and our men, which was the
worst of their fate, had no advantage in their situation; only that
Will Atkins, who now rovcd a most useful fellow, with six men,
was (planted just behiu a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced
guar , with orders to let the first of them pass by, and then lire into
the middle of them, and as soon as he had fired, to make his retreat
as nimble as he could round a part of the wood, and so come in be-
hind the Spaniards, where they stood, having a thicket of trees be.
fore them

When the savages came on, they ran st f"glint? about every way
in heaps, out of all manner of order, and Virgil] Atkins let about fifty '
of them ass by him; then seeing the rest come in a ver thick
throng, ie orders three of his men to fire, having loadc their
muskets with six or seven bullets a piece, about as big as large
)istol bullets. How man they killed or wounded they 'new net,
at the consternation an sur rise was inexpressible among the
savaves; they were frightenc to the last degree to hear such a
dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see
nobody that did it; when, in the middle of their fright, Will Atkins
and his other three let it again among the thickest of them; and in
less than a minute the rst three being loaded again, gave them a
third volley.

Had W111 Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as
the had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of the
b0 y been at hand, to have poured in their shot continually, the
savages had been effectually routed; for the terror that was among
them came rincipally from this, viz. that they were killed by the
gods with t under and lightning, and could see nobody .that hurt
them; but Will Atkins, staying to load again, discovered the cheat;
some of the savages who were at a distance spying them, came
"in," them behind; and thou h Atkins and his men fired at them
a so, two or three times, and illed above twenty, retiring as fast as
they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his
fellow-Englishmen, with their arrows, as' they did afterwards one
5 )aniard, and one of the Indian slaves who came with the women.
'1' llS slave was a most allant fellow, and fought most desperately,
killing five of them wit his own hand, having no weapon but one
of the armed staves and a hatchet.

Our men being thus hard laid at,.Atkins wounded, and two other
men killed, retreated to a rising ground in the wood; and the
Spaniards, after firing three volleys upon them, retreated. also;
for their number was so great, and they were so desperate, that
though above fifty of them were killed, and more than as many
wounded, et they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of
danger, and shot their arrows like a crowd; and it was observed
that their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were made
outrageous by their wounds, and fought like madmcn.

When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the English-
man that were killed behind them; and the savages, when they
came up to them, killed them over again in a wretched manner;
breaking their arms, legs, and heads, with their clubs and wooden
swords, like true savages; but finding our men were gone, they did
not seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a ring, which
is, it seems, their custom, and shouted twice, m token of their
victory; after which they had the mortification to see several of
their wounded'men fall, (lying with the mere loss of blood.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up-tovether
upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have
had them march and charge again all together at once; but the
Spaniard replied: "Senhor Atkins, you see how their wounded
men fi ht; let them alone till morning; all the wounded men will
be sti and sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of blood :
and so we shall have the fewer to engage." This advice was' good;
but Will Atkins replied merrily: "That is true, senhor, and so shall
I too; and that is the reason I would 0 on while I am 'warm."
"--Well, Senhor Atkins," says the Spaniar , " you have behaved gal-
lantly, and done your part; we will fight for you, if on cannot
eoniedon; but I think it best to stay till morning. ' So they
waits .

~ But as it was a clear moonlight night, and the found the savages
in great disorder about their cad and wounde men, and a great
noise and hurry among them where they lay, they afterwards re.
solved to fall upon them in the night, especially if the could come
to give them but one volle before they were discovere , which they
had a fair opportunity to o; for one of the Englishmen, in whose
quarter it was where the light began, led them round between the
woods and the seaside westward, and then turning short south, they
came so near where the thickest of them lay, that, before they were
seen or heard, eight of them fired in among them, and did dreadful
execution upon them; in half a minute more, eight others tired
after them, 'pouring in-their small shot in such quantity, that
abundance were killed and wounded; and all this while they were
not able to see who hurt them, or which way to fly. .

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then
divided themselves in three bodies, and resolved to fall in among
them altogether. They had in. each body eight persons, that is to
say, twenty-two and the two women, who, by the way fought des-
peratel . They divided the fire-arms e ually in each party, and so
the ha herds and staves. 'They would ave had the women keit
back, but the said they were resolved to die with their husban s.
Having thus {ormed their little army, they marched out from amen
the trees, and came up to the teeth of the enemy, shouting and
hallooing as loud as they could; the savages stood altogether, but
were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shoutinw
from three quarters together; they would have fought if they hail
seen us; for as soon as we came near enough to' be seen, some
'arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not
dangerously; but our men gave them no_ time, but, running up to
them, fired amontr them three ways, and then fell in with t 1e butt-
ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchcts, and
laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
screamin and howling, flying to save/their lives which way socrer
they confii.

Our men'were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally
wounded in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of them;
the rest being frightened out of their wits, scoured through the
'woods and over the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet
could help them to; and as we did not-trouble ourselves much to
pursue them, they got all together to the seaside where they landed,
and where their canoes lay. But their disasters were not at an end
' yet; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the sea,
so that it' was impossible for them to go off; nay, the storm con-
tinuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes were most of
, ADVENTURES or nonmson onusos. 241

them driven by the surge of the sea so high upon the shore, that it,
required infinite toil to get them off ; an some of them were even
dashed to pieces trainst the beach, or against one another.

Our men, thou lad of their victor , yet ot little rest that ni ht ;
but having refres 1e themselves as we as t ey could, they reso red
to march to that part of the island where the savages were fled, and
see what posture they were in. This necessarily led them over the
place where the fight had been, and where they found several of the

 

goo'r creatures not quite dead, and yet (fast recovering life; a sight
Isagreeable enough to generous min 3; for a truly great man,
thou h obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no
dehg it in his misery. However, there was no need to give any
orders in this case; for their own savages, who were their servants,
dis atched these poor creatures with their hatchets. '

t length, they came in view of the place where the more miser~
able remains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared about
a hundred still: their posture was generally sittm u on the
ground, With their knees up towards their mouth, and t 1e ead put
_ etween the two hands, leaning down upon the knees.

'When our men came within two musket-shots of them, the
Spaniard governor ordered two muskets to be fired, without hall, to
alarm them: this he did,'that by their countenance he might know
what to expect, viz. whether t ey were still in heart to fight, .or
were .so heartily beaten as to be drspirited and discouraged, and so
he might manage accordingly. This stratagem took; for as soon as
the savages heard the first gun and saw the flash of the second,
they started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation ima-
gmable ; and as our men advanced swiftly toward them, they all
ran screaming and yelling away, with a kind of howling noise, which
our men did not understand, and had never heard before: and thus
they ran up the hills into the country. ' '

, 21 B
At first 'our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and
they had all gone away to sea; but they did not then consider that
this might robably have been the occasion of their coming again
in such m titudes as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so
many, and so often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve
them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstandi his wound,
kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in t ' case: his
advice was, to take the advantage that offered, and clap in between
them and their boats, and so deprive them of the capacity of ever
returning any more to plague the island.

They consulted long about this; and some were against it, for
fear of making the' wretehes fly to the woods and live there.des-
perate, and so they should have them to hunt like wild beasts, be

, afraid to stir out about their business, and have their plantation
continually rifled, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, be
reduced to a life of continual distress. ' _

Will Atkins told them the had better have to do with a hun-
dred, men than with a hundre nations; that as will must destroy
their boats, so they must destro the men, or be of them de-

stroyed themselves. In a word, e showed them the necessityof it
so p ainly, that they all came into it; so they went to work, imme-
diately with the boats, and getting some dry wood together from a'
dead tree, they tried to set ' some of them on fire, but they were so
wet that they would not burn; however, the fire so burned the
upper part, that it soon made them unfit for swimming in the sea as
boats. ' When the Indians saw what they were about, some of them
came run ' 0 out of the woods, and coming as near as they could
to our men, eeled down and cried: "0a, 0a, Waramokoa," and
some other words of their language, which none of the other:
understood anything of; but as they made pitiful gestures and
strange noises, it was easi to understand they begged to have their
boats spared, and that t ey would be gone, and never come there
again. But our men -were now satisfied that the had no way to
preserve themselves or to save their colon , but e ectually to re.
vent any of these people from ever goin ome again; depen 'ng
upon this, that if even so much as one 0 them got back into their
country to tell the story, the colony was undone; so that, letting
them know that they should not have any mercy, the fell to work_
With their canoes, and destroyed them every one that t e storm had
not destroyed before: at the si ht of which the savages raised a
hideous cry in the woods; whie our people heard plain enough,
after which they ran about the island hke distracted men,' so that,
in a word, our men did not really know at first what to do with
them. Nor did the S aniards, with all their" prudence, consider
that while they made t ose eople thus desperate, they ought to
"have kept a good guard at t e same time upon their plantations;
"for though, it is true, they had driven away their cattle, and the
Indians did not find out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at
the hill, nor the cave in the valley, yet they found out my plantation
at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and
planting about it; trod all the corn under foot, tore up themes
and gra es, being just then almost ripe, and did our men an inesti-
mable amage, though to themselves not one farthmg's worth of
servrce. .

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet
they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and
down; for as they were too nimble of foot for our men, when they
found them single, so our men durst not go abroad single, for-"fear
of being surrounded with their numbers. The best was, they had
no weapons; for though they. had hows, the had no arrows left,
nor any materials to make any; nor had t ey any edge-tool or
weapon among them.

T e extremity and distress they were reduced to was great and
indeed deplorable; but, at the same time, our men were also brought
to very bad circumstances by them; for thou h their retreats were
preserved, et their rovisron was destroy , and their harvest
spoiled; an what to 0, or which wayto turn themselves they knew
not. The on] refuge they had now was, the stock of cattle they .
had in the v ey by the cave, and some little cornthat grew there,
and the plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkins and his
comrades, who were now reduced to two; one of them being killed
by an arrow, which struck him on the side of the head, just under the
temple, so that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable,
that this was the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor savage slave
with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have murdered the
Spaniards.

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than
mine was at any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley and
rice, and got into the manner of planting and raising my corn and
my tame cattle; for now they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves
upon the island, winch would devour everything they could come at,
yet could be hardly come at themselves.

When they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing they
concluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the

, farther part of the island, south-west, that if an more savages came
on shore the might not find one another; t ien that they would
daily hunt an harass them, and kill as many of them as they could
come at, till they had reduced their number; and if the could
at last tame them, and bring them to anything, they wo d ive
{ligm corn, and teach them how it plant, and live upon their ' y
a our.

In order to this, they so followed them, and so terrified them with
their uns, that in a few days, if an of them fired a gun at an Indian,
if he 'd not hit him, yet he woul fall down for fear; and $30 dread-

n
fully frightened they were, that they keg: out of sight farther and
farther; till, at,last, our men followmg t em, and almost every day
killing or wounding some of them, the kept u in the woods or
hollow places so much, that it reduced t em to t e utmost misery
for want of food ; and many were afterwards found dead in the woods,
without any hurt, absolutely starved to death.

When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and pity
moved them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most
gentleman-like, generous-minded man that I ever met with in my
ife ; and he proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so far as to be able to act
as interpreter, and go amon them, and see if they might be brought
to some conditions that mig t be depended upon, to save their lives
and do us no harm.

 

It was some while before any of them could be talcen; but being
weak and half-starved, one of them was at last surprised and made a
riSoner. He was sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drmlc;
hut finding himself kindly used, and victuals given him, and no v10-
lcnce offered him, he at last grew tractable, and came .to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked often wrth lnm, and told
him how kind the others would be to them all; that they would not
only save their lives, but would give them part of the island to live
in, provided they would give satisfaction .that they would keep'm
their own bounds, and not come beyond it to infure or prejudice
lothers; and that they should have corn given.tiem to plant and
make it grow for their bread, and some bread wen them for their
present subsistence; and old Friday bade the fe low go and talk with
the rest of his countr men, and see what .the said to it; assunfi
them, that if they di not agree immediate y, they would be
destroyed. '
The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number
to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, and
begged to have some food given them; upon which, twelve Spaniards
an Ltwo Englishmen, well armed, with three Indian slaves and old
Friday, marched to the place where they were. The three Indian
slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to
cakes and dried in the sun, and three live goats; and they were
ordered to go to the Side of a hill, where they sat down, ate their
provisions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to
their words that could be thought of; for, except when they came
to be victuals and directions, they never came out of their bounds:
alid t are they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see
t em.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame
goats, and milk them: they wanted nothing but wives, and they
soon would have been a nation., They were confined to a neck of
land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lying lain
towards the sea before them, on the south-east corner of the is and.
They had land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; about
a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I .made for
myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and three or four
knives; and there they hved, the most subjected, innocent creatures
that ever were heard of. ' .

After this, the colonyvenjoyed a perfect tran uillity with respect '
to the savages, till I came to revisit them, w ich was about two
years after ; not but that, now and then, some canoes of savages
came on shore for their trium hal, unnatural feasts; but as they
were of several nations, and per aps had never heard of those that
came before, or the reason of it, they did not make any search or
inquiry after their countrymen; and if they had, it would have been
very'hard to have-found them out.

Thus, I think, 1 have given a full account of all that happened to
them till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indiana
or savages were wonderfully civilized by them, and they frequently
went among them; but forbade, on pain of death, any one of the
Indians coming to them, because they would not have their settle-
ment betrayed again. One thin was very remarkable, viz. that they
tau ht the savages to make wie er-work, or baskets, but they soon
outfiid their masters; for they made abundance of most ingenious
things in wicker-work, particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-
cawes, cupboards, &c.; as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches,
an abundance of other thin , being very ingenious at such work,

whenztiliey were once put in t e way of it.
ROBINSON LEARNS FROM THE' SPANIAIRDS THE DIFPICULTIES THEY
HAD TO ENCOUNTER--BE PURNISHES THE PEOPLE WITH TOOLS,

moi--THE FRENCH ECCLESIASTIC.

HAVING thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty
much of my five runagate Englishmen, I must say something of the
Spaniards, who were the main body of the family, and in whose
story there are some incidents also remarkable enough. -
I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances
when they were amongthe savages. They told me readily that they

had no instances to give 9f their application or ingenuity in that
country; that they were a poor, miserable, and dejected handful of

peOple ;,that if means had been put into their hands, yet they had so
abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight of
their misfortunes, that they thou ht of nothing but starving. One
of them, a grave sensible man, to d me he was convinced they were
in the wrong; that it was not the part of wise men to give them-
selves up to their misery, but always to take hold of the helps which '
reason offered, as well for present support as for future deliverance:
he told me that rief was the most senseless insignificant passion in
the world, for t at it r ded only things past, which were gene-
rally impossible to be re led, or to be remedied, but had no views
of things to come, and had no share in anything that looked like
deliverance, but rather added to the affliction than proposed a
remedy; and upon this he repeated a Spanish proverb, which though
I cannot repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I'
remember I made it into an English proverb of my own thus :

In trouble to-be troubled.
Is to have your trouble doubled.

He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I had
made in m solitude; m unwearied application, as he called it; and
how I h made a con 'tion which in its circumstances was at first
much. worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs
was even now when they were all together. He told me it was
remarkable that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind, in their
distress, than an people he ever met With ; that their unhappy
nation and the ortuguese were the worst men in the world to
struggle with misfortunes; for that their first step in dangers, after
own n er it

the common efforts were over, was to despair, lie u , and
die, without rousing their thoughts up to pr0per remedies for
escape._

I told him their case and mine diifered exceedingly; that the
were cast upc'm the shore without necessaries, without supply of foo ,
curresent sustenance till they could provide it; that, it was true, I
h this disadvant 0e and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the
supplies I had provi entially thrown into m hands, by the unexpected
driving of the ship on shore, was suc . a help as would have
encouraged any creature in the world to have applied himself as I
had done. " Senhor," says the Spaniard, " had we poor Spaniards been'
in your case, we should never have got half those things out of the
chi , as you did; nay," says he, "we should never have found means
to ave got a raft to carry them, or to have got the raft on shore
without boat or sail; and how much less should we have done if any
of us had been alone l" Well, I desired him to abate his complaint,
and go on with the history of their comin on shore, where they
landed. He told me they unhappily lande at a place where there
were peo le without provisions; whereas had they had the common
sense to ave ut off to sea again, and gone to another island a httle
farther, they liad found provisions, though without people; there
bemg an island that way, as they had been told, where there were

rovrsions, though no eople ; that is to say, that the Spamards_oi'

rinidad had frequently been there, and had filled the island With
goats and ho at several times, where they had bred in such mult1-.
tudes, and w ere turtle and seafowls were in such plenty, that they
could have been in no want of flesh, though they had found no
bread; whereas here, they were only sustains with a few roots and
herbs, which they understood not and which had no substance in
them, and which the inhabitants gave them sparingly enough, and
who could treat them no better, unless they woul turn canmbals,
and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of their country. .

They gave me an account how many ways they strove to cmhze
the savages they were with, and to teach them rational customs in
the ordinary way of living, but in vain; and how they retorted it
upon them, as unjust, that they who came there for assistance and
support, should attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave
them food; intimating, it seems, that none shOuld set up for the
mstructors of others but those who could live without them. .

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven
to; how sometimes the were many days without food at all, the
Bland they were upon eing inhabited by a sort of savages that
lived more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied with the
necessaries of life, than they had reason to believe others were in the
same part of the world; and yet they found that these savages were
less ravenous and voracious than those who had better supplies of
food. Also they added, the could not but see with what demon-
strations of wisdom and goo ness the governing providence of God
directs the events of things in the worl ; which, theyl said, appeared
in their circumstances; for if, pressed by the bards ips they were
under, and the barrenness of the country where they were, they had
searched after a better to lire in, they had been out of the way of the
relief that happened to them by my means.

They then gave an account how the savages whom they lived
among expected them to o_ out with them into their wars; and, it
was true, that as they ha fire-arms with them had they not had the
disaster to lose their ammunition, they should have been serviceable
not only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible both to
friends and enemies; but being without powder and shot, and yet in
a condition that they could not in reason deny to go out with their
landlords to their wars, so when they came into t e field of battle,
they were in a worse condition than the savages themselves; for
they had neither bows nor arrows, nor could they use those the
savages (gave them; so they could do nothing but stand still, and be
wounde With arrows, till the came up to the teeth of their enemy;
and then, indeed, the three h herds they had were of use to them:
and the would often drive a whole little army before them with
those ha herds, and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their
muskets; but that, for all this, they were sometimes surrounded
with multitudes, and in great danger from their arrows, till at last
they found the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which
the covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they knew not,
an these covered them from the arrows of the savages; yet, not-
withstanding these, they were sometimes in great danger; and five
of them were once knocked down together with the clubs of the
savages, which was the time when one of them was taken risoner,
that is to sa , the Spaniard whom I had relieved: that at rst they
thought ha been killed; but when they afterwards heard he was
taken prisoner, they were under the greatest ief imaginable,
and would willingly have all ventured their lives to ave rescued him.

They told me that when. they were so knocked down, the rest of
their company rescued them, and stood over them' fighting till they
were some to themselves, all but him who the thou ht had been.
dead; and then they made their way with their alber and pieces,
standing close toget er in a line, through a body of above a thousand
savages, beating down all that came in their way, get the victo
over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was with
the loss of their friend, whom the other_party, finding him alive,
carried off, with some others, as I gave anaccount before. '
They described most affectionately how they were surprised with
joy at the return of their friend and companion in misery, who, they
thought, had been devoured by wild beasts of the worst kind, viz.,
by wild men; and yet how much more the were surprised
with the account he gave them of his errand, an that there was a
Christian in any place near, much more one that was able, and had
humanity enough, to contribute to their deliverance.

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the relief
I sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread, things they
had not seen since their coming to that miserable place; how often
they crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what
a revivin cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, as also the other
things I ad sent for their supply; and, after all, they would have
told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a boat
and ilots, to \car them awa to the person and lace from whence
all t ese new com orts came, at it was impossib e to express it by
words, for their excessive joy naturally drivmnr them to unbecoming
extravagances, they had no way to describe them, but by telling me
they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their
passions suitable to the sense that was upon them; that in some it
worked one way, and in some another; and that some of them
through a surprise of joy, would burst into tears, others be stark
mad, and others immediately faint. This discourse extremely affected
me, and called to my mind Friday's ecstasy when he met lus father,
and the poor people 3 ecstasy when I took them up at sea after their
ship was on fire; the joy of the mate of the ship when he found
himself delivered in the p ace where he expected to erish; and my
own joy, when, after twenty-eight years' captivity: found a good
ship ready to carry me to my own country. All t ese things made
me more sensible of the relation of these poor men, and more
afi'ected with it. .

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them,
I must relate the heads of what I did for these peeple, and the con-
dition in which I left them. It was their 0 inion, and mine too,
that they would be troubled no more with t e savages, or, if they
were, they would be able to cut them OR, if they were twice as
many as before; so they had no concern about that. Then I entered
into a serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom I call governor,
about their stay in the island; for as I was not come to carry any of
them off, so it would not- be just to carry off some and leave others,
who, perhaps, woulu be unwillin to stay if their strength was
diminished. On the other hand, told them I came to establish
them there, not to remove them: and then I let them know that I
had brought>> with me relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had
been at a rest charge to supply them with all things necessary, as
well for tieir convenience as their defence; and that I had such
and such particular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit
their number, as b the particular necessary employments which
they were bredto, eing artificers, to assist them in those things
m which they were at present in want.

' '

'0

They were altogether when I talked thus to them; and before I
delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them, one by
one, if they had entirely forgot and buried the first animosities that
. had been among them, and would shake hands with one another, and
- engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, that so there

' ht be no more misunderstandi and jealousies. '

ill Atkins, with abundance of rankness and good humour, said,
they had met with affliction enou h to make them all sober, and
enemies eno h to make them a friends; that, for his part, he
would live an die with them; and was so far from designing any-
thing ainst the Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing
to lum ut what his own mad humour made necessary, and what he
would have done, and perha s worse, in their case; and that he
would ask them pardon, if I esired it, for the foolish and brutish
things he had done to them, and was very willing and desirous of
living in terms of entire friendship and union with them, and would
do anything that lay in his power to convince them of it: and as
. for going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these
twenty ears.

The paniards said they had, indeed, at first disarmed and exclu-
ded Will Atkins and his two countrymen. for their ill conduct, as
they had let me know, and they ap ealed to me for the necessit
the were under to do so; but that ill Atkins had behaved himse
so ravely in the great (i ht the had with the savages, and on
several occasions since, an hmd s owed himself so faithful to, and
concerned for, the general interest 'of them all, that they had for-
gotten all that was past, and thought he merited as much to be
trusted with arms, and supplied with necessaries, as any of them:
and they had testified their satisfaction in him, by committing the
command to him, next to the governor himself; and as they had
entire confidence in him, and a his countrymen, so the acknow-
ledged they had merited that confidence by all the met iods that
honest men could merit to be valued and trusted; and they most
heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance, that
theiy would never have an interest separate from one another.

pon, these frank an open declarations of friendship, we ap~
pointed the next day to dine all together; and, indeed, we made a
splendid feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on
s ore and dress our dinner, and the old cook's mate we had on shore
assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef, and four
pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision, with our punchbowl and
materials to fill it; and, in particular, I ave them ten bottles of
French claret, and ten bottlesof English eer; things that neither
the Spaniards nor the English had tasted formany years, and which
it may be su posed, they were very lad of. The Spaniards added
to our feast 've whole kids, which t e cooks roasted: and three of
them were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen,
that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as we ,did with
their salt meat from on board. . - .

After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I
brought out my cargo of goods: wherein that there might be no dis-
pute about dividin , I showed them that there was a sufficiene for-
them all, desiring tEat they might all take an equal uantity o the
goods that were for wearing: that is to say equal w en made up.
As, first, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of them
four shirts, and, at the Spaniards' request, afterwards made them up
six; these were exceedingly comfortable to them, having been what,
as I may say, they had lono since forgot the use of, or what it was
to wear them. I allotted the thin English stuffs, which I mentioned-
before, to make every one a light coat like a frock, which I jud d
fittest for the heat of the season, cool and loose; and ordered t at
whenever they decayed they should make more, as they thought lit:
the like for pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, &c.

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the.
countenances of all these oor men, when they saw the care I had
taken of them, and how we I had furnished them. They told me I
was a father to them; and that havin such a corrrespondent as I
was in so remote a part of the worl , it would make them forget
that they were left in a desolate place; and they all: voluntarily
en ed to me not to leave the place without my consent.

l'hen I presented to them t e people I had brought with me,
particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of
them most neees people; but, above all, my general artificer,
than whom they co (1 not name anything that was more useful to
them: and the tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt, the
first thin he did; and, which was still more, he tau ht the women
not only ow to sew- and stitch, and use the needle, ut made them
assist to make the shirts for their husbands and for all the rest.

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful they were;
for they took to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, and made
them clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers,
shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind. But, to let them
see how nature made artificers at first, I carried the car enters to see
Will Atkin's basket-house, as I called it: and they bot owned they
never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before, nor anything
so regular and so handily built, at least of its kind: and one of them,
when he saw it, after musing a good while, turning about to me,
" I am sure," says he, "that man has no need of us; you need no-
hing but ive him tools." ' .

Then brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every.l
l

252 mvsn'ruass or nonmson causes.

man a diggin spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no harrows or
ploughs; an to every separate lacea pick-axe, a crow, a broad-axe,
and a saw; always appointingt at as often as any were broken or
worn out, they should be supplied without rudving, out of the
general stores that I left behind. Nails, stapes, hinges, hammers,
chisels, knives, scissors, and all sorts of ironrwork, they had with-
out tale, as they required: for no man would take more than he
wanted, and he must be a fool who would waste or spoil them on
any account whatever; and for the use of the smith, I left two tons
of unwrought iron for a suppl .

My magazine of owder an arms which I brought them was such,
even to rofusion, t at they could not but re'oice at them; for now
the co 6. march as I used to do, with a mus ct fipon each shoulder,
if t ere was occasion; and were able to fight a thousand savages, if
they had but some little advantages of situation, which also they
could not miss, if they had occasion.

I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid also; she was a sober, well educated,
religious young woman, and behaved so inofl'ensively, that every one

ve her a good word; she had indeed an unha py hfe with us, there

eing no woman in the ship but herself, hut she here it with

atience; After a while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so

us a way of thriving upon my island, and considering that they had
neither business or acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for
making so long a voyage; I say, considering all this, both of them
came to me, and desired I would give them leave to remain on the
island, and be entered among the family, as they called it. I avreed
to this readily; and they ha a little plot of ground allotted to them,
where then had three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a
basket-work pallisadoed like Atkins's, ad'oining to his plantation.-
Their tents were contrived so that they ad each of them a room
apart to lodge in, and a middle tent, like a great storehouse, to lay
t eir goods in, and to eat and drink in. And now the other two
Englishmen removed their habitation to the same place; and so the
island was divided into three colonies, and no more, viz. the
Spaniards, with old Friday, and the first servants, at my old habita-
tion under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital city; and
where they had so enlarged and extended their works, as wel under
as on the outside of the hill, that the lived, though perfectly
concealed, vet full at large. Never was t ere such a little city in a

wood, and so hid, in any part of the world: for I verily believe a

thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and, if they
had not known tnere was such a thing, and looked on purpose for it,
they would not have found it; for the trees stood so thick and so
close and grew so fast woven one into another, that nothing but
cutting them down first could discover the place, exce t the onl
two narrow entrances where they went in and out coul be foun
which was not very easK: one of them was close down at the water's
edge, on the-side of t e creek, and, it was afterwards above two
hundred yards to the place; and the other was up a ladder at twice,
as I have already formerly described it; and they had also a large
wood thick-planted on the top of the hill, contaimng above an acre,
whieh grew apaee, and concealed the place from all discovery there,
with only one narrow place between two trees, not easily to be dis-
covered, to enter on that side. .

The other colon was that of Will Atkins, where there were four
families of Entrlis men, I mean those I had left there, with their
wives and children; three savages that were slaves; the widow and
the children of the Englishmen that was killed; the oung man and
the maid; and, by the way, we made a wife of her efore we went
away. There was also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I
brought with me for them; also the smith, who was a very necessary
man to them, especially as a n smith, to take care of their arms;
and my other man, whom'I ed J ack-of-all-trades, who was in him-
self as good almost as twenty men; for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, but a ver merr fellow; and before I went away
the French ecclesiastic that had rought with me married him to.
the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship I men-
tioned before. '

Having now done with the island, I left them'all in good circum-
stances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship
again on the 6th of May, having been about twenty-live days amon
them; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the island till
came to remove them, I promised to send them further relief from
the Brazils, if I could possibly find an opportunity; and, particu-
larly, I promised to send them som'e cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and
cows; as to the two cows and calves which I had brought from
England, we had been obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill
them at sea, for want of hay to feed them.

 

22
ENCOUNTER wrm' sauces AT sna--rnrnu's DEATH--ROBINSON
rmns ms roams. PARTNER 10 ran. swim--suns ran 'rnn
ms'r mmns.

Tan next day, 'ving them a salute of five guns at parting, we set'
sail, and arrivegl at the Bay of All Saints, in the Brazils, in about
twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarkable in 0-our passage but
this: that about three days after we had sailed, being becalmed, and
the current setting strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a
bay or gulf on the land side, we were driven something out of our
' course, and once or twice our men cried out: " Land to the east-
ward; "~ but whether it was the continent or islands we could not
tell b any means. But the third day, towards evening, the sea
smoot , and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered
towards the land with something very black. Our chief mate,
going up the main-shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a
perspective, cried out it was an army. I could not imagine what

e meant by an army, and thwarted him a little hastily. "Nay,
sir," says he, "don't be angr , for 'tis an army, and a fleet too; for
I believe there are a thousan canoes, and you may see them paddle
along, for they are coming towards us apace."

I was a little su rise , then, indeed, and so was my ne hew the
captain; for he had card such terrible stories of them in t e island,
and havino never been in those seas before, that he could not tell
what to think of it, but said, two or three times, we should all be
devoured. I must confess, considering we were becalmed, and the
current set stron towards the shore, I liked it the worse; however,
I bade them not e afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor as soon
as we came so near as to know that we must engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on apace towards us;
so 1 gave order to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails: as for
the savages, I told them the had nothing to fear but fire, and there-
fore the should get their. oats out, and fasten them, one close by
the h , and the other by the stern, and man them both well, and
wait the issue in that posture; this I did, that the men in the boats
might be ready with sheets and buckets to put out any fire these
savages would endeavour to fix to the outside of the ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little whi e they came
up with us; but never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians:

though my mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their num-'

her, yet when they came up we reckoned about a hundred and
twenty-six; some of them had sixteen or seventeen men in them,
some more, and the least six or seven. '

' When they came nearer to us, the seemed to be struck with
wonder and astonishment, as at a sig t whieh'doubtless they had
never seen before; nor could they, at first, as we afterwards under-

stood, know what to make of us; they came boldly up, however, '

very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us; but we
called to our men in the boats not to let them come too near them.
This very order brought us to an engagement with them, without
our desi ning it: for five or six of the large canoes came so near
our lon boat that- our men beckoned with their hands to keep them
back, w rich the understood very well, and went back, but at their
retreat about fifty arrows came on board us from those boats, and
one of our men in the lonvboat was very much wounded. However,
I called to them not to fire by any means; but we handed down
some deal hoards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a
kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of
the savages, if they should shoot a ain.

About half an hour afterwards t ey'all came up in a body astern
of us, and so near, as that we could easily discern what they were,
though we could not tell their design; and I easily found they were
some of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had been
used to engage with; and in a short time more they rowed a little
further out to sea, till they came so near that they could hear us
speak: upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they
s :0qu sheet any more arrows, and made all our guns ready; but.
bein so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out upon
the eck, and call out aloud to' them in his language, to know what
they means; which, accordingly he did. Immediately afterwards,
Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and, unhappily for him,
Ooor fellow, the let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and,
to my inexpressi 1e grief, killed poor Friday, no other man bein in
their sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than t res
arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky

m'arksmen they were!
. .

I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and com-
panion, that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with smaL
shot. and four with great, and glave them such a broadside as they
had never heard in their lives store, to be sure. They were not
above half a cable length of when we tired; and our gunners too.
their aim so well that three or four of their canoes were overset, as
we had reason to believe, by one shot only.

I had only resolved to have fired four or five guns at them with
,powder only, which I knew would frinhten them sufiiciently; but
when they shot at us directly, with all the fury they were capable of,
and especially as they had lulled m poor Friday, whom I so entirely.
loved and valued, and who, indee , so well deserved it, I thought
myself not onl justifiable before God and man, but would have been
very glad if could have upset every canoe there, and drowned
every one of them. , '

1 can neither tell how many we killed, nor how many we wounded,
at this broadside, but sure such a fright and hurry never was seen
among such a multitude; there were thirteen or fourteen of their
canoes split and overset in all, and the men all set a swimming; the
rest, fri itened out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could,
taking ut little care to save those whose boats were 5 lit or spoiled
with our shot; so I sup se that many of them were 031:; and our
men took up one oor fldllow swimming for his life, above an hour
after they were gone.

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he
would neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he would starve
himself to death; but I took a way to cure him; for I made them
take him and turn him into the longboat, and make him believe they
would toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they
found him, if he would not speak; nor would that do, but they
really did throw him into the sea, and came awa from him, and
then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, an called to them,
in his tongue, though they understood not one word of what he
said; however, at last the took him in again, and then he began to
be mere tractable; nor di I ever design they should drown him.

We were now under sail again; but I was the most disconsolate
creature alive for want of my man Friday.

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take m last
leave of him: oor honest Fridav! We buried him with a the
decency and so emnity possible, by puttin him into a coffin, and
throwing him into the sea; and I caused t rem to fire eleven guns
for him; and so ended the life of the most rateful, faithful, honest,
and most affectionate servant that ever man ad.

We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in about
twelve days' time we made land, in the latitude of five degrees south
of the line, being the north-eastermost land on all that part of
America. We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore four days,
when wemade Cape St. Augustine, and in three days came to an
anchor 011' the Bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance,
from whence came both my good and evil fate.

Never ship came to this art that had less business than I had,
and yet it was with great ifiiculty that we were admitted to have
the east correspondence on shore; nor my partner himself, who
was alive, and made a great figure amonrr them,' not my two mer.
chant trustees, not the fame of my wonderful preservation in the
island, could obtain me that favour; but my partner remembering
that I had given five hundred moidorcs to the priory of the monas-
tery of the Augustines, and two hundred and seventy-tum to the
poor, went to the monastery, and obliged the prior that then was, to
go to the governor, and get leave for me personally, with the cap-
tain and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no
more; and this upon condition absolutely capitulated for, that we
should not offer to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry any
person away without licence. They were so strict with us as to
anding any goods, that it was with extreme difficult y that I got on
shore three bales of En lish goods, such as fine broadeloths, stuffs,
and some linen, which had brou ht for a present to my partner.

lie was a very generous, 0 en-- eartcd man; though, like me, he
came from little at first; an though he knew not that I had the
least design of giving him anything, he sent me on board a present
of fresh provisions, wine, and sweetmeats, worth about thirty moi-
dores, inc uding some tobacco, and three or four fine medals of gold;
but I was even with him in my present, which, as I have said, con-
sisted of fine broadcloth, En lish stuffs, lace, and fine hollands; also,
I delivered him about the v ue of one hundred pounds sterling, in
the same goods, for other uses; and I obliged him to set up the
sloop, which I had brought with me from England, as I have said,
for the use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments Iintendcd
to my plantation.

Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few
days, for she was already framed; and I rate the master of her such
instructions as that he could 'not miss t to place; nor lid he miss
them, as I had an account from mv partner afterwards. I got him
soon loaded with the small cargo I sent them; and one of our sea-
men, that had been on shore with me there, offered to o with the
sloop and settle there, upon my letter to the governor epa'niard to
allot him a sufficient quantity of land for a plantation.

The cargo arrived safe, and, as on may easily su pose, was very
welcome to my old inhabitants, w 10 were now, wit! this addition,
between sixty and seventy peOpIe, besides little children, of which
there were a reat many. I found letters at London from them all,
b way of Lis on, when 1 came back to England, of which I shall
agso take some notice immediatelv.

I hag: now done with the island, and all manner of discourse
- s
about it ; and whoever reads the rest of my memomndums would do
well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read of the
follies of an old man, not warned bli his own harms, much less by
those of other men, to beware of t e like; not cooled by almost
forty years' miseries and disappointments; not satisfied With res-
perity beyond expectation, nor made cautious by afflictions an d18-
tress beyond imitation.

From the Brazils we made directly over the Atlantic Sea to the
Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerable good voyage, our course
generally south-east, now and then a storm, and some contrary winds,

ut my disasters at sea were at an end; my future rubs and cross
events were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the land was
as well prepared to be our scourge as the sea.
, Our 5 'p was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on board
who was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only
being limited to a certain number of days for stay, by charter-party.
at the several ports she was to go to. This was none of my busi.
ness, neither dld I meddle with it: my nephew, the captain, and the
zupercargo, adjusting all those things between them as they thought
. t.x

SECTION XXXIX.

TUE SAILORB REFUSE TO SAIL WITH ROBINSON, WHO IS LEFT BY
HIS NEPHEW, THE CAPTAIN, IN BENGAL.

We stayed at the Cape no lenger than was needful to take in fresh
water, but made the bust of our way for the coast of Coromandel.
We were indeed informed that a French man-of-war of fifty uns,
and two large merchant ships, were ne for the Indies; an as I
knew we were at war with France, had some apprehensions of
Illem; but they went their own way, and we heard no more of
l rem. '

I shall not pester the reader with a tedious descri tion of' places,
journals of our voyages, variations of the compass, atitudes, trade-
winds, &c. ; it is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at, and what occurred to us upon our passing from one to
another. We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where,
though the pee 1e are fierce and treacherous, and ver well armed
withtlances and bows, which they used with inconceivab e dexterity,
yet we fared very well with them a while ; they treated us very civilly ;
and, for some trillcs which we gave them, such as knives, scissors,
&c. they brought. us eleven goo fat bullocks of a middling size,
which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present spending,
' and the rest to salt for the ship's use.

We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to the
coast of, Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief of the -
supereargo's design lay at the bay of Bengal; where if he missed his
business outward-hennd, he was to go up to China, and return to
the coast as he came home.

The first disaster that befel us was in the ulf of Persia, where
five of our men venturing on shore on the Ara ian side of the gulf,
were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all killed or carried
away into slavery: the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue
them. and had but just time to get ofl' their boat. I began lozupbraid

_ s '
them with the just retribution of Heaven in this case for crneity
the had exercised on the natives of Madagascar.

_ut my frequent preachin to them on the sub'cct had worse
consequences t ran I expecte ; and the boatswain w no had been the
head of that affair, came up boldly to me one time, and told me he
found that I brought that afl'air continually upon the stage; that I
made-unjust reflections upon it, and had used the men very ill on
that account, and himself m articular; that as I was but a passenger,
and had no commandin the siiip, or concern in the voyag'c, they were
not obliged to bear it; that the did not know but I mig t have some
ill desi n in my head, and per aps to call them to an account for it
when t ey came to England; and that, therefore, unless I would
resolve to have done wtth it, and also not to concern myself any
farther with him, or any of his afl'airs, he would leave the ship; for
he did not think it was safe to sail with me among them.

I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him,
that as to havrng no command in the ship, that was true; nor did I
exercise any authority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind in
things which publicly concerned us all; and what concern I had in
the voyage was none of his business; that Iwasa considerable owner
in the ship ; in that claim, I conceived I had a right to s eak even
farther than I had done, and would not be accountable to im or any
one else. and began to be a lifiale warm with him. He made but
little reply to me at that time, and I thought the affair had been over.
We were at this time in the road at Beng ; and being willing to see
the place, I went on shore with the supercargo, in the ship's boat,
to divert myself; and towards evening was reparing to go on board,
when one of the-men came to me, and to d me he would not have
me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they had orders not
to carry me on board any more. Any one ma guess what asur rise
I was in at so insolent a message; and I as ed the man who. ade
him deliver that mass e to me? He told me, the eockswain. I said
no more to the fellow, ut bade him let them know he had delivered
his messa e, and that I had given him no answer to'it.

I imme iately went and found out the supercargo, and told him
the story; adding, which I presentl foresaw, that there would be a
mutiny m the slnp; and entreated im to 0 immediately on board
the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint t e captain of it. But I
might have spared this intelligence, for before I had spoken to him
on shore the matter was effected on board. Theboatswain, the
gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior officers, as soon as I was
gone 011' in the boat, came up, and desired to s eak with the
captain; and there the boatswain making a long arangue, and ,
repeatin all he had said to me, told the captain, in a few words,
that as was now going peacebly on shore, trey were 10th to use
any violence with me, which, if I had not gone on shore, the would.
otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone; they ercfore
thought fit to tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve
in_ the ship under his command, they would erform it well and
faithfully; but if I would not quit the ship, or t e captain oblige me
to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him;
and at that word all, he turned his face towards the mainmust,
which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them, at which
all the seamen, being'got together there, cried out, One and all!
one and all .' .

My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of great
presence of mind; and though he was s rise ,_ on may be sure.
at the thing, yet he told them calmly that e wo (1 consider of the
matter; but that he could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me
about it. He used some arguments with them to show them the
unreasonableness and injustice of the thing; but it was all in vain;
they swore and shook hands round before his face, that they would
all go on shore, unless he would engage to them not to suffer me to,
come any more on board the ship.

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me,
and did not know how I might take it; so he began to talk smartly
to them; told them that I was a very considerable owner of the ship,
and that, in justice, he could not put me out of my own house; that
this was next door to servingl him as the famous pirate Kidd had
done, who made a mutiny in t c ship, set the captain on shore on an
uninhabited island, and ran away with the ship; that let them go
into what shi they would, if ever they came to England agfm it
would cost t em very dear; that the ship was mine, and t at he
could not put me out of it; and that he would rather lose the ship
and the voyage too than disobli me so much; so they might do as
they pleased; however, he wo d c on shore and talk with me, and
invxted the boatswain to o wit him, and perhaps they might
accommodate the matter wit me. But they all rejected the proposal,
and said they would have nothing to do with me any more ; and if I
came on board they would go on shore. "Well," sai the captain, "if
you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with him." 80
away he came to me with this account, a little after the message had
been brought to me from the cockswain. '

I was very lad to see my nephew, I must confess : for I was not
without appre tensions that they would .eonline him by violence, set
sail, and run away with the ship; and then I had been stripped
naked in a remote country, having nothin to help myself: in s ort,
I had been in a worse case than when was alone in the island.
But they had not come to that length, it seems, to my satisfaction;
and when my nephew told me what they had said to him, and how
they had sworn and shook hands that they would, one and all, leave
the ship if I was suffered to come on board, I told him he should
not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore: I only
desired he would take care and send me all my necessary things on
shore, and leave me a sufficient sum of money, and I would find my
way to England as well as I could. .

'his was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no
way to help it but to comply; so, in short, he went on board the
ship again, and satisfied the men that his uncle had yielded to their
importunity, and had sent for his code from on board the ship: so
that the matter was over in a few ours, the men returned to their
duty, and l began to consider what course I should steer.
Hams WITH AN ENGLISH MERCHANT WITH wnou ma MAKES
some TRADING vonens --TI{EY Ann MISTAKEN FOB PIRATE}.--
VANQUISH THEIR PURSUEBS--VOYAGB To cnmA--nnNcon'rnn
wrrn THE cocnm CHINEs'B--IsnANn' or IORMOSA--GULF or
NANQUIN --ArnnmnNs10Ns on FALLING INTO THE HANDS or
THE DUTCH. -

I WAs now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I think I
may call it, for I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther off
from England than I was at my island; only, it is true, I'might
travel here by land over the great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the gulf of Persra, and take the
way of the caravans, over the Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and
Scanderoon; from thence 1) sea vain to Ital , and so overland into
France; and this put toget ier mig t at least 3 afnll diameter of the
globe, or more.

I had another way before me, which was to wait for some English
ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the island of
Sumatra, and get passage on board them for England. But as I
came hither without an concern with the English East India Com-
pany, so it would be di cult to go from hence without their license,
unless with great favour of the captains of the ships, or the Company's
_ lactors, and to both I was an utter stranger.

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without me;
a treatment 1 think a man in my circunistances scarce ever met with,
except from pirates runmn away with the ship, and setting those
that would not agree With 1; en- villany on' shore. Indeed, this was
next door to it, both ways ; however, my nephew left me two servants,
or rather one companion and one servant; the first was clerk to the
purser, whom he engfed to go with me, and the other was his own
servant. I took me so a ood lodgino in the house of an En fish-
woman, where several merchants lodged, some French, two It 'ans,
or rather Jews, and one Englishman; here I was handsomely enough
entertained : and that I might not be said to run rashly upon any-
thing, I stayed here above nine months considering what course to
take, and how to man e myself. I had some English goods with
me of value, and a consi erable sum of money; my nephew furnish-
ing me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for
more, if I had occasion, that I might not be straitened whatever
mi ht hap end" (I f d d d I ll
uic " ose o m 00 stoa van ,an ,as ori ina
inten ed, ll.y bought here sings very' and moms, which, gof all
other things, were the mist proper or me, in my present circum-
stances; because I could always carry my whole estate about me.
After along stay here, and many proposals made for my return to
England, but none falling out to my mind, the English merchant who
lod ed with me, and whomI had contracted an intimate acquaintance
wit , came to me one morning. " Countryman," says he, " I have a
project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with my thou hts,
may, for aught I know, suit with yours also, when you shall ave
thoroughly considered it. Here we are posted, you by accident, and
I by my own choice, in a part of the worl very remote from our own
country; but it is in a country where, by us who understand trade
and business, a great: deal of money is to be got. If on will at
one thousand pounds, to my one thousand pounds, we w' hire a 3 zip
here, the first we can get to our minds ; you shall be captain, I'll be
merchant, and we'll go a tradin voyage to China."
I liked this proposal very we , and the more because it seemed to
be expressed with so much good will, and in so friendly a manner.
It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our
minds, and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get English
sailors; that is to say, so many as were necessary to govern the
voyage and manage the sailors w ieh we should pick up there. After
some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three foremastmen. With these we found we

could do well enough, having Indian seamen, such as they were, to . '

make up. . .
We made this voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from

thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opium
and some arrnck; the first a commodity which bears a great price
among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was much wanted
there. In a word, we went u to Susham, made a very great voyage
were eight months out, an returned to Bengal; and 1 was very

well satisfied with my adventure.
I
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so much money
by my first adventure, and such an insight into the method of getting
more, that had I been twenty ears ounger, I should have been
tempted to have stayed here, and song t no farther for making any
fortune: but what was all this to a man upwards of threescore, that
was rich enough, and- came abroad more in obedience to a restless
desire of seeing the world than a covetous desire of gaining by it?

But this was not all: I had a kind of impatience upon me to.be
nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable which
Way to go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend, who
was always upon the search for business, roposed another voyage
to me amoh the S ice Islands, and firing home a loading or
cloves from fire M ' as, or thereabouts; places, indeed, where the

, Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the S aniards; thou h
we went not so far, but to some other, where ey have nott 0
whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c. . ~

We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difficulty
was in bringing me to come into it: however, at last, nothing else
offering, an findin that really stirring about and trading, the profit
bein so great, anfi, as I may say certain, had more pleasure in it,
and ad more satisfaction to my mind, than sitting still, which, to
me especially, was the unhappiest part of my life, I resolved on this
voyage too, which we made ve successful y, touchin at Borneo,
and several islands whose nameer do not remember, an came home
in about five months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves
and some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away to the gulf; and making near five of one, we really got a great
deal of money.

But, to be short with my speculations, a little while after this
there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an

~ European trader, of about two hundred tons burthen, the men, as
they pretended, having been so sickly, that the captain had not

' hands enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and havmg, it
seems, got money enou h, or being Willing, for other reasons, to go
to Europe, he gave public notice that he would sell his ship. This
came to my ears before my new partner heard of it, and I had a
great mind to buy it; so I went to him, and told him of it. L He
considered awhile,~for_ he was no rash man; but musin some time,
he replied, " She 18 a little too big; but, however, we have her."
Accordingly, we bought the ship, and oreeing with the master, we
paid for er, and took possession. men we had done so, we
resolved to entertain the men, if we could, to join them with those
we had, for the pursuing our business; but on a sudden, they havmg
received not their wages, but their share of the money; as we after-

. wards learned, not one of them was to be found; we mquired much
aboutzghem, and at length were told that they were all gone together
by land to Agra, the great city of the Mogul's residence, and fron.
thence to travel to Surat, and go by sea to the gulf of Persia.

Nothing had so much troubled me a good while as that I should
miss the opportunity of going with them; for such a ramble, I
thought, an in such company as would both have guarded and
diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design; and
I should have both seen the world and gone homewards too: but 1
was much better satisfied a few days after, when I came to know
what sort of fellows they were; for, in short: their history was,
that this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the com-
mander; that they had been a trading voyage, in which they had
been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who had killed the
captain and three of his men; and that after the captain was killed,
these men, eleven in number, had resolved to run away wrth the.
,shi , which they did and brou, ht her to Bengal, leaving the mate
andJ five more men on shore; o whom hereafter.

Well, let them et the ship how they would, we came honestly by
her, as we thong it, though we did not, I confess, examine into
things so exactly as we ought; for we never inquired anything of
the seamen, who would certainly have faltered in their account,
contradicted one another, and plerhaps contradicted themselves; or
.one how or other we should ave had reason to have suspected
them: but the man showed us a bill of sale for the ship, to one
Emanuel Clostershoven, or some such name, for I suppose it was all
a forgery, and called himself by that name, and we could not con-
tradict him; and withal, having no suspicion of the thing, we went '
through with our bargain. ' -

We picked up some more English sailors here after this, and some
Dutch; and now we resolved for a second vova to the south-east
for cloves, &c.; that is to sa , among the Phi Ippine and Moluc'ca
isles; and, in short, not to fl up this art of my story with trifles,
when what is to come is so remarkab e, I spent, from first to last, '
six years in this country, trading from port to port, backward and '
forward with very great success, and was now the last year with my
new partner, going in the ship above-mentioned, on a voyage to
China, but desngning first to go to Siam, to buy rice.

In this voyage, beingl by contrary winds obli ed to beat u and
down a great while in t e straits of Malacca, andv among the is nds,
we were no sooner got clear of these difficult seas than we found
our ship had 5 rung a leak, and we were not able, by all our
industry, to {in out where it was. This forced us to' make some
. sort; and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,

ireet d the captain to put into the river of Cambodia; for I had
.madc the English mate, one Mr. Thompson, ca tain, not being
willing to take the charge of the ship upon m se . This river lies
on the north side of the great bay or gulf w rich goes up to Siam".
While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment. therel ,
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON 01111803. .267

comes to me one 'day an Englishman, and he was, it seems, a

unner's-mate on board an English East India ship which rode in
t e same river, at or near the city of Cambodia; what hron ht him
hither we knew not; but he comes to me, and speakmcr n lish,
" Sir," says he, " you are a stranger to me, and I to you, liut I ve
something to tell you that very nearly concerns you."

I looked steadfastly at him a good while, and thought at first I
had known him, but I did not: "If it very nearly concerns me,"
513?; l, " and not yourself, what moves you to tell it to me P"--"I
am' mover ," says he, " by the imminent danger on are in, and, for
aught I see, you have no knowledge of it."--" know no danger I
am in," says I, " but that my ship 18 leaky, and I cannot find it out;
' but I intend to lay. her a round to-morrow, to see if I can find it."

'5 But, sir," sa she, "lea y or not leaky, find it or not find it, you
'will be wisert an to lay your ship on shore tomorrow, when you
hear what I have to sa to you: do you know, sir," said he, "the
town of Cambodia lies ahout fil'leen leagues up this river? and there
are two 'large English ships about five leagues on this side, and
three Dutch."--" Well." said I, "and what is that to me P"--'--
" Why, sir," said he, "is it for a. man that is upon such adventures
as you are, to come into a port and not examine first what ships
there are there, and whether he is able to deal with them? I sup-
.pose you do not think you are a match for them 9" I was amused
very much at his discourse, but not amazed at it, for I could not
conceive what he meant; and I turned short upon him, and said,
" Sir, I wish you would ex lain yourself; I cannot imagine what
reason I have to be afraid 0 any of the Company's ships, or Dutch
ships ; 1 am no interloper; what can they have to say to me? He
loo ed like a man half an y and half leased, and pausing awhile,
but smiling, "Well, sir,' sa s he, "i you think ourseli secure,
you must take our chance; am- sorry your fate s ould blind you
against good a vice: but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea
immediately, you will the very next tide he attacked b five long-
boats full of men, and perhaps, if you are taken, you wi be han ed
for a pirate, and the particulars he examined afterwards. I thouo t,
sir," added he, "I should have met with a better rece tion film"
this, for doing you a piece of service of such importance. '---" I can
never be ungrateful," said I, "for any service, or to any man that
offers me any kindness; but it is past my comprehension what they
should have such a design upon me for: however, since you say
there is no time to be lost, and that there is some villanous design
on hand aainst me, 1 will go on board this minute, and put to sea
immediate y,if In men can sto the leak, or if we can swim with-
outstopping it: ut, sir," said , "shall I go away ignorant of the
cause of all this? Can you ive me no furl her light into it 9"--
" I can tell you but part of tie sto , sir," says he; "but I have a '
Dutch seaman here with me, and I elieve I could persuade him to
tell you the rest; but there is scarce time for it: but the short of
the story is this, the first ,part of which, I sup ose, you know well
enough, viz., that you was with this ship at umatra; that there
your captain was murdered by the Malays, with three of his men;
and that you, or some of those that were on board with you. ran
awa with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This is the sum
of the story, and on will all be seized as pirates, I can assure on,
and executed witi ver little ceremony; for you know mere ant
ships show but little aw to irates, if they get them into fiheir
poWer."--" Now you speak pain English," said I, "and I thank
you; and though I know nothing that .we have done like what you
talk of, for I am' sure we came honestly and fairly by the ship; yet
seeing such a work is doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean
honestly, I will be upon my guard."--" Nay, sir," says he, "do not
talk about being upon your guard; the best defence 18, to be out of
danger; if you have any regard for your life, and the lives of all
your men, put to sea without fail, at high water; and as you have
a whole tide before you, you will be gone too far out before they can
come down; for they will come away at high water, and as they
have twenty miles to come, you will get near two hours of them by
the difference of the tide, not reckonin the length of the way;
besides, as the are only boats, and not s ipp, they will not venture
to follow you ar out to sea, especially if it lows. '--" Well, said I,
"you have been very kind in this; what shall I do to make
amends P"---" Sir," says he, " you may not be willing to make an
arrlntpnds, because you may not be convinced of the truth of it:
w' make an offer to you; I have nineteen months' gay due to me
-on board the ship m, which I came out of Englan 1n; and the
Dutchman that is with me has seven month's ay due to him; if
you will make good our pay to us, we will go ong with on: if
"you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but' we do
convince ayou that we have saved your lives, and the ship, and the
lives of the men in her, we willleave the rest to you. '

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and
the twomen with me. As soon as I came'to the ship's side, m
partner, who was on board, came out on the quarter-deck, and called
to me, with a great deal of joy, "0 he! 0 ho! we have stop ed
the-leak! we have sto ped the leak!"-" Say you so?" saidp I,
" thank God; but weig anchor then immediately."--" Weigh!"
says be: "what do you mean by that? What is the matter?"
"Ask no questions," said I, " but all hands to'work, and wei h
' without losing a minute." He was surprised, but, however" e
called the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got
up; and though the tide was not quite down, et a little land
breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then I c ed him into the
cabin, and to] him the story; and we called in the men, and they
told us the rest of it: but as it took up a great deal of time, before
we had done a seamen comes to the cabin door, and called out to us
that the captain bade him tell us we were chased. " Chased !" says.
I; "by whatP"-----"B five sleeps, or boats," says the fellow, "full
of men."---" Very we ," said I; "then it is apparent there is some-
thing in it." In the next place I ordered all our men to be called
up, and told them there was a design to seize the ship, and to take
us for pirates, and asked them if they would stand by us, and by
one another: the men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they
would live and die with us. Then I asked the captain what way he
thought best for us to manage a fight with them; for resist them I
was resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said readily
that the way was to kee them off with our great shot as long as we
could, and then fire at t em with our small arms, to keep them from
boarding us ;,but when neither of these would do any longer, we
should'retire to our close quarters; perhaps they had not materials
to break open our bulk-heads, or get in u on us.

The gunner had, in the meantime, or ers to bring two guns to
bear fore and aft, out of the steera , to clear the deck, and load
them with musket bullets and sm 1 pieces of old iron, and what
came next to hand; and thus we made ready for fight: but all this
while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats
at a distance, being five large long-boats, following us with all the
sail they could make. a

Two of' those boats '(which by our glasses we could see were
English) outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them,
and3 gained upon us considerably, so that we found they would come
up With us; upon which we fired a gun without ball, to intimate
that they-should bring to; and we put out a flag of truce, as a
signal for parley; but they came crowdina after us, till they came
Within shot, when we took in our white hag, they having made no

answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and bred at them with shot.
Notwithstandin this, they came on till they were near enough to
call to them wit a s eakmg trumpet which we had on boar ; so
we called to them, and bade them keep off, at their peril.

It was all one: they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come
under our stern. so as to board as on our quarter; upon which,
seeing the were resolute for mischief, and depended upon the
stren h t at followed them, I ordered to bring the shi to, so
that t ey lay upon our broadside; when immediately we red five
guns at them, one of which had been levelled so true as to carry
away" the stern of the hindermost boat, and bring them to the
necessity of tal' down their sail, and running all to the head of the
boat to keep belugom sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it;

-~but seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made ready to
fire at her in particular. While this-was doing, one of the three
boats that was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up

to the gigg- which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see
her take out the men: we called again to the foremost boat, and
offered a truce, to parley again, and to know what her business was
with us; but had no answer, only she crowded close under our
stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dextcrous fellow, rim
out his two chase guns, and fired again at her, but the shot missing,
the men in the boat shouted, waved their caps, and came on; but
the gunner, getting quiekl ready again, fired among them a second
time, one shot of which, t ou h it missed the boat itself, yet fell in
among the men, and we co d easily see had done a great deal of
mischief among them; but we took no notice of that, were the ship
again, and brought our quarter to hear u on them, and firing three
guns more, we found the boat was most split to pieces; in
particular, her rudder and a piece of her stern was shot quite away;
so they handed her sail innncdiately, and were in reat disorder. '
But to complete their misfortune, our gunner let y two guns at
them again: where he hit them we could not tell, but we found the
boat was sinking, and some of the men already in the water; upon
this I immediately manned out our pinnace, which we had. kept close
by our side, with orders to pick up seine of the men, if they could,
and save them from drowmng, and immediately come on board the
ship with them, because we saw the rest of the boats began to come
up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took up
three men, 'one of whom'was just drowning, and it was a good while
before we could recover him. As soon as the were on board, we.
crowded all the sail we could make, and stoo farther out to sea;
and we found that when the other three boats came up to the first,
the gave over their chase.

emg thus delivered from a danger, which, thou h I knew not
the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than ap rehended,
I resolved that we should change our course, and not et any one
know whither we were goin : so we stood out to sea, eastward,
quite out of the course of afi European ships, whether they were
bound to China or any where else within the commerce of the
Euro ean nations. .

W en we were at sea, we began to consult with the two seamen,
and inquire what the meaning of all this could be; and the Dutch-
man let us into the secret at once, telling us that the follow that
sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than a thief that had run
away with her. Then he told us how the captain, whose name too
he told us, though I do not remember it' now, was treacherously
murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his
men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, get into the
woods, where they wandered about a great while, till at lenfth he,
in particular, in a miraculous manner, made his escape, an swam
off to a-Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore in its way from
China, had sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst'
not come to that part of the shore where the boat was, b it madeADVENTURES or nonmsox cnusoe. 271

shift in the night to take the water farther off, and swimming a great
while, at last the sin '5 boat took him up.

He then told us t at he went to Batavia, where two of the sea-
men belonging to the ship arrived, havin deserted the rest in their
travels, and ve an account that the fe ow who had run away with .
the ship sol? her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were one a
cruising in her; and that the had already taken an Englis ship-
and two Dutch ships very rich y laden.

This latter part was found to concern us directly, though we knew -
it to be. false; et as my partner said very justly, if we had fallen
into their ban 5, and they had such a pre ossession against us
beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have cfended ourselves, or
10 hope for any good quarter at their hands; and especially con-
sidering that our accuser-s had been our judges, and that we could
have expected nothing from them but what rage would have dictated,
and an ungoverncd passion have executed; and therefore it was his
opinion we should go directly back to Bengai, from whence we
came, Without putting in at any port whatever; because there'wo
could give a good account of ourselves, could prove where we were
when the-ship put in, of 'whom we bought her, and the like; and
which was more than all the rest, if we were put upon the necessity
of bringing it before the pr0per Judges, we should be sure to have
some justice, and not to be hange first and judged afterwards.

I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a little more
serious thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great hazard-for
us to attempt returnino to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong
side of the Straits of Malacca, and that if the alarm was given, we-
should be sure to be waylaid on ever side, as well b the Dutch of
Batavia as the English elsewhere; t til we should e taken, as it
. were, running away, we should even condemn ourselves, and there
would want no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English
sailor's o inion, who said he was of my mind, and that we should
certainly lle taken. This danger-a little startltad my partner, and all
the ship's company, and we immediately resol ed to away to the
coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China; an pursuing the
first design as to trade, find some way or other to dispose ol7 the
ship, and come back in some of the vessels of the country, such as
we could get. This was approved of as the best method for our.
security; and accordingly we steered away N.N.E., keeping above,
fifty leagues off from the usual course to the eastward. l.'his, how-
ever, put us to some inconvenience; for, first, the winds, when we
came to that distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadily
against 139, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the E. and
E:N.E., so that we were a lo a while upon our voyage, and we were
but ill provided with victuals or so long a run; and, which was still
worse, there was some dan r that those English and Dutch ships.
whose boats pursued us, w ereof some were ound that way, might
be got in before us, and if'not, some other ship bound to China
mig t have information of us from them, and pursue us with the
same vigour. '

I must confess, I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, in-
cluding the late escape from the long-boats, to have been in the most
dangerous condition shat ever I was in through my past life; for
whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I was never pursued for a-
thief before; nor":had I ever done anything that merited the name
of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thievish; I had chiefly been
my own enemy, or, as I mi ht rightly say, I had been nobody'e
enemy but my own; but now was embarrassed in the worst condi-
tion imaginable; for though I was perfectly innocent, I was in no
condition to make that innocence appear; and if I had been taken,
it had been under a slipposed guilt of the worst kind. This made
me very anxious to m e an escape, though which way to do it I
knew not, or what port or place we could go to. My partner seeing
me thus dejected, t ough he was the most concerned at first, be an
to encourage me, and describing to me the several ports of tiat
coast, told me he would put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the
Bay of Tonquin, intending to go afterwards to Macao, a town once
in possession of the Portuguese, and where still a great many Euro-
pean families resided; and particularly the missionary priests usually
went thither, in order to their going orward to China.

Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, though after a
tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened for provi-
sions, we came Within si ht of the coast very early in the mornino;
and upon reflection on t to eat circumstances we were in, and the
danger if we had not esca e , we resolved to ut into a small river,
which, however, had dept enough of water or us, and to see if we
could, either overland or by the ship's innace, come to know what
ships were in an port thereabouts. his happy step was, indeed,
our deliverance; or tho fl'h we did not immediately see any Euro-
pean ships in the Bay of onguin, yet the next morning there came
into the ba two Dutch ships; and a third, without. any colours
s read out, utwhich we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at
a out We leagues' distance, steering for the coast of China; and in
the afternoon went by two English ships steerino the same course;
and thus we thought we saw ourselves beset with enemies both one
Way and the other. The place we were in was wild and barbarous;
the people thieves, even by occupation of profession; and though, it
is true, we had not much to seek of them, and, except getting a few
provisions, cared not how little we had to do with them, yet it was
with much difiieulty that we kept ourselves from being insulted by
them, several ways. We were in a small river of this country,
within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our
boat we coasted north-east, to the point of land which 0 ens the
great Bay of Tonquin; and it was in this beating up along t e shoreanvmrrunns or Bosmson cnn'son. 973

that we discovered we were surrounded with enemies. 'The people
we were among were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of the
coast, having no corres ondence with any other nation, and dealing
only in fish and oil, an such gross commodities; and it may be'par-
ticularly seen that they are, as I said, the most barbarous of any of
the inhabitants. Among other customs, they have this one, viz.
that if any vessel has the misfortune to he shipwrecked upon their
coast, the presently make the men all prisoners or slaves; and it
was not ong before we found a spice of their kindness this way,
on the occasion following.

I have observed above, that our ship sprang a leak at sea, and
that we could not find it out; and it happened that, as I have said,
it was stop ed unexpectedly in the happy minute of our being to be
seized by t 1e Dutch and English ships in the Bay of Siam; yet as
we did not find the ship so perfectly sound and t1 ht as we desired,
we resolved, while we were at this place, to lay er on shore, and
take out what heavy things we had on board, and clean her bottom;
and, if possible, to find out where the leaks were. Accordingly,
having hghtened the ship, and brought all our guns and other move-
ables to one side, we tried to bring her down, that we might come
at her bottom; but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her
on dry ground, neither could we find a proper place for it. '

The mhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight,
came wondering down to the shore to look at us; and seeing the slap
lie down on one side in such a manner, and heeling in towards the
shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom
with s es, and with their boats on the off-side, they presently
conclude that the ship was cast away, and lay so fast on the
ground On this supposition, they came all about us in two or
three hours"time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of
them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have
come on board and eplundered the ship; and if they had found us
there, to have carri us away for slaves to their kmg, or whatever
the call him, for we knew nothing of who was governor.

. hen they came u to the ship and began to row round her, they
discovered as all har at work onthe outside of the ship's bottom
and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every seafaring
man knows how. They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their design was;
but being willing to be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of
us into the ship, and others to hand down arms and ammunition to
those that were at work to defend themselves with, if there should
be occasion; and it was no more than need : for in less than a. quar-
ter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship
was really a wreck; and that we were all at work endeavouring to
save her, or to save our. lives by the help of our boats; andwhen we
handed our arms mto the boats, they concluded, by that motion.

'1
that we were endeavouring to save some of our'goods; upon this
they took it for granted we all belon ed to them, and away they'
came directly upon our men, as if it had been in a line of battle.

j Qur men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, for we
lay but in an ill posture to fight, and erred out to us to know what
they should do. I immediately called to the men that worked upon
Ithe stages, toslip them down, and get u the side into the shi ; and
bade those in the heat to row round, an come on board; an those
few of us who were on board worked with all the strength and hands
we had, to bring the ship to rights; but, however, neither the men
upon the stages nor those in the boats could do as they were ordered,
before the Cochin Chinese were upon them; and two of their boats
boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their
prisoners.

The first man they laid hold of was an English scaman, a stout,
strong fellow, who, having a musket in his and, never ofl'ered to
fire it, but laid it down in the boat, like a fool, as I thoun'ht; but he
understood his business better than I could teach him, forthe grappled
the pagan, and dragged him by main force out of their boat into
ours, where taking rm b the ears, he beat his head so against the
boat's funnel, that the ellow died in his hands; and, in the mean
time, a Dutchman, who stood next, taking up the musket, with
the butt-end of it so laid about him, that he knocked down five of
them who attempted to enter the boat. But this was doing little
towards resistin thirty or forty men, who fearless, because ignorant
of their dan er, egan to throw themselves into the long-boat. where
we had but ve men in all to defend it 2 but the following accident,
which deserved our laughter, gave our men a complete victory.

Our carpenter being prepared to ave the outsrde of the ship, as
well to pay the seams where he ha caulked her, to stop the leaks,
had got two kettles just let down into the boat, one filled with
boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and such stuff
as; the Shipwrights use for that work; and the man that attended
the car nter had a at iron ladle in his hand, with which he.
supplie' the men w 10 were at work with the hot stuff; two of-
the enem 3 men entered the boat inst where this fellow stood,
bein int e fore-sheets; he immediate y saluted them wrth a handful
of t e stufi, boiling hot, which so burned and scalded them, being
half naked, that they roared out like bulls, and enraged with the fire,-
leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out:
" l 'ell done, Jack; give them some more of it ; " and steppin for-
ward himself, takes one of the mo 9, and di pin it in the pitc -pot
he and his man threw it among t em so p ent' ully, that, in short,
of all the men in the three boats there was not one who escapmd
being scalded and burned with it, in a most fri htful, pitiful manner,
and made, such a howling and crying, that never heard a worse
noise; for it is worth observmg, for that though pain naturally makes
all people cry out, yet everj nation has a particular way of .exclama-
tion, and makes norses as different from one another as their speech.
I cannot give' the noise these creatures made a better name than
howling, nor a name more proper to the tone of it; for I never heard
anything more like the norse of the wolves, which, as I have said, I
heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of Languedoc.

I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not only as
it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imminent
before, but as we got this victory without any bloodshed, exec t of
that man the fellow killed with his naked hands, and which lP was
much concerned at, forI was sick of killing such poor savage wretches,
even thou h it was in my own defence, knowing they came on
errands w rich they thought just, and knew no etter; and that
though it may 'be a just thing, because necessary (for there is no
necessary wickedness in nature yet I thought it was a sad hfe, when
we must be always obliged to. e killing our fellow-creatures to pre-'
serve ourselves; and, indeed I think so still, and I would even now
suffer a great deal, rather than .I would take away the life even of
the worst person injurino me; and I believe all considering people
who know the value of life would be of my opinion, if they entered
seriously into the consideration of it. '

But to return to my sto :----All the while this was doing, m
partner and I, who managedrtlie rest of the men on board, had wit

great dexterity brou ht the ship almost to flights, and having got
the guns into their p aces again, the er ca ed to me to et our
boat out of the way, for he would et fly among them. called
back ain to him, and bid him not offer to fire, for the carpenter
would ,0 the work without him; but bid him heat another pitch-
kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took care of; but the
enem was so terrified with what they had met with in their first
attac , that the' would not come on again: and scene of them who
were farthest oil, 'seeing the ship swim, as it were, u right, began,
as we suppose, to see their mistake, and give over t e enter rise,
finding it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear 0 this
merry fight, and having got some rice, and some roots and bread,
with about sixteen hogs, on board, two days before, we resolved to
stay here no lon er, but forward, whatever came of it; for we
made no doubt int we 8 ould be surrounded the next day with
rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of
for us. We therefore got all our things on board the same evening,
and the next mornin were ready to sail; in the mean time, layin

at anchor at some stance from the shore, we were not so mue

concerned, being now in a fighting posture, as'weil as in a sailin

posture, if an enemy had presented. The next day, havin fimshe

our work within board, and finding our ship was perfectly reeled of
all her leaks, we set sail. We would have gone into the Bay of

l'onquin, for we wanted to inform ourselves of what was to 1); known
r
concerning the Dutch ships that had been there; but we durst not
stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as we
sup osed, but a little before: so we kept on N.E. towards the island
of iiormosa, as much afraid of help seen by a Dutch or English
merchant ship, as a Dutch or En lis merchant ship in the Medi- -
terranean is of an Algerine man-o -war.

When we were thus got to sea, we kept on NE; as if we would go
150 the Manillas or the Philippine islands, and this we did that we
might not fall into the way of the European ships; and then
we steered north, till we came to the latitude of 22 de . 30 min., by
which means we made the island Formosa directly, w ere we came
to an anchor,- in' order to get water and fresh provisions, which the
people there, who were very courteous and civil in their manners,
supplied us with willingly, and dealt very fairly and pnnctually with
us in all their agreements and bargains, which is what we did not
find among other people, and ma be owing to the remains of Chris-
tianity which was once plante here by a Dutch missionary of
Protestants, and is a testimony of what 1 have olften observed, viz.
that the Christian religion always civilizcs the pee )1e and reforms
their manners, where it is received, whether it wor s saving effects
upon them or no. -

' From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at
an equal distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of
China where our European ships usually come; being resolved, if
possible, not to fall into any of their hands, especially in' this country ;
where]: as our circumstances were, we could not fail of being entirely
rume
' Being now come to the latitude of thirty degrees, we resolved to
' ut into the first trading port we should come at; and standing in
or the shore, a boat came oll' two leagues to us, with an old l'ortu--
guese pilot on board, who knowin us to he an European ship,
came to offer his service, which, in eed, we' were very glad of, and
took him on board; upon which, without asking us whither we
would go, he dismissed the boat he came in, and sent it back. .

I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man
carry us whither we would, that I be u to talk to him about
earriing us to the gulf of Nanquin, whici is the most northern art
at t e coast of China. The old man said he knew the gal of
Nan uin very well, but smiling, asked us what we would do there?
I to 6. him we would sell our cargo and purchase China wares,
ealieoes, raw silks, tea, wrou, ht silks, &e., and so would return by
the same course we came. e told us our best port had been to
have put in at Macao, wherewe could not have failed of a market
for our opium to our satisfaction, and might for our money have
plat-chased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we could at

anqurn. '

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which he
was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as
well as merchants, and that we had a mind to see the great cg of
Pckin, and the famous Court of the monarch of China. " 'hy
then." says the old man, "you should go to Ningpo, where by the
river that runs into the sea there, you may go up within five leagues
of the great canal. This canal is a navigable stream, which goes
through the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses all the rivers,
passes some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates, and
goes up to the city of Pekin, being in length near two hundred and
sevent leagues.

" e " said I, " Senhor Portuguese, but that is not our business
now; the great question is, if you can carry us up to the city of
Nanquin, from whence we can travel to Peking afterwards '1'" He said
he could do so very well, and that there was a great Dutch shiggone
up that way just before. This ve me a litt e shock, for a utch
ship was now ourterror; and we epended upon it that a Dutch ship
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition to fight them ; '
all the ships they trade with into those parts being of great burden,
and of much greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern, -
when he named a Dutch ship; and said to me, "Sir, you need be
under no apprehensions of t e Dutch ; I su pose they are not now
at war with your nationP"--"No," said I, " t rat's true; but I know
not what liberties men may take when they are out of the reach of the
laws of their own country..----" Why," says he, " on are no pirates;
what need 'you fear? They will not meddle wit peaceable merch-
ants, sure.' ,

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face at
that word, it-was hindered by some st0p in the vessels a pointed b'
nature to circulate it, for it put me into the greatest disorder an
confusion imaginable; nor was it possible for me to conceal it so;
but that the old man easily perceived it.

" Sir," says he, "I find you are in some disorder in our thoughts
at my talk; pra be pleased. to go which way on t rink fit, and,
depend upon it, '11 do you all the service I can.' ---" Why, senhor,"
said I, " it is true, I am a little unsettled in my resolution at this
time, whither to go in particular; and Ilam something more so for
wliat you said about pirates. I hope there are no pirates in these
seas; we are but. in an ill condition to meet with them, for u see
we are but a small force, and are but very weakly manned.' --" O,
sir," says he, "don't be concerned, I do not know that there have
been any pirates in these seas for fifteen years, except one, which
was seen, as I hear, in the bay of Siam, about a month since; but
you may be assured she is gone to the southward; nor was she a
ship. of any great force, or t for the work. She was not built for
a privateer, but was run away with bhi: reprobate crew that was on

board, 2after-the captain and some of men had been murdered by
the .Malayaus, at or near the island of Sumatra." What!" said
I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, "did they murder the
captain?" " No," said he, "I don't understand that they murdered
him; but as they afterwards ran away with the shi , it 18 enerally
believed that they betrayed him into the hands 0 the alayans,
who did murder him; and perhaps they procured them to do i ."--
"Why then," said I, "they deserve death as much as if they had .
done It themselves."-----" Na ," says the old man, "they do deserve

it; and they will certainly ave it, if they li ht u on an English

or Dutch shi : for they have all agreed toget er, t at if t ey meet

that rogue t ey'll give him no quarter."--" But," said I to him,

" you say the pirate is one out of these seas; how can they meet
With him thenP"--" y, that's true," says be, "they do say so;

but he was, as I tell you, in the bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia;

and was discovered there by some Dutchmen who belonged to the.
ship, and who were left on shore when they1 ran away with her; and

some English and Dutch traders being in t e river, they were within

alittle 0 taking him: nay," said be, "if the foremost beats had

had been well seconded by the rest, they had certainly taken him;

but be, finding only two boats within reach of him, tacked about,

and fired at those two, and disabled them before the others came up,

and then standing of to sea, the others were not able to follow, and

So he ot away; but they have all so exact a description of the

ship, t rat they will be sure to know her; and wherever they find

her they have vowed to 've no quarter either to the captain or sea:

men, but to hang them up at the yard-arm."--" What I" said I,

"will they execute them right or wro ; hang them first, and

jud 9 them afterwards P "--" O sir," says t e old pilot, " there is no

nee to make a formal business of it With such rogues as those; let

them tie them back to back, and set them a diving, 'tis no more

than they deserve." .

I knew I had my old man fast on board, and that he could do no
harm, so that I turned short upon him: " Well. now, senhor," said
I, "this is the very reason why I would have you carry us u to -
Nanquin, and not ut back to Macao, or to any other part 0 the
country where the nglish or Dutch ships come; for be it known to
you, seuhor, those ca tains of the English and Dutch ships are a

arcel of rash, prou , insolent fellows, that neither know what
belongs to justice, nor how to behave themselves as the laws of
God and nature direct, but being proud of their offices, and not
understanding their power, they would act the murderers to punish
robbers; would take upon them to insult men falsely accused, and
determine them guilty without due inquiry: and perhaps I may live
to bring some of them to account for it, when t ey may be taught
how justice is to be executed; and that no man ought to be treated
as a criminal till some evidence may be had of the crime, and
'that he 'is' the man." '
_With this I told him that this was the ve ship they attacked,
and gave him a full account of the skirmis we had with their
boats, and how foolishly and cowardly they behaved. I told him all
the sto of our buying the ship, and how the Dutchmen served us.
I told in the reasons I h ,to believe the story of ' ' the
master by the Mala ans was true, as also the running away wit the
shi ; but it was a1 a fiction of their own to suggest that the men
h turned pirates, and they ought to have been sure it was so
before they had ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to
resist them; adding, that they would have the blood of those men,
whom we killed there in just defence, to answer for.

, The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were
very much in the right to go awa to the north; and that if he might
adnse us, it should be to sell t e ship in China, which we mi ht
very Well do, and buy or build another in the country-; " and," said e,
" though you will not get so good ,a ship, yet you may get one able

enou h to carry on and all our ds back in to Ben or
an1r fibers else."y I told himy I weigilod take his "glance when fiLame

to any port where 'I could find a shi for my turn, or get any
customer to buy this. He replied, I s ould meet with customers
enough for the ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would
serve me very well to go back deg ; and that he would procure me
peo 1e both to buy one and se the other. "Well but, senhor,"
sai I, "as you say they know the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I
follow your measures, be instrumental to bring'some onest mnocent
men into a terrible broil, and perhaps be murdered in cold blood;
for wherever they find the ship, they will prove the guilt upon the
men, by proving this was the ship, and so innocent men ma pro;
babl be overpowered and murdered."--" Why," sa 5 the 01 man,
"I' find out a. way to prevent that also; for as know all those
commanders on speak of very well, and shall see them. all as they .
pass by, I wi be sure to set them to rights in the thing, and let
them know that they had'heen so much in the wrong; that though
the pe0ple who were on board at first mi bt run away wrth' the Slllp,
yet it was not true that they had turne pirates; and that, in are
ticular, these were not the men that first went off With the ship, at
innocently bought her for their trade; and I am persuaded they Will
so far beheve me, as'at least to act more cautiously for the time to
come."
While these things were pas ing between us, by) way of discourse,
'.we went forward directly for Nan nin, and in a out thirteendays'
sail came to an anchor at the sout -west point of the great gulf of
Nanquin; where, by the way, I came by accident to understand
that two Dutch shi s were gone that length before me, and that}
should certainly 'l' into their hands. I consulted my partner again>>
in this exigehcy, and he was as much at a loss as I was, and would
very gladly have been safe on shore almost anywhere; however, I
was not in such perplexity neither, but I asked the old ilot if there
was no creek or harbour which ;I might ut into an pursue my
business with the Chinese privatel , and e in no dancer of the
enem . He told me, if I wouldsa' to the southward about forty-
two eagues, there was a little (port called Quinchan , where the
fathers of the mission usually lan ed from Macao, on hair pro ress
to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no uro-
pean ships ever at in; and if I thought to put in there, I might
consider what urther course to take when was on shore. lie
confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, except that at
some certain times they had a kind of a fair there, when the
merchants from Japan came over thither to buy the Chinese mer-
chandises. .

We all agreed to go back to this place; the name of the port, as
he called it, I may perhaps spell wrong, for I do not particularly
remember it, having lost this, together with the names of many
other laces set down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the
water gyan accident; but this I remember, that the Chinese or J apancse
merchants we corresponded with called it by a different name from
31a}; which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above,

umchang.

As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, we
weighed the next' day, having only gone twice on shore where we
were to get fresh water; on both which occasions the people of the
cormtry were very civil to us, and brought us abundance of things
to sell to us, I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and some
fowls, but nothing without/money.

We came to the ol her port (the wind being contraryg not till five
days, but it was very much to our satisfaction; and was joyful,
and I may say thankful, when I set my foot on shore, resolving, and
my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and
e ects any other way, though not every way to our satisfaction, we
would never set one foot on board that unhappy vessel more; and,
indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of life .
that ever I had any experience of, nothing makes mankind so com-

letely miserable as that of being in constant fear. Well does the

cri ture say, "The fear of man brings a snare;" it is a life of
deat , and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable
. of no relief.

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was, to get us
acauainted with three missionary Romish priests who were in town,
an who had been there some time converting the people to
Christianity; we thought they made but oor work of it, and
made them but sorry Christians when they ha done: however, that
was none of our business. One of these was a Frenchman, whom
they called Father Simon; another was a Portuguese, and the third,
9 Canoese SS Father Simon was courteous, easy in his manner,

~
and very agreeable company; the other two were more reserved,
seemed rigi ' and austere, and a plied seriously to the work they
came about, viz., to talk with, an insinuate themselves among the
inhabitants, wherever they had an o portunity. We often ate and
drank with those men; and though, must confess, the conversion,
as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity is so far from the true
conversion required to brin heathen people to the faith of Christ,
that it seems to amount to 'ttle more than letting them know the
name of Christ, and say some rayers to the Virgin Mary and her
Son, in a tongue which they un erstand not, and to cross themselves,
and the like; yet it must he confessed that the religionists, whom
we call missionaries, have a firm belief that these people will be
saved, and that they are the instruments of it; and, on this account,
they undergo not only the fatiuue of the voyage, and the hazards of
living in such places, but oftentimes death itself, with the most
violent tortures, for the sake of this work.

But, to return to my story. This French priest, Father Simon,
was appointed, it seems, by order of the chic of the mission to go
up to Pekin, the royal seat of the Chinese emperor, and waited
only for another priest, who was ordered to come to him from
Macao, to go along with him; and we scarce ever met together but
he was invrting me to go that journey; telling me how he would
show me all the glorious things of that mighty empire, and, among
the rest, the greatest city in the world: a city, said he, that your
London and our Paris put together, cannot 'be equal to. This was
the city of Pckin, which, I confess, is very great, and infinitely
full .of people; but as I looked upon those things with different
eyes from other men, so I shall give my opinion of them in a few
words, when I come in course 0 my travels to speak more per-
ticularl of them. -

We lied something else before us at first, for we had all this while
our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and we began to be
veg doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a place of very
lit e business; and once I was about to venture to sail for the river
of Kilam, and the city of Nmiquin: but Providence seemed now
more visibly, as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
affairs; and I was encouraged, from this ver time, to think I should
one way or other get out of this entangle circumstance, and be
brought home to my own country again, though I had not the least
view of the manner. Providence, I say, began here to clear up our
way a little: and the first thing that offered was, that our old
Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who inquired what
goods we had; and, in the first place, he bought all our opium, and
gave us a. very good rice for it', paying us in gold by weight, some
in small pieces of t eir own com, and some in small wed es, of
about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were dealing wit him

for our opium, it came into my head that he might perhaps deal for
24-.

.
the ship too, and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him: he
shrugged up his shoulders at it, when it was first proplosed to him;
but in a few days after he came to me, with one of t e missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me he had a proposal to make to
me, which was this: he had bought a great quantity of code of us,
when he had no thou hts Spr reposals made to him) 0 buying the
ship; and that, there ore, e ad not money enough to pa for the
ship: but if I would let the same men who were in the s i navi-
gate her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan; and wo (1 send
them from thence to the Philippine islands with another loading
which he would pay the frei ht of before the went to Japan, and
that at their return he wouldfimy the ship. I egan to listen to his
prplposal, and so.eager did my head still run upon rambling, that I
' o d not but begin to entertain a notion of gomg myself wrth him,
and so to sail from the Philippine islands away to the South Seas;
according] I asked the Japanese merchant if he would not hire us
to the P "ppine islands, and dischar e us there. He said, "No,
he could not do that, for then he can d not have the return of his
car ; but he would discharge us in Japan, at the ship's return."
We still I was for taking lum at that proposal, and going myself;
but my partner, wiser than myself, persua ed me from it, representing
the dangers, as well of the seas as of the. Japanese, who are a false,
cruel, and treacherous eople; likewise those of the S aniards at
the Philip ines, more fa e, cruel, and treacherous than t ey.
But-to rin this long turn of our afl'airs to a conclusion: the
first thing we ad to do was, to consult with the captain of the ship,
and with his 'men, and know if they were willing to go to Japan:
and while I was doing this, the young man whom my nephew had'
left with me as m companion for my travels came to me, and told
me that he thoug t that voyage promised very fair, and that there
was a great prospect of advantage, and he would be very lad if I
undertook it; but that if I woul not, and would give him cave, he
- would go as a merchant, or how I leased to order him; that if he
ever came to England, and.I was t ere and alive, he would render-
me a faithful account of his success, which should be as much mine
,as I pleased. I was really loth to part with him; but censi'der'
the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable, and the
he was a younfiugellow as likcl to do well in it as any I knew, I
inclined to let ' go; but I to d him I would consult m partner
and give him an answer the next day. My partner and I iscoursc
about it, and my artner made a most generous offer: "You know
it has been an u ucky ship," said he, "and we both resolve not to
go to sea in it again: if {our steward (so he called my man) wiL.
venture the v0 age, I will eave my share of the vessel to him, and
let him make t e best of it; and if we live to meet in England, and
-he meets with success abroad, he shall account for one half of the
profits of the ship's freight to us; the, other shall be his. own."--
If my partner,, who was no way concerned with my! young man,
made him such an offer, I could do no less than ofi'er 'm the same:
and all the ship's company being willing to go with him, we made
over half the ship to 111m in property, and took a writing from him,
obliging him to account for the other; and away he went to Japan.
The Japan merchant proved a veryuplunctual, honest man to him ;,
protected him at Japan, and got ' a licence to come on shore,
which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him
his freight very unctually; sent him to the Phili pines, loaded

with Japan and C ' wares, and a supercar of t eir own, who, '
trafficking with the Spaniards, brought ack 'uropean oods again,
and a eat uautity of cloves and other spices; and t ere he was
not 0 y ai his freight very well, and at a very good price, but not
being ' 'ng to sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him goods
on his own account; and with some money, and some s ices of his
own which he brought with him, he went back to the anillas to
the Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Here, having
got a good acquaintance at Manilla, he t his ship made a free
ship; and the governor of Manilla hired 'm to go to Acapulco in
America on the coast of Mexico, and gave him a licence to land
there, and to travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to
Euro c with all his men. He made t e voyage to capulco ve
happ y; and there he sold his ship; and havmg there alsoobtaine
allowance to travel by land to Porto Bello, he found means, some-
how or other, to get to Jamaica, with all his treasure; and about
eight years after came to England exceeding rich, of which I shall
' tr; e notice in its place: in the mean time, I return to our particular
a airs. . .
Being now to part with the ship and' the ship's company, it came
' before us, of course, to consider what recompense we should give
to the two men that gave us such timely notice of the design agamst
us in the river Cambodia. The truth was, they had done us a very
considerable service, and deserved well at our hands; though, by
the way, they were a_couple of ro es too: for as they believed the
story of our being pirates, and t at we had really run away with
the ship, they came down to us not only to betray the design that was
formed oainst us, but to go to sea with us as pirates ; and one of them
confesse afterwards that nothing else but the ho es of going a
roguing brought him to do it: however, the service t ey dld us was
not the less; and therefore, as ~I had- promised to be grateful to
them, I first ordered the money to be paid them which they said
was due to them on board their respective ships; 'over and above
that, I ve each of them a small sum of money in gold, which con-
tented t em very well; then I made the Englishman" gunner in the
, ship, the gunner being now made second mate and purser ; the
Dutchman I made boatswain; so they were both very well pleased,

and proved very serviceable, being both able semen, and very stout
fellows. -
IOUBtNEY T0 PEKI'N --- ROBINSON JOINS A CARAVAN PROCEEDING
TO MOSCOW--RENOON'IRES WITH THE TARTARS.

I was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China, about
thirty degrees north of the line. I had, indeed, a mind to see the
city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon im-
portuned me daily to do it.. At length his time of going away being
set, and the other missionary who was to go with him being arrived
from Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve either to go or
not; so I referred him to m partner, and left it wholly to his
choice, who at length resolve it in the aflirmative ; and we pre-
pared for our journey. We set out with very good advantage, as
to findinaithe way, for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one
of their andarins, a kind of viceroy or principal magistrate in the
province where they reside, and who take great state upon them,
travelling with great attendance, and with much homa e from the
people, who are sometimes greatl impoverished by t em, being
obliged to furnish provisions 'for t em and all their attendants in
their journeys. That which I particularly observed, as to our tra
veiling with his baggage, was this, that though we received sufficient
provisions both for ourselves and our horses from the country, as

elonging to the Mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for every-
thing we had, after the market rice of the country, and the Man-
darin's steward collected it duly rom us; so that our travelling in
the retinue of the Mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to
us, was not such a mighty favour in him, but was a great advantage
to him, considering there were about thirty other people travelled 1n
the same manner besides us, under the protection of his retinue;
the country furnished all the provisions for nothing to him, and yet
he took our money for them. .

. We were twenty-five da 3 travelling to Pekin, through a country
mfinitely populous, but I t ink badly cultivated; the husbandry, the
economy, and the way of living miserable, though the boast so
much of the industry of the people: I say miserable, i compared
with our own, but not _so to these oor wretchcs, who know no
other. The pride of the people is in initcly rcat, and exceeded by
nothing but their poverty, which adds to t at which I call their
misery; and I must needs think the naked savages of America live
much more happily, because, as they have not ' , so they desire
nothing: whereas these are proud and insolent, an in the main are
mere beggars and drudges; t eir ostentation is inexpressible ; and, if
they can, they love to keep multitudes of servants or slaves, and,
wlnch is to the last degree ridiculous, have the greatest contempt
of all the world but themselves.

I must confess, I travelled more dpleasantly afterwards in the
deserts and vast 'wildernesses of Gran Tartary than here; and yet
the roads here are well paved and well kept, and very convenient
for travellers: but nothing was more awkward to me than to see
such a haughty, imperious, insolent people, in the midst of the

ossest simplicity and ignorance, and my friend Father Simon and

used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the beggarly
pride of these people. For example, coming by the house of a
country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues
of? the city of N anquin, we had first of all the honour to ride with
the master of the house about two miles; the state he rode in was a
perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and povert . His

abit was very lproper for a scaramouch, 0r merry-andrew, eing a
dirty calico, wit hanging sleeves, tassels, and cuts and slashes on
almost every side; it covered a tafi'ety vest, as greasy as a butcher's,
and which testified that his honour must be a most exquisite sloven.
His horse was but a poor, starved, hobbling creature, and he had
two slaves who followed him on foot to drive the cor creature
along: he had a whip in his hand, and he belaboure the beast as
fast about the head as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he
rode by us, with about ten or twelve servants, goin from the city
to his countr seat, about half a league before us. V e travelled on
gently, but his ii ure of a gentleman rode away before us; and as
we stopped at a lage about an hour to refresh us, when we came
by the country seat of this great man, we saw him in a little place
before his door, eating his repast. It was a kind of a garden, but
he was very easy to be seen; and we were given to understand that
the more we looked at him the better he would be pleased. He sat
under a tree, somethin like the palmetto, which effectually shaded
him over the head, an on the south. side; but under the tree was
also placed a large umbrella, which made that part look well enough.
He'sat lollin back in a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, co - ulent
man, and ha his meat brought him bytwo women slaves; e had
lwo'moi'e,_one of whom fed the squire with a spoon, and the other
and the dish with one hand, and scraped oii' what he let fall upon'
his worshi 's beard and talfety vest with the other; while the great
fat brute t ough' it below him to employ his own hands in'any of
those familiar oliices, which kings an monarchs would rather do
than be troubled with the clumsy fin ers of their servants.

At length we arrived at Pekin: had nobody with me but the
youth whom m nephew the captain had given me to attend me as a
servant, and w 0 proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner_
had nobody with him, but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for
the Portuguese pilot, he being desirous to see the court, we bore
his charges for his company, and to use him as an interpreter, for
he understood the langua e of the count , and spoke good French
anda little English; an , indeed, this 0 d man was a most useful
.irnp-llgment to us everywhere; tor we had not been above a week at
P0 ' , when he came laughin : "Ah, Senhor 1 lese," said he, " I
have something to tell you wi make your heart g ad!" " My heart
glad!" says I; " what can that be? I don't know anythin in this
-~ country can either give me joy or grief, to any great egree."
" Yes, yes," said the old man, in broken English, " make you glad,
me sorry." " Why," said I, "will it make you sorry?" "_Be-
cause," said he, " you have brought me here twenty-five da s' jour' '
ney, and will leave me to go back alone, and which way shall get to
my port afterwards without a ship, without a horse, without pecune .- "
so he called money, being his broken Latin, of which he had abun-
dance to make us merry with. In' short, he told us there was a
great caravan of Museovite and Polish merchants in the city, re-
paring to set out on their journey by land to Muscovy, withm our
or five weeks, and he was sure we would take the Opportunity to go '
with them, and leave him behind, to go back alone.

I confess I was reatl surprised with this good news, and had
_ scarce power to spe to iim for some time; but at last I turned to

himi "How do you know this?" said I. "Are you sure it is
true?" "Yes," says he; " I met this morning in the street an old
acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who is anion them: he came
last from Astracan, and was- desi ing to o to 'onquin, where I
formerly knew him, but has altere his min , and is now resolved to
'go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river We] a to
Astraean." " Well, senhor," says I, " do not be uneasy 8. out
be' left to_ go back alone; if this be a method for my return to
Eng and, it shall be your fault if you go back to Macao at all." We
then went to consult together what was to be done; and I asked my
partner what he thought of the pilot's news, and whether it would
suit with his afl'airsi' He told me he would do just as 1 would, for
hehad settled all his affairs so well at Bengal, and left his efl'eets in ,
such good hands, that as we had made a good voyage here, if he
could vest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as mi ht be
worth the carri e, he would be content to go to England, an then
make his voyage aok to Bengal by the Company's ships.
"Having reserved upon this, we agreed that if our Portuguese ilot
would go with us we would hear his charges to Moscow, or to ng-
land, if he pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over gene- ~
runs in that neither, if we had not rewarded him farther, the service
he had done us being really worth more than that; for he had not
only been a pilot to us at sea, but he had been like a broker for us
on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan merchant was some
hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted together about
it, and bein willing to gratify him, which was but doing him justice,
and very ' ' g also to have him with us besides, for he was a most
necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to ive him a quantity of
coined gold, which, as I com ute it, came to a out one hundred and
seventy-five pounds sterling, etween us, and to bear all his charges,
both for himself and horse, except only a horse to carry his goods.
. Having settled this between ourselves, we called him to let him

know what we had resolved. I told him he had com lained of our

bei to let him 0 back alone, and I was now to tel him we were '
reso ved he shoul not go back at all; that as we had resolved to go
to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he should go with us:
and that we called him to know his mind. He shook his head, and
said it was a long jlplurney, and he had no pecune to carry him
thither, or to subsrst 'mself when he came there. We told him we
believed it was so, and~ therefore we had resolved to do something
for him that should let him see how sensible we were of the service
he had done us, and also how agreeable he was to us: and then I
told him what we had resolved to give him here, which he might lay
out as we would do our own; and that as for his charges, if he
. would go with us we would set him safe on shore (life and casualties
excepted) either in Muscovy or England, which he would, at our
own charfii, except only the carriage of his goods. He received the
proposal "e a man transported, and told us he would go with us
over the whole world; and so we all prepared for our journey.

However, as it was with us, so it was with the other merchants:

they had many things to do;' and instead of bein ready in five

weeks}: it was our months and some days before all t 'ngs were got
to at er.

t was in the beginning of February, our . style, when we set out
from Pekin. My partner and the old pilot had gone express back

.0 the port where we had first put in, to dispose of some goods

which we had left there: and I, with a Chinese merchant whom I

had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Pekin on his

own afi'airs, went to Nan uin, where I bought ninety pieces of fine
damasks, with about two undred ieces 0 other very fine silks of
several sorts, some mixed with go d, and had all these brought to

Pekin against my partner's return: besides this, we bought a very

large quantity 0 raw silk, and some other goods, our cargo amount-

ing, in these goods only, to about three thousand five hundred
pounds sterlin ; which, together with tea, and some fine calicoes,
and three cannis' loads of nutmegs and cloves, loaded in all eighteen
camels for our share, besides those we rode upon; which, with two
or three spare horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-six camels and horses in our retmue.

The company was ve great, and, as near as I can remember,
made between three an our hundred horses, and upwards of one
hundred and twent men, very well armed, and provided for all
events: for as} the astern caravans are subject to be attacked by
the Arabs, so are these by the Tartars; but they are not altogether
so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous, when they prevail.

The company consisted of pea le of several nations; but there
were above sixty of them mere rants or inhabitants of Moscow,
though of them some were Iiivonians; and to our particular satis-
faction five of them were Scots, who appeared also to be men of
' great experience in business, and of very good substance.

When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who were
five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that is to
say, all the passengers except the servants, to a reat council, as
they called it. At this council every one deposits a certain quan-
tity to a common stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage
on the way, where it was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfyin
the giiides, getting horses, and the like: and here they constituted
the ourncy, as they called it, viz. they named captains and officers
to raw us all up, and give the word of command, in case of an
attack, and give every one their turn of command; nor was this
forming us into order any more than what we found needful upon
the way, as shall be observed.

' In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a for-
tification against the Tartars; and a very great work it is, going
over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the rocks are
irnpassible, and the preeipiees such as no enemy could ossibly
enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no wall could) hinder
them. They tell us its ength is near a thousand English miles, but
that the country is five hundred in a straight measured line, which
the wall bounds, without measuring the windings and turnings it
tallies: it is about four fathoms high, and as many thick in some
ces.
p I stood still an hour, or thereabout, without trespassing our
orders (foi- so long the caravan was in passing the gate), to look at
it on every side, near and far off, I mean that was within m view;
and the guide of our caravan, who had been extolling it for the won-
der of the world, was mi hty eager to hear my opinion of it. I told
him it was a most exce ent thing to keep out the Tartars; whiCh
he happened not to understand as I meant it, and so took it for a
comphment; but the old pilot lau bed; "0, Senhor Inglese," an 3

he, "you speak in colours."---" colours l " said I; what 0
ADVENTURES or nonmson cansoa._ 289

you mean by that?"---'" Why, you speak what looks white this
way, and black that way: gay one way, and dull another. You tell
him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars; you tell me by that, it is
good for nothing but to keep out Tartars. I' understand you,
- Lenhor Inglese; understand you; but Senhor Chinese understood
you his own way."---" Well," says I, "Senhor, do you think it
would stand out an army of our country people, with a ood train
of artillery, or our engineers, with two com anies o miners?
Would not they batter it down in ten days, t at an army mi ht
enter in battalia; or blow it up in the air, foundation and all, t at
there should be no sign of it left? "----"Ay, ay,'.' says he, " I know
that." The Chinese wanted mirrhtily to know what I said, and I
gave him leave to tell him a few days after, for we were then almost
out of their countr , and he was to leave us in a little time after
this; but when he knew what I said, he was dumb all the rest of
the way, and we heard no' more of his line story of the Chinese
power andgreatness while he stayed.
' After we passed' this mightv nothing, called a wall, something like
the Picts' wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the limnans,
we began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather
confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being Subject to the
inroads and deprcdations of the Tartars, who rob in rent armies,
and therefore are not to be resisted by the naked inha itants of an
open country. And here I began to find the necessity of keeping
together in a caravan as we travelled, for we saw several troops of
Tartars roving about; but when I came to see them diszinctly, I
wondered more that the Chinese empire could be con ucred by such
contemptible fellows; for they are a mere horde 0 mid fellows,
keeping no order, and understanding no discipline or manner of
fight. Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and fit
for nothing; and this we found the first day we saw them, which
was after we entered the wilder part of the country. Our leader for
the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to 'go a hunting, as they
call it, and what was this but hunting of sheep: however, it may be
called hunting too, for the creatures are the wildest and swiftest of
foot that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a great
way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the .chase, for they
a pear generally thirty or forty in a flock, and, hke true sheep,
wa s keep together when they fly.

ill e were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore
the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards; but in about five days
we entered a vast, great, wild desert, which held us three days and
nights' march; and we were obliged to carry our water with us in
great leathern bottles, and to eneamp all night, just as I have heard
the do in the desert of Arabia.

asked our uidcs whose dominion this was in: andthey told me
this was a kin of border, and might be called No Man's Land, being

25' U
S

"90 Anvnnrunes or noumson causes.

a lpart of Great Karakathay, or Grand Tartary; but, however, it was
a reckoned as belonging to China, but that there was no care taken
here to reserve it from the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was
reckone the worst desert in the whole march, though we were to
go over some much larger. .
In passing this wilderness, which was at first very frightful to me,
we saw, two or three times; little parties of the 'l'artars. Once, a
party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us; whether it
was to consider if they should attack us or not, we kncw,not ; but
when we were passed at some distance by them, we made a rear
guard of forty men, and stood ready for them, letting the caravan
pass half a mile or thereabouts before us :' but after a while they
marched ofi' ; only we found they saluted us with live arrows at their
parting, one of which wounded a horse, so that it disabled him, and
we lett him the next day, poor creature, in great need of a good
farrier; they might shoot more arrows, which might fall short of us,
but we saw no more arrows or Tartars that time.
,We travelled near a month after this, the ways not beino so good
' as at first, though still in the dominions of the emperor of China, but
lay for the most part in villages, some of which were fortified,
because of the_ incursions of the Tartars. When we were come to
one of these towns (it was about two da sand a half journey before
we were to come to the city of Naum), Iwanted to bu a camel, of
which there are plenty to- be sold all the way upon 1 rat road, and
horses also, such as they are, because, so many caravans coming that
way, they are often wanted. The person that I spoke to, to get me
acamel, would have gone and fetched one for me; but I, like a fool,
must be ofiicious, and go myself along with him: the place was about
two miles out of the Village, where it seems they kept the camels and
horses feeding under a guard. _
I walked it on foot, with mv old pilot and a Chinese, being very
desirous of a little variety. When we came to the place, it was a
low marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled up dry,
without mortar or earth among it, like a ark, with a little uard of
Chinese soldiers at the door. Having ionght a camel, an a reed
for the price, I came away, and the Chinese-man that went wit: me
led the camel, when on a Sudden came it live 'I'artars on horseback;
_two of them seized the fellow and too the camel from him, while
the other three- stc ped up to me and my old pilot, seeing us, as it
were, unarmed, forli had no weapon about me but my sword, which
could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that came
up stopped short upon my drawing my sword, for the are arrant
cowards; but a second coming upon my left, gave me a low on the
head, which I never felt till afterwards, and wondered, when I came
to myself, what was the matter, and where I was, for he laid me flat '
on t e ground; but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese (so
Providence, unlocked for, directs deliverances from dangers which to
us are unforeseen), had a pistol in his pocket, winch I knew nothing
of, nor the Tartars neither: if thzy had, I suppose they would not
have'attacked us; but cowards are ways boldest when there is no
dan er. The old man seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped up
to t e fellow that had struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one
hand, and pullin him down by main force a little towards lnm with
the other, shot 'm in the head, and laid him dead upon the spot.
'He then immediately stepped up to him who had sto ped us, as-I
said, and before he could come forward again, made a low at him
witlr a scimitar which he always were, but missing the man, out his
horse in the side of his head, out one of the ears off by the root, and
a great slice down by the side of his face. .The oor beast, enraged
with the wound, was no more to be governed y his rider, though
the fellow sat well enough 100, but away he flow, and carried him
quite out of the pilot's reach; and at some distance, rising upon his
hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him.

In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel,
but he had no weapon: however, seeing the Tartar down, and his
horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly
ill-favoured weapon he had by his side, something like a pole-axe,
but not a pole-axe neither, he wrenched it from him, and made shift
to knock his Tartar-inn brains out with it. But in old man had the
third Tartar to deal with still, and seeing he id not fly, as he
expected, nor come on to fight him, as he apprehended, but stand
stock-still, the old man stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle,

I

to charge his pistol a in; but as soon as the 'lartar saw the pistol,

away he scoured, and aft my pilot, my champion I called him aft'er- _

wards, a complete victory.
. By this time I was a little recovered; for I thought when I first
began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as I said
above, I wondered where I was, how I came upon the ground, and
what was the matter. But a few moments after, as sense returned,
I felt pain, though I did not know where; so I clapped my hand to-
my head, and took it away bloody: then I felt my head ache; and
then, in a moment, memory returned, and every thing was resent
to me again. I jumped upon my feet instantly, and got hol of my
sword, but no enemies in view: I found a Tartar lie dead, and his
horse standinnr very quietly by him; and, lookinn' further, I saw my
champion andbdeliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had
done, coming back with his hanger in his hand: the old man, seeing
me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced me with a great
deal of joy. being afraid before that I had been killed ; and seeing me
bloody, would see how I was hurt: but it was not much, only what
we call a broken head; neither did I afterwards find any great
iandcouveuicnce from the blow, for it was well again in two or three

-vs. '

We made no greatigain, however, by this victory. forwe lost a
camel and gained a horse; but that which was remarkable, when we
came back to the village, the man demanded to be paid for the
camel; I disputed it, and' it was brought to a hearing before the
Chinese judge of the place. To give him his due, he acted with a
great deal of )rudenee and innartiality; and, having heard both
sides, he rave y asked the Chinese man that went With me to buy
the came , whose servant he was? "I am no servant," says he,
" but went with the stranger."--" At whose request?" says the
justice. " At the stranger's request," says he. "Why, then,"
says the 'ustice, 'ziyou were the stranger's servant for the time ;- and
the came being elivercd to his servant, it was delivered to him,
and he must pay for it."

I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to
say: but, admiring to see such just reasonina' upon the conse-
rpuence, and an accurate stating of the case,I paid willingl for
t re camel, and sent for another; but, you may observe, did
not 6*0 to fetch it myself any more, for I had enough of that.

The cit of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire: they call
it fortifie , and so it is, as fortifications go there; for this I will
venture to affirm, that all the 'l'artars 1n Karakathay, which I
believe, are some millions, could not'battcr down the walls with
their bows and arrows; but to call it strong, if it were attacked
with cannon, would be to make those who understand it laugh at

on.

y We wanted, as I have said, above two days' journey of this city,
when messengers were sent express to every part of the road to tell
all travellers and caravans to halt till they had a guard sent for
them; for that an unusual body of Tartars, makinnr ten thousand
in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty miies beyond the

cit .

'l'his was very bad news to travellers; however, it was carefully
done of the governor, and we were very glad to hear we should have
a guard. Accordingly, two davs after,~we had two hundred soldiers
sent us from a garrison of the Chinese, on our left, and three
hundred more from the city of Naum, and with these we advanced
boldly, the three hundred soldiers from Naum marched in our
front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men on each side of our
camels, with our ba gage, and the whole caravan in the centre: in
this order, and well3 prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a
match for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had
apppeared; but the next day, when they did appear, it was Quite
aucther thing.

It was ear y in the morning, when, marching from a well situated
little town, called Changn, we had a river to pass, which we were
obli ed to ferry; and had the 'l'artars had any intelligence, then
had een the time to have attacked us, when the caravan being over,
the rear guard was behind; but they did not appear there. About

U
three hours after, when we were entered upon a desert of about
fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold,. b a cloud of dust they raised,
we saw an enemy was at hand; and tiiey were at hand, indeed, for
they came on upon the spur.

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big the
day before, began to stagger; and the soldiers frequently 'looked
behind them, which is a certain sign in a soldier that he is just ready
to run away. My old pilot was of my mind; and, being near me,
called out, "Senhor Inglese," says he, " those fellows must be en-
couraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tartars come on, they
will never stand it."--"I am of your mind," said I; "but what
must he done i'"---" Done !" says he, "let fifty of our men advance,
and flank them on each wing, and encour e tnem ; and they will
fight like brave fellows in brave com any: u',, without this, they
wrll every man turn his back. Imme iately I rode up to our leader,
and told him, who was exactly of our mind; and accordingly fifty
of us marched to the right mug, and fifty to the left, and the rest
made a line of rescue; and so we marched, leaving the last two
hundred men to make a body by themselves, and to guard the
camels: only that, if need were, they should send a hundred men
to assist the last fifty. \

In a word, the 'l'artars came on, and an innumerable com any
they were: ho'w many we could not tell, but ten thousan , we
thought, was the least: a. party of them came on first and viewed
our esture, traversing the ground in the front of our line; and, as
we fpound them within gunshot, our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly; and give them a salvo on each wing with their shot,
which was done; but they went off, and I suppose back,to give an
account of the rece tion they were likely to meet with ;' and, indeed,
that salute eleyed t eir stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood
awhile to consider of it, and wheeling off to the lel't,'they gave over
their design, and said no more to us for that time; which was Very
agreeable.to our circumstances, which were but very indifferent for
a battle with such a number.

Two days after we came to the city of Nann, or Naum; we
thanked the governor for' his care of us. and collected to the value
of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers
sent to guard us; and here we rested one day. This is a garrison,
indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here; but the
reason of it was, that formerly the Museovite frontiers lay nearer to
them than they now do, the Museovites having abandoned that art
of the country, which lies from this city west for about two hun red
miles, as desolate and unfit for use; and more especially being so
very remote, and so difficult to send troops thither for its defence;
foilwie had yet above two thousand miles to Museovy, properly so
ea Ct.

After this we passed several great rivers, and twc dreadful

25*
deserts; one of which we were sixteen days passing over; and
which, as 1 said, was to be called No Man's Land; and, on the 13th
of npril, we came to the frontiers of the Muscovitc dominions. I
think the first town, or fortress, whichever it may be called, that
belonged to the Czar of Museovy, was called Argun, being on the
west side of the river Argun.

I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so soon
arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country, or, at least, in a coun-
try governed .by Christians; for though the Muscovites do, in my
opinion, but just deserve the name of Christians, 1yet such th -.y pre-
tend to be, and are very devout in their way. t would certainly
occur to any man who travels the world as I have done, and who had
any power of reflection, what a blcssin it. is to be brought into the
world where the name of God and a lie eemer is known, adored and
worshipged; and not where the people, given up by Heaven to
strong elusions, worship the devil, and prostrate tremselves to
stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements, horrid-shaped ani-
mals, and statues or images of monsters. Not a town or city we
passed through, but had theirpagods, their idols, and their temples,
and ignorant people worshi ping even the works of their own hands.
Now we came where, at Ileast, a face of the Christian worship
appeared; where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and. whether ignor-
antly or not, et the Christian religion was owned, and the name of
the true G0 was called 11 on and adored, and it made my soul
rejoice to see it. I salutedt e brave Scots merchant I mentioned
above with my first acknowledgment of this; and taking him by the
hand, I said to him, " Blessed be God, we are once again amongst
Christians." He smiled, and answered, "Do not rejoice too soon,
countryman! these Muscovites are but. an odd sort of Christians;
and but for the name of it, you may see very little of the substance
. lcr some months farther of our journey." '5 Well," says I, "but
still it is better than paganism and worshipping of devils." "Why,
I will tell you," says he, "except the Russian soldiers in the gar-
risons, and a few of the inhabitants of the cities upon the road, all
the rest. of this countr , for above a thousand miles farther, is inha-

bited by the worst an most ignorant of pagans; " and so indeed we
found 1t. ,
norms THROUGH muscovr--nonleoN AND A score MERCHANT
nesrnor AN won--me wuow CARAVAN 1N oanA'r rerun
moat run PURSUIT or me pAGANS--ronomKI--Dnrm'rune
mom TOBOLSKI--ENCOUNTER mm A moor or senses IN
rue DESERT--ROBINSON neAcm-zs AneHANGnL, AND BINALLY
Amuvns IN ENGLAND. ' '

We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if 'I
understand anything of the surlaee of the globe, that is to be found
in any part of the world; we had, at least, twelve hundred miles to
the sea, eastward; two thousand to the bottom of the Baltic sea,
westward; and above three thousand, if we left that sea and went
on west, to the British and French channels; we had full five thou-
sand miles to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about ei ht
hundred to-the Frozen sea, north. Nay, if some people may be e~
lieved, there might be no sea, north-east, till we came round the
pole, and consequently into the north-west, and so had a continent
of land into America; though -I could give seine reasons why I be-
lieve that to be a mistake. '

As we entered into the Muscovite dominions a good while before
we came to any considerable towns, we had nothing to observe
there but this: first, that all the rivers run to the east: as I under-
stood by the charts, which some in our caravan had withthem, it
was lain all those rivers ran mto the great river Yamonr, or Ai'nour;
whic i'rix-er, by the natural course <<if it, must run into the East. Sea,
or Chinese Ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this
river is choked up With bulrushes of a monstrous rowth', viz. three
feet about, and twenty or thirty feet high, I must e allowed to say,
I believe nothing of it; but, as its navigation is of no use, because

. there is no trade that way, the Tartais, to whom it alone belongs,
dealing in nothing but cattle, so nobody, that ever I heard of, has
been curious enough to go down to the mouth of it in boats, or come
ur. from the mouth of it in shins. as far as I can find: but this is

,
certain, that this river, running east, in the latitude of about fifty
degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and finds an
ocean to empty itself in that latitude: so we are sure of sea there.

Some leagues to the north of this river there are several consider
' able rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamour runs
east, and these are all found to join their waters with the great river
Tartarus, named so from the nerthcrmost nations of the Mogul Ta -
tars; who, as the Chinese say, were the first 'l'artars in the world;
and who, as our geographers allege, are the Gog and Ma og men-
tioned in sacred story. These rivers running all northward, as well
as all the other rivers I am yet to s eak of. make it evident that the
northern ocean bounds the land a so on that side; so that it does
not seem rational in the least to think that the land can extend itself
to join with America on that side, or that there is not a communica-
tion between the northern and eastern ocean: but of this I shall say
no more; it was my observation at that time, and therefore I take
notice of it in this place.

We now advanced from the river Argun by easy and moderate
journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the Czar ol' Mus-
covy- has taken to have cities and towns built in as many places as
it is possible to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison, some-
thing like the stationary soldiers placed by the Romans in the
remotest countries oi their em ire; some of which that 1 had read
of were placed in Britain, for t e security of commerce, and for the
lodging travellers; and thus it was here: for wherever we came,
though at these towns and stations the garrisons and governors were
Russmns and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were mere
pagans; sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and
stars, or all the hostel heaven; and not only so, but were, of all the
heathens and paeans that ever I met with, the most barbarous,
encegtdonly that they did not eat men's flesh, as our sarages ot' Ame-
~ ma 1 .

_ Some instances of this we met within the country between
Argun, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city of
Tartars and Russians together, called Ncrtzinskoi, in which is a
continued desert or forest, which. cost as twenty days to travel
over. In a villa c, near the last of- these places, I had the curiosity
to go and see t icir we of living, which is most hrutish and in-
sufferable; they had ha , I suppose, a great sacrifice that day; for
there stood- out, n on an old stump of a tree, an idol made of
wood, frightful as t 1e devil ; at least, as any thing we can think of
to represent the devil can be made : it had a head, not so much as
resembling any creature that the world ever saw; ears as big as
goats' horns, and as high; eyes as big as a crown piece; a nose like
.a crooked ram's-horn, and a mouth extended fear-corned, like that
of a lion, with horrible teeth, hooked hke a parrot's under bill: it
was dressed up in the tilthicst manner that you could suppose: its
upper garment was of shee -skins, with the wool outward; a great
Tartar bonnet on the hen with two horns growing through it:
it was about eight feet high, yet,had no feet or legs, nor any other
proportion of parts. - '

'lhis scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village; and,
when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures,
whether men or women I could not tell, for they made no distinc--
tion by their habits, all lying flat u on the ground round this
formidable block of shapeless wood: fsaw no motion among them
any more than if the had been all logs of wood, like the idol, and
.rt first I really thong t they had been so; but, when I came a little ~
nearer,- they started up upon their feet,'and raised a bowling cry,
as if it had been so many deep-mouthed hounds, and walked away,
as if they were displeased at our disturbing them. A little way
oil from the idol, and at the door of a tent or but, made all of
sheep-skins and cow-skins dried, stood three butchers,----I thought

.they were such: when I Came nearer to them, I found they had
long knives in their hands; and in the middle of the tent appeared
three shee killed, and one young bullock or steer._ These, it seems,
were sacrifices to that senseless 0g of an idol ; the three men were,
priests belon incr to it, and the seventeen prostrated wretches were
the people who brought the offering, and were making their prayers
to that stock.

1 confess, I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish
worship of a hohgoblin than ever I was at anything in my life;
to see God's most glorious and best creature, to whom he had
granted so many advantages, even by creation abovethe rest of
the works of his hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and that
soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to honour
his Maker, and be honoured by him, sunk and degeneratedto a
degree so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothina', a
mere imaainar ob'ect, dressed. up by themselves, and made terrible
to themse ves by t eir own contrivance, adorned only with clouts
and rugs; and that this should be the effect of mere ignorance,
wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, envyinv
to his Maker the homage and adoration of his creatures, had deluded
them into such Sordid and brutish things as one would think should
shock nature itself! I

But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts:
thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes. and there was no room to
wonder at it, or think it impossrble: all my admiration turned to.
rage, and I rode u to the image or monster, call it what you will,
and with my swor made a stroke at the bonnet that was on its
head, and cut it in two; and one of our men that was with me took
hold of the sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled at it; when,
behold, a most hideous cute and howling ran throughout the
village. and two or three hun no people came about my ears, so
that I was glad to scour for it, for we saw some had bows and
arrows; but I resolved from that moment to visitthem again.- .

Our caravan rested three ni hts at the town, which was about
four miles off, in order to provi e some horses which they wanted,
several of the horses havincr been lamed and 'aded with the badness
of the way, and long march over the last esert; so we had some
leisure here to put my. design in execution. I communicated my
pro'ect to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of whose courage I ha
su icient testimony : I told him what I had seen, andwith what indig-
ationI had since thou ht that human nature could be so degenerate:
I told him5 if. I coul get but four or fivemen well armed to go
with me, .1 was resolved to'go and. destroy that vile, abominable idol,
and let them see that it had no power to help itself; and conse-
quently could not be an ob'ect of worship, or to he prayed to, much
less help them that allow sacrifices to no.-

He laughed at me: says he, " Your zeal may be. odd, but what
do on pi'opOse to yourself by it?"--" Propose!' said 1; "to
vin 'cate the honour of God, which is insulted by this devil-worship."
--"But how will it vindicate the honour of God," said he, "while
the people will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless
you could speak to them, and tell them so? And then they will
(i rht-you, and beat you too, I'll assure you; for they are des crate
fdllows, and that especially in defence of their idolatry."--" an we
not," said I, " do itin the night, and then leave them the reasons
and the causes in writing in their own language ?"--"Writingl"
said he; " why there is not a man in five nations of them that knows
anything of a letter,_or how to read a word any way."--" Wretched
ignorance!" said I to him: "however, I have a great mind to do
it; perhaps nature may draw inferences from it to them, to let them
see :ow brutish they are to worship such horrid things."--"Look
p you, sir," said he, "if your zeal prompts (you to it so warmly, you

must do it; but in the next place, I woul have you consider, these

wild nations of poo 1e are subjected by force to the Czar of Mus-
covy's dominion, an if you do this, it is ten to one but they will
come by thousands to the governor of Nertzinskoi, and demand
satisfaction; and if he cannot ive them satisfaction, it is ten to
one but they revolt; and it wi occasion a new war with all the
Tartars in the country,

This, I confess, put new thou vhts into m head for awhile, but I
harped upon the same string sli ; and all t at day I was uneasy to
put my project in execution. Towards the evening the Scots
merchant met me by accident in our 'walk about the town, and
desired to s eak with me: " I believe," said he, " I have put you 01!
your good esign; I have beena little concerned about it since: for I
abhor idolatr as much as you can do."--" Truly," said I," you have
put it off a ittle, asto the execution of it, but you have not put it
out of my thoughts: and I believe I shall do it beforeI quit this place,anvrv'wmas or 'nonmson cnnsoa; 29'? .

though I were to be delivered up to them for satisfaction."----" No, no,"
said he, "God forbid they should deliver you up to such a crew of
monsters! They shall not do that neither; that would be murdering
you'iudeed."---" Why," said I, "how would they use me ?"-----" Use
you i" said he, "I'll tell you how they served a poor Russian, who
afl'routed them in their worship, just as you did, and whom they took
prisoner, after the had lamcd him with an arrow, that he could not run
away: they took rim and stripped him stark-naked, and set him upon
the t0p of the idol-monster, and stood all round him, and shot as many
arrows into him as would stick over his whole body; and then the burnt
him, and all the arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice to the i 01."--
" And was this the same idol? ' said I. " Yes," said he, " the very
same."--" Well," said I, " I will tell you a story." So I related
the story of our men at Mad trascar, and how they burnt and sacked
the village there, and kille man, woman, and child, for their
murdering one of our men, just as it is related before; and I added,
that l thought we ought'to do so to this village.

l'le listened ver attentively'to the story ; but when I talked of
doing so to that vil age, said he, " You mislake very much; it was
not this village, it was almost a hundred miles from this place; but
it was the same idol, for the carry him about in procession all over
the couutr ."---" Well," sai I, " then that idol ought to be punished

' for it; an it shall," said I, " if I live this nivht out."

In a word, finding me resolute, he lihed the design, and
told me I should not go alone, but he would go with me,
and bring a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go along with
us: " and one," said he, " as famous for lus zeal as you can desire
any one to be against such devilish things as these." In a word, he
brought me lus comrade, a Scotsman, whom he called Captain
Richardson; and gave him a full account of what I had seen, and
also what I intended; and he told me readily, he would go with me
if it cost him his life. So we agreed to go, 'only we three. I had,
indeed, roposed it to my partner, but he declined it. He said he
was rea y to assist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for
my defence; but this was an adventure quite 'out of his way: so,
I say, we resolved upon our work, only we three and my man-
servant, and to put it in execution that mght abOut midnight, with
all the secrecy imaginable.

However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to delay it till
the next night, because, the. caravan being to set forward in the
morning, we supposed the governor could not pretend to ive them
any satisfaction upon us when we were out of lus power. he Scots
merchant, as steady in his resolution for the enterprise, as bold in
executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or own of shee -skins, and
a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and had provided tie same for
himself and his countryman, that the. people, if they saw us, should
not be able to determine who we were.
All the first night we spent in mixing u some combustible matter

with aqua vitae, gunpowder, and such 0t er materials as we could

et; and, having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about an
our after night we set out upon our expedition.

We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and found
that the people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their
idol. The nivrht was cloudy; yet the moon gave us light enough to
see that the idol stood just in the same posture and place that. it did
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest; only, that in the
great hut, or tent, as we called it, where we saw the three priests
whom we mistook for butchers, we saw a light; and going up close
to the door, we heard peeple talking as if there were five or six of
them; we concluded, therefore, that if we set wild-fire to the idol,
these men would come out immediately, and run' up to the place to
rescue it from the destruction that we intended for it; and what to
do with them we knew not. Once we thought of carryin it away
and setting fire to it at a distance, but when we came to landle it,
we found it too bulky for our carriage; so we were at a loss again.
The second Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and
knocking the creatures that were there on the head, when they
came out; but I could not join with that; I was against killing
them, if it were possible to avoid it. "Well then," said the Scots
merchant, I will tell you what we will do: "we will try to make them
srisoners, tie their hands, and make them'stand and see their idol

estroyed." '

As it happened, we had twine or packthread enough about us,
which was used to tie our firweorks together with: so we resolved
to attack these peo 1e first, and with as little noise as we could.
The first thing we id, we knocked at the door, when, one of the
'priests coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, stopped his
mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and led him to the ido , where
we gagged him that he might not make a noise, tied his feet also
together, and left him on the round. .

fwo of us then waited at t e door, expecting that another would
come out, to see what the matter was; but we waited so long till
the third man came back to us; and then nobody coming out, we
knocked again gently, and immediately out came two more, and we
served them just in the same manner, but were obliged to go all
with them, and lay them down by the idol some distance from one
another; when, mg back, we found two more were come out to
the door. and a t iird stood behind them within the door. We seized
the We, and immediately tied them, when 'the third stepping back,
and crying out, my Scots merchant went in after him, and, taking
out a composition we _ had made, that would only smoke and stink,
he set fire to it and threw it in among them: by that time the
other Scotsman and my man, taking char e of the two men alread
bound, and tied together also by the arm, ed them away to the idoi
and left them there to see if their idol would relieve them, making

haste back to us.
When the fuze we had thrown in had filled the but with so much

smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw in a small
leather bag of another kind, which flamed like a candle, and followin
it in, we found there were but four people, who, as we supposed, has
been about some of their diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in
short frightened to death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid,
_ and not able to speak neither, for the smoke.

In a word, we took them, bound them as we had done the other,
and all without any noise. I should have said we brought them out
of ~the house, or hut, first; for indeed we were not able to bear the
smoke any more than they were. When we had done this, we
carried them altogether to the idol: when we came there we fell to
work with him; and first we daubed him all over, and his robes also,
with tar, and such other stuff as we had, which was tallow mixed
with brimstone; then we stopped his eyes and ears and mouth full
of gunpowder; then we-wrflpped up a great piece of wild-fire in his
bonnet; and then sticking the combustibles we had brought with
us upon him, we looked about to see if we could find an thing else
to help to burn him, when my Scotsman remembered t rat by the
tent, or hut, where the men were, there lay a hea of dry forage,
whether straw or rushes 1 do not remember; away re and the other
Scotsman ran and fetched their arms full of that. When they had
done this, we took all our prisoners, and brought them, havin
untied their feet and ungagged their mouths, and, made them stan
up, and set them before their monstrous idol, and then set fire to

the whole. . .
We stayed by it a uarter of an hour, or thereabouts, tlll the

powder in the eyes an mouth and ears of the idol blew up, and as
we could perceive, had split and deformed the sha e of it; and in a
word, till we saw it burned into a mere block or og of wood; and
settino dry forage to it, we found that it would be soon quite con-

sumed: so we began to think of going awa ; but the Scotsman said:
"No, we must not go, for these poor eluded wretches will all

throw themselves into the fire, and burn themselves with the ido ."
So we resolved to stay till the forage was burnt down too, and then
came away and left them. _ .

After the feat was performed, weappeared m the mormng among

our fellow travellers, exceeding busy in (getting ready for our Journey;
nor could any man suggest that we ha been any where but in our

beds, as travellers might be supposed to be, to fit themselves for the
faligues of the day's journey .

But the affair did not end so: the next day came a great number
of the country people to the town gates, and in a most outrageous
manner demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor for the m-
sulting their priests, and burning their Cham Chi-'l'haungu. The

26
{peo 1e 01' Nertzinskoi were at first in a great consternation, for they
sai the Tartars were already no less than thirty thousand strong.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease them, and gave
them all the good words imaginable; assuring them that he knew
nothing of it, and that there had not a soul in his garrison been
abroad, so that it could not be from an body there; but if the
could let him know who did it, they shoal be exemplar-i1 punishe .
They returned haughtil , that all the country reverence the great
Cham Chi-Thauugu, w o dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would
have dared to offer violence to his im e but some Christian miscre- .
ant; and they therefore resolved to enounce war against him and
all the Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and Christianso

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or to
<<have any cause of war alleged to be given by him, the Czar having
strictly charged them to treat the conquered country with gentleness
and civility, gave them still all the good words he could. At last
_ he told them there was a caravan gone toward: Russia that morn.
ing, and perhaps it was some 01 them who had done them this
in] ury; and that if they would be satisfied with that, he would send
after them to inquire into it. This seemed to a ppease them a little;
and accordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a particular
account how the thing was; intimatin withai, that if- any in our
caravan had done it, they should make t reir escape; but that, whe-
ther we had done it or no, we should make all the haste forward
that was possible; and that, in the mean time, he would keep them
in play as long as he could.

- This was very friendly in the overnor: however, when it came
to the caravan, there was nobody 'ncw anythin of the matter; and
as for us that were guilty, we were least of suspected. How-
ever, the captain of the caravan for the time took the hint that the
governor ave us, and we travelled two days and two nights without
any consi enable stop, and then we lay at a villa e'ealled l'lothus:
nor did we make any long stop here, but hastenv on towards Jara-
.wena, another of the Czar of Muscovy's colonies, and where we
expected we should be safe. But it on the second day's march
from Plothus, by the clouds of dust be rind us at a great distance,
:some of our peo le began to be sensible we were pursued. We had
entered agreat esert, and had passed by a great lake called Schanks
Osier, when we perceived a very great body of horse appear on the
other side of the lake, to the north, we travellin west. We
observed the went away west, as we did, but had supposed we
would have t cnthat side of the lake, whereas we very happily took
the south side; and in two da 9 more they disappeared awain: for
they, believin we were still be ore them, pushed on till they came
to the river dda, a very. great river when it asses farther north,
but when we came to it we found it narrow anrfl'ordable.

The third day, they had either found their mistake, or had intelli-
gence of us, and came pouring in upon us towards'the dusk of the
evenin . We had, to our great satisfaction, just itched upon a
place or our camp, which was very convenient for t 1e night; for as
we were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of it, that was
above five hundred miles over, we had no towns to lodge at, and, in-
deed, expected none but the city Jarawena, which we had yet two
' days' march to: the desert, however, had some few woods in it on
this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda.;
it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick woods, that
we pitched our camp for that night, expecting to be-attaeked before
m rmn .

' Tobgd knew but ourselves what we were pursued for: but as it
was nsu for the Mogul Tartars to 'go about in troops- in that
desert, so the caravans always fortify themselvvs err-ry night against
them, as against armies of robbers; and it- was therefore no new
thing to be pursued. 4

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most
advantageous camp; for we lay between two~woods, with a little
rivulet running just before our front, sort-hat we could not be sur-
rounded; or attacked in any way but in our front or rear. We took
care also to make our front as stron as we could, by placing our
packs, with our camels and horses, a in a line on the inside of the
river, and felling some trees in our rear. _ '

"In this posture we eneamped for the night; but the enemy was
upon us before we had finis led our situation. They did not come
on us like thieves, as we ex )ected, but sent three messengers to us,
to demand the men to be elivered to them that had abused their
priests, and burned their god Chain Chi-Thaungu with fire, that they
might burn them with fire; and upon this, the said, they would go
away, and do us no further harm, otherwise t ey would destroy us
all. Our men looked very- blank at this message, and began to stare
at one another, to see who looked with the most guilt in their faces:
but nobod was the word; 7206on did it. The leader of the caravan
sent wor he was well assured that it was not done by any of our
camp; that we were peaceable merchants, travelling on our busi-
ness; that we had. done no harm to them or to any one else; and
that, therefore: they must look further for their enemies who had
injured them, for we were not the eoplc; so desired them not to
disturb us, for, if they did, we should defend ourselves.

They were far from oeing satisfied with this for an answer; and a
great crowd of them came running down in the morning by break
of day, to our camp; but seeing us in such an unaccountable situa-
tion, they durst come no farther than the brook in our front, where
they stood and showed us such a number that indeed terrified us
very much: for those that s oke least of them spoke of ten thou-
sand. Here they stoodand ooked at us awhile,.'and then setting up-
a greathowl, they let- fly a cloud of arrows among us; butwe werewell enough fortified for that, for we sheltered under our baggage,
and I do not remember that one of us was hurt.

Some time after this, we sawthem move a little to our right, and
expected them on the rear; when a cunning fellow, a Cossack of
Jarawena, in the pay of the Muscovites, calling to the leader of the
caravan, said to him, " I'll go send all these peo Ile away to Sibeilka : "
this was a city four or- five days' journey at east to the right, and
rather behind us. So he takes his bow and arrows, and gettin on
horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, as it were bac to
Nertzinskoi; after this, he takes a great circuit about, and comes
directly on the army of the Tartars, as if he had been sent ex ress
to tell them a long story, that the people who had burned the ham
~Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, with a caravan of miscreants,
as he called them, that is to say, Christians; and that they had
resolved to burn the god Schal--Isarg, belon ing to the Ton escs.

Asthis fellow was hmself amere Tartar, an perfectly sfpoket eirlan-
guage, he counterfeited so well, that they 'all took it rom him, and
away thegndrove in a most violent hurry to Sibeilka, which, it seems,
was five ys' journey to the north; and in less than three hours
they were entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any more
of them, nor whether they went to Sibeilka or no. So we passed
away safely on to J araxrena, where there was a garrison of Musca-
vites, and there we rested five da 8, the caravan being exceedingly
fatiguecll with the last days' har march, and with want of rest in
the nj it.

Frofii this city we had a frightful desert, which held'us twenty-
three days' march. We furnished ourselves with some tents here,
for the better accommodating ourselves in the night 5- and the leader
of the caravan procured sixteen carriages, or waggons of the country,
forvcarrying our water or revisions; and these carri <<es were our
defence; eve night, roun our little camp; so that ha the 'l'artars
appeared, m ess they had been very numerous indeed, they would
not have been able to hurt us.

We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long jour-
ney: for in this desert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce a
bush; thouoh we saw abundance of the sable-lumters, who are all
Tartais ui the Mogul Tartary, of which this country is a part; and
they frequently attack small caravans, but we saw nomumbers of
them together. '

After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty
well inhabited; that is to say, we found towns and castles, settled
by the Czar of Museovy, w1th garrisons of stationary soldiers, to
protect the caravans, and defend. the country against the Tartan-s,
who would otherwise make it very dan erous travellina; and his
czarish majesty has given such strict or ers for the well uarding
the caravans and merchants, that, if there are any Tartarsfiieard of
in the country, detachments of the garrisons are always sent to see
the travellers safe from station to station. And thus the governor
of Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit to, b
means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him, ofi'ere
us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there was any danger, to the-
next station.

I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe we
should find the country better inhabited, and the people more civil-
ized; but I found myself mistaken in both: for we had yet the
nation of the Tongueses to ass throu h, where We saw the same
tokens of aganism and bar arity as efore; only, as the _ were
conquercd- y the Muscovites, they were not so dangerous; at for
rudeness of manners, and idolatry, no people in the world ever went
beyond them: they are clothed all m skins of beasts, and their
houses are built of the same; you know not a man from a woman,
either by the ruggedness of their countenances or their clothes;
and in the winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they live
underground in vaults, which have cavities oiug from one to an-
6ther. If the Tartars had their Cham Chi-T raungu for a whole vil-
lage or country, these had idols in every hut and every cave: be-
81 es, they worship the stars, the sun, the water, the snow, and, in a
word, every thing they do not understand, and they understand but
very little; so that every element, every uncommon thing, sets them
a sacrificing. I met With nothing eculiar to myself in all this
country, which I reckon was, from t e desert I spoke of last, at
least four hpndred miles, half of it being another desert, which took
us up twelve days' severe travelling, without house or tree; and we
were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as well water as
bread. After we were out of this desert, 'and had travelled two
days, wecame to J anezay, a Muscovite city or station on the great
river Janezay (Yenisay), which, they told us there, par-ted Europe
from Asia. '

, Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in
the Moscovite garrisons ; all the country between the river Oby and
the river Janezay is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous,
as the remotest of the Tartars; nay, as any nation in Asia or
America. I also found, which 'I observed to the Muscovite govern-
ment; which they acknowledged was true enough ;' but that, as they -
said, was none of their bnsmess; that if the Czar ex ected to'
convert his Siberian, Tongucse, or Tartar sub'ects, it shonl be done
by sending clergymen among them, not soldiers; and they added
with more sincerity than I expected, that they found it was not so
much the concern of their monarch to make the people Christians as
it was to make them subjects. '

From this river to the rreat river Oby, we crossed a wild unculti-
vated country, barren 0_ people and ood management; other-
wrSe it is in itself a most pleasant, fruit ul, and agreeable country.

Whatzgphabitants we found in it are all pagans, except such as are
x~306 LDVEMu-Rss or noamson 'caosoa.

"sent among them from Russia; for this is the country, I mean on
'both sides the river Oby, whither the Muscovite criminals that are
not put to death are banished, and from whence it is next to impossible
they should ever come away.

I have nothing material to sa of my particular affairs till_ I- cam.
to Tobolski, the capital city of iberia, where I continued some tiin
on the following occasion. :

We had now been almost seven months on our journe , an
winter began to come on space; whereupon my partner and calls
a council about our articular affairs, in whic we found it r0 8
as we were bound to ngland, and not for Moscow, to considgr o
to dispose of ourselves. They told us of rein-deer to carry us ove
the snow in the winter time; and, indeed, they have such things
that it would be incredible to relate the particulars of, by which
means the Russians travel more in the Winter than they can in
summer, as in these sledges they are able to run night and day; the
snow being frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by which the
hills, vales, rivers, and lakes are all smooth and hard as a stone, and
the -run uponthe surface, without any regard to what is underneath.

at I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this kind; I
was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways;
either 1 must go on as the caravan went, till 1 came to J arcslaw, and
than go of west for Narva and the Gulf of Finland, and so to
Dantmc. where'I mi ht possibly sell my China cargo to ad advantage;
or I 'must leave tEe caravan at a little town on t e wins, from
whence I had but six days by water to Archangel, and mm thence
mi ht be sure of ski ping eit er to England, Holland, or Hamburgh.

ow, to go any 0 these journeys in the winter would have been
preposterous: for as to Dantzic, the Baltic would have been frozen
up, and I could not get passage; and to go by land m theseocoun-
tries was far less safe than amen the Mogul Tartars; hkewrse, to
go to Archangel in October, all 1. 10 ships would be gone from thence, '
and even the merchants who dwell there in summer retire south to
Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone; so that I could
have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcity of
provisions, and must lie in an empty town all the winter; so. that,
upon the whole, I thought it much my better way to let the caravan
o, and, make revision to winter "where I was, at Tobolski, in
'iberia, in the atitude of about sixty de rees, where I was sure of
three thin ' 'to wear out a cold winter wit 1, viz. lenty of provisions,
such as t e country afforded, a warm house wit fuel enough, and
excellent company. _

I was now in uite a difi'erent climate from my beloved island,
where I never fglt cold, except when I had my ague; on the con-
trary, I "had much to do to bear any clothes on my back, and never
made any fire but without doors, \vnic; was necessary for dressing
my food, &c. Now 1 made .me three .good vests, with large robes
or gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, and button close to
the wrists; and all these lined with furs, to make them sufficiently
warm. .

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly disliked our way in
England of making fires in ever room in the house in open chimneys,
which, when the fire was out, ways kept the air in the room cold
as the climate; but taking an apartment in a good house in the
town, I ordered a chimney to he built like a furnace, in the centre
of six several rooms, like a stove; the tunnel to carry the smoke
went up one way, the door to come at the fire went in another, and
all the rooms were kept canally warm, but no fire seen, just as they
heat the ba nios in Englan . By this means, we had always the same
climate in dll the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved; and how
cold soevcr it was without, it-was always warm within; and yet we
saw no fire, nor were ever ineommoded with smoke. \

I had been here eight months," and a- dark, dreadful winter I
thought it; the cold so intense that I could not so much as look
abroad without being wrapped in furs, and a mask of far before my
face, or rather a hood, with only a hole for breath, and two for sight;
the' little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, for three months,
not above five hours a day, and six at most; only that the snow lying
on the ground continuall , and the weather clear, it was never quite
dark. Our horses were ept, or rather starved, underground, and
as for our servants, whom we hired here to look after ourselves and
horses, we had, every now and then, their. fingers and toes to thaw
and take care of, lest they should mortify and fall ofi'.

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being close, the
walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our food was
chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and cured in the season; bread good
enough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish of several sorts, and some
flesh of mutton and of the bufl'uloes, which is (pretty good meat. A All
the stores of provisions for the winter are lai up in the summer, and
well cured: our drink was water, mixed with aqua-vita insteadpf
brandy; and for a treat, mead instead of wine, winch, however, they
have excellent good. The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers,
fre uently brought us in fine venison, and sometimes bear's flesh, but
we id not much care for "the last. We had-a good stock of tea, with
which we treated our friends, and we lived very cheerfully and well,
all things considered. *

It was now March 15; the days grown considerably longer, and the
weather at least tolerable; so the other travellers began to dprepare
sledges to carry them over the snow, and to get things rea to be
going: but my measures beina fixed, as I have said, 'or Arc angel,
and not for Musco or the Ba tic, I made no motion; knowing very
Well". that the shipsvl'lom the south do not set out for that part of the
World till May or J une, and that if I was there by the beginning of
August, it would be as soon as any ships would be ready to go away;
and therefore I made no haste to be gone, as others did: in a word,
I saw a great many people, nay, all the travellers, go away before me.
It seems, every year they go from thence to Muscovv for trade, viz.
to carry furs, and buy necessaries, which they bring back with them
to furnish their shops : also others went on the same errand to Arch-
angel ; but then they all being to come back again, above eight hun-
dred miles, went all out before me. ' -

In the month of Ma I began to make all ready 'to pack up; I
had bought a considera le quantity of sabh-s, black fox-skins, line
crmines, and such other furs as are very rich, in that city, in exchange
for some of the goods I had brought from China: in particular for the .
cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the greatest part here, and the
rest afterwards at Archangel, for a much better price than I could
have got in London; and my partner, who was sensible of the profit,
and whose business more particularly than mine was merchandise,
Eras mightily pleased with'our stay, on account of the traffic we made

ere.

It was the be 'nning of June when I left this remote place, a city,
I believe, little card of in the world: and, indeed, it is so far out of
the road of commerce, that I know not how it should be much talked
of. We were now reduced to a ver small caravan, having only
thirty-two horses and camels in all. e had now the worst and the
largest desert to pass over that we met with in our whole journey;
' I call it the worst, because the way was very deep in some places,
and very uneven in others; the best, we had to say for it was, that
we thought we had no troops pf Tartars or robbers to fear, and that
the never came on this side the river Oby, or at least but very
50} em; but we found it otherwise.

We had just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which

, - in these parts is the boundary between Europe and Asia, and the first

- city on the European side was called Soloy Kamskoi, which is as
much as-to say, the great city on the river~Kama~, and here we
thought to see some evident alteration in the people; but we were
mistaken: for as we had a vast desert to pass, which is near seven
hundred miles long in some places, but not above two hundred miles
over where we assed it, so, till we came past that horrible place, we
found very litt e difi'erence between that country and the Mogul Tar-
tary : the people are mostly pagans, and little better than the savages
of America; their houses an towns full of idols, and their way of
living wholy'barbarous, excEpt in the cities, as above, and the villages
near them, where they are hristians, as they call themselves, of the
Greek church; but have their religion mingled with so many relics of
superstition, that it is scarce to be known in some places from mere
sorcery and witchcraft.

In passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must (after all<our
dangers were to our imagination esca ed, as before) have" been plun-
dered and robbed, and perhaps mnr ered, by a troop of thieves: oiwhat count they were I am yet at a loss to know, but they were
all on horse aek, carried bows and arrows, and were at first about
forty-five in number: they came so near to us as to be within two
musket shots, and asking no questions, surrounded us with' their
horses, and looked very earnestly upon us twice: at length they
)laced themselves just in our way; upon which we drew up in alittle
line, before our camels, being not above sixteen men in all ; and being
drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out a Siberian servant, to see
who they were. The man came up near them with a fla of truce,
and called to them; but though he spoke several of their angu eves,
or dialectsof languages rather, he could not understand a word t ey'
said: however, after some sions to him not to come nearer to them,
at his peril, the fellow cannehaek no wiser than he went : only that
by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars of Kal-
muck, or of the Cir-cassian hordes, and that there must be more of
them upon the great desert, though he had never heard that any of
them were seen so far north before. , .

About an hour after, they again made a motion to attack us, and
rode round our little wood to _see where they might break in; but
finding us always ready to face them, they went off again; and we
resolved not to stir for that night.

'l'his'was small comfort to us; however, wehad no remedy: there
was on our left hand, at about a quarter of a mile distance, a little
geove, and very near the road: I immediately resolved we should
advance to those trees, and fortif ourselves as well as we could
there: for, first, I considered that t e trees Would in a reat measure
cover us from their arrows; and, in the next place, t iey could not
come to charge us in a body: it was, indeed, my old Portuguese
pilot who proposed it, and who had this excellency attending him,-
that he was always readiest and most apt to direct and encourage us
in cases of the most danger. We advanced immediately, with what
speed we could, and gained that little wood; the Tartars, or thieves,
for we knew not what to call them, keeping their stand, and not
attempting to hinder us. When we came thither, we found, to our
great satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the
one side a very great 5 ring of water, which running out in a little
brook was, a htt e fart er, joined by another of the like size; and
was, in short, the source of a considerable river, called afterwards the
Wirtska: the trees which grew about this sprincr were not above two
hundred, but very large, and -stood retty thic, , so that as soon as
we got in we saw ourselves perfect y safe from the enemy, unless
the attacked us (in foot.

'e we stayed here waiting the motion'of the enemy some
hours, without perceiving they made any movement, our Portuguese,
with some help, cut several arms of trees half off, and laid them
hanging across from one tree to another, and in a manner fenced us
in. About two hours before night they came down directly .upon
us; and though wehad not perceived it, we found they had been
'oined by some more of the same, so that they were near fourscore

orse; whereof, however, we fancied some were women. They
came on till they were within half shot of our little wood, when we
fired one musket without ball, and called to them in the Russian
tongue to know what they wanted, and bade them keep 011': but
they came on with a double fury up to the wood side, not imaginin
we were so barricaded that they could not easily break in. Our 015
pilot was our captain, as well as our engineer, and desired us not to
fire upon them till they came within pistol-shot, that we might be
'sure to kill; and that when we did fire, we should be sure to take
good aim: we bade him give the word of command, which he

elayed - so long, that they were some of them within two pikes'
length of us when we let fl . We aimed so true that we killed four-
teen of them, and wounde several others, as also several of their
horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three
bullets at least. '

They were terribly surprised with our fire, and retreated imme-
diately about one hundred rods from us, in which time we loaded our
pieces again, and seeing them keep that distance, we sallied out, and
catched four or five of their horses, whose riders we supposed were
killed; and coming u to the dead, we judged they were Tarters,
but knew not how t ey came to make an excursion of such ar.
unusual length.

We slept little, you may be sure, but spent the most part of the
night in strengthening our situation, an barricading the entrances
into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited for daylight,
and when it came, it gave /us a very unwelcome discovery, indeed;
for the enemy, who we thought were discouraged with the reception
they met with, were now greatly increased, and had set up eleven or
twelve huts or tents, as if the were resolved 'to besie Ire us; and
this little camp they had pitehe upon the 0 en plain, 9. out three
quarters of a mile from us. We were in ced surprised at 'his
discovery; and now, I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all
that I had; the loss of my ell'ects did not lie so near me, though
ver considerable, as the thoughts of falling into the hands of such
bar arians, at the latter end of my journey, after so many difficulties
and hazards as I had gone throu h, and even in sight of our port,
where we expected safety and eliveranee. As to my partner, he
was ragin , and declared that to lose his goods would be his ruin,
and that Flie would rather die than be starved; and he was for
fighting to the last drop.

We spent the da in debates of what we should do ; but towards
evening we found t at the number of our enemies still increased, and
we did riot know but by themoming they might be a still greater-
number: so- I began to enquire of t iose peep e we had brought
from Tobolski, if there were no private ways, by which we might-
avoid them in the night, and perhaps retreat to some town, or get
help to guard us over the desert. l'he Siberian servant, told us, if
we designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would engage to carry
us off in the night, to a way that went north, towards the river
Petrou, by which he made no question but we might et away, and
the Tartars never the wiser. I told him that if re thou ht it
possible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing else to 0_ but .
to attempt it, and we immediately prepared for putting it in
ractiee. ' ~
p And, first, as soon as it b n to be dark, we kindled a fire in our
little camp, which we kept urnin , and prepared so as to make it
burn all night, that the Tartars mig it conclude we were still there ;
but as soon as it Was dark, and we could see the stars (for our guide
would not stir before), having all our horses and camels read
loaded, we followed our new guide, who I soon found steere
himself by the north star. __ .
After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter
still; not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon began to
rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter than we wished it to be;
but- by six o'clock the next mornim we were got above thirty miles,
havinw almost spoiled our horses. filere we found a Russian villagp,
name Kermanzinskoy, where we rested, and heard nothing of t e
Kahnuek Tartals that day. About two hours before night we set
out again, and travelled till eight the next morning, though .not
quite so hard as before; and about seven o'clock we passed a lltlle
river, called Kirtza, and came to a good large town inhabited by
Russians, called Ozomys: there we heard that several troops of
Kalmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but we were now com-
pietely out of danger of them, which was to our great satisfacuon.
ere we were obligedto get some fresh horses; and havnig need
enough of rest, we stayed five days; and my partner and I agreed to.
give the honest Siberian who had brought us thither the value of
ten pistoles.
ln five days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river Wilzogda,
and running into the Dwina; we were there, very happily," near the
end of our travels by land, that river being navigable, m seven days' .
passage, to Archangel From hence we came to anrenskoy the 3d
of J u y; and providing ourselves with two luggage boats,. and a
barge for our own convenience, we embarked the 7th, and arrived all
safe at Archangel the 18th; having been a year, five months, and
three days on the journey, including our stay of eight months
at Tobolski. We were obliged to stay at this place snx weeks
~ for the arrival of the ships, and must have tarried longer, had
not an Hamburghcr come in above a month sooner than any of the
English ships: when after some consideration that the erg of
Hamburg might ha pen to be as good a market for our goo as
London, we all too freight with him.
U

[fi'
We then set sail from Archangel the 20th of August, the same
year; and aft er no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the lilhe
the 18th of September. Here my partner and I found a veryr good
sale for our goods, as well those of China, as the sahles, 8:0. of
Siberia; and dividing the produce, my share amounted to three
thousand four hundred and seventy-five pounds seventeen shillings
and three pence, including about six hundred pounds worth of
diamonds which I purchased at Bengal.

To conclude, having stayed near four months in IIamburgh,
I came from thence by land to the Hague, where I embarked in the

aekct, and arrived in London the tenth of January, 1705, having
Been absent from England ten years and nine months. And here i
am, preparing for a longer journey than all these, having lived a
a life of infinite variety seventy-two years, and learned sullieienlzly to
know the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending our davs
in peace.
5.: \v\\\\SSY=SSwukw$<<

 
    

N?" wwa \wmaw\\u "m...

ISS\ ' SS,
. u' Aalgxw'. SS
:1 a": wagiua'fif _

.' l '. J U 'Q '
"5:94: fufi'flhtnix. .3?A.'~.-.:}sk .