,(j/Ar' /1 "$1! 1/}! , /m)/ I>>)! Mr r/rl//(/,

Z nation, .7'1/1'. Junr y -zfiq;.ey 75/>>er X-('?

I"x A.
./ '
C/ry'm'

 

THE

' LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

ORIGINALLY WRITTEN

BY

DANIEL DEFOE.'

' .
REVISED FOR THE USE OF YOUNG PERSONS,

~ v
J .

And illustrated with

SIXTEEN COPPER PLATES.

LONDON:
PRINTED ron TABART a; cg.

n was JUVENILE um scnoor. mummy; no.151,
nzw Bonn-"near; AND 10 BE HAD
on ALL nooxssunns.

We: 43. 6d. half bound, cith tlze plate: plain, or 7:. with
. the plates coloured.

Hun, Printar, 23, Banner-skeet.ADVERTISEMENT.

Norwrrns'rmmnc the acknowledged
merit of DEron's interesting narrative
of the Adventures 63)" Robinson Crusoe, it
will be admitted, that, as he did not
address it expressly to Young Persons,
it must contain many things which are
not well adapted to an early age, and
which, when read by them, it were
better should be omitted. At the same
time, no book lays such strong hold on
the curiosity of Youth as this narrative;
and many eminent writers have strongly
recommended it, as deserving a pre-
ference over every other human pro-
duction, on account of the lively picture
it conveys of man residing in a state of
nature, and of the means necessary to'

C

attain a state of enjoyment ,andeas'y << :

. x '50
.. __
.-,.

subsistence.

: v;

D 5.." -.
The design of the Editor, therefore,
has been, to render a book possessing
such claims to popularity as unexcep-
tionablc as posSible.' He has at the
same time preserved the spirit of the
narrative; and, he believes, the story
wiH not be found to have lost any of
its interest from the variations which
he has judged it necessary to make.

LONDON,
August I, 1805.
ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSGN CRUSOE.

*--

I was born in the year 1632, in the
city of York, of wealthy and respect-
able parents. My father intended to
educate me for the profession of the
law; but I, unfortunately, acquired so
earnest a desire for going to sea, that
not even the commands of my father,
the entreaties of my mother, or the re-
monstiances of my other friends, could

induce me entirely to conquer my
childish propensity.

For some time, indeed, after I first
made my inclination known, the calm
' and steady adVice of my father, which
was accompanied with tears of afl'ec-
tion, so wrought upon me, that I
resolved not to think any more of

3
going to sea, but to conform myself to
the affectionate wishes of my parents:
but, about twelve months afterward,
<roin<r b1 ehanee to Hull, I there met
11itl1a fonner $(l100l--fell0W, the son of
a sea-captain, who, unfortunately for
111e, was then going to London in his
father's ship. This lad, not more 11 inc.
or prudent than myself, persuaded me.
to go to sea with him, 11 hieh i, like an
undutihd, ungrateful son, consented to
do; and, without more consideration,
abandoned my comfortable home, and
embarked 011 the first of September,
leaving my parents in utter ignorance
what was become of me.

Seareelyhad we putto sea when a rim
lent storm arose. I was also exeessire-
lv sea-sick, ' and 111 the midst of my pain
andte1roi, l1epentedbitterl1 of mvfoll1,

and made many good lesolutions for
the govemment of my future conduct

It Was now that my want of dut1,
and 1111-ingratitude, to the best of pa--
1e11ts,11rungmy hea1t;1et,no sooner
"as the storm 01,e1 and m1 sickness
abated, than the raillery of mv com-
}mnion, the captain's son, c..ased a11a)
all my good resolutions: I became both3021x5011: cursor. , 3

satisfied with my situation, and forgot
the anguish my excellent parents were
endtning fo1 my sake.

On the sixth day of our being at sea
we came into Y a1 mouth Roads, and the
wind being cont1ary, we were obliged
to cast anchor there. The wind conti--
nued for four or five days to blow very
hard; ' t the sailors, thinking them~
selves _ secure as if they were at an-
chor in a ha1bou1 spent the time mer-
1il1. 011 the eighth day, however, it
blew a te11ible storm indeed, and I be-
held ter101 and amazement in every
countenance. The sea ran mountains
high, and b1oke upon us every three or
four minutes. The seamen were con-
tinually exclaiming that the ship would
founder. I did not know what they
meant by founder, and no one had
leisure or composure enough to give me
any information. 111 the middle of. the
night one of the men cried out that
we had Sprung a leak, and all hands
wele ca lled to the pump. Iheard the
111aste1 exp1ess this melancholy ejacula-
tion. "101d ha1e 111e1cy upon us, we

shall be all lost and undone !" At that
dreadful sound I fell backwards upon the

129
bed where Iwas sitting; but the men soon
roused me, and drove me to the pump,
saying, that if I could not do any thing
else, I was as able to pump as another.s

The captain, meanwhile, ordered gun
to be fired, as signals of distress, and5 a
ship at some distance ventured to send
out her boat to our assistance. It was
with therr greatest danger and difficulty
that the boat couldo come near us;
but the sailors ventured their lives to
saxe ours; and we had not been m01e
than a quarter of an hour out of our
ship, when we saw her sink with her
whole cargo on board.

The boat struggled many hours with
the wind and waves before she reached
the shore. At length, however, we got
safe to land, and travelled on foot to
Yarmouth, where the magistrates and
inhabitants pitied our destitute condi-
tion; and having lodged and fed us for
a few days, they gave us money to carry
us either to London or back to Hull, as
we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense and goodness
to have gone home again, I should have
been happy, and my fathe1 would have
been spared the misery of supposing Is

ROBINSON causos. 35

had per;ished for it was some time
before he had any assurance of my hav
ing escaped drowning 1n the ship that
had foundered at sea. But false shame
withheld me from doing my duty ; for it
occurred to me that I should be laughed
at among my neighbours and friends,
and thus, like many other foolish young
people, I was ashamed to repent, though
I had not been ashamed to sin.

The evil influence which first carried
me '1" av from my father' s house, hurried
me on with the wild notion of making
my fo1tune. I t1aVelled to London, and
soon got acquainted with the master of a
vessel bound to the coast of Africa, or,
as sailors call it, to the coast of Guinea.

With this captain Iengaged to go to
Africa; and having written to some of
my friends, who, I suppose, prevailed on
my father or mother to contribute some-
thing towards my purchasing what was
necessary for my voyage, I had 401.
remitted to me, and bought with it such-
toys and articles as the captain told meI
might batter with the natives for gold dust.

VIV \oxaue "as a verv successful one;
for] b1 oulrht home nearly 3001. in gold

dust, and had learned 01 the captain, who
11 3
took gr eat pleasure 1n <<riving me instruc-
tion, the arts of navigation and mathe-
matics. He also heated me as his son,
and had he lived he would have prevail-
ed on me to 1etuin to my parents; but
scarcely had the ship reached the port
of London, when my good friend, the
captain, died, and his mate succeeded to
the command of the vessel. Determined
to pursue the course which had hitherto
proved so fortunate, I laid out 1001. in
articles for traffic, depositing the other
2001. in the hands of my friend, the
captain's widow, and set sail a second
time for the coast of Guinea.

Our ship steering towards the Canary
Islands, unfortunately fell in with a
Turkish rover off Sallee: an obstinate
engagement ensued; but the pirates be-
ing superior in number, we were com--
pelled at length to yield, and were car-
1ied piisone. rs into Sallee, a port be--
longing to th c Moms. I was kept by
the captain of the rover as his own
slave ; but the rest of the company were
carried up the country to the emperor's
.alace.

"When my new master went to sea
again he left me on shore to do theROBINSON envsoir. ' 7

usual drudgery of slaves about his house
and garden, and when he came. home
from his cruise I was sent on board the
vessel to clean and look after the ship.
Many asleepless night Ispent in that
cabin, mourning over my hard fate in
being condemned to perpetual slaven ,
from zDwrhich I saw no likelihood of escap-
ing.

As I was \ oung and active my master
found me constant employment, and
made me assist in building a little cabin
in the middle of the long-boat belong-
ing to our English ship, which he was
now fitting up for a pleasure-boat. We
frequently went out to fish in this boat';
and one day my master ordered us to
have every thing clean, and fit for the
accommodation of several of his friends,
who were going on a party of pleasure
with him.

Three fusees, with powder and ball,
a case of liquors, and a quantity of pro-
visions, were sent on board the boat on
the appointed day, and I, a Moorish
slave, and a boy, were lying on our
oars,w waiting the arrival of the com-
pany, when our master came to the
beach in great haste, and ordered us to

2-:
row out into the bay to catch some fish
as expeditiously as possible, as his guests
were not going to sail that day, but
were to sup at his house with other
compan}

At this moment the hope of making
in} escape daited into 111V mind. Beside
the liquor and pr'oV ision on boar d. I knew
there w s plentV of twine in :1 locker,
with a hatchet, a saw, and :1 hammer.
The wind blew contrary to 111V" wishes;
but I was resolved, blow which way it
w,ould to be 0one fiom slaVei ,

After we had fished some time, and

caught nothinO, (fin when I had fish 011
1111 hook I would not pull them up) I
said to the Moor, this will not do; \'C
must go faither out to sea. 'Ihe Moor
made. no objection; and having ran out
a league, I gave the boy the helm, and
stept forward to where the Moor was
busied with his fishing tackle, and mak~
ing as ifI stooped to pick up something
behind him, I took him by surprise, and
tossed him overboard.

He iose immediat elV', (for he. swam
like a cork) and begged to be taken in
main; but lpresen etla 1151111, and said,
Moloy,l intend 3011 no harm, if Vou
will not come near the boat: make the.
best of your way to the shore: I know
you can reach it with ease. But if you
persist in following me, I will shoot you
through the head; for I am resolved to
ha1e my liberty. So he turned round,

and swam as fast as possible to 1egain
the shore.

I was under the necessity to serve
the Moorish slave thus, for I knew he
was not to be trusted. X1111, the b0},
was an innocent, faithful, 11ell-1nea11ino

lad; and I knew he would be both useful
' and faithful to me.

After sailing five daysI believed my-
self to be safe from puisuit. and ven-
tu1 ed near the coast, and cast anchm 1n
the mouth of a little ri1 e1. I could not tell
what latitude or what country we we1e
in My aim in coming to the shore 1 as
to get fresh water, and as soon as it was
da1k I intended swimming on shore for
that purpose; but no sooner had the
day closed, than 11c heard the most
dreadful roa1ing and howling Of Wild
beasts. Xury was excessiVely f1i gh'tened,
and indeed so 11asIb11t o111 fcan 01eatly
increased when 11c hea1d one of these

hideous cr'eatmes come swimming tos-'WV': W ""wv'
/r1?/ ' .2
l 0 ADVENTURES or

wards our boat. We could not see him,
yet by his blowing we knew him to be
a huge and furious beast. I fired at him,
upon which he turned about and swam
to the shore ao'ain, ho .vlinO' most horri-
bly. We no longer thought of <<roimr on
shore: but 111 the mowing 1se found that
the water at the mouth of the 1ive1 was
fresh, as the sea~tide was out; so, hav-
ing filled our jar, we again set sail.
After coasting several days longer,
we came again to an anchor under a
little point of land, where Xury pre-
sen tly discovered a monstrous lion, lying
011 the side of a hillock, fast asleep. I
loaded two of my (runs, and firing the
first, expected to ha1e shot him dead;
but my aim was not a good one, for I
only wounded him, and broke one of
his legs. He attempted to rise, but
instantly chopped with the most dread-
ful roar I ever heard As he 1le snug-
gling for life, and utte1ing deep oroans,
\ury leaped into the. water, with the
small gun in his hand, and coming close
to the lion, put the muzzle of the (run
to his ear, and fith into his head, which
put him in a moment quite out of his
misery. But, alas! the flesh of a lion' (rlld.()(l' ll' f/LV'I' ILL".

-x.~._

      

'- 'w <- .I .. , 7' M):- - r. 'f ' 'ii
.,[C/;'/4/ elfloo/z/fi/> 5412,40" . .- i
( i 3

London: Fabuflulql [(905 e)"72(5dl'[& (f0 I. 2%Romfcsox CRUSOE. l l

11 as no food for us , and I was sorry to
have wasted my powder and shot. I
resolved, howex e11, to haxe his skin;
and having got off the hide, we dried
it in the sun, and it served me to lie
upon.

After this we bore away to the south-
hard, and with all the care I had taken
of our prox 151011s they were neaily ex-
hausted, and I began to fear "e should
perish for want of food, when we came
once more in sight of land, and per--
ceived, as we came nearer the shore,
that it was inhabited by Negroes, who
were all perfectl) naked. \Ve were
afiai d to land: anong these pe0ple, 11 ho
came in crossds to the beach to look at
us; but we made signs that we wanted
something,r to eat upon which two of
them 1:111 .aua}, and- presently ret1 uncd
ssith a piece of dried flesh and some
corn: these they brought to the edoe
of the \watei, and then retired to a dis-
tance,({'01 thev 11 ere as much afraid of
11s as me of them) 11 h1le X1111y swam to
the shore, and brought it to the boat.

W e made signs of thanks, for we had
nothing to give in return, when pre-
sently two svild beasts sprung from ,3
neighbouring thicket, pursuing each
other with the utmost fury. The Negroes
fled with great precipitation , but the
creatures, intent only upon each other,
plunged into the sea. 1 seized my gun
and fired upon the first. He imme-
diately made for the shore, but died be-
fore he reached it. .

It is impossible to express the asto-
nish111e11.of the poor negroes at the
1111s? and Inc of my gun: but when
the: saw the Cleatttrbe actually dead,
111111111101111111111111 gm place to joy.
It 11:1sa '1.l1e'1 antifully spotted leopard I. _
gave the flesh to the negroes, who are
very fond of it, but kept the skin for
mysel". Max 11111 got some more com
and s01 1.13 11:1te1o'ol them, we again put
to sea, and heat about during eleven
(111s without ofle1ing to go near the
shr11.e I now grew sery pensive, and
was one 111o1ni11g meditating on my
111isf01t11nes,11hen Xury suddenly cried
out, )"Iaste1, master; a ship with a
sail. "' And the foolish boy was frighted
out of his "its, thinking it must needs
be one of his master's ships sent to
pursue 11s; but I knew we were got
1111 enough out of the reach of theRams-sax causoz. 13

Moors. I jumped up, and immediately
saw that 1t was a Portuguese ship; and,
as I thought, bo1u1d to the coast of
Guinea for Negroes. But when 1 ob-
served the course she steered, I was
soon convinced they were bound some
other way, and did not design to come
any nea1er to the shore; upon which]
st1etched out to sea as much as I could,
'1csolVing tos speak with them if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found
I should not be able to come in their,
wa}, but that they would be gone by,
befo1e I could make any signalb to them .
but alter I had cron ded my utmost, and
began to despai1, they, it seems, saw by
the help of their perspectiv e-glasses, that
it we 3 some European boat, t'which they

supposed must belong to some ship that
was lost; so they shortened sail and lay

by for me, and in about three hours time
I came up with them.
They asked me what I was, in Portu-

Guese,and1n Spanish, andin French, but _ .

l'understood none of those languages, but
at last, a Scots sailor, who was on board

call 11 to me, and I answered him, and
toid him I was an Englishman, and that I

had made my escape out of slavery from
c
the Moors of Sallee: then they bid me.
come on board, and very kindly took me
in, and all my goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me, as
any one will believe, that I was delivered.
from such a miserable and almost hope-
less condition. Iimmediatcly offered all
I had to the captain of the ship, as a re-
turn {01 111} delix c1ance; but he gene-
zously told me, he would take nothing

f 10111 me, but that all I had should be dev
livered safe to me when I came to the
Brasils. " For," says he, " I have saved
your life on no other terms, than as i
would be glad to be saved myself ; and it
may one time or other be my lot to be
taken up in the same condition: besides,"
said he, " when Icarry you to the Brasils,
so far from your own country, if I should
take from you what little you have, you
will be starved there, and then I only take
away that life] have given. No, (said
110,) " Seiltnor lnglese, (Mr. English

1112111,) I mill carrv you thither in beha-
1in , and those things you h 1c will
help 1011 to buy subsistence there, and
\our passanfe home awain.'

"is he 111s chatitable 111 this 1110po.al,
so 11.1.5 he just in the peilbrmance to a3031x5011. crimson. I5

tittle; for he ordered that none of the
seamen should offer to touch any thing
I had; he took every thmg 1nto his own {i .
possession, and gave me back an exact "'7'
inventory of them, that I might have
them again when we came to land, even
so much as my three earthem jars.

As to my boat, he saw it was a very
good one, and told me he would buy it of
me for the ship's use, and asked mewhat

I would have for it. I told him he had

been so generous to me in every thing,
that I could not offer to make any price
of the boat, but left it entirely to him;
upon which he told me he would give me
a note of hand to pay me eighty pieces
of eight for it at the Brasils; and when
it came there, if any one offered to gixe
name, he would make it up: he offered
me also sixty pieces of eight foi my boy
Xury, uhich I "as loath to 6take; notthat
I was unwilling to let the captain have
him, but I was very loath to sell the poor
boy 's liberty, who had assisted me so
faithfully in procuring my own. How-
ever, when I let him know my reason, he,
owned it to be just, and offered me this
medium, that he would give the boyan

obligation to set him hee 1n ten years, it
c o
he turned christian. Upon this, and
Xiny saying he was willing to go to him,
I let the captain have him.

We had a 1ery good 1"0} age to the
B1 as1ls and armed 1n the bay zDde Todos
los Cantos, 01 All Saints bay, in twenty-
two days after. And now I was once
more delivered from the most miserable
ol'all conditions of life; and what to do
next with myself I had still to consider.

The generous treatment the 'captain
gave me, I can ne1'ere110110h remember:
he. 11'o1; 1d take nothing of me fo1 my pas-
sage ag1e me twent} ducats for the
leoprnds skin, and fmty fo1 the lion's
$11111 11 :1ich I had 111 m1 boat, and caused
111111 thing I had to he punc tually deli-
1111011 to me, and what I 1 as willingto
111' he bought. 111 short. I made about
1110 hunched and twentv pieces of money
ol all my ca1go, and 11ith this stock I
went on shore 111 the Brasils.

The captain recommended me to the
house of a good honest man like himself,
11 ho had an ingenio, as they call it, that 1.;
is, a plantation and a sugar-house. I lived
with him some time, and acquainted
myself with the manner of their planting
and making of sug r; and see: ng how
the planters lived, and that they grew
rich, I resolved, if I could get a license to
settle there, I would tum planter among
them; intending, in the meantime, to
find out some way to get my money,
which Iliad left in London, remitted to
me. To this purpose I gota letterof natu-
ralization, purchasing as much land that
was uncultivated, as my money would
reach; and formed a plan of my plan-
tation and settlement, such a one as
might be suitable to the stock whichI
proposed to myself to receive from
England.

I had a neighbour, a Portugese of Lis-
bon, but born of English parents, whose
name was Wells, and in much such cir-
cumstances as Iwas: I call him neigh-
bour, because his plantation lay next to
mine; and we went on very sociably to-
gether: my stock was but low as well as
his; and we rather planted'for food, than
any thing else for about two years.
However, we began to increase, and our

1

land to come into order: so that the third

year we planted some tobacco, and made

each of us a large piece of ground ready

for planting canes in the year to come;

but we both wanted help; ' and now I
c3 '18 1111133111113 01' '

found, more than before, I had done
wrong in parting with 1113" I103 X1113.

But, alas! for me to do 111011;: ,that
nev er did right, was no <<treat ""0 1de1': I
had no remedy but to go on. I had got
into an emp103'ment quite remote to
my genius, and d11e1tl3 101111'113' to the
life I delighted 1n, and l'11111'111h I torsock
m3 fathet' 3 house, 111111 I11 eke through ali
his (1001] advice; may, Iwas co1 11111;;- into
1 eV'ety middle staiion, 01'1' pper 0.11ng
of low life, whit h 1113 .211 I111 advis< 11 me
to befow, and "illtil if 1 103011111 111 1:11
on 11itl1,lmi1{htas 1' ell l1axesta3 'd '
home, ahd nex e1 ha1.' e fatigued 111311 ("'11 in
the world as I ha (I done I used often to

say to 1113 self--I 101m '11 have done this
as well 1n England among1 m3' Iiienns
as to hm e gone the thousand niiles ofl to
do it among str'angeis and s11 ung in a
wilderness, and at such a distance, as
never to hear from any part of the world
that had the least knowledge of me.

In this manner I used to look upon
my condition with the utmost 1e01'.et
I had nobody to 10111e1sc with but now
and then this nei<d1bour; no work to he
done but by the labour oi my ow 11 h ands;
and I used to say, I lived justlike a max
cast away upon some desolate island,
that had nobody there but himself.
But how just has 1t been, and how should
all men reflect, that, when they compare
their present condition with others that
are worse, Heaven may oblige them to
nake the exchange, and beconvinced of
their former felicity by their experience.
l 1131'. how just has it been, that the truly
soiitary life I reflected on in an island,
(11' more desolation, should be my lot,
11 no had so often unjustly compared it
with he life 11 Inch I then led, in which,
had I continued, I had 1n all probability
i:- e- n ex1eeding prosperous and rich!
1 1.1. as in some degree settled in my
me: .L :1: res for can ying on the plantation,
befi- :19. my kind fliend the captain of the
shi p. tnat took me up at sea, went back;
for the ship remained there 1n providing .
he1 loading, and preparing for her Vp'ye'
age, near wthree months; whenv tellinb'
hi11 1.1 what little stock I had left behind
me in London, he gaxe me this friendly-
and 11m ere adVice; " Seignor Inglese,"
said he, for so he always call ed me, " if
1-111: will <<rive me. letters and a procus- .
ration he1e in form, with orders to'

the person who has your money in Lon;

w
don, to send your effects to Lisbon, to
such persons as I shall direct, and in
such goods as are proper for this coun--
try, I W111 bring you the produce of them,
(God willing) on my return; but since
human af" a1rs are all subject to changes
'and disasters, I would have youb dive or-

ders but for one hundred poimds ster
ling, which you say is hall your stock,
and let the hazard be run for the first;
so that if that come safe, you may order
the rest the same way, ' and if it misca r1 y,
you may have the other hall to have re-
course to for your supply.' 33

This was wholesome advicc. and look-

ed so friendly, that I could not but be
convinced it was the best course Icould

take; so I accordingly prepared letters
to the gentlewoman with whom I had
left my money, and a procuration to the
Portuguese captain as he desired.

I wrote the English captain's widow a
full account of all my adventures, my
slavery, escape, and howl had met with
the Ponuguese captain at'sea, the hu-
manity of his behaviour, and in what.
condition I was now in, with all other
necessary d1rectlons for my supply; and
when this honest captain came to Lis-
hon, he found means, by some of the
English merchants there, to send over
not the order only, but a full'account of:
my story to a merchant in London,
who represented it effectually to her;
whereupon, she not only delivered
the money, but out of her oWn pocket
sent the Portugal captain a" handsome
present for his humanity and charity
to me.

The merchant in London vesting this
hundred pounds in English goods, such
as the captain had written for, sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he
brought them all safe to the Brasils; among
which, without my direction, ( for Iwas
too young in my business to think of
them) he had taken care to have all sorts
of tools, iron-work, and utensils neces-
sary for my plantation, and which were
of great use to me.

\\ hen this cargo arrived, I thouoht my
fortune made; and my good steward the

captain had laid out the money which
in} friend had sent him as a present for
hiinsrn ~elf, to purchase and bring me over a
S?1'V.1llt under bond for six years service ,
and would not hear of any considera-

tion, except a little tobacco, which I
would have him accept, being of my
own produce.

Neither was this all; but myg woods
being all English manufactures, as cloth,
stuffs, baize, C)and things particularly va-

luable and desn able in the country, I
found means to sell them to a very great

advantage; so that I may say I had more
than four times the value of my first car-4
go, and was new infinitely beyond my
poor neighbour, I mean in the adv ance-
ment of my plantation, for the first thing
I did, I bought me a Negro slave, and an
European serV ant also, OI mean another
besides that which the captain brought
me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is often
times made the \e1y means of 0m
gieatest adxersity, so was it with me.
I went on the next year with great suc-
cess in my plantation , I raised fifty
great rolls of tobacco on my own
ground more than I had disposed of
for necessaries among my neighbours ;
and these fifty rolls being each of above.-
one hundred pounds weight, were well
cured and laid by against the return of
the fleet from Lisbon. And now, in~

creasing in business and wealth, my
head began to be full of projects and
undertakings beyond my reach; such as
are indeed, often the ruin of the best
heads 1n business. ,

Haxing now Iix ed almost four years
in the Brasils, and beginning to thrive
and prosper very wello upon my planta-
tion, Ihad not only learned the language,
but had contracted acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow planters, as
well as among the merchants at $1.551-
\adore, whichb was our port; and that 1n
my discourse among them, I had fre-
quently given themb an account of my
two voyages to the coast of-Guinea, the
manner of trading with the Negroes
there, and how easy it was to purchase
upon the coast for trifles, (su'chas'beads,
toys, knives, scissars, hatchets, bits of
glass, and the like) not only gold dust,
Guinea grains elephants' teeth, &c. but
Negroes,- for the service of the Brasils, 1n
great numbers.

The planters always listened very at-
tentively to my conversation on this
subject, deg but especially to that 1'part
which related to the buying of Negroes,
which was a trade at that time not far
entered into; but, as far as it was, had
been canied on by the permission of
the king of Spain and Po1tugal, and
engrossed 1n the public stock; so that
few Negroes were bought, and those
were excessively dear.

Being in company with some mer--
chants and planters of in} acquaint me,
and talking of those things \ery eat--
nestly, three of them came to me the
next morning, and told me thev had
been musing xwery much upon what I
had conversed with them about the last
night; and they came. to make a pro-
posal to me: and after--enjoining me
secrecy, they told me that they had
a mind to fit out a ship to go .to
Guinea; that they had all plantations
' as well as I, and "ere straitened for no-
thing so much asservants; that, as they
could not publicly sell the Negroes when
they came home, so they desired to make
but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on
shore privately, and diVide them amonv'
thei1 own plantations; wishing that I
mould 00 then supe1-cargo in the. ship,
to manage the trading part upon the
coast of Guinea; and thefi ofl'ered me,nosxxson cavson. 25

that I should haxe my equal share of
the Negroes, without providing any
part of the stock.

This was a tan proposal, it must be
confessed, had it been made to any one
who had not had a settlement and plan.-
tation of his on 11 to look after, which
was in a fair way of coming to be very
considerable, and with a Ogood stock
upon it: but for me, that was thus esta-
blished, and had nothing to do but go
on as I had begun for three or four years
more, and to have sent for the other
1001.. from England, and who in that
time, and with that little addition, could
scarce have failed of being worth 3,0001.
01' "1,000!" and that increasing too--for
me to think of such a voyage, was.the
most preposterous thing that ever man
in such a situation could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own
destroyer, could no more resist the offer
than I could 1cstrain my first rambling
designs, when my father's good counsel
was 010st upon me. In a word, I told
them I would go with all my heart, if

athev w ould unde1 take to look after my
plantation in my absence, and would

d1spose of it to such as I should direct,
n

z
'if I miscarried. This they all engaged
to do, and entered into writings or
covenants to do so; and I made a for.-
mal will, disposing of my plantation and
effects in case of my death, making the
captain of the ship that had saved my
life, as before, my universal heir; but
obliging him to dispose of my effects as
I had directed in my will: one half of
the produce being to himself, and the
other to be shipped to England.

In short, I took all possible caution
to preserve my effects and keep up my
plantation. Had I used half as. much
prudence to have looked into my own
interest, and have made a judgment of-
what I ought to have done and ought
not to have done, I had certainly never
gOne away from so prosperous an un-
dertaking; 'leaving all the probable
views of thriving circumstances, and
gone upon a voyage to sea, attended
with all its common hazards, to say

nothing of the reason I had to expect,
particular misfortunes to befal myself.
But I was hurried on, and obeyed
blindly, the dictates of my fancy rather
than'my reason; and accordingly, the
ship being fitted out, and the cargo
finished, and all things done as by '
agreement by my partners in the voy-
age, I went 011 board in an evil hour
again, September 1,1659, being the
same day eight years that I went Ofrom:
my father and mother at Hull, in order J"
to act the rebel to thei1 authority, and
the fool to my own interest.

We had been at sea about a fortnight
when a violent hunicane, or tornado,
arose, and leV6 us quite out of our
knowledge. For twelve days we heat
about, at the mercy of the winds and
waves, expecting to be swallowed up at
every instant. In this distress, the wind
still blowing very hard, one of our men,
early 111 theo morning, cried out, "Land!"
And scarcely had we time to run up on
deck to look out, in hopes of seeing
whe1eabouts 1n the world we were, be:
fore the ship struck upon a bank of
sand; and in a moment the sea broke _
over us with such violence, that 'we'
seemed to have but little chance of
escaping with our lives. '

Only those persons who have been in
the same dreadful circumstances can
imagine the grief and terror with which

we looked on one another, ignorant
D 2 ~_ ._
whether we were driven upon an un-
inhabited island, or on a coast peopled
by savages; expecting also that the ship

would {all to pieces every moment, by
the violence with which she beat upon

the sand.

Our mate was the only person on
board who had presence of mind enough
to think of throwing the boat over the
ship's side, and with great diffitult) "C
all (eleven of us) <<rot into it, and strove
with our utmost might to 10" to land ,
but after we had rowed about a league
and a half from the ship, a raging wave
came rolling, mountain-like, towards us:
we foresaw the event--the wave overset
the boat, and we were all swallowed up
in a moment.

I saw no more of my unfortunate
companions; for the wave that threw
us all into the sea, carried me a vast way
011 towards the shore, and, having spent
itself, went back, and left me upon the
beach almost dry. I got upon my feet,
and endeavoured to reach the mainland;
but another enormous wave presently
overtook me, and buried me at once
twenty or thirty Feet deep in its own
body, carrying me with a mighty forcer! e/Z 1%1/xt'14/(I/5/ra/ >>.

.[Jcnx/on .l'neelln/hzlflod ev 7354121 3'('.."and swiftness towards the shore; Whilej'

I held my breath, and assisted myselffg'tg-g--Lii"

swim forward with all my might.- I'weis -
ready to burst with holding my breath,
when I felt my head and hands shoot out
above the surface of the water; and '

though it was not two seconds of time
that I could keep myself so, yet'itire-
lieved me greatly, gave me breath and
new courage. a,

' I stood still a few moments to re?

cover breath, when another 'wave, hav- -- A

ing hurried me along as before, landed
me, or rather dashed me against a piece
of a rock; and that with such force, as
' left me senseless, and indeed helpless,
as to my own deliverance ; for had the
wave retumed again immediately, I
must have been strangled in the water .2
but I recovered a little before the return
of the waves, and held fast by a part'
of the rock till the wave abated, and
then took another run, which brought . ,
me so near the shore, that the next wave,
though it went over me, yet' did not so
swallow me-up as to carry me away;
and the next run I took, 1"th to; the
mainland, where, to my great domforf;

' I clambered up the cliffs of the shore,
' D 3 . .,_ __ ' ,_, 5.__..'W.. 1. -. ., w..." __.. v--'----7;I!"("7mi _.' .3

3O ADVENTURES or

and 'satdowee upon the grass, free. from
danger, and'Jquite out of the reach of
the water. '

I was now landed and safe on shore,
and began to look up and thank God
that my life was saved in a case ~which,
some minutes before, afforded scarce any
room to hope. I believe it is impossible
to express what the ecstacies and trans-
ports of the soul are when it is thus saved,
as I may say, out of the very grave.

T "I?"

'3 fer sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first."

Iwhlked about on the shore, lifting
up my hands, and my whole being,
wrapped up in the contemplation of
my deliverance, making a thousand ges~
tures and motions which I cannot de~'
scribe, reflecting upon all my compa-
nions that were drowned, and that there
should not be one soul saved but myself;
for, as for them, I never saw them after~
wards, or any Sign of them, except three
.of their hats, one cap, and two shoes
' that were not fellows. ,

I cast my eyes toward the stranded
vessel, and could hardly see it,' it lay so
far off; and again I exclaimed, how was
it possible I could get on shore !eater-"9 * ~'"
aomxsomfcausos.' ~ BI .

After I had solaced my mind With the
comfortable part of my condition, '-I
began to look round me, to see what

kind of a place I was in, and what was '

next to be done; when I soon found my
comforts abate, and that I had had but
a dreadful deliverance. I was wet; had
no clothes to shift me, nor any thing
Either to eat or drink, to comfort me;
neither did I see any prospect before
me, but that of perishing with hunger,
or being devoured by wild beasts : and
that which was particularly afllicting to
me was, that I had no weapon either to
hunt and kill any creature for my $1136
tenance, or to defend myself against any
other creature that might desire to kill
me for thei1s. I had nothing about me
but a knife, a tobacco--pipe, land a little

'tobacco 1n a box; this was all my pro-.o_ --

\ision; and this threw me into terrible.
agonies of mind, so that for a while I ran:
about like a madman. Night coming
upon me, I began, with a heavy,hea1t
to consider what would be my lot "it

there were any rax enous beasts in the
island, knowing that at night the) alWa} S

N

come abroad 101 then p1e}.......'m_--.--.v W"- -qu. H _,

32' anvsx'wnss or

All the remedy that offered to my
'thoughts at that time was, to get up
into a thick bushy tree, like a fir, but
thorny, which grew near me, and where
Iresolved to sit all night, and consider
the next day what death I should die;
for as yet I saw no prospect of life. I
walked about a f urlong from the shore,
to see if I could find some fresh water to
drink, which I did to my great joy; and
having drank and put a little tobacco in
my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to
the tree. and, getting up into it, endea-
toured to place myself so, as that, if I
should sleep, I might not fall. I cut me
a short stick, like a truncheon, for my
defence; and having been excessively
atigned, I fell fast asleep, and slept as
comfortably as, I believe, few could have
done in my condition, and found myself
the most refreshed with it, that, I think,
I ever was on such an occasion.

I did not awake till it was broad day,
the weather clear, and the storm abated,
so that the sea did not rage as before :
but that which surprised me most was,
that the ship was lifted off in the night
from the sand where she lay, by thew - - - r - "y V----'V'V'
" .

ROBINSON cn'uson'. ~ 33
swelling of the tide, and wasddriven up
almost .as far as the rock which I first
mentioned, where I had been so bruised
by being dashed against it : this was
within about a mile from the shore
where I was, and the ship seeming to
stand upright, I wished myself on board,
that, at least, I might save some neces-
sary things for my use.

When I came down from my apart-
ment in the tree, I looked about me
again, and the first thing I found was
the boat, which lay as the wind and the
sea had tossed her upon the land, about
two miles on my right hand. I walked
as far as I could upon the shore to get
to her; but found a neck, or inlet, of
water between me and the boat, which
was about half a mile' broad; so Icame
back, for the present, being more intent
upon getting at theship, where I hoped
to find something for my present sub-
sistence. . _

A little after noon I found the sea very
calm, and the tide ebbed {so far out, that
I could come within a quarter of a mile of
the ship: so I pulled off my cloaths, for
the weather was extremely hot, and took
the water; but when Icame to the ship;
my difficulty was still greater to know
how to get on board,~ for as she lay
aground and high out of the water, there
was nOthing within my reach to lay hold
of: I swam round her twice, and the se-
cond time I spied a small piece of rope,
which I wondered I did not see at first,
hang down by the fore-chains, so low,
that with little difficulty Igot hold of it,
and by 'the help of that rope got up into
the forecastle of the ship.

Here I found that the ship was bulged,
and had a great deal of water in her hold,
but that she lay so on the side of a bank
of hard sand, or rather earth, that her
stern was lifted upon the bank, and her
head low almost to the water; by this
means all her quarter was free, and all
that part was dry; for you may be sure
my first work was to search and to see
what was spoiled and what was free;
and first I found that all the ship's provi-
sions were dry, and untouched by the
water; and being very well disposed to
eat, I went to the bread-room and filled
my pockets with biscuit and eat it as I
went about other things, for I had no
time to lose. I also found some rum in
the. great cabin, of which'l took a largedram, and which I had indeed need

enough of to give me Spirits for what
was before me. And now Iwanted no-

thing but a boat to furnish myself with '

many things which Iforesaw would be
very necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for
what was not to be had; and this extre-
mity roused my application. We had
several spareyards, and two or three large
spars of wood, and a spare top-mast or
two in the ship; I flung as many of them
overboard as I could manage of their
weight, tying every one with a rope, that
they might not drift away; when this was
done I went down the ship's side, and
pulling them to me, I tied four of them
fast together at both ends as well as I
could, in the form of a raft; and laying
two or three pieces of plank upon them
cross-ways, I found I could walk upon it.
very well, but that it was not able to bear
any great weight, the pieces being too
light; so Iwent to work, and with the
carpenter's saw.I cut a spare tops-mast

into three lengths, and added them to'my 33g
raft, with a great deal of labour and pains; :% w

I.
'4

1

.5 ..', ..

but the hope to furnish myself with nieces-7:25": gig?"
saries encouraged me to go beyond what . pr,+115: 1%

3U ADVENTURES OF

I should have been able to have, done

upon another occasion. '

My raft was now strong enough to bear
any reasonable weight; my next care
was what to load it with, and how to
preserve what I laid upOn it from the
surf of the sea. I first laid all the planks
or boards upon it that I could get, and
having considered well what ,I most
wanted, I got three of the se'amen' s

chests, which I had broken open and-
emptied, and lowered them doWn Upon
my raft; the first of these I filled with
prox1s1ons, viz bread, rice, three Datch
cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh

which we lived much upOn, t"and a little
remainder of European corn, which had
been laid by for some fowls which-we
brought to sea with us, but the'fowls
were killed; there had been some barley
and wheat together, but, to my great
disappointment, I found that the rats
had eaten and spoiled it all. As for
liquors, I found several cases of hot-
tles belonging to our skipper, in which
were some cordial waters, and in all
about five or six gallons of arrack; these
-I stowed .'by themselves, '. there being no
need 'to put them in the chest, nor anyII' '

Iggy

   

             

 

f. ~ V ' .' ,' ' , 5-. ~-' ~ 9-3;"-
mg g: ,'. ,, - - x. - '
V .f. .1 | .i .

' I L - V.
.lfli'm HilllllSSatn~zSS , . ' ' , I '. ..',' _'.<<. :-
Tm}SS'i"73.SSn'=+*---" " , ..-JII\|111'W g .

NJ} " 5'?" '1'; I..-aomxson cmoz. 37

room for them. While I was doing
this, I found the tide began to flow,
and I had the mortification to see
my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which
I had left on shore upon the sand, swim-
ming away. This put me Upon rum-
maging for clothes, of which I found
enough, but took no more than I wanted
for present use, for I was more intent '
upon other things, such as, tools to work
with on shore; and after long searching
I found the carpenter's chest, which was
indeed a very useful prize to me, and
much more valuable than a ship--load
of gold would have been at that time; I '

got it down to my raft without loosing
time to look into it, for I knew 1n genew
1al what 11 contained.

My next care was for some ammuniau
tion and arms. There were two fowling- --
pieces in the great cabin, and two pismls; .
these I secured first with some powder
horns, and a small bag of shoL-and two
rusty swords: with much search I found '-
two barrels of gunpowder dry and good,
and a third which had taken water"; .those
two I got to my raft with the arms. And
now I thought myself pretty wellfr'eight.

ed, and began to considerhowIShanld get 5
s38 Anvnvrrnzs or

to shore with them, havintr neither sail,
oar, or rudder; and then least gust of
wind would have orerset all my navi-
gation.

I had three encouragements: a smooth
calm sea ;' the tide rising and setting into
the shore; and what little wind there
was blew me towards the land. Having
found two or three broken oars belong-
ing to the boat, and, besides the tools
which were in the chest, two saws,
an axe, and an hammer; and with
this cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or
thereabonts, my raft went very well, only
that I found it drive a little distant from
the place where I had landed before; by
which I perceived that there was some
indral't of the water, and cons: Quently I
Imp-ed to find some creek or river there,
which I might make use of as a port to
ge et to land with my cargo.

It proved to be a creek; and in en-
deavouring to keep in the middle of the
stream, 1 had I ike to have. suffer ed a se-
1' 0nd shipwreck, whit"I c,a had it been so,
would, I think \eiilv, haxe broke mv
heart; for, knowing: nothing of the
coast, my ralt'. ran aground at one end
upon a shoal, and my cargo was9-:

ROBINSON cnusoa. {3:9 '

sliding off t011'1rds that end that was
stiil afloat, I set my back against the
(hests, to keep them 1n their places, but
(ould not th1ust off the raft with all my
strength, neither durstIstir from the pos-
ture I was in; but holding up the Chests
11ith all my might, stood 1n that manner
near half an hour, in which time the tide
110 11 ing, mvlaft floated aoram anddriving
up higherl found myself 1n the mouth of
a little river, 11ith land on both sides. +
I observed a little cove on the right
sho1e of the c1eek, to which with great
pain and difficulty I guided my raft, for
I was not willing to be driven too high
up the river, haping in time to see some
ship at fea, and therefore resolved to _
place myself as near the Coast asI could. .
Having got safe into the cove at high .
tide, though my raft drew about ,a foot
of water, I thrust her upon a flat piece
of ground, and there moored her bystick-
ing my two broken oars into thetground ;. ,
one on one side near one endganfd one
on the other side near the other end; ' and
thus I lay till the 11 ate! ebbed away, and
left my raft and all mycaroqtefeon shore. . v "
' My next 11-01k 11:13 to'uefithe C0111}?
tn ry, and seek a piopei plzice' for my ha>>
F 9 .

a d

b
O T'.d_' .
bitation, and where to stow my goods, to
secure them from whatever might hap~

pen. Where Iwas, I yet knew not, whefi-
ther on the continent or on an island;
- whether inhabited or not inhabited; whe-
ther in danger of wild beasts or not.
There was a hill not above a mile from
me, which rose up very steep and high,
and seemed to over-top some other hills
which lay as in a ridge from it northward.
I took out one of the fowling pieces.
and one of the pistols, and an horn of
powder; and thus armed, I travelled for
discovery up to the top of that hill, where,
after I had with great labour and difficul-
ty reached the top, I saw, to my great af-
fliction, that I was in an island environed
every way with the sea, no land to be
seen, except some rocks which lay a
great way off, and two small islands less
than this I was cast on, which lay about
- three leagues to the west.

I found also that the island I was in
was barren, and, as I saw good reason to
believe, uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of which, however, I saw none;
yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew
not their kinds; neither when I killed

them, could I tell what was fit for food,
and what not. At my coming back, I
shot at a great bird which Isaw' sitting
Upon a tree on the side of a great wood:
I believe it was the first gun that had
been fired there since the creation of the
world. I had no sooner fired, but from
all parts of the wood there arose an in-
numerable number of fowls of. many
sorts, making a confused screaming and
crying, every one according to his usual
note; but not one of any kind that .I
knew: as for the creature that I" killed, I
took it to be a kind of an hawk, its co- .
lour and beak resembling it, but it had no
talons or claws more than common; and
its flesh was carrion and good for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I~cam'e
back to my raf t, and fell to work to bring
my cargo on shore, which took me up
the rest of that day: what to do with my-
self at night I knew not, nor indeedvuhere
to rest; ~for I was afraid to lie down'on
the ground, not knowing but some wild
beast might devour me, though I after-
wards found there was really no need for
,those fears.
, However, as well as I could, I barri-
cadoed 'inyself round with chests and -
boards that I had broughton shore, and
n 3 ' '

(1..
--..,

rt? '. ,

J-

; Elfin-m:
made a kind of an but for my shelter,
yet I dreaded to lie down, fearing the at-
tack of ' wild beasts; none however came
"near me, and I passed the night in silence
,and in safety.

On the following day Iagain swam to
the ship, for I knew that the first storm
that came would dash her to pieces,- and
. I resolved to get every thing on shore
that would be useful to me before I at-
tempted to fix my habitation.

Imade a second raft which I loaded
with a good hammock and plenty of bed--
ding, all the mens clothes I could find,
with sails and canvas, and as much of the
rigging, ropes, and twine, as I could get;
bags of nails, a screw jack, two dozen
of hatchets, and that most useful thing a
grind-stone, -

I was under some apprehensions dur-
ing my absence from the land, that my
provisions might be devoured on shore;
but when I came I found no sign of any
visitor, only there sat a creature like a

wild cat upon one of the chests, which
when I came towards it, ran away to
-a little distance, and then stood still;
she sat very composedly, and looked
full in my face, as if she had a mind
to be acquainted with me. I presented
my gun at her, but as she did not
understand it, she was perfectly uncon-
cerned, nor did she offer to stir; upon .
which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though
Iwas not very free of it, for my store

was not great. However, I spared her a
small piece, and she went to it, smelled
at it, and eat it, and looked (as if
pleased) for more; but I thanked her,
and could spare no more; so she march-
ed ofi':

Having got my second cargo on shore,
Iwent to work to make a tent, with a

sail and some poles which I cut for that

purpose; into this tent I brought every
thing that Iknew would spoil, either with
rain or the sun. And I piled all the
empty casks and chests in a circle round
:the tent, to fortify it against-any attacks
of man or beast. I then blocked up the
door of my tent with some boards, and
spreading one of the beds which I' had
'brought on shore, I lay down with my
gun and pistols close beside me, and
slept very soundly all night. _'
After several other voyages to the
ship, I had the good fortune to find 31%."; '_
a large hogshead of biscuit, meme-eggs;
' "a???" .

'-'|
'3

.; a
',..\n.
m'.';'.\

44 ADVENTURES OF-

rum, a box of sugar, and a barrel of
fine fl'om. There we1e more provisions
on board, but they were all spoiled by
the salt water. I also on the same day
discovered a locker, with three razors, a
.large pair of scissars, and adozen knives
- and forks in it, and thhty ~six pounds in
money. The money was now a mere
useless chug, but hoping it might here-
after serve me, I mapped it in canvas
and took it with me.

Ihad nowbeen thirteen days on shore,
- and had been eleven times on board the
_ ship. In the last visit I loaded my raft
too heavily, and it ov erset. By this ac-
cident 1 lost a quantity of iron that
would have been very useful to me, but
the planks and cables drifted on shore

with the tide. , _
Had the fine weather continued, I be-

lieve I should have. brought away the
wholeship piecemeal, buton the night
of my last visit the wind blew very
hard all night, and when I left my hut in ,
the morning the ship was no more to be
seen. I" asgreatly affected by this event:
it seemed to me that I had lost my last
"friend, and was now more deserted and

' flalone than I had been before. _1 Sat. -down on the ground to gaze on the rock
where the ship had been, and tears ran
down my cheeks, till my kind dog came
and fawned upon me. His caresses ba-
nished my melancholv thoughts, and I
rose up resol1' ed to make the best of my
tondition; and to this end I began to
consider what sort of a dwelling I should
construct, that would best secure me
from the attacks of savages, or wild
beasts, if any such should visit the island.

I11 determining 011 a situation I con-
sulted several things which I found would
be 1110pe1'fo1' me; fiist, health and fresh-
water; secondly, shelter fiom the heat
of the sun; thi1'dl1', securit1 from raven-
ous creatures, 1'vhethe1 men or beasts;
fourthly,a View of the sea, that, ifa ship
came in sight, I might not lose the chance
of deliverance :----n1y only hope and anxi-
ous expectation.

I fixed at length upon a small plain
that sloped towards the sea shore, and

lay at the foot of a high perpendicular $7..

lock, so steep that nothing could come
down to assault me from abbve I made
a half circle on the plain, rounda hollow
part of the rock, into which I dr01e lows
of stakes, about fi1 e feet high, and stand-

sit
ing about six inches from each other. I
then piled rows of pieces of cable close
to the stakes, and within them I drove
other stakes leaning against them about
two feet and a half hicrh; and this fence,
which cost me much time, and excessixe
labour, was so strong that nothing could
break through it. 1 made no door--way,
but used, for entering my habitation,
a short ladder, which when Iwas on
the top of my w,all I lifted over
after me, so that I thought my-
, self completely fenced in fiom all the
<<world.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infi-
nite perseverance and difficulty, I carried
all my riches, provisions, ammunition,
and stores. I next made a large tent
within my wall, and a smaller one within
that, and covered the whole with a tar-
paulin to secure them from the heavy
rains ; and in the small tentl swung my
hammock, which had belonged to the
mate of the ship, and lay very com-
fortably.

My next 'operation was to work my
" way into the rock; and I soon made a
cave behind my tent, which served as a

kitchen and cellar to my house.110111 xsox causos. 47'

It cost me much labour before. all"

these things were brought to perfection.
A storm of rain falling at this time from
a thick dark cloud, accompanied with a
sudden flash of lightning, and after that>

a great clap of thunder, a t'thought darted

into my mind as swift as theo lightning
itself--' Oh my powder!' My very heart.
sunk within me, when I reflected that'at

one blast all my powder might be de-"1

stroyed ; on which not only my defence
but the providing my food, as I thought,
entirely depended. I was not anxious
about my own danger; though, had the
powder took fire, I had never knoWn
who had hurt me. i
Such an impression did this make upon
me that, after the sto1m was over, I laid
aside all my uoiks, my building and"
lortit'yiuw and applied myself to- amake

a,

bags and boxes to separate my powder;

in hopes that, whatever might happen,
it might not all take t11e at once; and to-
keep it so apart, that it should not be

possible to make one pa1t fire another. _

l finisaed this work in about a fortnight, deg
and Ithink my powder, which was in all:
about ahundred and forty pounds Weight,

has 1111111111 in not less than a hnndmii

1:". ,1
. v.2- ' 36$?
,'1- . ~ _ .4 '14-
new

'61.;

Q'.

ff) 3'."
' I. "'1 *3;
r - ,.

0'1? "51'

.'A--

'.,~<

a;
parcels. As to the barrel that had been
wet, I did, not apprehend any danger
from that, so I placed 1t in my new cave, ~
which I called my kitchen; and the rest
I hid 11p.- and down 111 holes. among the
rocks, so that. no. wet might 'come to
it, marking very carefully whereI laid
-lt. ' '

In theinterval of time, while all this
was doing, I went out once every days
with my gun in search. of fodd. I soon
found that there were plenty of goats in

Y'V'the island; but they were so subtle-and

swift of foot, that I could not come
near them. After many fruitless at-
tempts, I observed, that if they were on-
the 1ocks and I in the valley, they
fled With far mo1e preCipitation than
when I descended fiom the re when ,'
they were feeding in the v ley. I '
therefore concluded that the position
of their eyes was such, that they could
not teadily see objects above them I
found this opinion to be verified when,
having climbed the iocks immediately
above where they weie feeding, I had
a fai1 mark, and shot a she--goat which
was giving suck to a little kid beside-

her."Y'.

 

 

\ \\\M&
Eh

(I

\

40mm Mo {72/

7

I'ulmfrme <<Hag-.33; Tabart .Q- (1'1 onion .

I
(

, Aw

I ['do'fI.

(!

Ssh-9'34: . ' ~ 1x-

Romxson onusoe. 49

' I was very much grieved to have shot
the old one; and w hen- I took her up to
carry her home, the poor little kid lol-
Iowed me, bleating for its dam. I car-
ried the kid over my enclosure, and
offered it food, intendino' to have-bred;
it up tam-e; but .the poor thing would
not eat, and after two days it died.

The goat served me'as- meat a long;

time; for I eat very sparin'gly,' and!

3211 ed my provisions, especially my
bread, as much as I possibly could.

I must now giVe some little account
of myself, and 00f my thoughts about
living, which, it may well bet, supposed;
were not few. I had a dismal prospect

of my condition, for, as I was not cast
away upon that island without being '
driven by a violent storm quite, out of '

ii

i.

-l

*7

the couise of ourintended voyage Sqtne - '

hundreds of leagues out of the ordinary

course of the trade of mankind; I Iiatl'ef'iiififl'

9; eat reason to consider it as a (letti'lfinis-i
nation of Heaven, that in this desolate.

place, and in this desolate manner, I;

should end my life. The tears Would-mu
plentifully down my face when I made

asthese reflections; and sometimesl would
expostulate 1v ith mysemli 31W . Twig,

F ~t-._'_. ".3. 1",>>
'. fi:;" '_'.\

. .. fl.- .'

. -~ ' " -

w '

--i at , t "
denee should thus completely ruin his
' c1eatu1es, and render the n so absolutely-
miserable, so without help abandoned,
so entirely depressed, that it would
hardly be rational to be thankful for
such a life.

But something al11a3s returned S11i1t
upon me to check these thoughts, and
to reprove me; and pa1ticularly one
day walking with m3 gun in my hand
by the sea-side, I was ver3 pensive upon
the subject of my piesent condition,
when reason, as it were, expostulated
with me in this way: ' Well, you are
'in a desolate condition, it is true; but
pray, remember, 1v ere are the rest of
you ? Did not you come eleven of
.3011 into the boat? Where are the
ten?- V. by were not they saved, and
you lost P Why were you singled out?
Is it better to be here or. ther 1?' And
then I pointed to the sea. All e1 is are
to be considered with the good that is
in them, and 11ith 11 hat attended aggra-

1ations they might ha1

Then it occurred toine again, hour
well I 11 as furnished for my subsist-
'ence, and what would have been my

case it it had not happened, that

' ' "~11...nonmsox causes. 5 I'

the ship floated from the place where
she first struck, and was driven so
near to the shore, that I had time to
get all these things out of her. What
would have been my case, if I had
been to have lived in the condition
in which I at first came on Shore, with-
out the necessaries of life, or any
means to procure them P Particularly,
said I, aloud, what could I have dOne
without a gun; without ammunition;
without any tools to work with; with-
out clothes, bedding, a tent, or any
manner of covering? And that now
I had all these to a sufficient quan--
tity, and was in a fair way to provide
myself in such a manner as to live
without my gun when my ammunition
was spent. '

And now, being to enter into a me,-
lancholy relation of a scene of silent
life, such, perhaps, as was never heard
of in the world before, I shall take it
from its beginning, and continue it in
its order. It Was, by my account, the
30th of September when I first set foot
upon this horrid island; 'when the sun,
being to us, in its autumnal equinox,
was almost just ,over,._my head; for? ,I .

r 2 e52 11131113111117.1113 or

' reckoned myself, by observatitni, to be

in the latitude of 9 degrees 22 minutes
north of the line

After I had been there about ten or
twelve days, it came into my thoughts
that I should lose my reckoning of time
for want of books and pen and ink, and
should even forget the sabbath days

.11 om the working3 days, deg but to prevent

this, I cut it with my knife upon a large
post, in capital letters; and making it
into a great c1 oss, I set it up on the

. shore where I first landed, viz. I came

on shore here on the 30th of September,
1659. "Upon the sides of this square
post, I cut every day a notch with my
knife, and every seventh notch was as
long again as the rest, and every first
day of the month as long again as that
long one; and thus Ikept my calendar,

or 11eekly, monthly, and yearly reckon-

ing of time

In the next place we are to observe,
that, among the many things which I
brought out of the ship in the several
1voyfagws which I made to it, I got seve--
ral things of less value, but not at all
less useful to me, which I omitted set-
ting down before; as, in particular,'~ < _. ' '~ ' " n'ff',$i!'l

. 110111an causes. 53'

pens, ink, and paper; several parcels in
the captain's,'mate' 3,0 Ir'unne'r s, and car-
penter's keeping; three or four com-
passes, some mathematical instrument's,
dials, perspectives, cha1ts, and books Of
.naxigation; all which I huddled toge-
ther, whether I might want them or not:
also I found three very good bibles,
which came to me in my cargo from
England, and \1 hich I h d packed up
among my things , some Portuguese
books) also, and among them t11o or
three p0pish prayer-books, and several
other books, all which I Carefully se-
cured. And I must not forget that we'had
in the ship a dog and two cats, of whose
eminent history I may have occasion to
say something 1n its place; for I carried
both the cats zDwith me , and as for the
dog he jumped out of the ship himself,
and swam on shore to me the day after
I went on shore with my first cargo, and
was a trusty servant to. me for: many
years. I wanted nothing that he could
do for me, nor any company that he
could make up to me: I only wished to
have him talk to me, but that was im-
possible. ' '
I .now found I wanted many thmgsbvw
F3 '

ix. _...

.4

I

L

.1(
'

.,.

, s -.
-'1 715;.54 ADvEXTI'nns on

notwithstanding all that I had amassed
together; and of these, that of ink was
one ; as also a spade, pick-axe, and
shovel, to dig or remove the earth ;
needles, pens, and thread. As for l-inen,
I soon learned to want that without'
much difficulty.

This want of tools made every work I

undertook go on heaxily , and it was near
an hole 3 ear be-loreIhad entirel3 finished
my pale, or surrounded my habitation.
The piles, or stakes, "hlrl'l w ere as heavy
as I could well lift, were a long time in '
cutting and preparing in the woods, and
more by far in bringing home ; so that
I spent sometimes two days in cutting
and bringing home one of those posts,
and a third day in driving it into the
ground: driving these posts, or piles,
was a very laborious and tedious work
indeed.
' But what need had I to be concerned
with the tediousness of any thing I had
to do, seeing Ihad time enough to do it
in ; nor had I any Other employment if
that had been over, at least, that I could
foresee; except the ranging the island
to seek for food, which I did more or
less every day.separated, as it were,

mmson censor. '55

I new began to considerseriously my
'condition, and the circumstances I was"
reduced to' ; and I drew up the state of
my affairs in writing, not so much to
leave them to any that were to come
after me, ( forl was likely to have but few
heirs) but to relieve my thoughts from
daily poring upon them, and afflicting
my mind; and as my reason began
now to master my despondency, and to
set the good against the evil, that I
might have something to distinguish
my case from worse; and I stated very
impartially, like debtor and creditor,
(the comforts I enjoyed against. the
miseries I suffered) thus :--

GOOD.

But I am alive, and
not drowned, as all my
ship's company were.

But I am singled out
too from all the ship's
from all the world, to new to 'be spared from
be miserable. death; and m: thatmira-

culously saved me from
death, can deliver me
from this condition. '

I am divided from; But I am notstarvcd'
mankind ; a. solitary-'7 and perishing on abar.
one, banished from-all ren place, afl'ording no
human society. sustenance. 1

EVIL. l

I am cast upon a horri- '
ble desolate island, void '
of all hope of recovery.
I am singled out and
EVIL. ' GOOD.
I have no clothes to But I am in a hot cli-
cover me. ;mate, where, if I had

;clothes, I could hardly
wear them.

I am without any do. . But I am cast on an
fence, or means to re- :island where I see no
sist any violence of man ll wild beasts to hurt me,
or beast. as I saw on the coast of
gAfrica: and what if I
{had been shipwrecked
there!

I have no soul to ButGod wonderfully
speak to or to relieve. 'sent the ship in near
me. icnough to the shore,
Ihave gotten out so
many necessary things
as will enable me to
fsupply myself, even as
jlong as I live.

  
 
  

Upon the whole, here was an un-
doubted testimony that there was searcel y
any condition in the world so miserable,
but there was something negative, or
something positive, to be thankful for
'in it; and let this stand as a direction,
from the experience of the most misera-
ble of all conditions in this world, that
we may always find in it something to
comfort ourselves from, and to set in
the description of good and evil on the
credit side of the. accOunt.\-"v- "1 v 73--"
N ' I 1 . .

nomx'sor: CRCSOL'. 57-

.Having now brought my mind a little
to relish my condition, I came by im-
perceptible degrees into that state of
contentment and resignation, that my
labour was no longer a clreerless toil ;.
but i looked with pleasure on the many
comforts and conveniences my labour
produced for me.

Having finished my dwelling. I applied
myself to make a table and chair, the
want of which was a daily inconvenience
to me. I was particularly awkward when
I first betran this work, and a skilful cai-
penter would have laughed to see the
clumsy m "tuner in which I handled my
saw, adze, and hatchet; yet, by applica-
tion and contrivancc, I found at last that
l overcame all my difficulties, and. made
not only my chair and table, but shelves,
and many other com eniences, which
made my tent not only more commo-
dious, but gave it that look of order
neatness,a and arrangement, which Is at
all times so pleasing to the eye, whether
in a cave on a desert island, or in a
splendid palace.

My cane seemed now like a general
macrazine of all useful things ready to
L16 hand; and I rejoiced heartily to find
my stock of necessary stores even larger

than I had at first supposed them to
be.

My table and chair were a great solace
to me; and every day, as long as 'my
ink lasted, I kept a journal of my occu-
pations, my observations, and of every
thing that befel me; of which journal I
shall give a copy, though in it will be
told all these particulars over again.

THE JOURNAL.

September 30, 1659. 1, poor misera-
'ble Robinson Crusoe, being shipwrecked
during a dreadful storm in the Offing,
fame on shore on this dismal, unfortu-
nate island, which I call The Island of
Despair; all the rest of the ship's com-
pany being drowned, and myself almost
dead.

All. the rest of that day I spent in
afflicting myself at the dismal circum-
stances I was brought to, viz. I had "nei-
ther food, house, clothes, weapon, or
place to fly to; and, in despair of any
relief, saw nothing but death before me :
either that I should be devoured by wild
beasts, murdered by savages, or starved

to death for want of food. At the ap-. _ W' '._ .7.-.~ '. . , ._.~w-v.--~1 .
' l ' " ' Eng!

. .v:

- '1.

ROBINSON cnuson. 59

proach of night I slept in a tree, for fear
of wild creatures , but slept soundly,
though it rained all night.

October 1. In the morning I saw,
to my great surprise, the ship had float-v.
ed with the high tide, and was d1i1--'en on
shore again much ne a1er the island. This
was some comfort, as I hoped if the wind
abated I might get on board, and get
some food. and necessaries out of. her
for my relief, which I did.' I'went upon
the sand as near to the ship as I could>>
and then swam on board. This day. also

it continued raining, though with no .

11 ind at all

F1 om the lst to the 14th was entirely ' .
snent in many several voyages to get
all I could out of the ship, which I

rought on shore every tide, upon 'L

rafts? Much rain also in these 113 yfs,

though with some intervals of fan'

11eathe1: but it seems this was the rainy
season.

1 ",Oct 20. I overset my raft and 5-1}
the goods I had got upon it; but, being

in shoal water, and the things being
cluefly heavy, I recovered many of: them

when the tide was out. , . .. :v.-

60 ADVENTURES or

Oct. 25. It rained all night and all
day, with some gusts of wind; during.
which time the ship broke in pieces, the
wind blowing a little harder than before,
and was no more to be seen, except the
wreck of her, and that only at low water.
I Spent this day in covering and securing
the goods which I had saved, that the
rain might not spoil them.

Oct. :26. I walked about the shore
almost all day, to find out a place to fix
my habitation; greatly concerned to
secure myself from any attack in the
night, either from wild beasts or men.
Towards night I fixed upon a proper
place under a rock, and marked out a
simicircle for my encampment, which
I resolved to strengthen with a work,
" wall, or fortification, made of double
piles, lined within with cable, and with-
out with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th I worked
very hard in carrying all my goods to
my new habitation, though some part of
the time it mined exceedingly hard.

The 31st in the mo "hing I went out
into the island with my gun to see for
some food, and discover the country,V." - . v 'wf--Wf , --- up--r --v--------- -~v
'1 - . . . ' ..

110131118011 causOE. \ 61'

when I killed a she-goat, and her kid
followed me home, which afterwards
died, because it would not feed.

November 1. I set up my tent under
a rock, and lay there for the first night,
makintr it as lalge as I could, with stakes
drivenb in to swing my hammock upon.
The next day I set up all my chests and
boards, and the pieces of timber which
made my raft, and with them formed a
fence round me, a little within the
place I had marked out for my fortifi'
cation.

Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and
killed two f'owls, like ducks,- which were
very good. In the afternoon, went to
work to make my table. The next mom-
ing I began to order my times of work,
of going out with my gun, time of sleep,
and time of diversion; viz. every mOrn-
ing I walked out with my gun for two 01"
three hours, if it did not rain; then em--
ployed myself to work till about ten ; then
eat what I had to live. on; and from

twelxe to two Ilay down to sleep, the

weather being excessively .hot; and then

in the evening to wo1k again. 'lhe work

ing part of this day and the next were

M10111 emplm ed in making my table,
G62 anvmunss or ~

for I was yet but a .very sorry workman;
though time and necessity made me a
complete natural mechanic soon after, as
I believe it would do anyone else. .

Nov. 5. This day went abroad with
my gun and my dog, and killed a wild
cat, her skin pretty soft, but her flesh
good for nothing: every creature I killed
I took 01'1" their skins and preserved them.
Coming back by tke sea-shore, I saw
'many sorts of fouls, whose species I did
not know; but was surprised and almost -
frighted with two or three seals, which,
while I was gazing at, not well knowing
what they n ere, oot into the sea, and es-
caped liom me lor that time

Nov. 6 After my morning walk, I
went to work with my table again,
and finished it, though not to my Olikq
ing; nor was. it long before I learned to
mend it.
. Nov. 7. Now it began to be settled fair
weather. The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and a
part of the 12th (for the 11th was Sun-1
day) I took wholly up to make me a
chair, and with much ado brought it to a
tolerable shape, but neVer to please me:
and ex en in the making, I pulled it to

pieces several times.
Nov..l3. This day it mined, which
refreshed and exceedingly cooled the
earth ; but it was accompanied with ter-
rible thunder and lightning, which
frlghted me dreadfullyzD for fear of my
.pouder.

As soon as it was over, I resolved to
separate my stock of powder into as
many little parcels as possible, that it
might not be in danger.

Nov. 14, 15, 16. zDThese three days I
spent in making little square chests 01"
boxes, which might hold about a pound,'

or two pounds, at most, of powder; and

so putting the powder 1n, I stowed if in
~places as secure and remote from one
another as possible. On one of theSe
three days I killed a large bird that was
good to eat, butI knew not what to
call it.

Nov. 17. This day I began to dig be~
hind my tent into the rock, to make-

room for my further conveniencies.
Three things I wanted exceedingly 'for

this work, viz. a pickeaxe, a shovel, and .

a wheel-barrow, or basket; so I desisted
from my wor' 1 and began to consider how

to supply these wants, and make me some -~

tools. As for a pick-axe, I made use of
c 2

#:5111121? -

. 4.911.323;
the iron crows, which were proper enough,
though heavy : but the next thing was a
shovel 01' spade; this was so absolutely
necessary, that indeed I could do nothing
effectually without it; but what kind of
one to make I knew not. .

Nov. 18. The next dav. in searching
the woods, Ilound a tree ofthatwood,o1'
one like it, which 111 the B1asils they call
the iron~tree, for its exceeding hardness;
of this, with great labour, and almost
spoilingmy axe, I euta piece, and brought
it home too, with difficulty enough, for
it was very heavy.

The excessive h:1 dness of the wood,
made me a long while employ ed upon
this machine; lm I norked it effectuC/
ally by little and little into the fonn
of a shovel o1 spade, the handle exactly
shaped like ours in England, only that
the b1oad pa1t hax 1110' no i1on shod
upon it at the bottom, it would not last
me so long; howevei, it sened well
enough for the use which Ihad occa-
sion to put it to; but never was :1 sho-
vel, I believe, made after that fashion, or

so long :1 making.
I was still deficient of a basket,

or Wheel-balmw , a basket I could, - I

ROBINSON canson'. ' . 65

not make by any means, haying no
such things as tn 1gs that would bend, to
make wicker ware, at least none yet-

found out; and as to the wheel-barrow,
I fancied I could make all but the wheel,

but that I had no notion of, neither did I
know how to go about it; besides, lhad
no possible way to make the iron gutl-
geons for the spindle or axis of the wheel
to run in, so I gave it over; and for
carrying away the earth which I dug out .
of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod
w hich the labourers carry mortar in, when
they sene the bricklaw ers. -
This was not so difficult to me as '
the making the shox el; and yet this,
and the shox el, and the attempt which
I made 1n min to make a wheel--barrow
took me up no less than four days,
excepting my moming walk with my
gun, which I seldom C,neglected; and ,
very seldom failed to bring home some-
thing to eat. _
Nov. 23. My other work having now
stood still, because of my making lathtrse
tools; when they were finished I wentqn,
and working every day, as my strength
and time allowed, I spent eighteen days
entirely 1n widening and deepening my
a 3
cave, that it might hold 1 y goods com-
modiousiy,

During all this time I worked to make
this room or care spacious enough to
accommodate me as a warehouse or ma-
gazine, a kitchen, a (lining-room, and a
cellar; as for my lodging, I kept to the
tent, except that sometimes in the wet
season of the year, it rained so hard that
I could not keep myself dry, which caused
me afterwards to cover all my place
within my pale with long poles in the
form ofral'ters, lea ting against the rock,
and load them with flags and large leaves
of trees like a thatch.

December 10. I began now to think
my care or vault finished, when on a
sudden (itseems I had madeit too large) a

great quantity of earth fell down from the
top and one side, so much that in short it
frighted me, and not without reason too;

.for if I had been under it, Ihad. never
wanted a grave-digger. Upon this dis-
aster I had great deal of work to do over
again; for I had the loose earth to carry
out, and which was of more importance,
I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I
might be sure no more would come
down.

\
Dec. 11. This day .I went to Work with
it accordingly, and got two shores orposts
pitched upright to the top, with two
pieces of boards across over each post;
this I finished the next day , and setting
more posts up with boards, in about 'a
week more I'had the roof secured; and
the posts standing in rows, served me for

partitions to part off my house.
Dec. 17. From this day to the twen-

tieth ,I placed shelves, and knocked up
nails on the posts to hang every thing up

that could be hung up; and 110va began
to be 111 some order within doors.

Dec. 20. Now I carried every thing
into the cave, and began to furnish my
house, and fixed up some pieces of boards
like a dresser, to order my victuals upon,C/_
but boards began to be very scarce with
me; also I made me another table.

Dec. 24 and 25. Much rain; no stir-
lino out. - i9: '

Dec. 26 No rain, and the earth much
cooler than before, and pleasanter,

Dec. 27. Killed 21 young goat, and
lamed another so that I caught it, and
led it home in a string; when Iliad it ,
.home, I bound and splintered up its leg,
which was broke. N, B. I took such-
care of it that it lix ed, and the leg grew
well, and as strong as ex er; by nurs-
ing it so long 1t grew tame, and fed upon
the little green before my door, and
would not go away This was the first
time that i entertained a thought of
breeding up some tame creatures, bthat I
-might have food when my powder and
shot 111s all spent.

Dec. '28, '29, 30. Great heats, and no
bree s; so that there was no stirring
ahioa d, except in the evening for food.
.This tii 1e I spent in putting all my things
in order within doors.

January 1. Very hot still; but I went
abioad ea1iy and late with my gun, and
lav still 111 the middle of the day. This
ex ening going 1111ther into the vallies,
11h1thlay tow 1111s the centre of the island,
I found there 11 as plenty of goats, though
exceedingly shy, and hard to come at;
however, I 16801\ ed to try if I could not
b1ing my dog to hunt them down.

Jan 2. Accordingly, the next day, I
went out with my dog, and set him upon
the goats; but I was omistaken, for they
all faced about upon him, and he
knew his danger too well, for he would

not come near them. -
Jan 3 I began my fence, or wall,
which, being still jealous of my being
attacked byc some body, I resolved to
make very thick and strong.

N. B This wall being described before;
I purposely omit what was said 1n the
journal. It is sufficient to observe,
that I was no less time than from the
third of January to the fourteenth of

Ap1il, working, finishing, and perfect-

ing this wall, othough it was no more

than twenty-four Oyards in length;
being a half-circle from one place in
the rock to anothe1 place about eight
yards from it; the door of the cave
being in the centre behind it.

All this time I worked very hard, the
wins hindering me many days, nay,
sometimes weeks together, but [believed
I should never be bperfectly secure till
this wall was finished. It is scarcely Credi~
ble what inexpressible labour every thm g
was dOne with; especially the bringing
piles out of the woods and driving them
into the ground, for I made themo much
bigger than I needed to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the
outside double fenced with a turf-111 ll

raised up close to it, I persuaded myself.that if any people 'were to come on
share there, they would not perceive
any thing like a habitation;- and it was
very well I did so, as may be observed
hereafter upon a remarkable occasion.

During this time I made my rounds
in the woods for game every day when
' the rain permitted me, and made fre-
quent discoveries in these walks of some-
thing or other to my advantage; parti-
cularly I found a kind of wild pidgeons,
that built not, as VV cod-pidgeons, in a
tree, but rather, as house-pidgeons, in
the holes of the rocks; and taking some
young ones, I endeavoured to breed them

up tame, and did so; but when they
grew older they all flew away, which
perhaps was at first for want of feeding
them, for I had nothing to give them.
However, I frequently found their nests,
and got their young ones, which .were
Very good meat.

And now, in the managing my house-
hold affairs, I found myself in want of
many things, which I thought at first it
was impossible for me to make. For
instance, I could neVer make a cask to
be hooped ; I had a small runlet or two,

'but I could never arrive to the capacity
_, '
of making one by them, though I spent
many weeks about it: I could neither
put in the heads or join the staves so true
to one another as to make them hold
water, therefore l gave that attempt over.

There was yet another material want
unsupplied, namely candles: I did at
length find a substitute for them. When
I killed a goat I saved the tallow, and
put it into a little dish made of clay and
baked in the sun. I put a wick of oakum
into the tallow; and had a lamp which
gave me light enough to read, write, or
work by, though it did not yield so
clear and steady a flame as that of a
candle. '

It happened, when I was arranging
my stores on the shelves, that I found. a
bag which had once been filled with
corn for the fowls we had on board the
ship. There appeared'to be only a few
dry husks remaining, which I shook out;
intending to fill the bag with gun-pow-a
der. It was a little before some great:
rains which fell, thatI emptied these
husks by the side of the rock, and about
a month afterwards,.when I did nots
much as recollect What I had thrown

away there, I saw some green stalks
shooting out of the earth; and perfectly
astonished was I, in a little time, to see
these shoots 1ipen into ten or twelve

ears of English barley.
I can scarcely express the agitation of
my mind at this sioht. Hitherto I had

looked upon the actions of this life, no
otherans than only as the events of blind"
chance and lo1tune; but now the ap-
pea1ance of this ba1lev,flourisl1i11g 1n a
banen soil, and my ignorance in not
conceixing how it could come there,

made me Oconclude that miiacles were
not yet ceased: nay, I even thought that

God had appointed it to grow there
withouta 11y seed, purely for my sus-
tenance in this miserable and desolate
island. And, indeed, such great effect
this had upon me, that it often made-me
melt into tears, through a grateful sense
of God's mercies, and the greater still

was my thankfulncss, when l perceived
about this little field of ba1ley some rice-

stalks also wonderfully flourishing.
Thus pleased in mind I concluded

there must be more com in the island,
and the refo1e made a diligent search
narrowly among the rocks; but not
being able to find any, on a sudden 'vr'v

ROBINSON causes. 7 3

it came into my mind how I had shaken '
the husks of corn out of the bag, and
then myadmiration ceased, with my gras-
titude to the divine Being, as thinking it
was but natural, and not to be c0nceived
a miracle; though, even within the man-
ner of its preservation, might have made
me own it as a wonderful event of God's
kind providence.

It was about the latter end of June

when the ears of this corn ripened,

which I laid up very carefully, together
with twenty or thirty stalks of rice, ex?-
pecting I one day should reap the fruits
,of my labour; yet four years were ex-
pired before I would allow myself to

eat any bread, or rather food; for I_ '

found ways to cook it up without
baking.

But to return to my journal.

I worked excasively hard three or
.four months to get my wall done; and
the 14th of April I closed it up, con-
.triving to go into it, not by a door, but
over the wall by a ladder, ' that there
might be no sign on the outside of my
habitation. " .

April 16. .I finished the ladder; soI

went up by it to the top, and then pulled,

it up after me, and let it down on the .

an
inside. This was a complete enclosure
to me; for within I had room enough,
'and nothing could come at me from

'without, unless it could first mount my
wall.

But what do all human pains and
industry avail, if the blessing of God
'do.not crown our labours? t,Or "who
can stand before the Almighty, when he
stretcheth forth his arm 2'"

The very next day after this wall was
finished I had almost had all my labour
overthrown at once, and myself killed.
'The case was thus: as I was busy 1n the
inside of it, behind my tent, just in the
entrance into my cave, on a sudden I
lound the eaith came tumbling down
'from the roof of my cav,e and from the

edge of the hill over my he? (1, and two
of the posts I had set up in the cave
Cracked 1n :1 most frightful manner. I
was heartily sca1;ed but though t nothing
'of what was really the cause, oonly think-
~ing that the top of my caxe was falling
in, as some of it had done before; and,
for fear I should be b111i ed 1n it, I ran
forward to my ladder; and, not thinkino
Mysell sate there neither, 1 got over my
wall, for fear of the pieces of the hill,
'whichl expected might roll downupon
me. _ I was no sooner stept down upon the A

firm ground than I plainly felt it was a.
terrible earthquake, for the ground I
stood upon shook three times in about
eight minutes, with three such shocks
as 2)would have overturned the strongest,
building that could be supposed to have
stood on the earth , and a great piece of
the top of a rock, which{3 stood about
half a mile from me next the sea, fell.
down with Such a terrible noise as I.
never heard in all my life. I perceived
also that the very sea was put 1nto VIC." ,

lent motion by it; and I believe the
shocks were stronger under the water

than on the island .

I was so amazed with the thing itself,
having never felt the like, or conversed;
with any one who had, that I was like
one dead or stupified; and the motion.
of the earth made my stomach sick, like-
one that was tossed at sea; but the noise.
of the falling of the rock, roused me-
'from the stupified condition I was in,
and I thought of nothing then but the'
hill falling upon my tent, and all my
household? goods, and burying all at once.- deg
and this sunk my very soul within me a

second time.

After the third shock was over, and I
n 2
felt no more for some time, I began to
take courage; and yet I had not heart
enough to get over my wall again, for
fear of being buried alive; but sat still
upon the ground, greatly cast down and
disconsolate, not knowing what to do.
All this while I had not the least se-
rious religious thought, nothing but the
common " Lord have mercy upon me !"
and when it was over, that went away
tOO.

VVhileI sat thus, I found the air over-
cast, and grow cloudy, as if it would rain;
and 'in less than half an hour it blew a
most dreadful hurricane: the sea was all
on a sudden covered over with foam and
froth, the shore was covered with the
breach of the water, the trees were torn
Up by the roots, and 'a terrible storm'it
was. This held about three hours, and
then began to abate; and in two hours
more it was calm, and began to rain
very hard.

All this while I sat upon the ground
very much terrified and dejected, when

on a sudden it came into my mind, that
these winds and rain being the conse-
quence of the earthquake, the earth-
quake itself was spent and over, andI
might venture into my cave again. With. '..'

2.

ROBINSON 011113011. ~ 757-?

this thought 'my Spirits began to revive,
and the rain also helping to persuade-me,
I went in, and sat down in my. tent; but
the rain was so violent, that my tent Was.
ready to be beaten down with it, and I.
was forced to go into my cave, though

very much afraid and uneasy for fear 1t

should fall on my head. .
This violent rain forced me to a new

work, viz. to cut a hole through my new- '-

fortification like a sink to let water go
out, which would else have drowned my
cav e. After I had been 1n my cave some
time, and found no more shocks of the
earthquake follow, I began to be more
composed; and now to support my
spirits, which indeed wanted it very
much, I went to my little store, andtook-
a. small sup of rum, which however Idid
then, and always very sparingly, know-
ing I could have no more when that was
' gone.

Yge'fg

PS94

It continued raining all that night, ,

and great part of the next day, so that I
could not Stir abroad; but my mind be:
ing more composed, I began to think of

what I had best do; concluding, that, if -

the island was subject to these earth-z
quakes, there would beno living for me

in a cave, but I must consider 9i build-2
n 3 'o' g; .
- '- '73 ADVENTURES or

ing me some little but 1n an open place,
which I might surround with a wall as I
had done here, and so make myself se-
cure from wild beasts or men , but con-
cluded, if I staid where I was, I should
certainly, one time or other, be buried
alive.'
With these thoughts I resolved to
i remove my tent from the place where
it stood, which was just under the
hanging precipice of the hill, and
which, if it should be shaken again,
would certainly fall upon my tent. And
Ispent the two next days, being the
19th and 20th of April, in ntriving
where and how to remove m bitation.
The fear of beingsw'allowed up alive,
made me that I never slept 1n quiet;
and yet the apprehension of lying abroad
withoutany fence was almost equal to it:
bth still when I looked about, and saw
how every thing was put in order, how
pleasantly 'concealedI was, and how safe

from danger, it made me 'very loath to
remove.

In the mean time it occurred to me,
that it would require a vast deal of time
to do this, and that Imust be contented
town the venture where I was, till I had
formed a camp- for myself, and had-se-
Cured it so as to remove it. So with
this resolution I composed mySelf for a"
time, and resolved that I would go to-
work with all speed to build me a wall
with piles and cables, &c. in-a circle as
before, and set my tent up in it when it-
was finished; but- that I would venture
to stay where I was till it. was finished
and fit to remove to. This was the 21st.-
April 22. 'The next moming'l began
to consider of means to put this resolve
into execution, but I was at a great loss
about my tools; I had three large axes,
Aid abundance of hatchets, (for we car-
/r1ed the hatchets for traffic with the In-
dians,) but with much chopping and cute'
ting knotty hard wood, they were all full
of notches; and though I had a grind-
stone, I could not turn it and grind my
tools too. At length Icontrived a kind
of a wheel with 5 string, to turn it with
my foot, that l mighthhave both my
hands at liberty. I had never seen any
such thing 1n England, or at least not to
take notice how 1t was done, though since
lhave observed it is very common there;
besides that, my grindstone was very
large and heaVy. This machine Cost'

me a full week's work to bring it to

perfection. - - " -_

{.1.
April'QS, '29. These two whole days I
took up in grinding my tools, my
machine for turning myg rindstone per-
forming very well.

April 30. Having perceived my bread
had been 10.1 a great VV l111e now I took
a survey of it, and reduced myself to one
biscuit-cake a day, which made my
heart very heavy.

May 1. In the morning looking to-
wards the sea-side, the tide being low, I
saw someth1n<rl1e on the shore bigger
than ordinary; and when I came to 1it,
it proved to be a small barrel, and two
or three pieces of the \1 reek of the ship,
which were driven on shore by the late
hurricane, and looking towards the
wreck itself, I thought z,it seemed to lie
higher out of the water than it used to
do. On examining the barrel, I found
it was a barrel of gunpowder, but it had
taken water, and the powder was caked
as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it
further on shore for the present.

When I camedoxs-n to the ship, I found
it stiangely remOV ed; the fmecastle,
which lay before buiied in sand, was
heaved up at least six feet; and the
stern, which 1-. as broke to pieces, and
parted from the rest by the force of theROBmsoN . cnusoz. ' 8 I

Sea, soon after I had left rummaging her,
was tossed up, as it were, and cast on one
side, and the Sand was thrown so high on
that side next her stern, that where there
was a great place of water before, so that
I could not come within a quarter of a
mile of the wreck without swimming, I
could now walk quite up to her when
the tide was out; I was surprised with
this at first, but soon concluded it must
have been done by the earthquake.
' This wholly diverted my thoughts
from the design of removing my habi-
tation; and I busied myself that day in
searching whether I could make any way
into the ship; but I found nothing was
to be expected of that kind, for that all
the inside of the ship was choaked up.
with sand. .
May 3. I began withmysaw, and cuta
piece of abeam through, whichI thought
held the upper part or quarter-deck to-
gether, and when I cut it through, I cleared>>
away the sand as well as I could from the
side which lay highest; but the tide com-
ing in, I was obliged to give over for
that time.
' May 4. Iwent a fishing, but caught
not one fish that Idurst eat of, till I Was
weary of my sport; when just going t6?
leave 03; I caught a young dolphin.-
I made a long line of rope-yarn, but I
had no hooks, yet Ifrcquently caught fish '
enough, as much asI cared to eat; all
which I dried in the sun, and eat them
dry. .
May 5 to 14.1 went every day to the
wreck, and got a great deal of pieces of
timber and board, or plank, and two or
three hundred weight of iron.

May 15.1 canied two hatchets to try
if I could cut a piece 03' the roll of lead
by placing the edge of one hatchet,
and driving it in with the other; but as it
lay about a foot and an half in the water,
I could not make any blow to drive the
hatchet.

May 16. It had'blowed hard in the
night, and the wreck appeared more
broken by the force of the water; but I
staid so long in the woods to get pigeons.
for food, that the tide prevented me
going to the wreck that day.

May 24. Every day to this day I work-
ed on the wreck, and with hard labour I
loosened some things so much with the
crow, that the first bloxs mg tide. several
casks floated out, and two of the sea>>
men's chests; but the mind blowing

from the shore, nothing came to land. thatnomxsox 030302. 83

day but pieces of timber, and a bagshead
which had some Brasil pork in it, but the
salt-water and sand had spoiled it.
, I continued this work .every day to
the 15th of June, except the time neces-
sary to getfood, which I always appoint-
ed, during this part of my employment,
to be when the tide was up, that I might
be ready when it was ebbed out; and by
this time I had gotten timber and plank,
and iron-work, enough to have built a
good boat, if I had known how; and also I
gotat several times, and in several pieces,
near a hundred weight of she'etfl'ead.
,June 16. Going down to the sea-side,
I found a large tortoise, or turtle. This
was the first .I had seen, which, it seems,
was only my misfortune, not any. defect
of the place, or scarcity ; for had I hap-
pened to be on the other side of the
island, I might have had hundreds of
them every day, as I found afterwafds, .
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle:
I found in her threescore eggs; and her
flesh was to me at that time the most
savoury and pleasant that I ever tasted .
int'my life, having had no fleSh, but of
'goats and fowls, since I landed in this
.fhorrid place. '

June 18. Rained all day, and I stayed. , I
w.ithin I thought at this time the rain
felt cold, and I was something chilly,
which I knew was not usual in that
latitude.

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if
the weather had been cold.

June '20. No rest all night; violent
pains in my head, and feverish.

June 21. Very ill; frighted almost to
death with the apprehensions of my sad
condition--to be sick, and no help!
P13) ed to God for the first time since
the storm off Hull; but scarcely knew
what I said or why, my thoughts being
all confused.

June 22. A little better, but under
dreadful apprehensions of sickness.

June '23. Very bad again; cold and
shivering, and then a violent head-ache;
but on the 24th I was much better. .

June 25. An ague very violent; the
fit held me seven hours; cold fit and hot,
.x-vith faint sweats after it.

June 26. Better; and having no vic-
tuals to eat, took my gun, but found
myself very weak; however, I killed a
she-goat, and with much difficulty got it
home, and broiled some of it, and eat ;
I would fain have stewed it, and made
some broth, but had no pot.Wm" . V "1'... .'a-- _,. - " 'W. .. ~

IV'
0

0121125011 111111501: 85

June 27. RThe agne again so violent
that I lay 1n bed all day? and neither eat
or drank. I was ready to perish for
thirst, but so weak, I had no strength to

stand up, or to get myself any water to
drink. .

And now when I began to be sick
and a distinct view of the miseries of
death came to place itself before me;
when my Spirits began to sink under the
burden of a strong distemper, and nature
was exhausted with the violence of the
fev er; conscience, that had slept so long,
awakened, and I began to reproach my-
self with my past life, 1n which I had so.
evidently, by uncommon wickedness,
provoked the justice of God to deal with
me in so vindictive a manner.

These refleCtions oppressed me for
the second or third day of my distemper; '
and in the violence as well of the fever
as of the dreadful reproaches of my eon-
science, extorted some words from me
like praying to God, though I cannot
say they were either a prayer attended
with. desires or with hopes: it Was rather
the voice of mere fright and distress.
My thoughts were confused; .,the con.- '
victions great upon my mind and the

horro1 of dying in such a miserable
- 1
condition, 1aised vapours into my head
with the me1e apprehensions. and in
these' hurries of my soul I knew not
what my tongue might express; but it
was rathe 1 exclamation; such as, L01d,
what a miserable creature am I! If I
should be sick, I shall certainly die. for
want of help--and what will become of
me! Then the tears burst out of my

eyes, and I could say no mme for a
good whi le.

In this interval the good adx we of my
father came to my mind, which I had so

wickedly rejected, viz. That if I did take
this foolish step p, God would not bless
me; and I would have leisure hereafter '
to 1eflect upon having neglected his
counsel, when there might be none to
assist in my recox- ery. Now, said I,

aloud, my dear father's wmds are home
to pass--God' 3 justice has mertaken me,

and I have none to help or hear me ! I
rejected the voice of providence which
had mercifully put me in a posture, or
jstation of life, wherein I might have
been happy and easy , but I would nei-

ther see it myself, 01 learn to know the
blessing of it f1om my parents. I left
my parents to mourn over my folly,
and now I'am left ,to mourn under the

'5'vr - -- --

nonmsox causon. 87

consequences of it. I refused their help
and assistance, who would have lifted
me into the world, and would have 'made

every thing easy to me; and now] have '

difficulties to struggle with too great for
even nature itself to support, and no.
. ass1stance, no help, no comfort, no ad-_

. /

vice. Then I cried out, Lord, be my '

help, forI am .in great distress!

This was the first prayer, if I may call
it so, that I had made for many years.
But I return to my journal.

June 28. Having been somewhat re-
freshed with sleep, I rose to get some-4
thing to refresh and support myself,
and the first thing I did, I filled a large
square case bottle with water, and set it
upon my table, 1n reach of my bed; and
to take off the chill of the water, Iput
about a quarter of a pint of rum into
it, and mixed them together; then Igot

me a piece of the goat's flesh, and brOiIed -

it on the coals, but could eat but very
little; I walked about, but was very

weak, and Withal very sad and heavy- .
hearted with the thoughts of my miserafi'"

ble condition, dreadian the return of nay
distemper the next day.

At night I made my supper 'of t
of the turtle' 5 eggs, which I roasted in

5v:

747

'ercff'
88 anvsu'runrs' or

the ashes, and eat, as we call it, "in the
shell; and this was the first bit of meat
I had ever. asked God's blessing to, that
I could remember, in my whole life.

After I had eaten I tried to walk, but
found myself so weak that I could hardly
Carry the gun; (for I never went out
without that) so I went but a' little 'way,
and sat down upon the ground, looking
out upon the sea, which was just before
me, and very calm and smooth. AsI
sat here, some such thoughts as these
occurred to me :--

What is this earth and sea of which I
have seen so much ? Whence is it pro-
duced? And what am I and all the other

51' creatures, wild and tame, human and
' brutal--whence are we? Surely we are
all made by some secret power, who
formed the earth and sea, the air and
sky ; and who is that?

Then it followed most naturally--It is
God that has made it all! Well, but
(then it came on strangely) if God have
made all these things, he guides and
governs them all, and all things that
concern them; for the power that could
make all things, must certainly have
power to guide and direct them.

' If so, nothing can happen in the greatmnmson 63.0503 .9

circuit- of his works, either Without his
knowledge or- appointment: andiffnou
thing happens without his knowledge,
he knows that I am here, and am in this
dreadful condition; and if nothing hap-
pens without his appointment, he has
appointed all this to befal me. .

Nothing occurred to my thoughts to
contradict any of these conclusions; and
therefore it rested upon me with the
greater force, that it must needs be that
God has appointed all this to befal me;
thatl was brought to this miserable cir-.
cumstance by his direction, he having
the sole power not of me only, but of
every thing that happened in the ,world.
Immediately it, followed,

Why has God done this to me? What '
have I done to be thus used? My con:-
sciencc presently checked me in that
enquiry, as if 1 had blasphemed; and .
methought it spoke to me likefla voice,
' lefich ! Dost thou ask what that; has;
done 9- Look back'u'pon a? dreadfully
mispent life, and ask thyself what; thou
hast not done 2. Ask, why is it that thou
wast not long ago destroyed ? Why
wast thou not drowned in 'armouth ;
roads; killed in the fight, when the ship
was takenxby. the Sallee. 1.3.33. Qf..\PSa.1'.:

1 3
devoured by the wild beasts on the coast
of Africa; or drowned here, when all the
crew perished but thyself? Dost thou
'ask, what have Idone !'

I was struck dumb with these reflec-
tions, as one astonished; and had not a
word to say, no not to answer to myself;
but rose up pensive and sad, walked

back to my retreat, and went up over
my wall, as if I had been going to bed;
but my thoughts were sadly disturbed,
and I had no inclination to sleep; so I
sat down in my chair and lighted my
lamp, for it began to be dark. Now,
as the apprehension of the return of my
distemper terrified me very much, it
occurred to my thoughts, that the Brasi-
lians take no physio but their tobacco
for almost all distempers; and I had a
piece of a roll of tobacco in one of
the chests which was quite cured, and
some also that was green and not quite
cured. -

I went, directed by heaven no doubt;
for in this chest I found a cure for both
soul' and body ; I opened the chest, and
found what I looked for, viz. the tobacco;
A and as the few books I'had saved lay
there too, I took out one of the bibles,
which I mentioned before, and which to
this time I had not found leisure or so
much as inclination to 'look into ; I say I
took it 'out, and brought both that and
the tobacco with me to the table. . .

What use to make of the tobacco, -I
knew not exactly, but I tried several exi
periments with it: I first took a piece of
a leaf and chewed it in my mouth, which
at first almost stupified me, the tobacco
being green and strong; then I took
some and steeped it an hour or two'in
some rum, and resolved to take a dose
of it when I lay down; and lastly, I burnt
some upon a pan of coals, and held my
nose close over the smoak as long as I
could bear it, as well for the heat as
almost for suffocation.

In the interval of this operation, Itook '
up the bible and began to read, but my
head was too much disturbed with the
tobacco' to bear reading, at least that
time; only having opened the book ca-
sually, the first words that occurred to
me were these--" Call on me in the day
of trouble, and I will deliver, and thou
shalt glorify me." , '

The words were very apt to my case,
and made some impres'sion upon my
thoughts at the time of reading them,
though not so much as they did after:-

I
wards; for, as for being delivered, the
word had no meaning, as I may say, to
me; the thing was so remote, so impos4
sible in my apprehension of things, that
Ibegan to say as the children of Israel
did, when they were promised flesh to
eat, " Can God spread a table in the
wilderness?" So I began to say, " Can
God himself deliver me from this place?"
And as it was not for many years that
any hope appeared, this prevailed very
often upon my thoughts. It grew now .
late, and the tobacco had, as I said, dozed
my head so much, that I inclined to
sleep; so I left my lamp burning in the '
cave, lest I should want any thing in the '
night, and went to bed; but before I lay '
down, I did what I had never done in my
life, I kneeled down and prayed to God
to fulfil the promise to me, that if I called
upon him he would deliver me. After
my broken and imperfect prayer was
over, I drank the rum in which I had
steeped the tobacco, which was so
strong and rank with it, that I could
scarcely get it down; immediately upon
this I went to bed, and I presently
found it flew up into my head Violently;
but I fell into a sound sleep, and waked
no more, till by the sun it appeared to
be. three o'clock in the afternoon of the,
next day; nay, to this hour I am partly
of opinion, that I slept all the next day
and night, and till three that day
after; for otherwise I knew not how I
should lose a dayout of my reckoning
in the days of the week, as it appeared
some years after I had done; for if I had
lost it by crossing and recrossing the line
I should have lost more than one day.
But, in my account, it was lost, and I
never knew which way. .

WhenI awaked I found myself exceed-
ingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and
cheerful; 'when I got up, I was stronger
than I was the day before, and my sto-
mach better, for I was hungry; and in
short, I had no fit the next day, but con-
tinued much altered for the better. This
was the 29th. - .

The 30th was my well day of course,
and I went abroad with my gun, but did
not care totravel too. far. I- killed a sea-
'fowl or two, something like a brand-'-
goose, and brought them home, but'was
'not in a humour to eat them; soI eat
'some more of the turtle's eggs, which
were very good. This evening I re-
newed the medicine which I had sup- '
posed did me good the day before, viz.
the tobacco steeped in mm, only I did
not take so much as before, nor did I
chew any of the leaf, or hold my head
over the smoke; however, I was not so
well the next day, which was the first of
July, as I hoped I should have been; for
I had'a little of the cold fit, but it was not

much.

July 2. l renewed the medicine all the
three ways, and dozed myself with it as
at first; and doubled the quantity which
I drank.

July 3. I missed the fit for good and
all, though I did not recover my full
strength for some weeks after. While I
was thus gathering strength, my thoughts
run exceedingly upon this scripture, "I
will deliver thee;" and the impossibility
of my deliverance lay much upon my
mind in bar of my ever expecting it.
But as I was discouraging myself with
such thoughts, it occurred to my mind,
that I pored so much upon my delive-
rance from the main affliction, that I dis;
regarded the deliverancel had received;
and I was, as it were, made to ask my-
self such questions as these, viz. " Have '
I not been delivered, and wonderfully
too, from sickness; from the most, dis-
tressed condition that could be, and that

. .3... .

..,L Ifnomsson CRUSOE. 95

was so frightful to me? And what notice
had I taken of it? Had I done my part,
God had delivered me; but I had not
glorified him, that is to say, I had not:
owned and been thankful for that as de-
Iiverance, and how couldIexpect greater

eliverance !" This touched my heart
very much, and immediately I kneeled
down, and gave God thanks aloud for my
recovery from my 'sickness.

July 4. In the morning .I took the
bible, and beginning at the New Testa-
ment,I began seriously to read it, t and
imposed upon myself to read awhile
every morning and night, not tying my:-
self to the number of chapters, but as '
long as my thoughts would engage me.

It was not long after I set seriously to
this work, but I found my heart more
deeply and sincerely affected with the.
wickedness of my past life; the impres-
sion of my dream revived, and the words; '

" All these things have not brought thee-

to repentance," ran seriously in gmfiy ' g
thoughts. I was earnestly beggin" -"'
God to give me repentance, when it gt": .
pened providentially that very day that. _
reading, the scripture, I came to these
wordy," He is exalted a prince and a
saviour, to give repentance, and to give. ,

       

"l !
remission!" I threw down the book, and
with my heart, as well as my hands lift--
ed up to heaven, in a kind of ecstacy of
joy, I cried out aloud, " Jesus, thou Son
of Da\ id Jesus, thou exalted Prince
andQ Maxiour, give me repentancehgr
This was the first time that I could Say
in the true sense of the words, that I
prayed in all my life; for nowI prayed
with a sense of my condition, and with a
true sczipture viewo fe,hop founded on
the encouragement oi the word of God,
and from this time, I may say, I began
to have hopes that God would hear me-
Now I began to construe the words
before mentioned, " Call on me, and I
will deliver you," in a different sense
from what I had ever done before; for
then I had no notion of any thing being
called a deliverance, but my being de-
livered from the captitity I was in, for
though I was indeed atla rge in the place,
yet the island was certainly a prison to
me, and that in the worst sense in the
world; but now I learned to take it in
another sense. Now I looked back upon
my past life w ith horror, and my sins ap-
peared so dreadful, that my soul sought
nothing of God, but deliverance from
the load of guilt that" were down all my
comfort. As for my solitary life, it was
nothing; I did not so much as pray to
be delivered from it, or think of it; it
was all of no consideration in compari-
son to this: but again 1- proceed with my
journal. .

My-condition began now to be, though
not less miserable as to my way of living,
yet much easier to my mind; and my
thoughts being directed by a constant
reading the scripture, and pray-ing to
God, to things of a higher nature; I had
a great deal of comfort within, which
till now I knew nothing of; my-health
and strength also returned, I bestirred
myself to furnish me. with every thing
that I wanted, and make my way of liv-
ing as regular as I could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I
was chiefly employed in walking about
with my gun in my hand, alittle and lit-
tle at a time, as a man that was gather-
ing up his strength after a fit of sickness:
for it is hardly to be imaginedhow low
I was, and to what weakness I was re-
duced. The application which I. made'
use of was perfectly new, and perhaps
what had never cured an ague before,
neither can I recommend it to any one
to. practice by this experiment; gm;

- K , .. ..

."
though it did carry off the fit, yet it ra-
ther contributed to ueaken' me; forI
had frequent conv ulsio'ns in my nerves
and limbs for some time.

I learnt from it also this In particular,
that being abroad 1n the rainy season was
the mostb pernicious thing to my health
that could be, especially in those rains
which come attended by storms and hur-
ricanes of wind; for as the rain which
Came in a dry season was always most
accompa anied 11 ith such storms, so I found
that rain mas much more dangerous than
the rain which fell in September ancH
October.

I had now been above ten months in
the island; and as I never had seen any
of the hum: n kind, [therefore accounted
myself as sole monarch , and as I grew
better, having secured my habitation to
iny mind, I 1esolxed to make a tour
round my kingdom, in order to make
new discoveries.

The 15th of July I began my journey
I first 11 cut to the creek, where I had
brought my rafts on shore; and travel--
ling faither found the tide went no
higher than two miles up, where there
is as a little brook of running water, on
the banks of which were many pleasant

V
savannas, or meadows, plain, smooth,
and covered "itl't grass.

On the rising pa1ts, "here I supposed
the water did not reat'n, I 1)"I'( en ed a
great deal of tobacco groning to a very
strong stalk: se\ e1al other plants I like-
nise lound, the Virtues of 1111101 I did
not understand.

So that while I pursued this journey of
discovery, as I may call it. I found many
occasions to regret the want of that use?
ful knowledge I had in my youth nee-
glected to obtain.

I sought in vain for the Cassava-root,
of which I knew the Indians in that
island made thei1 bread; but all in vain.

There were seV e1 :11 plants of aloes, though
at that time I knen not 11 hat they were;
l1ke111se I saw. sex 01:11 sugar-canes, but
1mpe1fect fo1 "ant of cultiVation. W til->5
these few dlS(0V611EURS I came back that *5
night, and slept contentcdly 1n my little ' ':
castle. The next day, being the 16th. go- '
ing the same wav, but farther than the day .
before, I found the country more adorn-
ed \1ith woods and trees. Here: Iper--
ceived different fruits 1n great abundance. -
Melons 1n plenty lay on z3.the: ground and 1
clusters of grapes, ripe and very rich,
spread over the trees.

11 2
You may imagine I was glad of this
discovery, yet eat very sparingly, 'lestI
should throw myself into a flux or fever.
The grapes I found of excellent use; for
when I had dried them in the sun, which
preserved them as dried raisins are kept,
they proved very wholesome and nou--
rishing, and served me in those seasons
when no grapes were to be had.

The night drawing on apace, l ascended
up a tree and slept very comfortably,
though it was the first time I had lain
out of my habitation : and when the
morning came, I proceeded, with great
pleasure, on my way, travelling about
four miles, as I imagined by the length
of the valley, directing my course north-
ward, there being a ridge of hills on the
south and north side of me. At the end
of this valley I came to an Opening,
where the country seemed to descend to
the west ; there I found a little spring of
fresh water, proceeding out of the side of
a hill, with its crystal streams running
directly east. .-

And indeed here my senses were
charmed with the most beautiful land-
scape nature could afford; for the coun-
try appeared so flourishing, green, and
delightful, that to me it seemed like -av' -- y-wv-- 3"". -------~ '"""V"":

nonmson causes. 101

planted garden. I then descended on
the side of that delicious vale, whenI
found abundance of cocoa, orange,
lemons, and Citron-trees, but very wild
and barren at that time. As for the limes,
they were delightful and wholesome;
the juice of which I afterwards used to
mix with water, which made it very
cool and refreshing. .

And now I was resolved to carry home
and lay up a store of grapes, limes, and
lemons, against the approaching wet
season. So laying them up in separate
parcels, and then taking a few of each
with me. I returned to my little castle,
after having spent three days in this jour-- .
ney. Before I got home the grapes were
so bruised that they were utterly spoiled, '
The limes indeed were good ;-but of these
I could bring only a few.

July 19. Having prepared two bagsl
returned thither again ; but, to my great
surprise, found all the grapes spread
about, trod to pieces, and abundance
eaten, which made me conclude there
were wild beasts thereabout. To pre-
vent this happening again, I gathered a
large quantity of the grapes and hung
them upon the upper--branches 'of the:
trees, both to keep" them unhurt, and

x 3 ' .

a
that they might cure and dry in the sun:
and having well loaded m_\ self with limes
and lemons, I returned once more to my
old place of residence.

And now, contemplating on the fruit-
fulness of this valley, the pleasantness of
its situation, its security from storms,
and the beauty of the adjacent woods, I
concluded I was settled 1n the w orst part
of the country, and therefore was think-
ing to remoxe my habitation. But when
Iconsidered again, that though it was
pleasant, it was off from the sea-side,
where there was a possibility, some time
'or other, a ship might either be dris en
or sail by; and that to enclose myself
among hills and woods must certainly
put an end to my hopes of deliverance,
I resolved to let my castle remain where
Providence had first assigned it. Yet
' so delighted was I with this place, that
I made a little kind of bower, surround-
ing it with a double hedge, as high as I
could reach, wcil staked, and filled with
bulrushess; and having spent a great
part of the month of July, I think it was
the first of August before I began to
enjoy my labour.

Aug 3. Perceiving my grapes to be
dry I took them frame the trees, and they _-.. --"rwumm
. ' ~ ' k - u
I. O a 2

."AW

ROBINSON causes. . 103

proved excellent good raisins of the sun;
the most of which I carried to my cave;
and happy for me I did so, by which I
saved the best part of my winter-food.
Aug. 14. This day it began to rain;
and though I had made me a tent like
the other, yet, having no shelter of a hill
to keep me from storms, nor a cave be-
hind to retreat to, I was obliged to return

to my old castle.
The rain continued more or less every

day till the middle of October; and
sometimes so violently, that I could not
stir out of my cave for several days.
This season I found my family to en-
crease; for one of my cats that ran away
from me, and which I thought had been'
dead, returned about August with three
kittens at her heels like herself. The
wild cats of the island seemed to be of
a different kind from our European cats;
but from these cats proceeded such
numbers, that I was forced to destroy
them as I would do " ild beasts or vermir.

To the 26th of this month I could not
stir Out, it raining inc: ssantly; when,
beginning (rto want lood, Iwas compelled
to \cnture twice, the first of which I-
shot a goat, and afterwards found avery.
large tmtoise. The manner of regulat-

.r" .
ing my food was thus: A bunch of raisins
served me for breakfast, a piece of goat's
flesh or turtle broiled for my dinner,
and two or three turtle-eggs for my
supper.

While the rain lastedl daily worked
two or three hours at enlarging my cave;
and by degrees worked it on towards one
side, till I came to the out side of the
hill, and made a door, or way out, which
came beyond my fence, or wall ; and so
I came in and out this way. But after I
had done this, I was troubled to see my-

self thus exposed; though I could not
perceive any thing to fear, a goat being
the biggest creature I had seen upon
this island.

Sep. 30. Casting up the notches on
my post, which amounted to three hun--
dred and sixty-five, I concluded this to
be the anniversary of my landing ; and
therefore humbly prostrating myself on
- the ground, confessing my sins, acknow--
ledging God's righteous judgments upon
me, and praying to Jesus Christ to have
mercy upon me, I fasted for twelve hours
till the going down of the sun ; and then,
eating a biscuit and a bunch of grapes,
laid me on the bed,.and with great com-
' fort took my nighys repose.3031x3011 enuson.105

Till this time I never had distinguished
the sabbath day; but now I made a
longer notch than ordinary for the days
of rest, and d111dcd the weeks as well as
I could, though I found I had lost a day
or two in my c,account. My ink failing
soon after, I omitted 1n my daily memo-
randum things of an indifferent nature,
and contented myself to write down
only the most remarkable events of my
life.

The rainy and dry seasons appeared
now regulai to me, and experience
taught me how to provide for them:
yet, in one thing I am going to relate,
my expc1ience very much cl'ailed me.
Y 011 may call to mind what I have men-
'tioned of some ba1ley and rice which I
had saved; about thirty stalks of the
former, and twenty of the latter; and at
that time the sun being in its southern
position, going from me together with
the rains, Omade me conclude 1t a very
proper season to sow it. Accordingly I
dug up a piece of ground with my
nooden spade, and dividing it in two
pa1ts, sowed about two thirds of my
seed, preserving by me about a handful

of each. And happy it was I did so;
for, no rain falling, it \1 as choaked up

C
and never appeared above the earth till
the wet season came again, and then

part of it grew as if it had been newly
sown.

I was resolved still to make another'
trial ; and seeking for a moister piece of
ground near my bower, I there sowed
therest of my seed in February, a little
before the vernal equinox, which, hav-_
ing the rainy months of March and April
to water it, yielded a noble crop, and
sprung up very pleasantly.

I had still saved part of the seed, not
daring to venture all ; and by the time
I found out the proper season to Sow in,
and that I might expect every year two
seed-times and two harvests, my stock
amounted to above half a peck of each
sort of grain.

\o sooner were the rains over, but
the stakes Much I had cut from the trees
shot out like willows. I was ignorant of
the tree I had cut them from; but they
grew so regularly beautiful, that they
made a most lively appearance; and so
flourished 1n three years time, that I re-
solved to cut more of them; and these
soon growing, made a glorious fence, as

afterwards I shall observe.
And now I perceived that the seasons
of the year might 'generallynbe divided,"
not into summer and winter as in Europe,

but into wet and dry seasons, as in this
manner :--

. February, Rainy, sun com-
Half March, ' ing near the
April, Equinox.

April, '
Half fill}; g 5 Dry, Sun getting
July: north of the line.
August,
. August, . _
Half September, Wei, tlglesgn 18mg
October, 0 e ac ..
. October,
November, D sun risin .
Half December, stih of the 11an
January: >> .'..
I'llebruary.

The wet seasons would continue long
ger or shorter as the winds hap ened to"
blow: But having found the i COHSQ}
quences of being abroad'in the rain,'f,fl .
took care before hand to furnish myself: a
with provisions: and? during the wet'
months, sat within doOrs as much'a's posa
sible. - '

At thistime I contrived'to make many
things that I wanted, though it cost me
much labour and pains before I accomn
plished them. The first I tried was to make
a basket; but all the twigs I could get
pr'o1 ed so brittle, that I could not then
perform it. It now proved of great ad-

vantage to me that, when a boy, I took
great adelight in standing at a basket-

maker 5, in the. same town 11 here my
lather lived, to 1iew them at W'Ollii and,

like other boys, curious to see the man-
ner of their working these things, and
1 ery ofiicious to assist, I pe1fec tly learned
the method of it, and wanted nothing
but the tools: and it coming to my
mind, that the twigs of that tree of which
I made my stakes might be. as tough as
sallow, willow, or osiers, growing in Eng-
land, I resolved to make an experiment,
and went the next day to my country-
seat, and found some tit for my turn ,
and after cutting do1111 a quantity with
my hatchet, I dtied them in my pale,
a1id 11 hen lit to 11 ork 11it-h carried them
to my cave, where I employ ed myself
in making seyeral sorts of baskets, in-.
somuch that I succeeded 1n 11hatever .1.
pleasedu It is true, they were not cle-
verly made; yet they served my turn

upon all occasions -Roamsox meson. 109

But still] wanted tn 0 necessary things.
I had no cask to hold mv liquor, neither
had In pot to boila lay. thing 1n I named
likewise, at the eginning of this dry
season, a tobacco-pipe , but for this I
al'te1wards found an expedient.

I kept myself employed 1n planting
my second row of stakes-, deg but remem-

bering that when I travelled up to the
brook I had a wish to see the whole

island, I now resumed my intention;
and taking my dog ,gun, hatchet, ,soxne
biscuit, a great bunch of raisins, with a
larger quantity of powder and shot than
usual, I began my journey.

Having past the vale where my bower
stood, I came within View of the sea lying
to the west; when, it beinga clear day, I
fairly descried land, extending from the
W. to the S. W. about 10 or 15 leagues,
as I concluded; but could not say 11' he-
ther it was an island or a continent:
I thought it mitrht be part of'fimemca,
or the Spanish coast; and it it were not, .
then it must be the savage coast, between
the Spanish country and Brasil, which:
abounds with cannibals, or man-eaters. '

Asl proceeded forward, I found this;
side of the island much more pleasant
than mine; the flagrant fields,'adorned.

w 1.i 10 A nvmewnts' or

with sweet flowers and verdant grass, to-
gether with several fine woods. There
were parrots in plenty, which made me
long for one to be my companion ; but
it was with great difficult y I could knock
down one with my stick, and I kept him
at home some years before I could get
him to call me by my name.

In this journey I did not travel above
two miles a day, because I togk several
turns and windings to see what discove-
ries] could make, returningweary enough
to the. place where I designed to rest all
night, which was either in a tree, or to a
place which Isurrounded with stakes, that
no wild creature might suddenly sur-
prise. me.

When I came to the sea-shore Iwas
amazed to see the splendour of it: its
strand was covered with shells of the most
beautiful kinds, and constantly abounding
with innumerable turtles, and fo'wls of
many species, which I was ignorant of,
except those called penguins.

-I continued my journey, travelling
about twelve miles farther towards the
east, where I fixed a great pile on the
share for a mark, concluding that my
next journey would bring me to the '
other side of the island, east from my

\
castle, and so round till I came to my
post again. .As 1 had a constant view
of the country, I thought I could not
miss my way ; but scarce had I travelled
three miles, when l descended into a very
large valley, so surrounded with hills
covered with wood, that having no cer-
tain guide but the sun, nor even that
now, it being entirely bid by the hills,
I was obliged to return to my post by
the sea-side; and so backwards in the
same way I came. in this journey my
dog surprised a kid, and would have
killed it, had I not prevented him.

As I had often' been thinking of get-
ting a kid or two, and so raising a breed
of tame goats to supply me after my
ammunition was spent, I took this op-
portunity of beginning: and having. made
a collar for this little creature with a
string of rope-yarn, I brought it to my
bow er, and there enclosed and left it;
and, having Spent a month in tins Jour-
ney, at length Ireturned to my old habi-
tation.

Nobody can doubt of my satisfaction
-~whenI arrived at my little castle, and
reposed myself 1n my hammOCk After
my journey I rested myself a>>: .week,
which time I 'employcd in making at

L 2
cage for my pretty Poll. I now began
to think of the poor kid I had left at
the bower; and I immediately went to
fetch it home. When I came there I
found the 3 01mg cieature almost starved.
I gaxc. it some. feed, and tied 1t as before;
biit there was no occasion, for it followed
me like a dog ; and, as I constantly fed
it, it became, so loving, gentle, and fond,
that it commenced one of my domestics,
and would never leave me.

The rainy season of the autumnal
equinox being now come, I kept the
30th. of September in the most solemn
manner, as usual, it being the third year
of my abode in the island. I spent the
\1 hole "day in acknowledging God's mer-
cies; in giving him thanks for making

this solitary life as ag1eeable, and less
sinful than that of human society; and

for the communications of his grace to
m3 soul, in supporting, comfmting, and
encouiaging me to depend upon his p10-
videncef and hepe for his eternal presence
in the wo1ld to come.

I would often wring my hands, and
weep like a child, when Iconsidered the
desolatesituatioh I was in--shut out from
all mankind. Sometimes in the middle '
of my work this fit would take me, and
then I would sit down and sigh, looking
at the ground for an hour ortwo together,
till such time as my grief got vent in a
flood of tears. -
One morning as I was sadly employed
in this manner, I opened my bible, when
immediately I fixed my eyes Upon these
words, I will never leave thee, nor fun
sake thee. Surely, thought I, these words
are directed to me, or else, ,why should
they appear just at a moment when .I
was bemoaning my forlorn condition?
And if God does not forsake me, what
matters it, since he can make me more
happy in this state of life than if I err--~
joyed the greatest splendor in the world?
And now, beginning my third year,
my several daily employments were
these: First, my duty to Heaven, and
diligently reading the holy scriptures,
which I did twice or thrice every day.
Secondly, seeking provision with my
gun, which commonly took me up,
when it did not rain, three hours every
morning. Thirdly, the ordering, curing,
preserving, and cooking what I had killed,
orcatched for my supply, which took me
up a great part of the day 2 for in the
middle of the day, the sun being in-its
height, it was so hot, that I could not.
L 3
stir out ; so that I had only four hours
in the eveningr to work in; and then the
want of tools, of assistance, and skill,
11 asted a great deal of time to little pur-o
pose.

I 11 as not less than t11 o-and-forty days
making a board tit {'01 a long shelf, 11 hirh
t11o sa11'y,ers 11ith their tools and sa11-
pit, would have. cut out of the same tree
in half a day. It 11 as of a large tree, as

my board 11 as to be. broad. Io 11 as three
daxs in cutting it down, and t11o more
in lopping ed the boughs, and reducing
it to a piece of timber. This I hacked
and he11'ed off each side, till it became
light to move; then I turned it, made
One'sidc of it smooth and flat as a board
from end to end; then tmned it do1111-
11ard, cuttingtheotherside, tillIbrought
the plan}; to be about three inches thick
and smooth on bothsides. Anybody may
iudge oi '11y <<rreat labour and fatigue In
such a piece of 11 ork but this I 11 ent
through with patience, as also many
other things that my circumstances
made nee essary for me to do.

The harvest months, November and
December, we1e 110w at hand, in which
I had the pleasing prospect of a very
go'od c.r0p But here I met with a new
misfortune; for the goats and hares,
having tasted of the sweetness of the
blade, kept it so short, that it had not
strength to shoot up into a stalk. To
prevent this I enclosed it with a hedge,
and by day shot some of its devourers ;
and my dog, which I had tied to the
field-gate, barking all night, so fright-
ened these creatures, that .I got entirely
rid of them. .

But no sooner did I get rid of these,
than other enemies appeared, to wit,
whole flocks of several sorts of birds,
which only waited till my backwas turned
to ruin me. So much did this provoke
me, that I let fly and killed three of the
malel'actors; and afterwards served theni -
as they do notorious thieves in England,
hung them up in chains as a terror to
others. And indeed so good an effect
had this, that they not only forsook the
corn, but all that part of the island, so
long as these criminals hung there.

My corn having ripened apace, the
latter end of December, which was my
second harvest, I reaped it with a scythe,
made of one of my broad swords. I
had no fatigue in cutting down my first
crop, it was so slender. The ears 1 '
carried home-in abasket, rubbing it outl 16 Anvsxrcnrs or -

with my hands, instead of threshing 1t, 1
and when my harvest was over found
my half-petk of seed produced near
two bushels of rice, and two bushels
and a half of barley.

And 110w, having more seed, my first
care was to prepare me more land. I
pitched upon two large flat pieces of

ground near my castle. for that purpose,
which I dug 11p with my wooden spade,
in which I sowed my seed, and fenced
it with a good h (Inc. This took me
three months, by whith time, the wet
season coming 011, and the rain keeping
me within doors, I found several ocea
sions to employ my self; and'while at
work used to ("V ert myself with talking
to my parrot, learning him to know and
speak his own name, Poll, the f rst
welcome word I heard spoke in the
island. I had been a lono time eon-
mixing how to make earthen \essels,
which): I wanted extremely , and when
I considered the heat of the climateI
did not doubt but if I could find any
such clay, I might boteh up a pot strong
enough, when dried in the sun, to bear
handling, and to hold any thing that
Was dry; as corn, meal, and other things.

In s.ort, the clay I found; butitaomxsou cavsoa.117"_

"Ould occasion the most serious person
to smile, to see what awkward waysl
took, and what ugly mishapen thingsI
made; how many either fell out or
cracked by the violent heat of the sun,
and fell in pieces when they were re.
moved. So I think that it was two
months time before I could perfect any
thing, and even then but two clumsy
things 1n imitation of earthen Jars.

These, however, I very gently placed
in wicker baskets, made on purpose lor
them; and, between the pot and basket,
stufl'ed it full of rice and barleyestraw;
and these, I presumed, would hold my
dry corn, and perhaps the meal when
the corn was bruised. As for the smaller
things; I made them with better success;
such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, the sun baking
them very hard.

Yet still I wanted one thing abso-'-
lutely necessary, and that was an earthen
pot, not only to hold my liquid, but
also to bear the fire, which none of
these could do. It once happened that
as I was putting out my tire, Ifound
therein a broken piece of one of my
vessels, burnt hard as a rock, and red
as a tile. This made me think of burningl 18 anvmrwnas or'

some pots; and having no notion of a
kiln, or of glazing them with lead, I
fixed three I; rge pipkins, and two or
three pots in a Cspile one upon another.
The fire I piled round the outside, and
dry wood on the top, till I saw the pots
in the inside red-hot, and found that
they did not crack at all; and when I
perceived them perfectly red, I let one
of them stand in the tire live or six hours,
till the clay melted by the extremity of
the heat, and would have run to glass,
had I sullered it ; upon which Islacken-
ed my fire by degrees till the redness
abated; and watching them till the morn-

in", I found I had three veryg wood pip-
kins and two earthen pots, as well burnt
and fit for my purpose as I could desire.
No 10y could be greater than mine at
this diS( overys; f01 after this, I may say, I
wanted for no sort of earthenware. I
filled one of my pipkins with water to
boil me some meat, which it did ad-
mirably well ; and with a piece of kidI
made me some good broth, as well as
my circumstances would afford me at
that time. -
The next concern I had was to get me
.a stone mortar to- beat some corn in,
instead of a mill to glind it. Here indeedROBINSON CRI'SCR. I 19

I was at a great loss, many da)s I spent
to find a great stone big enodgh to cut
hollow and make fit for a mortar, and
st1o11g enough to bear the weight of a
pestle, that would b1eak the corn with-
out filling 1t with sand: but all the stones
of the island being of . a mouldering
nature, rendered my search fruitless:
and then I resolved to look out for a
great block of hard wood; which having
soon found, 1 formed it with my axe and
hammer, and then with infinite labour;
made a hollow in it, just as the Indians of
Brasil make their canoes. When I had
finished this, I made a great pestle of
iron-wood, and then laid them up against '
my succeeding h'u vest . a
My next business was to make me a
sieve, to sift my meal, and part it lrom
the bran and husk Having no fine thin
canvas to sift the meal through, I could
not tell what to do. What linen I had
was reduced to rags: I had goats' hair
enough but neither tools to work it,
.nor did I know how to spin it: at length

I remembered I had some neckelothso o!
calico or muslin of the sailors, which I
had brought out of the ship, and with
these Iniade th1ee small simes, proper.-
enough for the 110111.
' Icame now to consider-the baking
part. The want of an oven Isupplied by
making some earthen pans very broad,
but not deep. When I had a mind to
bake I made a great fire upon my hearth,
the tiles of which I made myself; and
when the wood was burnt into live coals,
I spread them over it, till it became

my hot; then sweeping them away, I
set down my loaves, and turning down
, the earthen pots upon them, drew the
ashes and coals all round'the outside of
the pots to continue the heat;'and in
this manner I baked my barley loaves, as
well as if I had been a complete pastry-
cook; and also 'madeof the rice several
cakes and puddings.

It was no wonder that these employ-
ments took me up the best part of a year,
since what intermediate time I had was
bestowed in managing my new harvest
and husbandry; for in the proper season
I reaped my corn, 'carried it home, and
laid it up in the ear in my large baskets,
till I had time to rub, instead of threshe '.
ing it. And now indeed my corn en;
creased so much, that it produced me
about twenty bushels of barley, and as
much of rice; that I'not only-began.tn
use it freely, but was thinking "110th

21. V_'___'.1,. ' 'j'ev... r
a <<a

N

m

I
3

..

..
._

m

w

 

' m:
J... M

. 5%,?" Mg? . H. . . .

,..:

('1 "04/

A

$7

, Wme}
".154" 4.260;, by Ybbart & ('9 Jordan.

WW

:flm\\\ ~

(
enlarge my barns, and resolved to sow
as much at a time as would be sufficient
for me for a whole year.

All this while, the prospect'of land,
which I had'seen from the other side of
the island, ran in my mind. I still me-
ditated a- deliverance from this place,
though the fear of greater misfortunes
might have deterred me from it: for
allowing that I had attained that place,

1 run the hazard of being killed and
eaten by- the devouring cannibals; and
if they were'not so, yet I might'be slain,
as other Europeans had been who fell
into their hands. Netwithstand'ing 'all
this, my thoughts ran continually upon
that shore. ~ j -
~ I now wished for'my boy Katy, and
the long-boat,-with the shOulder of mitts.- ., .. '
.ton sail. "I ~went't9 the ship's boat, that: I '
had been cast a great way "on the shore
in the late storm: she was remov y, . , ' -
little; but her bottom beingrt <<13%
by the-impetuosity and fury. ofthe '95ij
and wind, I fell to work with-allflhe ' . .
"strength I had, and with letters and '
rollers I had cut from the "700(1le turn '
hen-and repair'the damages she had'$;xs-
'gtaiite-J. This work tog]: me .up'three
917 {Our weeks, .'wheh finding my. little
. M _ _ y ,

   
 

I' ,
O

strength all in vain, I fell to unrlertnin8
ing it byd igging away the sand, and so
make it fall down, setting pieces of wood
to thrust and guide it in the fall. But
after this was done, I was still unable to
stir it up, or to get under it, much less
to move it'forwards to the water, and so
I was forced to give it over.

This disappointment however did not
frighten me. I began to think whether
it was not possible for me to make a
canoe or pcrigua, such as the Indians
make of the trunk of a tree. But here I
lay under particular inconveniencies;
namelv, want of tools to make it, and
want of hands to move it in the water
when it was made. However, to work
I went upon it, stOpping all the en-
quiries I could make, with this very sim-
ple answer I made to myself, Let me
first make. it, and then find some way
or other to get. it along when it is done. '

I first cut down a cedar tree, which
:was five feet ten inches diameter at the
lo wer- part ne: t the stump, and four feet
eleven inches diameter at tl' end of
twenty-two feet, alter which it lessened
.<<f or a space, and then parted into branches.
Twenty days was I hacking and hewing'
this tree at the bottom, .fourteen more
in cutting off the branches and limbs,
and a whole month in shaping 1t like the
bottom of a boat. As for the inside, I
was three weeks with a mallet and chissel,'
clearing it in such a manner, that it was
big enough to carry twenty-six men;
much bigger than any canoe I had ever
seen in my life, and consequently suffi-
cient to transport me and all my effects
to that wished for shore I so ardently
desired to get at.

Nothing remained now, but indeed
the greatest difficulty, namely, to get
it into the water, it lying about one
hundred yards from it. To remedy the
first inconvenience, which was a rising
hill between this boat and the creek,
with wonderful pains and labour I dug
into the surface of the earth, and made
a declivity.

But when this wasdone, all the strength
I had was insufficient to move it, as it was
when I attempted to move the ship's boat.-

I then proceeded to measure the distance -

of ground, resolved to make a canal, in

'orderg bring the water to the canoe,
.since' ould not bring the canoe to-the
water.

But as this was impracticable by my-v -

self alone, unless with eleven or twelve
M 2 '

I
2

1-121?
years' labour, it brought me into some
sort of consideration, so that I conclud~
ed this also to be impossible, and the at-
tempt altogether vain.

I now saw, and not before, what stud.
pidity it is to begin work before we
reckon its costs, or judge rightly our own ,.
abilities to go through with its perform-
ance.

In the height of this work, my fourth
year expired from the day I was cast upon
this island. At this time I did not forget
my anniversary, but kept it with rather
greater devotion than before; for now
deg my h0pes beingfrustrated, Ilooked upon
this world as a tDthingl had nothing to do
with; and very well might I say, as fa--
ther Abraham said unto Dives, " Be-
tween me and thee there is a gulph

fixed."

I had nothing to cox et. I had plenty
of corn, turtles, grapes, and timber 1n
abundance. What was all the rest to me ?
The money Ihad by me lay as despicable
dross, which I would have freely given
for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or a handi-
m1 ill to grind my corn: in a word, the

nature and experience of these things
dictated to me this just reflection, that.

the good things of this world are no far;
ther good to us than they are for our use;
and that whatever we may heap up to
give others, we can but enjoy as much
as we use, and no more. -
These thoughts rendered my mind
'more easy than usual. Every time I sat
down " to meat, I did it with thankfulness,
admiring the providential hand of God,
who, in this wilderness, had spread a ta--
ble for me. And now I considered what
I enjoyed, rather than what I wanted;
and compared my present condition with
what I at first expected it would be" '
I next compared my station to that-
which I deserved, how uirdutiful I had
been to my parents; how destitute of
the fear of God; and how void of every
thing that was good; and how ungratea-
ful for those abundant mercies I had re--
ceived from Heaven, being fed, as'it
were, by a miracle, even as great' as
Elijah's being fed a ith ravens; and cast _'
on a place w herethere were no venemous

Creatures to poison or devour me: in
short, making God's. tender mercresmat-

ter of great consolation,l relinquished

"all sadness, and gave way to contentment
:' As long as my in'k continued,-1vhrc!i;

by the help of Water I made' torlast a;

long as I could; I used to minute dawn
M 3 ., . .
the days of the month on which any re-
markable thing happened. And, i

First, I observed, that the same -day
I forsook my parents and friends, and
ran away to Hull, in order to go to sea,
the same day in the next year I was
taken, and made a slave by the Sallee
rovers:

That the very day I escaped out of the
wreck of the ship in Yarmouth-roads,

year after, on the same day, Imade
my escape from Sallee in my patron's
tisi ting--boat:

A: d that on the 30th of September,
being the day of the year I was born on,'
on that day twenty--six years after wasI
miratulously saved and cast ashore on
this island.

The next thing that wasted after my
ink, was the biscuit which I had brought
out of the ship; nd though I allowed
myself but one cake a day for above a
twelvemonth, yet I was quite out of
bread for near a year before I could
get any corn of my own.

In the next place, my clothes began
to decay, and my linen had been gOne

long before. However, I had preserveds.

\..O

at out threedozen of the sailors' chequeri 3%

ed shirts, which proved a great 2bv 1 . )5

ROBINSON causon. 127

ment to me, when the violent beams of
the sun would not suffer me to bear any
of the seamen '5 heavy wa tch-coats, which
made me turn taylor, and, after a mise~
rable botching manner, convert them to
jackets. To preserve my head, I made
me a cap of goat-skins, with the hair
outwards to keep out the rain, which
indeed served me so well that afterwards
I made me a waistcoat and open-kneed
breeches of the same : and then I con-
trived a sort of an umbrella, covering it
with skins, which not only kept out the
heat of the sun, but the rain also. Thus
being easy and settled 1n my mind, my
chiefzst happiness was to converse with
God in most heavenly and comfortable .
ejaculations.

For five years after this I cannot say
any extraordinary thing occurred to me.

My chief employment13 was to cure my-
raisins and plant my barley and rice, of

both which I had a year's provision

beforehand.
But though I was disappointed in my-
flrst canoe, I made it at intermediate

times my business to make a second, of
much inferior size; and it-was two years
before I finished it. But as I perceived _
it would-no ways answer my'design of p128 Apvsmnzs or _-

sailing to the other shore, my thoughts
were confined to taking a tour roundthc
island, to see what further discoveries .I
could make. To this intent, after having
moved her to the water and tried how she
would sail, I fitted up a little mast to

my boat, and made a sail of the shist
sail that lay by me.

I then made lockers, or boxes, at the
end of it, to put in necessaries, provi-
sions and ammunition, which would pre-
serve them dry either from rain or the
spray of the sea; and in the inside of the
boat I cut me a long hollow place to lay
my <<run, and to keep it dry made a flap
to hang ox er it. Mv umbrella I fixed in
a step in the stern, like a mast, to keep
the heat of the sun fiom me. ' .

And now resolving to see the circum-
ference of my little kingdom, I victual-
led my ship for the voyage, putting in
two dozen of my barley-bread loaves, an
earthenpotful of parched rice, a little bot-
tle of rum, half a goat, powder and shot,
and two watch--coats. It was the sixth
of No vember,i 1n the sixth year of my.
reign, or captivity, that I set out on
this voyage, which was much longer than
I expected, beinw obliged to put farther
out by reason 01 the rocks that lay anosmsou causor.129

great way in the sea. And indeed so
much did these rocks surprise me, that I
was for putting back, fearing that if I
ventured farther, itwould be out of my
power to return. In this uncertainty I
came to an anchorjustofi' shore, to which
I waded with my gun on my shoulder, and
then climbing up a hill which over-
looked that point, I saw the full extent
of it, and so I resolved to run all hazards.

hi this prospect from the hill 1 per-
ceived a violent current running to the
east, coming very close to the:3 point, '
which I the more carefully observed,
thinking 11 dangerous, and that when I
came to bit I might be driven into the sea
by its force, and not be able to return
to the island; and certainly it must have
been so had I not made this observation;
for on the other side was the like cur-
rent, with this difference, that it set off
at a greater distance , and I perceived
there was a strong eddy under the land,
so that myc chiel business was to work
out of the first current, and conveniently
get into the eddy.

Two davs I stayed here, the wind
blowing very briskly E. S. E. which, be-
ing contrary to the current, leaves a
great branch of the sea upon the point;
so it was neither fit for me to keep tod
near the shore, on account of the breach,

nor stand at too gloat a distance, for fear
of the streams.

That night, the wind abating, it grew
so calm that I ventured out, and here I
may be a monument to all rash and
ignorant pilots; for I was no sooner
come to the point, and not above the
boat's length from shore, but I was got
into a deep water, with a current like a
mill, which drove my boat along so
violently, that it was impossible for me
to keep her near the edge of it, but
forced me more and more out from the
eddy to the left of me; and all I could
do with my paddles was useless, there
being no wind to help me.

Now I began to look upon myself as
quite lost; since, as the current ran on
both sides of the island, I was very cer-
tain it must join again, and then I
had no hopes but of perishing for want
in the sea, after what provisions I had
were spmt, or before, if a storm should
happen to arise.

Who can conceive the anguish of
any mind at this calamity? With long-
ing eyes did I look upon my little
kingdom, and thought that islandvth'e1" \

noaxusou censor. I31

pleasantest place in the universe; Happy,
thrice happy desert, said I, shall I never
see thee more ! Wretched creature 3---
Whither aml going P Why did I mur-
mur at my lonesome condition, when
now I would give the whole world to
be thither again .9

While I was thus complaining, I found
myself to be driven about two leagues
into the sea. However, I laboured till
my strength was far spent, to keep my
boat as far north as possibly I could, to
that side of the current where the eddy
lay. About noon I perceived a little
breeze of wind spring up from the
S. S. E. which overjoyed my heart; and
Iwas still more elated, when, in about
half an hour, it blew a gentle fine gale. : ,'

Had it been thick weather I-had been
lost another way ; for, having no com-
pass on board, I should never have found
the way to steer towards the island, it
once it had disappeared; but it proving
the contrary, I set up my mast again,
spread my sail, and stood aWay north-
ward as much as I could, to get rid of
the current. No sooner did the boat
begin to steer away, but I perceived, by
the clearness of the water, a change of
the current was near -; for where it was.
strong the water was foul, and Where it
was clear the current abated. To the
east Isoon saw, about half a mile distant,
a breach of the sea upon some rocks,
which caused it again to separate; and
as the main force drove away more
soutlnvardly, leaving the rocks to the
north--east, so the other came back by
the repulse of the rocks, making a sharp
eddy, which returned- back again to the
north-west with a very swil't stream.

They who have experienced what'it
is to be saved from thieves just going to
take away their lives, or such as have
been in the like calamities with my own,
may guess my present excess of joy,
how heartily I ran my boat into the
stream of this eddy, and how joyfully I
spread my sail to the refreshing wind,
standingr cheerfully before it with a
smart tide underfoot.

By the assistance of this eddy [was
carried above a league home again,
when. being in the wake. of the island,
betwixt two currents, I found the rater
to be at a sort of a stand. About four
o'clock in the afternoon I reached within
a league of the island, and perceived the
points of the rock, which caused this
disaster, stretching out, as I observed he-
fore, to the southward, which, throwing
ofl' the current more southwardly, had
occasioned another eddy to the north.
But, having a fair brisk gale, I stretched
across this eddy, and in an hour came
within a mile of the shore, where I soon
landed to my unspeakable comfort; and
after an humble prostration, thanking
God for my deliverance, with a resolu-
tiou to lay all thoughts of escaping aside,
I brought my boat safe to a little cove, and
laid me down to take a welcome repose.

When I awoke I was considering how
-I might get my boat home ; and coast-
ing along the shore, I came to a good
bay, which ran up to a rivulet, or brook.
where, finding a safe harbour, I stowed
her as safe as if she had been in a dry
dock made on purpose for her.

I now perceived myself not far from
.the place where before I had travelled
on foot; so, taking nothing with me
except my gun and umbrella, I began
-my journey, and in the evening came to
my bower, where I again laid me down
-to rest. I had not slept long before I
.was awakened in great surprise by a
strange voice, that called me several
'times, "Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe!
,Poor Robin! Where are you, Robin

M
Crusoe--where are you P Where have
. you been P" So fast "as I asleep at first,
.that I did not awake thorouo'hly , but

half asleep and hall awake, I thoutrht I
dreamed that some body spoke to'5 me.
But as the voice repeated "Robinson
Crusoe" several times, Istart'ed up in
the utmost confusion; and no sooner
were my eyes fully open, but I beheld
pretty Poll sitting on the tap of
the hedge and soon knew that it "as he
that calla: d me; lot just in such bewailing
l1nouage Iused to talk to and teach him,
11 .mh he so exactly learned, that he
11 ould sit up on my finger and lay his bill
close to my face, and cry, " Poor Robin-
son Crusoe, where are you? Where have
you been. 1" 11011 came you here. 3" And

such like prattle I had constantly taught
him.

But even though I knew it to be the
parrot, it was a great xx hile before I
could adjust my self; being amazed how
the creature got thither, and that he
should fix about the place and no where
else. But now, being assured it could be
no ot' 1er than my honest Poll, my won-
der ceased; and reaching out my hand,
and calling; familiarly Poll, the poor
creature came to me, and perched upon
my thumb, as he was wont to do, Still
repeating " Poor Robinson Crusoe," and
enquiring how I came here, and where
I had been P As if the bird were over;
joyed to see me.

I was now pretty well cured of ram-
bling to sea; yet I wished to have my.
boat, which had cost me so much trouble
and pains, on my side of the island once
more, but this was indeed impracti-
cable.

I therefore began to lead a very re-
tired life, 11"ng near a twelvemonth in
a very contented manner, wanting for
nothing, except conversation. As to-
mechanic-labours, which my necessities
obliged me to apply to, I fancied I could
upon occasions make a tolerable car-
penter, were the tools I had to work
withal but good. Besides, as 1 improved
in my earthen-ware, I contrived to make
them with a wheel, which I found much'
easier and better; my work, which'be'J

fore was rude and ugly, became neat and
shapely. ' '

But I think I was never so elevated
with my own performance, or project,
as when I was able to make a tobacco-
pipe ; which, though it proved an awke'
ward, clumsy thing, yet was very sound,

n 2
and carried the smoke perfectly well, to
my great satisfaction.

I also improved my wicker-ware, mak-
ing nre abundance of necessary baskets,
which, though not very handsome, were
handy and convenient to bring things
home in, and also for holding my stores,
barley, rice, and other provisions.

My powder beginning to fail, made
me examine after what manner I should
kill the goats and birds to live on, alter
it was all gone. I contrived many ways
to ensnare the goats, and see it I could
c..at( h them alive, partic ularly a she-goat,
with young; , and at lastl had my desi1e,
for, making pit-falls and traps, baited
with barley and rice, I found one morn-
ing in one of them an old he-goat, and
and in the other three kids, one male,
the other two females.

So boisterous was the old one, that I
could not bring him away. But I forgot
the old proverb, that " hunger will tame
a lion." For had I kept him three or
four days without victuals, and then given.
him some water, with a little corn, he
would have been nas tame as a young kid.

The other creatures I bound u ith
strings together, but I had great diliicuk
ty before I could bring them to my ha.W-.--

' :
noamsou cruiser. 137

bitation. It was some time before. they
would feed, but by throwing them sweet
corn, it so much tempted them that they
began to be tame; from hence I con-
eluded, that if I designed to furnish my-
self with goat's-Ilesh, when my ammu-
nition was spent, the tamely breeding
them up, like a flock of sheep about my
settlement, was the only method Icould
take.

I concluded also that I must separate
the u ild from the tame, or else they -
would always run wild as they grew up;
and the best way for this was to have
some inclosed piece of ground, well
fenced, either with a hedge or paling,
to keep them so effectually, that those
within might not break out, or those
without break in.

Such an undertaking was very great
for one pair of hands; but as there was
an absolute necessity for doing it, my
first care was to find a convenient piece
of ground, where there was likely to be
herbage for them to eat, water to drink,
and cover to keep them from the sun,

Here again I gave another instance, of .
my ignorance and- inexperience, pitch;

- ing upOn a piece of meadow-land so
large, that had I incloseda it, the edgebr
N 3
paling must have been at least two miles
about. Indeed had it been ten miles, I
had time enough to do it in: but then I

did not consider my goats would be as
wild in so much compass, as if they had
had the \\ hole island; and consequently
as difficult for me to catch them

This thought came into my. head,
after I had carried it on, I believe, fifty
yards, I therefore alte1cd my scheme;
and 1esolv ed to inclose a piece of ground
about one hund1ed and fifty yards in
length, and one hundred 1n breadth, suf-
ficient for as many as would maintain
me till Such time as my flock encreased,
and then I could add more ground.

I now vigorously prosecuted my mark
and it took me about three monthshedg-
ing the first piece,in \1 hich timeI tethered
the three kids in the best part of 1t, feed-
ing them as nea1 meas possible, to make
them familiar: and indeed I very often
would carry some cars of barley, or a
handful of rice, and feed them out of my
hand; by \\ hich means they grew so tame,
that when my inclosure "as finished, and
I had let them loose, they \1 ould run
after me or a handful of corn.

' This indeed ans" ered my end; and in
a year-and a half '8 time,~l had a flock ofS'.'

110311115011 causoz. " 139

about t11elve goats, kids and all; and in "
two years after they amounted to forty
three, besides what I had taken and kill-
ed for my sustenance. After which I
inclosed five several pieces of ground to
feed them in,' with pens to drive them,
into, that I might take them as I had-oc-
caszon.

111 this project I likewise found addi-
tional blessings, for! had not only plen-
ty of goat's flesh, but milk too, which, -
in my beginning, I did. not so much as
think of: and indeed, though I had ne--.
ver milked a cow, much less a goat, or
seen butter or cheese made, yet, afterf .
some essays and miscarriages, I made me-
both, and never after wand wanted either,-

How mercifully can the omnipotent-
Power comfort his creatures, even in the '
midst of their greatest calamities! HOW "
can he sweeten the bitterest afflictions,
and give us leason to magnify him 1n'
dungeons and pris sons! What a bounte--
ous table did he spread 1n the 11lluernessz:
for me, where I expected nothing at
first but to perish 1111b hunger? ' '

My dog, my parrot, and my cats, serve' - '
ed me as companions: the parrot be-m
came particularly amusing as he learn-I
ed to speak mm 11 onderful facility, and .
his sayings enlivened the dreary solitude
around me. -

It would have diverted any one to see
me and my little family sit down to din-
ner. There was myself, the prince and
lord of the island, attended by my train
of servants: Poll, as if he had been my
favourite, was the only one permitted
to talk to me. My dog always stationed

himself at my rivht hand; and' my two
cats \\ aited 01 e on each side of the table,

expecting now and then a bit from my
hand as a mark of my special favor.

Meanwhile my stock of clothes was
all worn out. I had patched and botch-
ed them together as long as I possibly
could, but they were no longer 1n a con-
dition to bear mendintr. I had carefully
saved and dried all the skins of the ani-
mals I had killed for my subsistence, and
ot th 6so, although a very indifferent
taylor, I made me a complete suit of
clothes, and a cap with the hair turned
outwards.

II: .d any one in England met such a
man as myself, so equipped as I now
was, he must have been a very bold man
indeed if he had not been thorOughly
frightened. And as I viewed my self,I
ofun lansrhcd to think what wonder,
terror, and astonishment, I should create
walking through the streets of London.
in such a figure,

First, I had a great high shapeless cap,
made of goats' skin, with a flap hanging
down behind, to keep the rain or sun
from my neck. I had a short jacket of- '
goats' skin, and a pair of loose breeches,
made of the skin of an old goat, the
hair of which was so long that it hung
to the middle of my legs. Stockings

and shoes I had none, but I made me a
pair of somethings to lace on, like spat-v
tcrdashes, but of a most barbarous shape,
as indeed were all my clothes.

Round my waist was a belt of dried
goat's skin, in which was placed a saw
and hatchet. Another belt went over
my shoulder, from which hung two ugly-._
shaped goat-skin pouches; one for m)2
powder, and the other for my shot. At
my back Icarried. my basket, on my
shoulder my gun, and over my head a
great clumsy goat-skin umbrella, I had
made with great difficulty, to shield me
from the intense heat of the sun.,- My, _
upper-lip was adorned with a large -' psi. '7"
of Mahometan whiskers. I will-not 5'33.r ' ~-
these mustaches, or whiskers, were large
enough to hang my hat upon ; but theyv

142 ADVENTURES or

were of a length and shape monstrous
enough, and such as in England would
have passed for frightful. But .all this
was of no consequence; for, alas, there
were none to observe, praise, or find
fault with me! This fatal idea would

sometimes cross me suddenly in the
midst of my occupations, with an anguish
almost beyond endurance, and my heart
then seemed ready to break, as I reflected
that I was far from the dwellings of my
fellow-men, and imprisoned by the eter-
nal bars and bolts of the surrounding
ocean ! On these. occasions tears gene-

rally relieved me; and my grief having
exhausted itself, I became again recon-
tiled to my hapless destiny.

Now again I proceeded on my travels
about the island. Ifirst youmey ed along
the sea-shore, directly to the place where
I first brought my boat to an anchor, to
get upon the rocks. But having now
no boat to take care of, Iwent overland
a nearer way to the same height thatI
was before upon ; when looking forward
to the point of the rock which lay out,
and which I "as forced to double with
my boat I was amazed to see the sea so

smooth and quiet, theie being no ripling
motion or current any more than in
Other places. This made me ponder
some time to guess the reason of it,
when at last I was convinced that the
ebb setting from the west, and joining
with the current of the water from some
great river on shore, must be the occa~
Sion of these rapid str-eams; and that
consequently as the winds blew more
westwardly or more southwardly, so the
current came the nearer or went the
farther from shore. To satisfy my on
riosity I waited there till evening, when
the time of ebbing being come, I plainly
perc'eived from the rock the current
again as before, with this difference, that
it ran farther ofl" near half a league from
the shore; whereas in my expedition it
set close upon it, furiously hurrying me
and my canoe along with it, which at
another time it would not have done.
And now I was cominced that, by ob-
serving the ebbing and flowing of the
tide, I might easily bring my beat round- 1
the island again: but when I began to
think of putting it in piactice, the?"
membrance of the late danger struck K h
with such horror, that I changed my re.-
solution, and formed another, which was
more safe, though more laborious; and
this was, to ma"e a second canoe, and 59'
have one for one side of the island, and
one for the other.

I had now two plantations in the island,
the first my little fortification, fort, or
castle, with many large and spacious im-
-provements: for bv athis time I had en-
larged the cave behind me, with several
little caves, one. within another, to hold
my basket>>: corn, and straw: the piles
"hit 11 int h Imadc mv 1111?}, were grown

5,11 lolty that they obscured my habi-

tatinn: and near this commodious and
pleasant settlement lay my well culti-
vated and i111prm'ed corn-fields, which
'kindly yielded me their f1uit 1n the pro-
per season.

My second plantation was that near
my country--seat, or little bower, where
my grapes flourished, and where, having
planted many stakes, I made inclosures
for my goats, so strongly fortified by la-
lvonr and time, that it was much stronger
thana wall, and consequently impossible
for them to break th1ough. As for my
bowm itself, Ikcpt itconstantly 1n repair,
'and cut the trees in sucha manneras made
them grow thick and wild, and form a
most del1011tf ul shade

in the centre of this stood my tent,
thus erected : I had driven four piles in
the ground, spreading over it a piece of
the ship's sail; beneath which I made a sort
of couch with the skins. of the creatures I
had slain, and other things; and having laid
thereon one of the sailor's blankets, which
I had saved from the wreck of the ship,
and covering myself with a great watchr
coat, I took up this place for my country
retreat.

Very frequently, from this settlement I
visited my boat, and kept her in very good
order: and sometimes I would venture in
her a cast or two from the shore, but no
farther, lest either a strong current, a sad
den stormy wind, or some unlucky accident
should hurry me from the island as before.
But now I entreat your attention, whilst I
proceed to inform you of a new, but most
surprising scene of life, which here befel
me.

' You may easin suppose. that, after hav'et". '
ing been here so'long, nothing could be"
more amazing than to see a human crea-
ture. One day it happened, that-,{going to
my boat, I saw the print of a fins naked
foot very evident on the sand, as the toes,
heel, and every part of it, were visible. x '

Had I seen an apparition in the most
frightful shape, I could not have been more
confounded : my willing ears gave the
strictest attention: I cast my eyes amy'ndg,

O 39w"["6

ADVENTURES 0?

but could satisfy neither the one nor the
other. I proceeded alternately to ex ery
part of the shore, but equally in vain;
neither could I discover any other mark,
though the sand about it was as susceptible
to take impression, as that which was so
plainly stamped.

Thus, struck with confusion and horror,
I returned to my habitation, frightened at
e1 ery bush and nee, taking every thing for
men; and possessed with the 111ldest ideas.
That night my eyes never closed. I formed
nothing; but the most dismal imaginations,
asking myselt'a thousand times, how any
mortal could come to this island? Where
was the ship that transpOrted them? And
what signs of any other foot--steps? At
length, I concluded that some wild savages
of the mainland over against me, venturing
too 1211 in the ocean, had been drix en here,
either by the violent cunents or contrary
111nds. and, not eating to stay on this deso--
late island, had gone back to sea again.

Happy indeed, thought] to myself, that
none 01 the savages had seen me in that
place; yet I 11:18 not altogether without fea1 .

e,st having found my boat, they should
return in numbers and dexom me, or at
least ea1ry may all my corn, and destroy

my flock of tame goats: in a- word, all my
religioushepesvanished, as tlIOUO'l'I I thought
God could not now protect me byhis power,
uho had wonderfully preserved me so long.

What various chains of providence there ~

are in the heart of man! How changeable
are our affections, according to different
circumstances! We love to-day what we
hate to-morrow; we shun one hour what
we seek the next. This was evident With
me in the most conspicuous manner; for I,

who before had so'much lamented my eons
dition in being banished from all human

kind, was now even ready to expire; when '

Y-'. pg

1 considered that a man had set- his footon -

this desolate island. ,
But when I considered .my station of

life, decreed by the infinitely wise and ' '

good providence of God: that I ought not

to dispute my Creator's sovereignty, who '
had an unbounded rightto govern and '

dispose of his creature's as he thinks c'ongr

venient; and that his justice. and mercy '

could either punish or deliver me: I. say,
when I considered all this, I found it-m'y

duty to trust sincerely inahim, prayiiafi- :

' 3
t

dently to him, and humbly resigit myself- it

to his divine will.

One morning, lying on my lied, these
words of the sacred writings came-again

into my mind, " Call upon me inthe'day '

of trouble and I will deliver thee, and'thon
Shah glorify .139." ~UP03. this squtem
0 2 . , ..
rising more cheerfully from my bed, I
offered up my prayers in the most hearty
manner; and when I had done, taking up
my bible to read, these words appeared
first to my sight: " Wait on the Lord, and
be of good cheer, and he shall strengthen
thy heart: wait I say on the Lord." Such
divine comfort did this give me, as to re-
move all cause of sadness upon that occa-
sron. .-

Thus, after a world of apprehensions and
' fears, for three days and three nights, I at
last ventured out of my castle, and milked
ny goats, one of which was almost Spoiled
for want of it. ' I next (though in great
fear) visited my hon er, and milked my
flocks there also; when growing bolder, I
went down to the shore again, and measur-
ing the print of the foot to mine, to see
' perhaps, whether I myself had not occa-
sioned that mark, I found it much superior
in largeness; and so returned home, now
absolutely convinced, that either some men
had been on shore, or that the island must
be inhabited; and therefore that I might

be surprised before I was aware.
I now began to think of providing for

my security, and resolved in my mind
many schemes for that purpose; I first
preposed to cut down my inclosures, and
turn my tame cattle wild into_the_ woods,that the enemy might not find them,'t'a_nd
frequent the island in hopes of killing'the
same. Secondly, I was for diggingrup my
com-fields for the very same reason? :'And
lastly, I determined to demolish my bower,
lest, seeing a place of human contrivance, .'
they might come farther, and find out and" '
attack me in my little castle. ' '

Such notions did the fear of danger-"suga-
gcst to me; and I looked, I thought,'.like
the unfortunate king Saul, wh'eninot only
oppressed by the Philistines, but also for-3 f
saken by God himself. And it is strange that,
a little before, having entirely resigned my-
self to the will of God, I shOuld now have
little confidence in him, fearing thoSe more
who should kill this fading body, than he
who could destroy my immortal soul.

However my fearmade me think ofa'place
for retreat upon an attack. I now repented
that I had made my door to come out
beyond my fortification; to remedy which;
I resolved to make me a second one. I felb
to' work, therefore, and drove betwixt that
double row of trees, which I planted about"
twelve years before, several strong piles,
thickening it uith pieces Of timber and old
cables, and strengthening the foot of it with
earth which I dug out of my cave ;. I also
made me seven holes, wherein I'plantedi
my musketslike cannon, fitting them- in;

,0 3
frames resembling Carriages. This being
finished, with indefatigable industry, for a
great way every where around, I planted
sticks of osier like a wood, about twenty
thousand of them, leaving a large space
between them and my'wall, that I might
have room to see an enemy, and that they
might not be sheltered among the young

trees if they offered to approach the outer
wall.

Scarcely 'two years had passed over my
head, when there appeared a lovely shading
grove, and in six years it became a thick
wood perfectly impassable. For my safety
I left no avenue to go in or out; instead
of which I set two ladders, one to a part of
the rock which was low and broken in.
leaving room for to place another ladder
upon that, so that, when I took these down,
it was impossible for any man to descend
without hurting himself; and if they had,
they would still be at the outside of my
outer wall.

All this labour was occasioned purely by

fearful apprehensions, on accountpfiseeing
the print of a man's foot. Ananot con-
tented yet with what I had done, I: rched
for another place towards .the west oint of
the island, where I might also retain an--
other flock; then, wandering on this errand
more to the west of the island than ever I
.5
had yet done, and casting my eyes'towards '
the sea, methought I perceixed a boat at.
a great distance; but could not possibly
tell what it was, for want of my perspective-
glass.

I considered then that it might be no
strange thing to see the print of a -'mans
foot; and, oconcluding them cannibals,

blessed God for my being cast on the other
side of the island, where none of the savages,
as I thought, eier came. When I came
down the hill to the shore, which was the
S. W. point of the island, I was soon con6
firmed in my opinion , nor can any one
describe my horror and amazement, when
I saw the ground spread with sculls, hands,
feet, and bones of human bodies; and par-,-
ticularly II perceived a space like a circle, in
the midst of which had been a fire, about
which I conjectured these wretches had sat,
and unnaturally sacrificed and devoured
their fellow--creatures.

The horror and loathsomeness of this
dreadful Spectacle confounded my senses.
I returned towards my habitation, and in.
my nay thither shed floods of tears; and
falling down on my bended knees, gave G'od
thanks for making my nature contrary to
that of these wretches, and delivering me
so long out of their hands. -
: And although in procem of time, my------------ _ _..-v. ,

152 mvnmvnas or

dreadful apprehensions began to wear away,
yet my eyes were more'vigilant, for fear
of being surprised, and I was very cautious
of firing my gun, lest being heard by those
creatures, t ey should proceed to attack
me. I resolved, however, mani'uily to lose
my life if they did, and went armed with
three pistols stuck in my girdie, which,
added to the description I have given of
myself before, made me look with a very

formidable appearance.

My circumstances for some time re-
mained very calm and undisturbed; and
when I compared my condition to others,
I found it was far from being miserable.
And, indeed, would all persons compare
their circumstances, not with those above
them, but with those innumerable un-
happy objects beneath them, I am sure we "'

_ should not hear those daily murmurings
and complainings that are in the world.
For my part, my whole thoughts were em;
ploycd day and night in thinking how I
might destroy some of these cannibals when
procc ding to their bloody ente1 t'unments,
and so save a victim from being sacrificed,
that he might become my servant. Many
were In contrivances for that purpose,
and as any objections occurred after I

had det degr1nined on them.
But having waited 1n vain two or three" "' "" ' "' ""' "'WW .
rww- \ ', A. 5" . w

Ronmsoiv ' causes. 1.534

months, without an}r opportunity occurring>>
of putting my projects into execution, it
not only grew \ery tiresome to me, but
brought me into some consideration, and
made me examine myself as to what right I
had to kill these creatures in this manner. .

If, urged I to myself, that this natural
custom of theirs was a sin offensive to

Heaven, it belongs to the divine Being,
who alone has the vindictive power in his
hands, to shower down his vengeance upon
them : and, perhaps, he does so in making
them become one another's executioners.
Or, if not, if God thinks these doings just,
according to the knowledge they conceive,
what authority have I to pretend to thwart
the decrees of Providence, which has per-
mitted these actions for so many ages, per-
haps from almost the beginning of the
creation P They never offended me, what
right have I then to concern myself in their
shedding one another's blood? And in-
deed I have since known, they think no
more of killing and devouring a captive
taken in war, than we do of killing an "OK
or eating mutton. '

Indeed, religion too convinced me that
it was not my duty to be guilty of shedding
human blood, that I had nothing to do with
their punishment, but ought to leave it to

the God of all pou er and Ddominion, to do

915.4 . 1m: nr '

therein what seemeth . convenient. to 7 his
heavenly wisdom; And therefore, ion-emy
knees, I thanked the Almighty for deliver;
ing me from blood-guiltiness, and begged
his protection, that I might never fall into
their hands.

' Having thus given over an attempt Ihad
rashly began, I removed my boat, which
was on the other side oi'athe island, into
a little cave, that there might not be any

appearance of an inhabitant upon the
island.

My castle now became my cell, keeping
always retired in it, except when I went
out to milk myo coats and order my little
flock 1n the 11 God which 11 as quite out of
danger. <<

--- The care of my preservation put a periOd
to all future inventions and contrivanoes,
either for accommodation or eonVenience.
Inow dared not to drive 'a nail, chop a"
stiCk', fire a gun, or make a fire, lest either

.- the noise should be heard, or the smoke
' discover me: and on this account I nsed to
burn the earthenu are privately In a cave
which I found 1n the 11ood and which I
made convenient for that purpose.

The cause that first brought me to the
care was to make charcoal, so that I might
dress my bread and meat without any dan- i
get. . At that time a curiousaccident hape-- N-T'vv; . vwrwt-<<nf "Tuwywnsetrrs-"WW'TT'

30312130330302. I55 ' i I

pened to me, which I shall now relate :-.--;
While I was cutting down wood for making
my charcoal, I perceived a cavity behind
a thick branch of underwood; curious to

look into it, I attained its mouth, and per- _ -

ceived it sufficient for me to stand upright"
in; but when I had entered and took a
further view, two rolling shining eyes, like
flaming stars, seemed to dart themselvesat
me .; so that I made all the haste out that
,I could, not knowing whether it was a
savage or a monster that had taken up his .
residence in that place.

When I recovered a little from. my sur-s
prise, I ealled myself a thousand fools, and,
resuming all the courage I had, I took up
a flaming fire-brand, and in Irushed'againa

I had not proceeded above three 'steps
when I was more afiifightedlhanlbefore; .
for then I heard avery loud sigh, like that
of a human creature in the greatest agony,

followed . by a broken noise, resembling . -9
words half expressed, and then a deep sigh; - - .;

again. Stepping back-hLon}, thought. I:
to myself, where have I got! Into? what:
enchanted place have I plunged myself,
such as are reported to contain miserable
captives, till death puts an end to their-am
row? And, indeed, such a greatzwamazee
ment was 1 in, that it struckitiefiutofai '
coldsweat; and had my. hat human 1111!, .

\.-_' 156 .-1nvs.".""s.z'o'PSr , y .
head, I believe my hair would have moved
it off. ' - - ' .
But again encouraging myself with God's
protection, 'I' proceeded forward, and, by
the light of my fire-brand, perceived it to
be a monstrous lie-goat, lying on the
ground, gasping for life, and dyingof
mere old age. At first I stirred him, think-
ing to drive him out, and the poor ancient
creature strove to get upon his feet, but
was not able; so I even let him lie still.
I now looked round me, and found the
place but small and shapeless. At the fur-
ther end of it I perceived a sort of an
entrance, yet so low as must oblige-me to
creep on my hands and knees to it; so,
having no candle, I suspended my enter-
prise till the next day, and then I came
provided with'ts'so large ones of my Own
making. '
. Having crept upon my hands and feet
through this strait, I found the roof rose
higher up, I think about tWenty feet; but
surely never mortal saw such a glorious
sight before ! The roof and walls of .this
cave reflected a hundred thousand lights to
me from my two candles, as though they
were indented with shining gold, precious
stones, or diamonds. The floor was dry. and
level,-and had a kind of gravel upon it; no
nauseous 'or venomous creatures were to.<<\\ \\\\\
.V) as \~'~\\.'\
, . EUR3\<<.\\\\..\ x9
\\\.. \\SS\.'\ \\. . . ~
u . \\\\}PS\\ .
\\. ~\~\ \\\\\
s: .\.\C/ . ..
. \\.\\.u\\\.\\
\3\\.\ \\\:.
"\u \\!\\\SS \
~.\.\\.<<\

 

 

l'fll'I .K- I'

I
(I

\ 6',
..\\\ \\\
~\\\\.

/%1 Qanflo . '

...".'/ '/

/z n. ,

3
7 -'Ifi'o'

//w "4/ C/

/()'/1
. .7ullt'

l/l

,f'z

viz/nu

I

l

C,nonmson 012113011. 157

he seen there, neither was there any damp
or wet about it. I could find no fault but in
the entrance , and I began to think that
even this might be very necessary for my
defence, and therefore resolved to make it
_ my most principal magazine.

I brought hither two fouling-pieces and
three muskets, leaving only five pieces at
my castle, planted in the manner of can-
non. From a barrel of gun-powder, which
I took up out of the sea, Ibrought away
about sixty pounds of good powder, which
were not damaged; and these, With a great
quantity of lead for bullets, Iremoved from
my castle to this retreat, now fortified both
by art and nature.

But I must not forget the old goat who
caused my late dreadful amazement.' The
poor creature died the day after my dis.-
covery , ar d it being very difficult to drag
him out, I buried him no the cave. '

1 I was now in the twenty-third year of
my reign, and my thoughts were much
easier than former.ly By this time my
parrot had leained to speak English, and
pronounce his words very articulately and
plainly; so that for many hours we used
to chat together after a very familiar man-
ner, and he lived with me no less than
twenty--six years. '1 y dog, who was nine'
teen years old, sixteen of which he lived

r158 ammo-vans or 2

with me, died of mere old age; As far
my cats, they multiplied so fast, that I was
forced to drive them into the woods, ex-
cept two or three which became my par-
ticular favourites.

Besides these, I continually kept two or -
three household kids about me, whom I
learned to feed out of my hand; and two '
more parrots, who could talk indifl'ercntly,
and call Robinson Crusoe, but not so well
as the first; all which made my abode very-
agreeable. , '

But what unforeseen events suddenly

destroy the enjoyments of this uncertain"
state of life, when we least expect them!

It was now the month of December, in the.
southern solstice, and the particular time of
my harvest, which required my attendance '-
in the fields: when going out pretty early
one morning, before it was day light, there
appeared to me, from the sea--shore, a
flaming-light, about two miles from me,
at the east end of the island, where lhad'
observed some savages had been before,
not.an the other side, but, to my great
affliction, it was on my side'of the island.
Struck with a terrible surprise, and my

usual apprehensions, that the savages would:
. perceivesmy improvements, I returned di-
rectly to my castle, pulled up the ladder
dieting. making .all things look as wild;
and natural as I possib could. 'In the
,next place I put myse in a posture of
defence, loading .my muskets and pistols';
.- and committing myself to God's protec-
tion, I resolved to defend myself till my
:last breath; Two hours after, impatient for
intelligence, I set my ladder up to the side
.of the hill, where there was a flat place;
.and then pulling the ladder up after me,
ascended to the tap, where laying myself
. on my belly,- with my perspective glass, :1
perceived no less than nine naked savages,
sitting round a fire, eating, as I sup osed,
human flesh, with their two canoes auled
on shore, waiting for the flood to carry
,them off again. . .

1 You cannot easily express the conster-
nation I was in at this sight, especially
.seeing them so near me; but when I per-
~reived their coming must always be with
the current of the ebb, I became more
easy in my thoughts, being very fully con-
.vinced, that I might go abroad with secu-
rity all the time of flood, if they were not
before landed. And indeed this. proud!
just as I imagined: for nosooner did they
all italic boat, and paddle away, but the
tide made north-west. Before theyxtwent
off, they danced, making ridict'ilous-pos-
".tures and gestures, for above aanhour, all
stark naked, When I saw them gone, 'I

r 2
took two guns upon my shoulders, and
placing a couple of pistols in my belt,
with my great sword hanging by my side,
I went to the hill, where at first I made a
discovery of these cannibals, and then saw
' there had been three canoes more of these
savages on shore at that place, which, with
the rest, were making over to the main land.
But nothing could be more horrible,
when going to the place of sacrifice, the
blood, bthe bones, and other mangled parts
of human bodies, appeared in my sight;
and so fired was I with indignation, that I
was fully resolved to be revenged on the
first that came there, though I lost my life
in the e: ecution It then appeared to me,
. that the visits they made to this island were
not very frequent, but still I "as uneasy,
and had dismal apprehensions of their sur-
prising me unawares; nor dared I fire a
gun on that side of the island where they
-115ed to appear, lest, taking the alarm, the
savages might return witho many hundreds
of canoes, c,and then God knows in what
manner I should have made my end. Thus
was I a year or more before I saw any of
these devouring cannibals again.
But the following accident, which -de-:
.mands attention, for a while eluded the

force of my thoughts 111 revenging myself
on those heathens.
110111115011 causes. 161

On the 16th of May y, (according to my
wooden calendar) the wind blew exceed-
11'! 0Fly hard, accompanied with abundance of
lightning and thunder all day, and was
succeeded by a very Stormy night. The
seeming anger, of the heavens made me
have recourse to my bible: \1h11st I was
seriously pondering upon it, I was sud-
denIy alarmed with the noise of a gun,
which I conjectured was fired Upon the
ocean. Such an unusual sound made me
. start up in a minute, when, with my ladder,
l ascendingthe mountain as before, that very
' moment a flash of fire presaged the report

of another gun, whichI presently heard,

and found it was from that part of the sea
where the current drove me away.

. I c0uld not but then think, that this

must be a ship 1n distress, and that these

were the melancholy signals for a speedy
deliverance. Great indeed was my sorrow
upon this occasion; but my labours to '

assist them proved altogether vain and- fruit-.-
less. However I brought together all the
dry wood that was at hand, and making a... 5

pretty large pile, set in on fire, on the hill.-
1 was certain they plainly perceived it, by
fibeir firing another 1111 as soon as it began
to blaze, and after t at several more from

them quarter. All. night longi'k'ept up

i my fire: and when the air cleared 11p,1
i . P 3162' .Anvsmmas 'or"

perceived something a great 'way- at sea
directly east, but'could not distinguish what
it was, even with my glass, the weather was
.so very foggy out at sea. However, keep--
.ing my eyes directly fixed upon it, and per-
ceiving it not to stir, I presently concluded
it must be a ship at anchor: and so eager
'wasI to be satisfied, that, taking up my. gun,
I went to the south-east part of the island,
to the same rocks where I had been formerly
drove away by the current; in which time
.the weather being perfectly cleared up, to,
my great sorrow l perceived the wreck of
"a ship cast away upon those hidden rocks I
.found when I was out with my boat; and
_ .which by making an eddy, were the occa-
sion of my preservation. '
Thus, what is one man's safety is ano-
ther's ruin ;' for undoubtedly this ship had
been driven on them in the night, the \\ ind

blowing strong at E. N. E. Had they per-
ceived the island, as I now guesed they had
not, instead of having fired their guns'for'
,_ help, theyimould rather have ventured in
' ' 'their boat, and saved themselves that way.
I then thought, that perhaps they had done
50, upon seeing my fire, and were castaway '
in the attempt; for I perceived no boat-*ixf
. the ship.- . . -- -
But then again I imagined,.that perhaps
they had another vessel in company, which, '

Supon-signal,; saved their lives, and took
the boat up; or that the boat might, be
driven- into the main ocean, where these
poor creatures might~be in-the most misee
rable condition. -

When I considered seriously every thing
concerning this wreck, and could perceive
no room to suppose any of them saved, I
cannot explain, by any possible force of
words, what longings my soul felt, often
breaking out in this manner: 0 that there
had been but two or three, nay even one
person saved, that we' might have 'lived
together, conversed with, and comforted

one another. _

I had the affliction, some time after, to
see the. corpse of a drowned boy come on?
shore, at the end of the island next the -
shipwreck; there was nothing on him buf
a seaman's Waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed
linen drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but
no particular mark to guess what natioxr
he was of. _ . -

4 And now the calmness of the sea tempted:
me to venture out in my boat -to this:
wreck, not only to get something necessary
out. of the ship, but I thought perhaps some
living creature might be en board,"who_SSSS
life I might preserve. This had-1 sueh'aii:
~. influence upon my mind, that _irnn:iEURdi'a'fel)"'
1' ii-went home, and --preparcdY=-' everyfithihg': .
necessary for the voyage, and carrying on
board my boat provisions of all sorts, with
a good quantity of rum, fresh water, and a
compass: putting off, I paddled the canoe
along the shore, till I came at last to "the
north-east part of the island, from whence I ,
was to launch into the ocean: but here
the current ran so violently,-and appeared
so terrible, that my heart began to fail me,
foreseeing that if I was driven into any of .
these currents, I might be carried not only
out of the reach or sight of the island, but ~
even inevitably lost in the boiling surges of
the ocean, ' g . ,

So oppressed was I at these troubles, that
I gave over my enterprise, sailing to a little
creek on the shore, where, stepping out, I
sat me down on a rising hill, very pensive
and thoughtful. I then perceived that the .
tide was turned, and the flood came on,
which made it impracticable. for me to go
out for so. many hours. ' '

That night Ireposed myself in my canoe,
covered with my watch--coat instead of a
blanket. I set out with the first of the tide
full north, till I felt the benefit of the cure . '
rent, which carried me at a great rate east-.-
ward, yet not with such impetuosity as
before; so that in two hours time I came
up to the wreck, which appeared to, me a
most melancholy sight.L---=_--.._ J' /_ (:I'I'KJOZ/gizlf'yfl '..';.'I 5 7

---- .. gu'wi'caafi'aflznoc ~
\'J. p?#..u (Shfi;t'%'-\'\\

J 2 .
PS612 (/67; /'uPS.. (flu; affix; 6," '/;,/,,z,./ ,5 (n,
It seemed to be a Spanish vessel by 1ts
building, stuck fast between two rocks ,
her stern and quarter beaten to pieces by
the sea, her mainmast and foremaSt were

brought off. by the board; that 18, broken
short ofl". As I approached nearer, I per-
ceived a dog on board, \1 ho seeing me, .
yelped and cried; and no sooner did, I call~
to him, but the poor creature jumped into
the sea, out of which I took him up, almost
famished with hunger and thi';rst so that,
when I gave him a cake of bread, no ra-
venous wolf could devour 1t more greedily , '
and he drank to that degree of fresh water,
that he wOuld have burst himself had I
suffered him.

The first sight I met 111th in the?" 6111;),

were two men Odrouned' 1n the cook-room,
or forecastle, inclosed in one anOther's

arms: also I perceived several chests, w high
I supposed belonged to the seamen, two of
which I got into my boat, without ex'-
amining what was in them.

I could not otherwise conclude, but that
the ship must have abundance of Wealth (5'1;

board, by what I afterwards found'iii thew};
chests; but what had become of the rest of '-

the sailors, I could not tell; and all the
riches of the ship signified nothing at that

time to any body>>:
Searching farther, Ifound a cask, 69n-
. .:tain_ing abditt twenty gallons of liquor,
_whicl1, with'some labour, I got into my
boat. In a. cabin were several muskets,
which I let remain there; but took away
with the axgreat powder-horn, with about
four pounds of powder in it. I took also
a lite-shovel and tongs, two brass-kettles,
a copper-pot to. make chocolate, :and a
gridiron, all whichivvere extremely neces-
saiy. And so, with this cargo, accompanied
with my dog, I came away, the tide serving
for that purpose; and the same evening
I attained'the island, after the greatest
toil and fatigue imaginable.

That night I 1eposed my wearied limbs in
the boats) ,csolx 1110' the next morning to
har'boui vs hat I had-3 gotten in my new-found
subtetraneous grotto, and not carry my
cargo home to my ancient castle. Having
refreshed myself, and got all my effects on

shore, I next proceeded to examine the
particulars. .

At the opening of the chest, several
things appeared very useful to me: for
instance, there were several good shirts,
exceedingly welcome to me, and about a
dozen and a half of white linen handker-
chiefs and coloured neck-cloths; and in the
till I found three bags of pieces of eight,
about eleven hundred in all, in one of
which, wrapt 'up. in a piece of paper, wereimam more. 167

six donbloons of gold, and some small bars
and wedges of the same metal, which, I
believe, might weigh nearly a pound.

In the other chest, 'Whichil guessed to.
belong to the gunncr's mate, by the mean'
circumstances that attended it, I only found
some clothes of a very little value, except
about two pounds of fine glazed powder,
in three. flasks, kept, as I believe, for'
charging their fowling-pieces on any occa~-
sion ; so that, 0n the whole, I had no great '
advantage by this voyage. ' '

I also found in the seamen's chests about
my pieces of eight in rials, but no gold ;'
I therefore concluded that what I took'
from the first belonged to an officer, the'
latter appearing to have a much inferior
person for its owner. However, despicable
as the money seemed, I likewise lodged it
in my cave, laying it up securely, as I did:
the rest of my cargo ; and after I' had done
all this, I returned back to my boat, rowing'
or paddling her along, tillI came to my
old harbour, where I carefully laid: her up,'
and so made the best df my Way to my
castle. ' - '

When I arrived there, every thing seem-
ed safe and quiet. And'now'my only busig'
ness was to repos'emyself after my Wanted"
manner, and take care of my domesfic-

l affairs. But though Imifizfi- have" lived:
'0

168 ADVENTURES or -

very comfortably, wanting for nothing'~ab-'
solutely needful, yet still I Was more vigi-
lant than usual on account of the savages,
never going much abroad; or, if I did, it
was to the eastern part of the island, where,
l was well assured, the savages never came,
and where I might not be troubled to carry
that heavy load of weapons for my defence,
'which I was obliged to do if I went the
other way.

Two years did I live in this anxious con-
dition, in all which time, contrary to my
former resolutions, my head was filled with
nothing but projects and designs how I
might escape from this island; and so much
were my wandering thoughts bent on a
rambling disposition, that, had I the same
boat that I went from Sallee in, I should
have ventured once more to the uncer-
tainty of the raging ocean.

I cannot, however, but consider myself
as one of the unhappy persons, who make
themselves wretched by their dissatisfaction
with the stations which God has placed
them in: for, not to take a view of my
primitive condition; and my father's ex-
cellent advice, (the going 'contrary to
which was, as I may say, my original sin)
the following mistakes of the same nature
certainly had been the meansof my present

unhappy station; 'What business 'had 1* to

O"I"? a "1' ,.
nonmson Caesar. 16 ,-

leave .a' settled fortune and well-stocked-
plantation, improving and" increasing,
where, by this time, I might have'been-
worth one hundred thousandtmoidores, to
turn supercargo to Guinea, to fetch Ne-'
groes, when time and patience would have
so much enlargcd'my stock at home, as to
be able to employ those whose more im-
mediate business it was to fetch them home,
even to my own door.

But as this is commonly the fate of
young heads, so a serious reflection upon
the folly of its consequences attends the
exercise of future 'ears, when the dear-
bought experience of time teaches re-
pentanee.

Thus was it with me: but notwithstand-
ing, the thoughts of my deliverance ran so
strongly in my mind, that it seemed to
check all the dictates of reason and phi-
losophy. And now, to usher in my kind
reader to the remaining part of my rela-
tion, I flatter myself it will not be taken
amiss to give him an account of my first
eonceptions of the manner of escaping,
and upon what foundation I laid my foolish,
schemes.

. Having retired to my castle, after-my
.late voyage to the ship, my frigate laid up
and seemed, as usual, and my condition
the same as before, except being richer}.
\ ' Q ' " .I70 anvnnr'unrs or ' ' '

though I had as little occasion far'riches as
the Indians of Peru had for gold before
the cruel Spaniards came among them!
One night 1n March, being the rainy eason,
in the four-and-twentiet'h year of my soli-
tude, I lay down to sleep, very\\\ ell in
health, without distempe1, pain, or un-
common uneasiness, 'either of body or
mind, yet notwithstanding I could not com-
pose myself to sleep all the night long. All
this tedious while, it is impossible to ex-
press what innumerable thoughts came into '
my head. I traced the whole histOry of my
life, from my utmost remembrance of
things. till I 1ame to this island, and then
pruouec .111 to examine e1ery action and
passaue that had occurred since I had taken
possession of my kingdom.

In my ietlections upon the latter, I was
('0 mparin g>>; the happy posture of my affairs
in the beginning of my reign, to this life
of anxiety, fear, and concern,,since I had
discovered the print of a foot in the sand;
that 11 llllL I (ontinued without apprehen--
sion, I was incapable of feeling the dread
and tClI'OP I now sutTet ed How thankful
rather ought I to have been for the know~
ledge of my danger, since the greatest hap-
piness one can he possessed of, is to have
sufii1 1cm time to provide against it. I How
stupendous 13 the goodness of Providence,
53

.u'hich 'sets such narrow bounds to the", ~

sight and knowledge of human nature, that >'

while men walk in the midst of so many-
dangers, they are kept serene and calm. by
having the event of things hid from their
eyes, and knowing nothing of those many
dangers that surround them, till perhaps
they are dissipated and vanish away !

When I came more particularly to con-

sider of the. real danger I had for so many ,

years escaped ; how 1 had walked about in

the greatest security and tranquillity, at the.

time, perhaps, u hen even nothing butthe
brow of the hill, a great tree, or the come
mon approach of night, had interposed bes-
tween me and the destructive hands of the
cannibals, who would devour me With as
good an appetite as I would a pigeon or a
curlieu ; surely all this, Isay, could not but
make me sincerely thankful to my great
Preserver, whose singular protection I acr-
knou-ledged with the greatest humility, and
without which I must inevitably have fallen
into the cruel hands of those devourcrs. ,

I next proceeded to consider the wretch-s
ed nature of these destroyingipggages, by
seeming, though with great reverencc,.~tq
enquire why God should give up any of
his creatures to such inhumanity, even to

brutality itself, to devour- its own kind} '3

Q2

But as this was rather matter" of .ahstxlufie-iwvv-wr'" ' ' ' " ' ' ' ' "'- ""1" 'a'mwrprr'vvw'r'

5517 2 - ADVENTURES 61'

speculation, and as my miserable, situation
made me think this of mine the most un-
comfortable situation in the world, I then
ib'egan rather to enquire what part of the-
world these \1 retches lived 1n; how far ofl'
the coast was from whence they came ,
why they ventured over so far from home ,
what kind of boats conveyed them hither;
and why I could not order myself and my
business so, that I might be as able to
attain their country as they were to come
into my kingdom?

But, thought 1, how shall I manage my-
self 11 hen I come thither? What will be-
come 0f me if I fall into the hands 01 the
savages, or hoav shall I escape from them
if they make an attempt upon me; and
supposing I should not fall into theirpower,
what shall Ido for provision, or which way
shall I bend my course P These counter-
thoughts threw me into the greatest horror
and confusion imaginable ; but then, I still
looked upon my present condition to be
the most miserable that possibly could be,
and that nothing could be worse, except
death. For, thought I, could I but attain
the shore of the main, I might perhaps
meet with some relief, or coast it along, as
I did with my boy Xury on the African
shore, till I came to some inhabited coun-
try, where I mightmeet with some relief,,-.'..1----~y?----' 2'7.

nosmsou causes. 123

0r fall in with some Christian ship that
might take me in ; and if I failed, why
then I could but meet with death, which
would put an end to all my miseries. These
thoughts, I must confess, v. ere the fruits of
a distempe1ed mind; an impatient temper
made be desperate, as it were, by long
continuance of the troubles and the dis-
appointments I had met with 1n the wreck.
where I h0ped to have found some living
person to Speak to, by whom Imight have
known 1n what place I was, and of the pro-
bable means of my deliverance. Thus,
while my thoughts 1: ere agitated, my resig-
nation to the will of Heaven was entirely
suspended; so that I had no power to fix
my mind to any thing, but to the project
of a voyage to the mainland. And, indeed,
so much was I enfla med on this account,
that it set my blood into a ferment, and my
pulse beat as high as thoughI had been In
a fever, till nature being, as it u ere, fa-
tigued and exhausted with the v ery thoughts
of- it, made me submit myself to a silent
repose.

About a year and a half after this, when
I rose one morning, I saw no less than five
canoes, full of savages, land on my side of
the island. I retreated mto my castle, ready
to die with terror. After a little time, how:

ever, hearing no sound of their approach.
Q 3-
I loaded all my muskets. and clambered to
the tap of my bill, with my perspective
glass and a gun. taking care to stand so
that I could not be seen from the shore.

The savages had kindled a great fire,
around which they danced with frantic
gestures; they then dragged two poor
wretches out of a canoe, one of whom
they immediately killed, and began to cut
to pieces, while the other victim was left
standing: by himself, till they should be
ready for him. The poor creature seeing
himself at liberty for a moment, suddenly
started away, and ran with incredible
swiftness directly ton ards me.

I was terribly frightened, I must confess,
exyecting the whole body would be in-
stantly in pursuit of him; but recovered
my courage a little when I saw that
only three followed, and that he greatly
outstript them in the speed of his run-
ning.

There was between my castle and them
a creek, where I landed my cargoes when I
first came to the island, and there I thought'
the poor fellow would assuredly be taken ;
but he made nothing of swimming over it,
though the. tide was up, and having reached
the Opposite shore, he ran on still faster
than before. Two of his pursuers plunged
into the water, but 'the third, I suppose,'aoaissou cursor. 17.5

could not swim ' for he turned round and
walked back to his cum anions

I (ould no longer i'hrbear making an
attempt to save the lite ol him 11l10 lled;
and 11ith :1 3.11111 in em h hand, I ran S11 1ftly
down the hill, and rushing upon the fore-
most pursuer, knocked him down 111th the
butt end of my musket.

I was determined not, if I could avoid it,
to tire, lest the rest of the savages should
hear the report of the 111111, and be attracted
to the spot. The other pursuer stopped
and stood still at a little distance, and I
pe1'cei1ed he was p1epa1'ing his ban --and<<
arro11 to shoot me; then I was obliged to
tire, and I killed him on the spot. The
poor savage, though he saw both his ene- '
mies fallen yet was so atliigrhted with the
noise and the o! my piece, that it 11 '13 with
difficultv I (ould p1e1ail on him to ap-
proach me By den'r es he eame nearer
:md nearer, kneelinn'b down at 1'1er1' t>> n or
111"el1c steps, and having come dose up to
me, he kissed the ground, and put my foot
upon his head.

I caressed him, and encouraged him all I
1 ould: but there 11 as more 11011 to be (1an
for the saw .ge "hom I had kn01 ked (lowii?
was he1rinni1111 to re101cr. I pointed and"
made signs of his recovery to my savaged
as I may call him, upon which' .1e spoke'11'1

x'b' 11,--
'r

w... .7

176 ADVENTURES? 0t" .
some words; and though ,I did not. under
Stand them, yet they were pleasant to hear,
being the first sound of human voice (my
own'excepted) that I had heard for twenty-r
five years ! My savage, finding I did not
understand his language, made signs to
entreat I would lend him the sword which
hung naked in my belt. I gave it into his
hand, and with one blow he cut off his
enemy's head, which he laid at my feet
with abundance of triumphant gestures.
Then he went up to the other Indian, and
was amazed beyond description to think
how I had killed him so far ofi'. He turned
him first on one side, then on the other,
and examined the wound the bullet had
made in his breast. I called him away to
Bury the savages; and he, with unemnmbn
dexterity, dug with his hands a large hole
in the ground, into which he put both
savages, and covered them carefully up,
that their companions might not find 'them.
_ I then took hind home with me, and hav-
ing given him bread and raisins, with some
water, which he seemed greatly to stand in
need of, I pointed him to some rice-straw,
on which he laid down to sleep.

' I then went up the hill, and saw through
my glass that his enemies were etting into.
their canoes. Whether alarmed by the re-_

P0" or a"? gun or the absence of theirZondom Pub. June 54--180,. 4y Ibimr/ K4 ('1'
comrades, I knew not; but they rowed
away to sea, Without making any search
after their lost companions.

My savage was a handsome youth, about
twenty--six years of age; the colour of his
sl in was tawney; his hair was long, not
wooly and curly, like the African Negroes;
he had fi11eoeyes,a good month, and) teeth
as white as ivory. The qualities of his mind
surpassed the per'L eetion of his body. He
was the most submissive, gentle, and afi'ec-
tionate creature that ever lived. I made
him clothes of goat-skin, which he found
veiy uncomfortable at first, having gone
. naked all his life: their use soon, however,
became familiar, and even pleasant to him.

I called him by the name of FRIDAY, f01 it

was on that day I had saved his life. I.

taught him to call me master, to say yes
and) no; and, by degrees, he learned my
language so peifectly, that he understood
every thing I said to him, and could hold
an intelligible conversation with me.

He infouned me, that his nation being
at wai with another nation, he "as taken
prisoner and brought to the island to be
devoured by his enemies from whom Ihad
r eseued him , and on this occasion the fol-
lowing dialogue passed between us :----- I
asked him whethei his nation were ever
tonqiiei"01si11 battle 9 He smiled, and said

_ 1-1-. .A._ ..A.._-.-_a._..._ .._.... 'W - "wanders or
proudly, " My nation always fight. most
etter." How, said I, came you then to be
taken prisoner P ,
. FRIDAY--" My nation beat much for all
that; but they, more than my nation in
place where me was, they take one, two,
three, and me ! My nation beat much in
yonder place, w here me no was ; there my
nation take one, two, great thousand !"
MASTER--" Well, Friday; and does your
nation also eat the men they take in battle ?"
' FRIDAY--" Yes."
MAS'rm--" Where do they carry them P"
FRIDAY--" Other place; many place."
MASTER--" Do they ever come hither ?"
FRIDAY--" Yes, and other else place."
MAsrrn--" Have you been here with
them P"

FRIDAY--" Yes, I been here, there."

He pointed to the side of the island
uhere I saw the print of the foot, and
when I carried him thither, he .shewed me
"the place where they had once destroyed
twenty men, two women, and one child,
all prisoners of war. He could not count
twenty in English, but numbered them by
laying so many stones in a row. ' It was
distreSSing to me to think, that a creature so
intelligent, and of so good and amiable a
disposition, should delight in such horrid
tepasts. I took the greatest pains to con-' ' 7"." Zl,_t'._"

1103;111:st 6111:3011} . 179
' Vince him of the depravity of such an"
' abominable custom; and after being with"

me some time he seemed to entertain as

great a disgust of the practice as I could
\1isl1.

The simplicity, tenderness, and unfeigned
honesty of Friday's disposition; endeared
him to me more and more every day , and. .
on his side, he loved me more than he had'
ever loved any thing before. .He was handy,
alert, and useful, and so particularly dili-
gent and merry, that my life became not'
merely easy, but pleasant also. .

Although Friday had seen me kill the.
savage that was his pursuer, he had yet no,
idea6 how it was done. One day, havin
loaded my gun privately, I took him 013'
with me into the woods, and seeing as we '.
passed along a she--goat with two kids lying'
by her, I caught Friday by the arm, bid:
him stand still, and levelling my piece, shot .-
one of the kids. The poor fellow looked so _.

amazed, I thought he would have sunk'on '
the ground. He did not perceive. that I.

had killed the kid, but tore. open his jacket '

to look for his own wounds. He then fell
on his knees, entreating I would spare his
life! I laughed at him, and shewe'd him,
the kid; and while he was looking at It
with extreme wonder and emotion, I res-
loaded my,, gun, and calling him to look atm-q.fin--vrrvv--Ey .-.'~-..b-_-_r---1.--i-- - .-. "vv:"v-,flfiSSr'.fivyffm- '1'?!

18.0 swam-111123 or
a flying bird, I instantly brought it'to the
ground.

His astonishment at this engine of de-
struction did not 11 ear of" for a long time;
and 11 hen he was left alone beside therIr gun,
he used to kneel do11n, and beseech itb not
to kill him. After 1113 became more inti-'
mately acquainted I explained the mystery,
and taught him how to shoot; I likewise
gave him a knife, and made him a belt to
carry his hatchet 111, all of 11h1ch delighted

him wonderfully.
Being able to converse 11ith Friday on

such equal terms, I related my history to
him. It 11 as paiticularly gratiiying to me
to desmibe to him the manners and cus-
toms of my native country, his remarks
abounded with so much good sense and
honest ieeling. '

One day 11 hcn I had been speaking! of
the manner in 11hich I came to that
island, I carried him to the place where the
wreck of the boat PS30111 1- hich I had so
mirac 11lou'sly escaped still lay on the sand.
I riday stood musing b1 it some time, and -
at length said, "Me see such boat like
come to place at my nation, full of white
mans; and 11e, my nation, sa1e white mans _~

from drown."
0n questioning him further, Ileamed

that "1ch "(WC SCVCRLC'ED 11l11tc 111611 in-4.

$
"W.
W

.. .g a;
u. <<wrong

\b

 

(.1

'lee'l/l / 1y ,

'(

7/;

I

7.1 "la/141m. (/I/

.7. 0min]: . .Z'ufi. J31" x>> 4 1300': 253/ 'nbar/ .'4-('1'

2/124_V'W'Iy"' u.- ' '- '

ROBINSON chases ' 181'

the boat. Friday described the boat to '
me well enough; but brought me better
to understand him, when he 'added With
some warmth, " we save the~white man's
from drown." Then I presently asked him-
if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat? " Yes, (he said) the
boat full Of white mans." I asked him,
how many ? He told up0n ' his fingers
.seve'hteen I asked him then what became

of them .9 He answered," They live--they
dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head;
for I presently imagined that these might
be the men belonging to the ship that was
cast away in sight of my island, as I now-
call it; and who, after the ship was struck .
on the rock, and they saw her 1newtably7_'
lost, had saved themselves 1n their boat; -
and were landed upon that wild. Shore
among the savages Upon tins, I enquired
of him more particularly What was become
of them? He assured me they lived still
there; that they had been there about four
years; that the savages let them alone, and
gave them vietuals? ~ I asked him how it
came to' pass thev did not kill them and eat-I
them? He said, " No: they make brother _
with them." That 13, as I understood him,_a
truce. And then he added," They no ea".
' mans, but when they make the war fight?

- a

_ I182 Abysmal-:3 on

fiThat IS to say, they never eat any men, but
such as come to fight with them, and are
taken 1n battle. '

It was after this some considerable time,

that being on the top of the hill, at the
east side of the island, from whence, asI
have said, I had in a clear day discovered
the main, or continent of America; Friday,
the weather being very serene, looked very
earnestly towards the mainland, and, in a
kind of surprise, began jumping and dads-
ing, and called out to me, for I was at Some
distance from him. I asked him what was

the matter? " Oh joy--<<oh,D clad! (said
he). There see my country--thcre my
nation!" :' .

I observed an extraordinary sense of
pleasure appeared In his face, and his eyes
sparkled, and his countenance discovered
a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to

be in this own country again; and this
observation ' of mine put a great many
"thoughts into'my head, which made me at
first not so easy about my new man, Friday,
as Iwas before; and I made no doubt but
that if Friday could get back to hisow'n
nation again, he would forget all his obli~
gations to .me, and would be ferward
enough to give his countrymen an aCcOunt

of me, and come back perha aps with a
hundred or two of them and make a feast
upon me, at which he might be asanerry
as he used to be with those of- his enemies,

when they were taken 1n war, But Iwrong-
ed the- poor hOnest creature very much,
- for which I was very sorry afterwards. , .
However, as my jealousy increased and
held me some weeks, I was a little more
circumspect, and not so familiar and kind
to him as before; in which I was certainly

in the wrong too, the honest, grateful crea-
ture having no thought ahbut him but
what consisted of the best principles, both
as a religious christian, and as a grat teful
friend, as appeared afterwards to my full
satisfaction. While my jealousy of him
lasted, you may be sure I was every day
pumping him, to see if he would discover
any of the new thoughts which I suspected
- 'were in him; but I found every thing he
said was so honest and>> -so' innocent, tha'tl
could find nothing to nourish my. suspicion:
. and in spite of all my uneasiness, he made
me at last entirely his own again, nor did
he 1n the least perceive that I was 11
and therefore I could not suspect him of
. deceit. '
One day, walking up the same hill,- but
' the weather being hazy atr'sea, so that we '
could not see the Continent, I called to
him, and said, Friday, do not you wish ' -
n 9 11-184 : anvzswm'dr
yourself 1n your own country, your own
- nation? " Yes, (he said) I be much oh
-glad to be at my own nation!" What
would you do there, said I: would .you
turn wild again--eat men 'sflesh again, and
be a savage as you were before? He
looked fullo of concern; and, shaking his
head, said, " No, no, Friday tell them to
live good, tell them to pray God, tell them
to eat corn-bread, cattlevflesh, milk, no eat
'man again." 1 -
Why then, said I to him, they will kill
you. He lboked grave at that, and then
->>said, " No, they no kill me: they willing
- love learn." He meant by this they would
'be willing to learn. He added," They
-l c*arned: much of the bearded mans that
. came in the boat."
Then I asked himif he would go back to
. them P He smiled at that, and told me he
: could not swim so. far. I told him I would
wmake a canoe for him. He told me he
- would go, if I would go with him. I go,
said 1: why they will eat me if I come
there ! Igo, no ;-(saysl1e) me make they
no eat you--me make they much love
you." He meant, he would tell them how
, I had killed.his-enemies,.and saved his life;
and so he would make them love me.
Then he told me, as 'well as he could, how
kind they were to the seventeen white men,
or bearded men, as he called them, who
came to shore there 1n distress.

From this time, I confess, I had a mind
to venture over, and see if I could possibly
join with these bearded men, who, I made
no doubt, were Spaniards or Pertuguese, deg
not doubting but, if I could, we might {3 nd
some method to escape from thence, being
upon the continent, and a good company
together, better than I could fiom an island
forty miles off the shore, and alone without
help. 80,0 after some day s. I took Friday to
work again, by way of discourse, and told
him I would give him a boat to 'go back to

his own nation , and aeCordingly I carried
him to my frigate, which lay on the other

side of the island; 2111 (1, having cleared 1t of
' vater, (for I always kept it :'sunk in the
water) I brought it out, showed it him,
and we both went into it. I found he was
a most dexterous fellow at managing it,
would make it go almost as swift and fast
again as I could. So when he was in; I
said to him, Well, now, Fiiday, shall We
go to your nation? He looked very dull
at my saying so, which, it seems, was be-
cause he thought the boat too small to go
so far. I told. him then I had a bigger;
so the next day I went to the piace where

the first boat lay which I had made, but
11 3
which Icould not get into the water. He
- said that was big enough; but then, as I
had taken no care of it, and it had laid two
or three and twenty years, the sun had split
and dried it. that it was in a manner rotten.

Friday told me, such a boat would do
very well, and would carry much enough
vittle, drink, bread; that was his way of
talking.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so
fixed upon my design of going over with
him to the continent, that I told him we

- would go and make one as big as that, and
. he should go home in it. He answered not
. one word, but looked very graveand sad.
I asked him what was the matter with him P
He asked me again thus: " Why you angry
mad with Friday--~what ,me done P." I asked
_ him what he meant? I told him I was not
. angry with him at all. " No angry, no
. 'angry I (said he, repeating the words seve- '
ral times) Why send Friday home away to .
my nation P" Why, said I, Friday, did not
you say you wished you were there? " ,Yes,
yes, (said he) wish be both there. No'ivish
, Friday there, no master there !" In a, word,
- he would not think ot' going there without
. me. I go there, Friday ! said I. What
. shall I do there? He. turnedveryquick
upon me at this. " You do great deal much
good: (said he) you teach wild mans'be, '-'. fr

' "nonms'oncnuso11-. -- <<(.187 "

' good sobe'r, tame ma'ns , you tell them
know God, pray God, and live kn'ew life. I."
Alas, Friday, said I thou knowest not what
thou sayest! I am but an ignorant mail
myself. " Yes, yes; (said he) you teachee
me good--you teache'e' them good." - No,
no, Friday, said I, you shall go without me:

' leave me here to live by myself, as I did
before. He looked confused again at that
word; and running to one of the hatch'ets
which he used to wear, he takes itiup
hastily, and gives it to me. What must
I do with this? said I to him. "' You take
kill Friday!" said he What must I kill

you for? said I again He returns very
quick," What you Csend Friday away for 7'
Take kill Friday--no send Friday away"

This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears
stand in his eyes. In a word, I so plainly
discovered the utmost affection 1n him to
me, and a" firm resolution 1n him,- that I '
told him then, and often after, that Livould

- never send him a11ay fr'pin me, if he were
willing to stay with me. - - - ' -~

I still found a strong inclination to
. attempt m'y escape, founded on the suppos
sition that there \1 eff: seventeen bearded
.men there; and therefore, without* any
more delay, I went to wark with Friday .to
find out a great tree proper to fel ,"an'd
Iriake a large periagua, or canoe, to under-
take the voyage. There were trees enough
in the island to have built a little fleet, not
of periaguas and canoes, but even of good
large vessels. But the main thingl looked
at was, to get one so near the water, that
we might launch it when it was made, to
avoid the mistake I committed at first.

At last Friday pitched upon a tree, for!
found he knew much better than 1 what
kind of wood was fittest for it; nor can I
tell to this day what wood to call the tree
we cut down, except that it was very like
the tree we call fustic, or between that and
the nicaragua-wood; for it was much of the
same colour and smell. Friday was for
burning the hollow, or cavity, of this tree
out, to make it into a boat; but I shewed
him how rather to cut it out with'w'aools,
which, after I had shewed him how to use,
he did very handily; and in about a month's
hard labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome; especially when with our axes,
which I shewed him how to handle, we cut
and hewcd the outside into the true shape
of a boat. After this, however, it cost us
near a lbrtnight's time to get her along, as
it were, inch by inch, upon: great rollers,
into the Water: but when she was in,>> she
would have carried twenty men with case.

When she was in the water, and though

she was so big, it amazed me to see with---r -v --\w,..- "l

. .nosnssou causes. . 1180

what dexterity and how swift my man
' Friday could manage her, turn her and
paddle her along , so I asked him if we
might venture over'in her? " Yes; (he
said) me venture Over .in her very well,
though great blow wind." However, I had
a farther design that he knew nothing of";

and that was to make a mast and sail, and
to fit her With an anchor and cable. As th
a mast, that was easy enough to get: so I
pitched upon a straight young cedar-tree,
which I found near the place, and of which
there was great plenty 1n the island; andI
set Friday at work to cut it down, and gave
him directions how to shape and order 1t.

. But as to the sail, that was my particular
care I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces
Of old sails, enough; but as I had had them
now twenty-six years by me', and had not
been very. careful to preserve, not imagin-
ing that I should ever have this kind'of use
for. them, .I did not doubt lnif they-were all
rotten, and indeed-most of them :were so.
However, I found'two pieces which appear-
e'd pretty good, and with these I went to
work,- and with a great deal- of pains, and
awkward tedious stitching (you- may' be
sure) for want of needles, I at lengihrmade
a three-cornered ugly thing, like What'we
call in England a shoulder of mutter: sail,

to go with a boom at bottom, and a. little
short sprit'at the top, such as usually our
ships' long--boats sail with, and such asI
best knew how to manage; because it was
such a one as I used in the boat in which I
made my escape from Barbary, as related in
the first part of my story. I was near two
months performing this last work, viz.
rigging and fitting my mast .and sails; for

' I finished them very complete, making a

small stay, and a sail, or forcsail, to it, to
assist, if we should turn to windward; and,
which was more than all, I fixed a rudder to
the stern of her, to steer with: and though
I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I
knew the usefulness, and even necessity-0f
such a thing, I applied myself with so much
pains to do it, that at last I brought it to
pass, though, considering the many dull
contrivances I had for it that failed, I think -.

. it cost me almost as much labour as making

the boat. ' - -

After all this was done, I had my man .
Friday to teach as to what belonged to the
navigation of my boat; for, though he
knew very Well how to paddle a canoe, he
knew nothing of what' belonged to a- sail
and a rudder; and was the most amazed
when he saw me work the boat too and
again in the sea by the rudder, and how,
the sail gibbed, and filled this way or that
way, as the course we sailed changed; I11011 \SON CRUE' on. 19!

say, when he saw Iithis, he stood like one
astonished and aanized. However, with a
little use, I made all these things familiar to
him, and he became an expert sailor, ex--
cept that as to the compass--I could make
him understand very little of that. On the
other hand, as tl1e1e was very little cloudy
weather, and seldom, or never, any foes 111
those parts, there 11:13 the less occasion for
a compass, seeing the stars were always to
be seen by night, and the shore by day,
except in the raining seasons, and then
nobody cared to go abroad, either by land
or sea.

I was now entered on the seven- -a11d-
twentieth year of my captivity in this place, '
though the three last yeaisI had this crea--
ture with me ou<rht rather to be left out of
the account, my Uhabitation seine quite of
another kind than in all the rest of my
time. I ke pt the anniversary 01 my land-
ing here with the same than! lulness to God
for his meicies, as at 1 Mist , and 11 I had such
cause of acknowledgment at 1i1st,I had
much more so now, hating such additional
testimonies of the can of Providence over
me, and the great hopes I had 01 be einrr
e'fectualh and speedilv dem e1 r>d forI
had an invincible imyiession upon my
thoughts that my deliverance was at hand,
and that I should not be another war in
this place; However, I Went on with my
husbandry, digging, planting, fencing, a'
tl'stllth I {gathered and cured my apes,
and did every necessary thing as be

The rainy season was in the meantime
upon ms. when I kept more within doors
than at other times , so I had stoned our
new \csscl as secure as ue could, bringing
her up into the creek, where, as I said m the
beginning. I landed my rafts from the ship,
and haulino her up to the shore at high
u ate; -m;n};. 1 made my man Friday dig a

little dutk. just big enough to hold her,
and Just deep enough to ghcher water to
float in ; and then, When the tide was out,
we made a strong dam across the end of it,
to keep the water out; so she lay dry, as to
the tide from the sea, and to keep the rain
ot't, \se laid a great many boughs of trees,
So t 'tick, that she was as well thatched as a
house ; and thus we waited lor'the. months
of November and December, in whichl
desioned to make my adventure. .
When the settled season began to come
in. as the thought of my design returned
w: th the fair weather, I was preparing daily
101 th; voyage; and the first thing I did was
to lay .by a certain quantity of provisions,
brain}: the stores for our voyage, and. in-
(Clttitl in a week or fortnight's time to

Open the dock and launch out our b'oat.
I was busy'onemornlng upon something
of "this kind, when I e'alledto Friday, and
bid him' go to the sea-shore, and see if . he
Could 'find a turtle or tortoise, a thing
which we generally get once a week, for
the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh.
Friday had not '-been long gone, when .hc
came running back," and flew over . my
outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not
the ground, or the steps heset his feet on ;
and before I had time to speak to him, he
cried out to me, " Oh master, masterlz'Dh'
sorrow! Oh had 3" What's matter, Friday?
(said. I) " Oh, yonder, there, (said he)"
one, two, three canoe--one; two, three !"

By this way of Speaking, '1 concluded
there were six; but on enquiry, I found
there were but three. Well, Friday, said
I, do not he frighted. So I heartened him-2 .
up as well asI could. However, I-saw the
poor fellow was most terribly scared; for
nothing ran in his head, but that they were:
come to look for him, and would .cut; him
in pieces: and the peer fellow trembled
so, that I scarcely knew what to do with:
him. ' I comforted him as'well. as I could,
and told him I was in, as math danger ashe,
and that 'they would kill me as well as him;

But' Friday, SaidI, wemustzreselve-to: fight
them; Can you fight, Mari-"Me shoot ;
(said he) but ' there ' come manyrgrcat-
. . S r . '19.3 anvsu'wass .or 1

number!" No matter for that, saidlagain,
0!!! guns will ftight them that we do not
kill. 80 I asked hitn whether, if I resolved
to defend him, he would defend me, and-
stand by me. and do just as [bid him. 3 He
said, " Me die when you bid me, master. "'

I then went and fetched a good dram of
rum. and paw. him; 101 I had been so '3
1ery (metal of my rnm, that I had a
great deal lelt. When he had drank it, I
made. him take the two towling pieces,:
Whlth 11c always carried, and load them'
111th large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-r
bullets. Then I took four muskets, and
loaded them with two slugs and five small-
bullets each ; and my two pistols I loaded
with a brace of bullets each. I hung my
great sword, as usual, naked by my side,
and gave Friday his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself, I took
my pe1'speeti1e-glass, and went up to the
side 01 the hill to see what I could discover;
and I lound qui1 kly, by my glass, that there
were one-and- -twenty savages, three ri-
soners, and three canoes. I observed a so,
that they were landed not where they had
done when Friday made his escape; but
nearer to my creek, where the shore was
low, and where a thick wood came close
almost down to the sea. This, withthe
abhorrence of the. inhuman errand these
<<stretches came about, filled me Iwith such
indignation, that I came down. again to ,
.Friday, and told him I was resolved to go
.down to them and kill them. all, and asked
, ,him if he would stand byzme? He had
' now gotten over his fright, andhis Spirits
being a little raised with the-dram I-h'ad
given him, he Was very cheerful, and told
me as before that he would die'when labid
him. ' . ' ' "
In. this fit of fury, I divided the arms
which I charged, as before, between 'us;.' .tI
gave Friday one pistol 'to stick in his girdle,
and three guns upon his shoulder.;rattdr'I
took one pistol and the other threemyeelfi:
.and in this posture we marched outs] took
a small bottle of rum in'my p'ocket,' and
. gave Friday a large bag,'\rith more powder
and bullets; and as to orders, I'charged
him to keep close behind 'me, and not to
stir-or shoot, or do any thing till I'bid him;
and in the meantime not to speak a=word.
In this posture I fetched a compass to my
right hand of near a mile," 338 well to get
.over the creek, as to get into thewood';
so that I might come within shot of them
before I should be discovered, which Thad
seen b my glass it was easy to do. -'

, Whi e I" was making this . marohgany
' former thoughts returning, I begat'riito
_ Iabate my resolution. I'- do not meahfithit
' ' s 2 "
1-} ente1tained any fear of their. number; for
as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it
'is certain I was superior to them; nay,
though I had been alone. But it occurred
to my thoughts, what call, what occasion,
much leis what necessity I was in to go and
dip my hands in blood, to attack people
who had neither done or intended me any
wrong. These things were so warmly
pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I
went that I resolved I would Only go and
place myself near them, that I might Ob-
serve th'eir barbarous feast, and that I would
.act then as. God, should direct; but that

'unless something offered that was more a
'call to me than yet Iknew of, Iwould not
4meddle with them.

- With this resolution I entered the wood,
and w ith all possible weariness and silence,
Friday following close at my heels. I
-1narched' till I came. to the. skirt of the
wood,.on the side which was next to them;
only that one corner of the wood laybe-
tween me and them- Here Icalled softly
:to Friday and sheuing him a great tree,-
.-which was just at the corner of the wood,
I bid him go to the tree and bring me word .
if he could see there plainly what they

were doing. He did so, and came11mme-._

diately back to me, and told me they might .

be plainly viewed there; that they ucre all '"T 1' n
-

1631111111? 11111101. '197
about their lire, add that a prisoner lay
bound upon the sand, a little from them,
which he said they would kill, and fired all
the"1rery soul Within me, when he told me
it Was not one of their nation, but one of
the bearded men Who had come to their
country in 'the beat. '

Upon hearing this my soul was ready to
sink within me; when, ascending up into
a tree", I saw plainly by my glass 21 white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea,
with his hands and feet tied with flags, or
things resembling rushes, being covered
with clothes, and seemed to be a European.

From the tree where Itook this prospect
I perCeived another tree and a thicket Be-
10nd it, about fifty y'azds nearer to "them

than where I was, Which, by taking a sinall
circle round, I rmght Come at undiscovered,

and then I should be within half a shot of .
these devourers. And this consideration
alone, to be more perfectly revenged upon
them, made me'withhold my passion, though
I was enraged to' the highest degree imagin-
able, whenSSb Going <<back gaboui' tu enty paces,
I got behind s'dme' hashes, which held all
the way till I came to the other trees: and
then I ascended a little rising grOund, not
aLo've eighteen yards (ligand: from them,
and- there I had a fail view of these 'e're'a-g

tufts; and ledhld 'perife'ire all- th auctions
s 3'.lQS . oanrtn'runas or

Such a' sight did then appear'as obliged
me not to lose a moment's time. There
- were no less than nineteen of these dread-

ful wretches .set- upon the ground, closely
huddled together, expressing all the delight
imaginable at so barbarous an entertain-
ment ; and they had just sent the other two
<<to murder this unhappy christian, and bring
him perhaps limb by limb to their lire ; for
they were just then going to untie the
bands from his feet, in order for death, as
letters are knocked ofl' from the feet of
malel'actors, before they go to the place of
execution. Hereupon. immediately turn-
ing to my man, now, Friday, said I, mind
what I say, fail in nothing, but do exactly
as you see me do: all which he promised
he would perform. 1. set. down one of. my
muskets and the fowling piece upon "the
ground, and Friday did the same by his;
and with the other musket I tooktny aim
,at the savages, bidding him todo the like.
Are you ready, said I? ". Yes, master,"
.said be. Why then fire at. them, saidnl ;
and that very moment I fired also. .-
For'my part, Iltilled one and, wounded
two; but my man Friday, taking. hisfiim
- much better than Iakilledtwo and, wound-
ed three. .They were in .-a dreadful c,'on_-
- sternation 'at such an unexpected disaster;
and those who had yet escaped our penc-noninsdu diam-.199
~trati'ng shOt, immediately jumped upon
-.the1r feet, but were in such confusion, that
, they knew not which way to run or look,
notknowing from whence their destruction -
.came. We then threw down oar pieces
and took up others, giving a second dread-
ful volley; but as they were loaded only
with swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we
perceived only two of them fall; but so-
many were wounded, that they ran yelling
and screaming about like mad creatures.
Now, Friday, said I, lay down yOur piece
and take up the musket, and follow me.
He'did so, 'uith great couraire; when,
showing ourselves to the savages, we gave
a shout and made directly to the poor
11ictin1, who would have been sacrificed,
' had not our first fire obliged the butchers,
11ith three others>>, to jump into the canoe.
151' my order, Friday flied at them, at Which
, shot I thought he had killed them all, by
, 1eason 01 their falling to the bottom ofthe
. boat; however, he killed two', and mor-
tally wounded a third. ' -
In the meantime I cut the flags that tied
"1112>>; hands and feet of the poor creature;
. and Bfiing, him up, asked him 1n the Fora.
gugucse tongue what he was P He answered?
gin latin if; Christian as " But so'; very
c' ' and)? ain't, that he could source}
stan orspeak.1mmed'areiy'i go. o
dram and a piece of bread to cherish him,
and asked him what countryman he was?
He said, " Espaniola," and then uttered all
the thankfulness imaginable for his deliver-
ance. Seignior, said I, with as much Spanish
asI was master of, let us talk afterwards, '
but fight now: here, take this sword and
pistol, and do what you can. And indeed
'he did so with such courage and intrepidity,
that he cut two of them to pieces in an in-
stant, the savages not having the power to.
fly for their lives.

I ordered Friday to run for those pieces
we had left at the tree, which he brought to
me "lth great suiftness; and then I gave"
him my musket, whilel loaded the rest.

. But now there happened a fierce encoun-b
ter between the Spaniard and one of the
savages, who had made at him with one of
their wooden swords ; and though the for-
mer was as brave as could be expected,
having twice wounded his enemy in the
head ; yet, being faint, the Indian had
thrown him upon the ground, and was
wreStiug my sword out of his hand, which
the Spaniard very wisely quitting, drew out.
his pistol and shot him through the body,
before I couldcome near-hint, thou" h I
was running to his assistance. As to Fri ajr','
he pursusd the flying- wretches with his
hatchet, dispatching three; but the re'StI110111115"qu chosen 251.

were to nimble for 1111111111: Spaniard
t1k1n g up one of the" fowllng-pteCes wound;
ed t11o, whom, running into the" wood;
Friday pursued and killed one , but the

other, notwithstanding his Wounds, plunged
himself 11110 the sea, and s11am to" those who
were left in the canoe, 11 hich, with one

wounded, were all that escaped out of
twenty-one. '-- -

. The account is as follows:
Killed at the first shot from the tree
At the second shot - - - - -'

By Fiiday, 1n the boat - - - -
Ditto, of those first 11 ounded - _-
By the Spaniard - - - - .-
Killed or died of their wounds - -
Escaped 1n the boat, whereof one

11ounded, if not slain .- - ,

l

.11.. _ an 09 1016-19 09

 

Total ~- 21 _

The savages in the canoe worked veijy _
hard to get abut. of our reach, and Fridays - -
11 as as eager in pursuing them; and indeed

I was no oless anxious about their escape,
lest, after the news had been carried __to
their people they should return in multi-
tudes and destroy us. So, being resolved ,
to pursue them, I jumped mto one of their. _
canoes, and bid Friday follow me; but no
sooner 'was I 11}, when, to my surprisezl _'
found another poor creature bound handgg
and foot for the slaughter, just as the Spa-
niard had been, with very little life in him.
Immediately I unbound him, and would
have helped him up, but he could neither
stand nor speak; but groaned piteously,
thinking he was unbound in order to be
slain. liereupon I bid Friday speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; when,

pulling out my bottle, I made the poor
wretch drink a dram, which, with the joy-
ful news he had received, so revived his
heart, that he sat up in the boat. '

As soon as Friday began to hear him
speak, and looked more fully in his face,
it would have moved any one to tears to
perceive his uncommon transports of joy;
for he kissed him, embraced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
danced, sung, then cried again, wrung his
hands, beat his face and head, then sung
and jumped about again like a distracted
creature; so that it was a great while be-
fore I could make him speak to me, or tell
me what was the matter with him 3- but

when he came to the liberty of his speech,
at last he told me it was his father.

Here indeed I was-infinitely moved to
see the dutiful and tender affection of this
poor savage to. his aged parent. He would
sit down by him in the boat, open his
breast, and hold his father's head closeto
\

his bosom half an hour together, to nourish
it; then he took his arms and ankles, which
were stiff and numbed with binding, and
chafed and rubbed them with his hands;
by which means, perceiving what the case
was, I gave him somc'rum, which proved
of great benefit to him.

While we were busy in thisaction the
savages had gotten almost out of sight, and
happy it was we (lid not pursue them ; for
there arose from the north-west, which con-
tinued all night long, such a violent storm,
that I could not suppose otherwise but that
they were all drowned. After this I called
Friday to me, and asked him if he had
- given his father an , bread? He shook his
head, andlsaid, " one, not one-bit--me

eat it up all." So I gave him, a. cake of
hread out of a little pouch I carriedfor
this end. a I likewise gave him-ta dram/for
himself, and two or three bunches ofraisins
for his father. Both these . he carried. (to
him, for he would make him drink'the
dram to comfort him. Away he thenruns
out of the boat, as if he were bewitchcd,
with such an extraordinary swiftness, that
he was out of sight, asitwercginorn
instant; but at his'retum I '_ meiyedhim
slacken his pace, because he adfljsomething
~ in his hand; and this I'found to be,.-as,he '
approached nearer, an earthen-jug with
some water to his father, and t11o nior-
cakes of bread, 11hich he deli1'ered i11't'i1
my hands. Being very thirsty 11111911, 'I
drank some of the water, of. ivhich. 11 I1
his father had drank sufficient", if 111010
revwed his spirits than all the 111111 I had
gi1 e11 him

When his Hither had (Itf:111k_.I caIIed to

him, to know if there were an) water left?
He said " Yes." And I bid 111111 g'ne it to
II1e p001 Spaniard. .who was in as much
want of it as his father; arid Iscnt one of
the cakes that Friday brouoht to' the S a-
11iard too, 11I10 11 as indeed 11:11: vieak, $111
was reposing himself 1331011 :1 gi'ee'n p'Iaee,
under. the shade of a: fifee; :1'11d whose. Ii11'1bs
11 ere also very inH; and vemi i11'uCIi sWeIIe-d
with the rude bandage he 'had I1'ee1i tied
with. - ..
. When Isaw tha't 11 011 FriiIa'y s cb'miug
to hi1V'1 with the waiter. e sat 11p _a1'1d drank,
311d topi: the hregd ahd began 10 eat; I
.'went t9 him; 1111(1'. g'sve I1i11'1 a haniiful' of
3111181" ~ He IQOKed 119' in fay face with all
th e {gieqm (if ggatitude and thahkfuln'c'ss
Ihat gglgid appear in 3111' 'c0'untenanc'e. He

.11'as':so \eak, not'wi Ehsia'ndi'n he had so
exerted I111nse'lf in 'ttliefigh ttiat h'e cdu'ld
110,1 standsppoa his fe'et; 3 gHe tried {0 (1'0 it
twp or .thsee timea;h11tWas resII'y iiet'h'hle
.1115 ancles (1111:1113 so swelled and so' p%fuI74 5/ (:%fl/ "/4 25/4

Iohdtnfufi- xiv-5&5: by T abart .6 ('3' -111111113011 'c'nflsbs. 205

to 111111.80 I bid' h11n sit still,- and caused
Friday to rub his aides and bathe them
with rum, as he. had dOne his fatherfrs~ I
observed the poor". afi'ectionate creature
every two minutes, or perhaps less, all the
while he Was here, turned his head abdiit,
to see if his father was in the same .p'lace
and pasture as he left him- Sitting- :faird at-
last he found he "as not to be seem-.211
which he started up, and, without speaking
a; word, flew with that swifthes's- :to hitn,
that one could scarcely perceive his feetzto
touch the ground as he went: -1)ut when he
came, he only found he had: laid himself
(1011111 to ease his. limbs So Fndaywame
bac { to me presently; and I then spoke t6
the Spa aniard to let Friday help him 11p if
he could, and "lead him to} the Boat, and
when he should carry him to but dwelling,
where I mould take care of blink-'- ~ ;,.,
Upon which 'Friday- made nothmo' fli-
take'him upon his back,ahdsC/carned1SS1SSt
1'0 the canoe,- setting him close. by his fithe'r,

' 1 't'nd presently stepping out again, launthed
the boat off} and iaddled 1t anng theshore >>
faStcr than I could walk, though the. Wind

<<blew 1ery hard too; and having: Brought
thbm safe to the creek, away he runs. to
fetch the. other canoe, 11h1ch1h7e brought,

to. the creek almost as soon as I- gpfitq fit:
"Thy 131%.; uhen, 111': fting me over; he 197.1%

I. T206 _~Anvemms .017 ,

our new guestsout of the boat, But? so
weak were they, that I wasforced tomake
a kind of hand-barrow; and when I came
to my castle, not being willing to make an
entrance into my wall, .we made them a
handsome tent, covered with old sails and
boughs of trees, making t11o good beds of
rice-Straw, with blankets to lie upon and
(:01 er them. Thus, like an absolute king,
over subjects who 011ed their lives to me,
I thought myself very great, especially
considering I had three religions in my
kingdom; my man Friday being a pro-
testant, his father a pagan, and the Spaniard
a papist; but I gave liberty of conscience
to them all. - .
To ,get provisions for my poor weak
subieCts, I ordered Friday to kill me a
1earling goat, which, when he had done 1t,
I cut off the hinder quarters, and chopping
it into' small pieces, boiled and stewed it,
putting barley and rice into the both.
Thisl carried into their tent, set a table,
dined 11ith them myself, and encouraged
them. Friday 11as my interpreter to his
father, and indeed to the Spaniard too, who
snake the language of the savages pretty
well. After dinner Iordered Friday to fetch
.home all our arms from the field of battle,~
and the next day to bury the dead bodies};
which he did accordingly. 115g, '
And nowI made. Friday enquire of: his
father whether he thought those' savages
had escaped the late storm in their canoe ,
and if so, whether they would not return

! with a power too great for us to resist? He
' answered, that he thought it impossible
they should outlive the storm, or if they
were driven southwardly, they would come

to a land where they would as certainly be
devoured, as if they were drowned inCthe
sea , and suppose they had attained their
own country, the strangeness of their
bloody and fatal attack would make them

tell their pe0ple that the rest of them
were killed by thunder and lightning, not

by the hand of man, but by No heavenly
Spirits, (meaning Friday and me) who were
sent from above to destroy them: and
this he said he knew, because he heard
them say the same to one another. And'
indeed he was in the right on it; for I hawfe
heard since that these zpfo'ur men gave out,
that whoever went to that enehanted
island, would be deStroyed by fire~ from
the gods. . '

No canoes appearing some time! after,
as I expected, my apprehensmns ceaSed
instead of which my former thoughts '0? 21'-
Voyage took place, especially wheandaf s
father- assured me I should? hav e geed'usage

. 'r 2208, anvEN'mnzs =or~
in his country.- As" to the jSpan-iajcd; :he
told me that sixteen more of his country-r _
men and Per'tuouese, who had been..sh1'p_'.-*I
wrecked, made) their escape thither; that
tho 1gb they were in union with the savages,
yet? they were very miserable for want of
provisions and other net essaries. '1 - 1 ' '
When I had asked him about the parti-,
culars of his voyage, he answered that their
ship was bound from Rio de la Malta to the
Hav'annah , that when the ship was lost only;
five men perished in the ocean--the rest;
having saved themselvesin the boat, 'were.
now landed-011 (the main -ec;m'ti11ent. : And'
what do they intend to de there? said 1.3.
He replied, they had coneerfcd'meaSuresitoi
escape by building them a.11essel,~b11t they;-
had neither t-aois nor provisions ; so that. all:
their designs came to-11othing. Supposing,
said I, I 81191.; id m'ake'them a opropesal, and
invite thein hither, would they not:- carry.
me prisOner to New Spain. He ans11ered,
' No:-- for he- knew them to be such honest
meh as w_oiild scorn to act such inhuman
baseness to their dehve1 er that, if I pleased.

lie and the old savage would .go over to

them, Htalk with them about it, and bring
me an answer: that they should all' wear

fidelity to me, as- their leader, upon the: holy
sacraments; 51111111213101- his part, he weak].
not only do the same, but stand- by me to
the last drop of his blacd, should there be;

occasion.

These solemn assurances made me rer-
solve to grant them relief, and to send
these two over for that purpose. but when
every thing was ready, the Spaniard raised.
an objection which earned a great deal of'
weight 1n it." You know, sir, (said he)
that, being some time with you, I cannot'
but be sensible of your stock of rice and'
corn, sufficient perhaps for us at present,
but not for them, should they come over
presently; much less to victua'l a vessel for
an intended v'oyage. Want might be as.
great an occasion for them to disagree and
rebel, as the children of Israel did against
God himself, when they wanted bread 1n"
the wilderness: and therefore my advice is,
to wait another harvest, and 1n the mean:
, time cultivate and improve some more.
land, whereby we may have plenty of PTC';
visions, in order to execute our design." " . '

This advice of the Spaniard I approved"
of extremely , and so satisfied 11- as I of his .
fidelity, that I esteemed- him ever after: "
And thus We all four went to work upon '
some more land; and against seed-time we ' '.

had got so much cured and trimmed 11p, .
as was suflicient to sow tw'en't'y-tWo bushels~2 .
- 'r 3

\72111 ~'knvmvnss or.
of Barley. bu,- and sixteen jars of rice-g;
which was in shert all the seed we had to;

spare. As we were four 1n number, an'-.d .

by this time all in good health, we feared
not a hundred Indians, should they venture

to attack us. And while the corn was grow-,-
ihg, I pitched upon some trees fit to build:
Us a large vessel 1n case the Spaniards came
over; Which being marked, I ordered Fri- -

day and his father to cut them down, ap-
pointing the Spaniard, who was now my
privy coun'selibr, to oversee and direct the

work. H-

. Ililiew-ise encreased my flocks of goats, .
,by shoOting the wild .dams, and bringing,

.fhome their Okids to my enclosure: nor did
".I neglect the grape-season, but cured them
as usual, though I had such a quantity now'

as would have filled eighty barrelsu And .

thus all- of us being employ,ed they'viu

'WOi'king, and I in providing for them, till -

harvesto came, God Almighty blessed the

increase of-1t so much, that from twenty--

'two barrels of barley, we' threshed out two
"hmdred and twet'aty, and the like. quantity

of rice,-deg Sufficient to victual a.- ship to carry
'me and all the Spaniards to any part of
' America. '- .

Thusf the prihcipal objectiohs being

i anstthre'd. 3by a sufficient stock of provuon,' WHC/"'- "

11011111591} causo2.-._ _ 21 l 1'

-I sent- my 1110 ambassadors over to the ,.
mainland, with a regal authority to admit
nist'er; th'e .oaths of allegiance and fidelity,
and halve an instrument signed under their '
hands, though I neve1 asked whether they ;
had- pen, ink, or paper , 11 hen, o'111110' each ,
of them a musket, eight charges of powder ;
and ball, and provision enough for eight. ,-
days, they sailed an ay- with a fair gale, on a 3
day 11 hen the moon was at the full. '. . .. '.
Scarcely a fortnight had passed over my ,-
head, but, impatient for their return, I laid '
me down to sleep one morning, when a';
strange accident happened, which 11as_'
ushered 1n by my man '8 coming running;
to me,- and calling aloud, "Master, master , -
they are come, they are come!" Upon-j
which, not dieaming of any danger, out
I jumped liom my had,- put on my zDelothes, '
and hurried though my little grove; 11 hen,'
looking to11jard3 the sea, I perceived a boat -
about tar-league and a half distant, standing 1
in for the shore, with the wind fair I be>>
held they did not come from the side 11- here-7

the land lay. on, but from the southerni;
end of the island. so, these being nonepf'
the people we wanted, I ordered Friday to
lie still till such time as I came down from '
the rnoug1 tain, which with my ladder I now.-
acended, in order: to dis sever more fully212 Anvn'n'runzs or _ _
what'they were: and now, with the' help' of:
my perspective glass. 1' plainly perceive'df
an English ship, which I concluded it to be
by the fashion of its long-boat, and which-l
filled me with such uncommon transports

ofioy, that I cannot tell how to describe ;'
and yet some secret doubts hung about me,
proceeding from I know not what cause,
as thoughI had reason to be on my guard.
And indeed Iwould have no man contemn -
the secret hints and intimations of danger,
which very often are given when he may
imagine there is no possibility of their-
being real; for had I not been warned by-
this silent admonition, I had been in a

worse situation than before, and perhaps
inevitably ruined.

Not long it was before I perceived the
boat to approach the shore, as though they
looked for a place where they might con-
veniently land; and at last they ran their '-
boat on shore upon the beach, about half?
a mile distant, which proved so much the
' happier for me; since if they had come'.
into the creek, they had landed just at my:
door, and might not. only have forced me
out of my castle, but plundered me of all I;
had in the world. Now I was fully con-Z.
vinced they were all Englishmen, three of?
whom were unarmed and bound; When-i

-- -' 3:1 \'i"' "y '7'" "V ' WWWYfi-fle'wf' :.'l"'.' (I
"1. L '

adamant; 1111313012. 211:!

immfiddately, the first {oiir orfiye Eape'dion
slime; and: took thoset three out of theT'boa'6
aspmoners one of whom, I could pere'
cgiye, used- the most passionate gestxires '08
entreaty, affliction, and despair, while the
others, an a" less degree,- skewed: abundance
oftoncem -
Not knowing the meaning of this, I was
verymtieh astonished; andOI heckohe'd to
Friday,' who was below, to ascend the:
mountain, and likewise View this sight;
Oh, master, (said he to me) you see'
English mans eat- prisoners as 11 ell as savage
mans!" And do you think they will eat"
them, Friday 2. said I " Yes,- (said Fri;~
day) they will eat all up. " No, no, (said I)"
Friday--I am much more concerned lest'
they should murder them. as for eating
them 11p,:_ that Iam sure they never will 1
And now I not only lamented. .my m'is--zi
fortune in not havingy the Spaniard and'
savage with me, but also that] c0uld not"
come within shot of them unperceiyed,
(they having no fire-arms with them) and
save these three men, whom I thought they}
were going to kill with their s11rords..Bute'
they 11 ere set at liberty to go where they?
pl. ascd; but they sat down all three 11'

the 319111165 Yer-y pensive, and looked ikc'w'm',' '

214 anvmrunxs or

men in despair. This put me in mind" of
the first time when I came on shore and
began to look about me, how I gave myself
Over for lost, how wildlyI looked round
me, what dreadful prehensions I had,

and how I lodged in tree all night, for

fear of being devoured by wild beastS. As
I knew nothing of the supply I was to re-
ceive by the providential driving of the
ship nearer the land by the storms and
tide, by which'I have since been so long
nourished and supported; so these three
poor desolate men knew nothing how cer-
tain of deliverance and supply they were,
how near it was to them, and how efl'ec-
tually and ready they were in a condition
of safety, at the same time that they thought
themselves lost and their case despwerate
So little do \1 e see before us in the world,
and so much reason have we to depend
cheetfully upon the great Maker of the
world, that he does not leave his Creatures
so absolutely destitute, but that 1n the worst
circumstances they have always something
to be thankful for, and sometimes are' nearer
their deliverance than they imag'ne, nay,
are even brought to theiyr deliyerance by

the means by whichthey seem to be brought
to their destruCtion.

-The rascaily seamen scattering abounae. TW~W _ w --

110311131111: causes. ' 913 '

thfou gh they had a miixd to seesthe place;
and so long did they ne glige'ntly. ramble,
that the tide had ebbed so low as to leave
the boat aground Nor were the two men
that Were in her more circumspect, for,
having drank a little too much liquor, they
fell fast asleep , but one of them waking
before the other, and perceiving the boat ,
too fast aground for his strength to move
it, he hallooed out to the rest? who made ,
all possible expedition to Conic to him:
but, as Providence ordered 1t, all their force
Was ineffectual to launch her, when'I could .
hear them speak to One another, " Why, ,
let her alone, Jack, can't ye; she'll floaty
next tide." By which w01ds Iwas fully
com 1nced they were my Countrymen. , -
All this while I lay very quiet, as being , ,
fully sensible it could be no less than ten .
hours before the boat would be afloat, and
then 1t would be so dark, as that they. could
not easily perceive me, by which means I
should be at more liberty to hear their talk
and observe all their motions: not but that .
Iprepared for my defence; yet as I had
now another sort of enemies to combat
with, I acted with more caution. I tack
two fusees on my shoulder, and gave Friday
three muskets; besides, my formidablegoatq
skin coat and monstrous cap, made me look

.. . v'
'.-1 g' _ ~'1-W"W'U"v' .s'n wwr'rv/ -_, -'1 v-\~v- .-

<<3- w"; '
816 1111er or!" .
as fierce and terrible 'as Hercules of. '018,
especially when tWo pistols} were 111111111111
my belt, and my naked sword bahgmg by
my side. ~ '

It was my design at first not to make
any attempt till it was dark; but it beingi
now two 0 'cl'ock, in the very heat of the
day, the sailors were all straggling into the
woods, and undoubtedly 11 ere lain down
to sleep. The three po'or distressed crea-
tures too, anxious to get any repose, 11 ere,
however, seated under the shade of a great
tree, about a quarter of a mile from me,
and before I 11.13 perceived I called aloud
to them 111 Spanish, What are you, gentle-
"men ?

At. these words they started up in great
confusion, and beholding the strange figm e
_I made, they returned me 110 answer, but

"seemed as if theywculd fly from 1116.6911-
tlemen, said I, in English, don' t be afrai dz'
perhaps vou have a friend nearer you than
you expect. " He must be frOm' nchn '
(said one of them gravely, and pulling ofl
his hat) for we are" pastfiall help 111 this
world. " All help is from heaved, said ._:I
l)11t,si1, as I have percei1ed every action

' between you and those brutes since 3 our
landing, 01113 i111crmme how to assis; V011,

' and} will do it to me utmost of 1113' poxflm. 1>>
r'cg. .e

w;

' ' :M I _--C/..:EURM
(/2: (m @4914 W152 Ji/%a/ (/22; 447/;714hl.
f - 1 ) .
J" %2' 4.1/7/ (r/fl/r flM/abzrflr/fk'Jfl/z lid! '2/
(duzaot (5/ QZI'W/I/fl/ .
I,

anzt/argfue. Juyfzflqfiey 2255?}? ,(~ 1'."aormsorz cxvsor. 217

" Am I talking with God or man? (said

he, in tears). PAre you of human kind,

Or an angel P" Sir, said I my poor
habit may 1"tell you I am a man, and an

Englishman, willing to assist. "you, having

but this servant only: here are arms and
ammunition: tell freely your condition,

can we save you. P " The story (said he)

is too long to relate, since our- butchers
are so near. .,.But sir, I was master of that
ship: my men have mutinied, and it is a
'faVour they have put my. mate, this passen-
ger, and me, on share, without- murdering
us, though we exPect nothing but to perish
here." Are your enemies gone? said I. '
" No: (rep lied he, pointing to a-- thicket)
there they lie; while my heart trembles,
lest, having seen and heard us,- they should.
murder us all." Have they firearms? sard
I. " They have but two paces, (rephed
he) one of which 1s left 1n the boat." He
also told me there were two enormous
villains among them, that were the authors
of this mutiny,w who, if they were killed orz'j
seized, might induce the rest to return to".

obedience. Well, Well, (saidI)let'11s re-
tire farther under the cove'rifi of the
woods; and there it was Imade ese: con-2

ditions with them. --- ' .
I. That while. theyv staid in the island,21.8 anvnx'wnrs on

they should not pretend to any authority,
but be entirely conformable to my orders,
and return me the arms which I should
put into their hands. '

II. That ifthe ship were recovered, they
should afford Friday and me our passage
gratis to England.

When he had given me all tl 1c satisfac-
tion I could desire, I gave each of them a
gun, with powderand ballsufiicient, advising
that we should fire upon them as they lay.
The captain modestly said that he 11 as son)
to kill them; though, on the other hand,
to'let these villains escape, who' were the
authors of hismis'ery, might be the ruin of
us all, should they bring the ship's com-
pany upon us. " Well, (said he) do as
you think fit." And accordingly I fired,
killing one of the captain's c '1icl'c ast ene-
mics, am oundm; the othe1, who eagerly
called {om sistance; but the captain, 11110
had reserved his piece, coming up to him,
" Sirrah, (said he) it is too late to call for
assistance: you should rather cry to God
to pardon you1 villainy." So he knocked
him down \11th the stock of his << 11n Th1ee
others were also slightly wounded, who at
my approach cried out for mercy. 'This '
the captain granted, on condition that they

whalil swear to be true to aim in recovering
the ship, which they solemnly did: how-.1
ever, Iobliged the captain to keep them
bound.

Afterwards. I sent Frida and the caps
tain's mate to secure, the PS031 and bring
away the oars and sail, v: hen, at their re-
turn, three men coming back, and seeing
their late distressed captain, now their con-1
queror, submitted to be bound also. And
then it was that, having more liberty, l re-'i
lated the adventures 'of my whole life,
which he heard with .a serious and wonder-.
ful attention. Next, I carried him and his
two men into my little fortified castle,
shew ed them all my conveniences, and'
refreshed them with such provisions as I
could afl'o1d. When this 11 as over we
began to think about 1egaining the ship,
Hen said that there were twenty-six hands
on board, \1 ho, knowing their lives were
fo1feited by the law, for conspira and
mutiny, would g1 ow so very .ha1 Ened,
that it uould be dangerous foi our small
company to attaCk them. This was a rea-
sonable inference indeed, b$12asomething
we did resolve on, and immediately pm in
execution: for we heaved the boat upon-3
the beach so high, that she could not shoot
ofl" at high-water mark, and made a hole 111
her not easily to be stopped, and so all the

U2
signals; they gave for the boat to come on
board were in vain. This obliged them to
send another boat ashore, with ten men
armed, whose faces the captain plainly
descried, the boatswain being the chief
oflicer; but he said there were three honest
lads among them, who were forced into
the conspiracy.

Hereupon I gave him fresh courage,
(for I had perceived he was in concern) in
the meanwhile securing our prisoners, part
in my castle, over whom Friday stood
centinel; two we took into our service,
and then thought ourselves strong enough
to adventure a battle.

' When the sailors landed, and beheld their
boat in- that condition, they not only hal-
looed, but fired for their companions to
hear; yet they received no answer. This
struck them with horror and amazement,
thinking their companions were murdered;
then they made as if they would return to
the ship. I could perceive the captain's
countenance change at this, till three men
were ordered to look after the boat, while
the other seven leaped on shore, in order
to search for their companions: and indeed
they came to the brow of the hill near my
ancient castle, from whence they could see
a great way into the woods; and there
shouting and hallooing till tired and weary,
at length seated themselves under a spread-
ing tree.

My opinion was, that nothing could be
done till night, when I might Use some
artifice to get them out of the boat: but
of a sudden they all started up, and made
to the sea-side. Hereupon I ordered Friday
and the captain's mate to go over the
creek into the woods, and hailed as loud
as possible.

This artifice succeeded. The sailors im-
mediately ran towards the wood, till coming
to the creek, they called for their boat 'to
carry them over, and then took another man
with them into the woods, caving but'two
in the boat. -

Immediately we surprized the men in
the boat_; and or'de1ing them to surrender
on pain of death, andb one of them being
an honest lad, they threw down their arms
and submitted themselves to our command.

When the sailors re turned from a vain
and long search, and found their boat
agroundo in the creek, the t1de out, and
their companions gone, the) ran about,
\11i11g1ng their hands, and crying out, that
it Was an enchanted island, and they should
all be mmdered by SpilltS or detils.

Frida) and the captain crawled towards

U 3 1 1
them on their hands and knees; and the
captain, taking aim at the boatswain, who
was the ringleader of the mutiny, killed
him on the spot. Friday wounded another,
and a third ran away -
I now advanced with my whole army,
and it being nearly dark, I ordered the two
men we had surprized 1n the boat to call to
them by their names, and bid them surren-
der to the captain and fifty men, or they
would all be killed.
- Thrown into the greatest consternation
by the death of the boatswai'n and the fear
of being overpowered by numbers, they
threw down their arms and surrendered.
Having bound our prisoners and secured -
theboat, I sent the captain, in the name of
the governor of the island, to offer them
freeb par: lon, if they would assist in re-
covering the ship. '10 this they one and all
consented; and agreed among themselves,
that w hocver attempted to \ iolate the con-
dition should be hanged upon the beach.
Both boats were now got ready with/all
possible expedition, and about midnight
the captain, &c. reached the ship.
Robinson, one of the prisoners, on uhom
the captain knew he eculd rely, was order-
ed to hail the ship, and to say that they
had at last found their comrades.
The crew received them on board, with 1
out any suspicion of the captain being
among them; and in less than half an hour
the captain's party secured every man in
the ship, and restored the government of
the vessel to its lawful commander.

And thus, the ship being completely re-.
covered, the joyful signal was fired, which
I heard with the greatest delight imaginable.
Nor was it long before the grateful captain-
brought the ship to an anchor at' the ._
creek' s mouth; and hastening on shore, Q9
he threw himself into my arms. exclaim-a
ing, " My friend--my deliverer. ' There 13
your ship: she is yours, and we are your

servants!" .

I was so affected with this most unex-
pected event, that I suooned'in his em-
braces. Having recovered, I kneeled down

upon the beach to thank the Almighty
Disposer of all things for my miraculous

dcliv erance.
It was useless now to wait for the arrival

of the Spaniards, as it would by no means
answer their purpose to be carried to Eng.-
land. I therefore wrote in Spanish an ac-.
count of all that had befallen me, and
placed it in a conspicuous part Of the tent
within my fortified wall.

I left them my habitation, \1 1th 2111 its
conveniences and utensils; my tools, my
flock of goats, and all my accumulated
stores; and carrying with me Friday, my
parrot, my money, my umbrella and goat-
skin cap, I bid farewcl to the island, after
twenty-eight years, two months, and nine-
teen days residence--We set sail Dec. 12,
1686, and arrived in England June I l, 1687.

Here I found my first captain's widow
alive, who had buried a second husband,
but in very mean circumstances, and whom
I made mighty easy upon my account.
Soon altei I went down to Yorkshire,
where all my family were expired, except
two sisters, and as many of one of my bro-
ther's children. I found no provision had.
been made for me, they concluding I had
been long since dead ; so that I was but in
a very slender situation. Indeed the cap-
tain did me a great kindness by his report
to the owners, of the manner in whichI
had deli1 cred theii ship on the desolate
island; on which they 11' ade me a present
of tuo hundicd pounds Inext went to
I..isl:von,ta.<i11f1r my man, Friday, with me;
and arrixinzr there 111 Apiil, I met the Por-
tuguese captain, who took 111 e on board on
the African c;oast but, being old, he had
left ofl the sea, and 1esigncd all his business
to his son, who folloixed t!. e Brasil trade.
So altered both of us were, that we did not>>
know each other at first, till I discovered-
myself more fully to him. After a few
embraces, I began to enquire of my con-
cerns; and then thcold gentleman told me
that it was nine years since he hadbeen at
Brasil, where my partner was then living,-
but my trustees were both dead; that 'it
was his belief I should have a good account
of the product of my plantation; that the
imagination of my being lost had obliged
my trustees to give an estimate of my share
to the procurator-fiscal, who, in Case of my
not returning, had given one third to the,
king, and the rest to the monastery of St..
Augustine; but if I put in my claim, or
any one for me, it would be returned, ex--
cept the yearly product, which was given
to the poor. I then desired him to tell me
what improvement he thought had been
made of my plantation, and whether he
imagined it was worth my while to look
after it? He answered, that he did not ,
know how much it was improved; but this
he was certain of, that my partner was
grown vastly rich upon his half of it; and
that he had been informed that the king
had two hundred moidores for his third
part. He added, that the survivors of
my trustees were persons of an inge-
nuous character; that my partner could
witness my title, my name being re-
gistered in the country, by which means,
indisputably, I should recover considerable
sums of money. But, answered 1, how
could my trustees dispose of my effects,
when I made you only my heir? This, he
said, was true ; but there being no affidavit
made of my death, he could not act as an
executor. However, he had ordered his
son, then .t Brasil, to act by procuration
upon my account; and he had taken pos-
session of my sugar-house, having account-
ed himself for eight years \\ ith my partner.
and trustees {or the profits, of which he
would give me a veryg flood account. 1--
This he performed very faithfully 1n a
few days, making himself indebted to me
470 moidores of gold, over and above what
had been lost at sea after I had left the
place. And then he recounted to me what
misfortunes he had gone through, which
forced my money out of his hands to buy
part in a new ship. " But (said he) you
shall not want: take this. and when my sen
returns every farthiug shall be paid you. "
Upon which he put into my hand a purse of
150 moidores 111 gold, as likewise the in-
strument containing the title to the ship 1n
11inch his son was, and which he offered as
security for the remainder. But really,
when I saw so much goodness, generosity,
tenderness, and real honesty, I had not the
heart to accept it, for fear he should straiten
himself on my account. " It is true, (said
he) it may be so ; but the money is yours,
not mine, and you may have the greatest
occasion for it." However, I returned fifty
of them, promising to give him the other
hundred when I got my effects in my
hands, saying I designed to go myself for
that purpose. But he told me he could
save me the trouble ; and so caused me to
enter my name with a public notary, as
likewise my affidavit with a procumtion
afiixed to it; and he advised me to send it
in a letter to one of his acquaintance, a
merchant at Brasil; and indeed nothing
could be more faithfully and honourably
observed ; for in seven months' time I had
a very faithful account of all my effects,
what sums were raised, uhat expended, and
what remained for' my Use :' in a word, I
found myself worth 5000!. and 10001. per
annum. Nor was this all ; for my partner
congratulated me upon my being alive,
telling me how much my plantation was
improved, what Negroes were at work,
and how many Are Jl'Iarz'as he had said to
the Virgin Mary for my preservation, de-~.,' T" C .V

228 wa'nvrm/unssf" " "ow-4'

siring me to accept kindly some presents
he had sent me, which showed the greatest
generosity.

No sooner did the ship arrive but I re-
warded my faithful captain, by returning
him the hundred moidores; and nOt only
forgiving him all he owed me, I a116wed
him yearly a hundred more, and fifty to his
son, during their lives. And now, being
resolved too go to En gland, Ireturned letters
of thanks to othe prior of St. Augustine, and
in particular to my old partner, with Very
suitable presents. By the captain' s advice
l was persuaded to go by land to Calais,
and there take passage for England. WhEn,
as it happened, I got a young English gen-
. tlem'an, a merchant's son at Lisbon, to
accompany me,t otgether with two English
and two Portuguese gentlemen; so that,
with aPortu guese servant, an English sailor,
and my man OFriday, there were nine of us
in number.

Thus armed and equipped, we set out",
and came to Madrid, when, the summer
decaying, we hastened to Navarre, where
116 were informed that there Was scarcely
any passing, by reason of the prodigious
quantity of snow; so that we were obliged
to abide near twenty days 'at Pampeluna,
and at last to take a guide to conduct as'3'?" .

:-r- . ~.-
I'l. .

, 1

{1.
"I'm 414..

'5}

Q
'l

I 1')!

 

[71/1/11] 17 /fl/' 7/71)" 1 .
I 1 I

Lana/on P1111{/lud'nfajevl/r'I/Irn'f 5/ Y)
safe towards Thoulouse. And now twelve
othergentlemen joining with Us, together
.with their servants, we had a very jolly
company. Away; our guideled us by the
frightful mountains, and through so many
intricate .mazes and windings, that weir.--
sensibly passed them, which, as we travelled
along, ushered us into the prospect of the
fruitful and charming provinces of Lan--
gUedoc and Gaseoigne

But now came'on two adventures both
tragical and comical. First, Our guide was
encountered by three wolves and a bear,
which set upon him and his horse,.and
wounded himin three places; upon which
my man, riding up to- his assistance, shot
'one of them dead, on which the others ran
into the woods. But the pleasantest ad.-
venture was to see my man attack the
bear. This creature, if let alone, will never
meddle with you, and this my man Friday
very well knew; and so begging leave of '
me, in broken English, he told us he would
" make good laugh." Why, you silly fool,
said I, he'll eat you up at a mouthful.
"'Eatee me up! (replied he) Me eats-e
him, and make mueh good laugh 3" Upon
which, pulling ofl' his boots, he claps on his
pumps, and running after the monstrous
beast, he called out that he wanted to speak

it
with him; and then throwing stones on
purpose to incense him, the beast turns
about in a fury, and with prodigious strides,
shufi'ies after him. But thoughhe could
not keep pace with Friday, who made up
to us, as it were, for help. You blocklieatl,
said I, immediately take horse,degand let us
shoot the creature. But he cried, " Dear.
master, no shoot--me make you much
laugh !" And so he turned about, making
signs to follow, while the bear ran after-
him, till coming to a great oak, he ascended
in a minute, leaving his gun at the bottom
of it. Nor did the bear make any difficulty
_ ofi't, but, notwithstanding his bulk, ascend-
ed like a cat. You must think I was not a
little amazed at the folly of my man, not
phreeiving any thing to occasion our
laughter, till we rode up nearer, and'be-
held the beast mounted on the oak, on the
beginning of the branch to which Friday
' 'clung at the farther end, where the bear
durst not come. Hereupon Friday cried
out, " Now, master, me malt: much laugh;
me make do bear dance!" Upon which
he fell a shaking the bough, which made
the creature look behind him, to 'see hoii
he could retreat. ' Then, as if the bear hat}
understood his stammering Englislktghe
cried, "' Why you not come fmthm'n'w.

-
' u.

.'l '."
Bear? Pray, -.Mr Bear, come farther!"
And then, indeed, we all burst into laugh-
ter; especially when we perceived Friday
drop, like a squirrel, upon the ground,

leaving the beast to make the estuof his
way down the tree And now, thinking it
the most convenient time to kill him, Fri~
day cried out, " Oh dear, master, no shoot;
me shout bye and bye!" When, taking
up the gun, -he said," Me not shoot yet------_
me make once more much laugh." And;
accordingly he was as good- as tDhis word, '~
for the creature descending backwards
130111 the tree very leisurely, before he
could lay one foot on the ground, Friday
shot him through the ear, stone--dead and
looking to see a'if we were pleased, burst
out into a beauty laugh, saying , " So we'
kill bear in my country; not \1ith gun,>>
but much long arrow." Thus ended? our
diversion, to our satisfaction, especially 111'
a place where the terrible howlings struck
us with continual terror But the Snow'-
now growing very deep, particularly 011'
the mountains, the ravenous creatures were -
obliged to seek for sustenance in the vii-iv .
lages; where, coming by Surprise on the'
country people, they killed severalofthem, .
besides a great number of their sheep and ;.;'

herses
x 2
Our guide told us we had yet one more
dangerous place to pass; and if there were
any more wolves in the country, there we
should find them. This was a small plain,
encompassed with woods, to get through a
long lane, to the village where we were to
lodge. When we entered the woOd the
sun was within half an hour of setting; and
a little after it was set we came into the
plain, which was not above two leagues
avg ; and then we saw five great wolves
cress the road, without taking notice of us,
and so swift as though they were pursuing
their prey. Our guide, believing there were
more coming, desired us to be on our guard.
Accordingly, about a furlong farther we
saw a dead horse, and near a dozen of
wolves devouring its carcase. My man
Friday fain would have fired at them, but
I would not permit him. Nor had we gone
more than half a league farther, when we
heard dreadful howlings in a wood on our
left, and saw a hundred coming up against
us, as though they had been an experienced
army. This obliged us to form ourselves
in the best manner; and then I ordered
that every other man should fire, that those
who did not might be. ready for a second
volley, should they advance upon us; and
then every man to make use of his pistols.
But there was no necessity for this; for
the enemy, being terrified, stopped at the
noise of the fire. Four of them were shot
dead, and se\ eral others, being wounded,
Went bleeding away, as we could very
plainly discover by the snow. And now,
remembering what had been often told
me, that such was the majesty of a man 's
voice, as to strike terror even into." the-
fiercest creatures, I ordered all our com-
panions to halloo as loud as possible: \nd'
in this notion I was not altogether mis-
taken; for they immediately turned about.
on the fiist hallco, and began to retire;
upon which, cidering a second volley in'
their rear, they galloped into the woods
with great precipitation.'

Thus tse had some small time to load
our pieces again, and then made all the
haste \se could on our way. But we had
not rode far bemre we were obliged tO'
put omselyes 111 a posture of defence as
before, being alarmed with a very dreadful
noise, in the same wood, on our left hand,
the way that we were to pass, only that it
was at some distance from us By this time-
dark clouds began to spread ever the sky,
and the night came on apace, which made :

it so much othe mom to our disadvantage ,
when piesently tlitee troops of 11 elves in

{\

X0
our front, appeared to our sight, as though
a great number of them had a design to
surround us, and devour usin spite of fate.
As they did not fall upon us immediately,
we proceeded on ourjourney in the swiftest
manner the roads would permit our horses,
which was only a large trot. It was in this
manner we travelled, till such time as we
discovered another wood, and had the pros-
pect of its entrance, through which we
were to pass at the farthest side of the
plain. But surely none can express the
termr we were in when, approaching the
lane, we perceived a confused number of
the fiercest wolves standing, and, as it were,
guarding its entrance. Nor were we long
in this amazement, before another occasion
of horror presented itself ;. for suddenly
we heard the report of a gun at another.
opening into the wood; and looking that
way, out ran a horse, bridled and saddled,
f flying with the greatest swii'tness, and no
less than sixteen or seventeen wolves pm>>-
suing him, in order to devour the poor
creature: and unquestionably they did so,
after they had 'run him down, not being
able to hold out that swiftness by which
he at first escaped them.

When we rode up to that entrance from
whence the horse came forth, there lay the
carcases of two men and another. horse,-
mangled and torn by these devouring:
wolves: and undoubtedly one of these men;~ i
was the person who fired the gun which-'~
we had heard, for 'the piece lay by him ;:
but,- alas, most of the upper part ofhis-
body and his head were entombed in the:
bowels of these ravenous creatures! , \
What course to take, whether to proceed
or to retreat, we could not tell; but it was
not long before the wolves themselves made
us come to a resolution: for such numbers-
surrounded us, every one of whom .431;-
pected-their prey, that were our bodies _t9
be divided among them, there would not
be half a mouthful apiece. But happy,
very happy it was for us, that but a little
way. from the entrance there lay some very
large timber-trees, which I supposed had
been cut down and laid there for. sale, '-
among which I drew my little'troop, plac-
ing ourselves in a line behind-one longf
tree, which served 'us for a breast-work ;'.'
when,' desiring them to alight, we stood in-
a- triangle, or three fronts, enclosing our-
horses in the centre, the only place where-
_ we could preserve them. , . .. " '-
. Never certainly was there a more furious
charge than what the wolves made upoflts
us in thisplace; and the sight of the rhcrses'g?236i ' numerous or

. which was the principal thing they aimed
at, provoked their, hunger, and added to'
their natural fierceness: They dame on. us'
with a most dreadful noise, whieh made'
the woods ring again; and beginning-ta
mount our pieces of timber, I ordered-
every. Other man to fire as before directed ;'
and indeed so well did they take their aim,
that they killed several of the wolves at
the first volley ; 'but still we'Were'obligedi
to keep a'continual firing, .fdr they-came;
pnsliin g one another on: with the greatest:
fa. ' '
= l:(yhn' second volley something abated:
their Courage, when, etoppingv a little, :we:
hoped they would have made"?the best of ,
their way. 'However,'-it did-not prove so"; '
for others made a new attemptupon 113:7
and though in four firingswe'" killed e'evefl>>
teen or eighteen Of them, laming "twice as?
many, yet they came onseyeralitimes suc-

ceaeively, *as though they valuednot their?
lives for 'the-Salce of'th'eir prey: 3'? 'i i' i' J- 1 - T
' Unwillin'g' was I to Spend our last-Shot"
too ' suddenly ; V and therefore? called-L niyff
other servant, and, giving! him a horn of '
powder, bid him lay a large" train. quitei
along- the timber, which he did,while?Fr1- .
- day was charging my-fnsee' andhis own-'- .
withthe greatest dexterity; . By rhi'stimg:' 'f ,.__. 53' """
x v ' '

// Y/J'flfl. . r. 204.

   
       

r" x,~ .- ~

._----------J.'

. .(////7/'/.'.- fl/;//' 7/x2/z:/:/.

II. exp/0n, P1/A.'lfl/II/,IIJ06 {YT/Ill"?! "-
the wolves coming up the timber, I set fire
to the train, by snapping a discharged
pistol close on thepowder. This so scorch-
ed and terrified them, that some fell down,
and others jumped in among us with the
strength and terrorof the flames ;~butthese
.we immediately dispatched, when all the
rest, frightened with the light, which'.the
darksome night caused to appear more
dreadful, began at length to retire: upon
which, ordering our last pistols to be fired
at once, giving at the same time a- great
shout, the wolves were obligedto have. re?
course to their swiftncss, and turned .tail;
and then we sallied out upon tWenty lame
ones, cutting them in pieces with our
swords, which caused them to bowl lament;
ably, to the terror of their fellow-devour.
ers, who resigned to us. the field, as victOv
rious conquerors. And indeed, 'I-q'uestion
whether Alexander, king of Macedon, in
any of- his conquests, had more .'occasion
for triumph than we had; for. hezi'sasbut'
attacked by numerous armies of soldiers,
whereas our little army was obliged to
combat a legion of devils, as it were, worse
than cannibals, who, .had. they slain us,
would have sacrificed 'us the same moment, '
tosatisfy their voracious appetites; ' .

,3 Ihus endedour bloody battle.with~=the
beasts, having killed three score of them,
and saved our lives from their fury. We
still had a league to go farther, when, as
we went, our ears were saluted with their
most unwelcome howlin gs, expecting every
moment another attack. But in an hour's
time we arrived safe at the town where we
were to lodge , and here we found the
place strictlyb guarded, and all in terrible
confusion; as well they might, for fear of
the bears and wolves breaking into the
village, in order to prey upon their cattle
and people. The next morning we were
obliged to take a new guide, the other be-
ing very ill of the wounds which he had
received, as before mentioned. After we
had reached Thoulouse, we came into a
warm, pleasant, and fruitful country, not
infested 111th wolves nor any sort of ra
venous creatures, and when we told our
story there, they blamed our guide much
for conducting us through the forest at the
foot of the mountains, and in such a severe

season too, 11 hen the snow obliged them

i
\'\

to seek for shelter in the woods.

I think I have nothing uncommon in my
passage through France to take notice of
since other tra1ellers of greater learning
and ingenuity have given a more ample

account than my pen is able to set forth.
4 Mg
Froin Thoulonse [travelled to Paris, from
thence to Calais, \\ here I took shipping,
and landed at D0ver the 14th of January,
in a very cold season.

Thus come to the end of my travels, I
soon discovered my new-found estate, and
all the bills of exchange I had brought were
currently paid. The ogood ancient \11d0w,
my only privy counsello1, thought no pains
or care too great to procure my o'adw antagedeg ,
nor had I ever occasion to blame her fide-
lity, which drew from me an ample rewaid.
I was for leaving my effects 1n her hands,
intending to set out for Lisbon, and so to
the Brasils; but as in the desolate island I
had some doubts about the Romish religion,
so I knc w there was but little encourage-
ment to settle there, unless I \1 011111 apos-
tatise from the orthodox faith, or live in

continual fear of the inq11isition.Upon
this account I resolved to sell my planta-
tion; and far that intent I u rote to my old
friend at Lisbon, who returned me an 33-:
enter to my great satisfaction; which was,
that he could readily sell it there: hawever,
if I thought it convenient to give him
liberty to offer It in my name to the fh'm
merchants, the survivors of my mstees,
residing at the Brasils, who consequently
240 ADVENTURES OF' '

understood its intrinsic value, having lived
just upon the spot, and who, I was senSibIe,
were very rich, and therefore might be the
more willing to purchase it; he did not in
the least doubt but I should make 4000 Or
5000 pieces of eight more of it, than .I
should do if I disposed of it in any other
manner whatsoever. _

You may be sureI could not but agree
with this kind and ingenuous proposal;
and immediately I sent him an order'to
offer it unto them, which he accordingly
did; so that about eight mOnths after, the
ship being 111 that time returned, he gave
me a sat1sfact01y account, that theyb not
only willingfgly accepted the offer, but that
they had also remitted thirty three thousand
pieces of eight to a correspondent of their

own at Lisbon, in order to pay for the
purchase. -

Hereupon, m return, I signed'th'e Instru-
ment of sale, according to form, "which
they had sent from Lisbon, and returned-
it again to my old friend, be having sent
me, for my estate, bills of three hundred
twenty-eight thousand pieces of , eight,
reserving the payment of one hundred
moidores per annmn, which I had allowed
him during. life, as aiso fitty to. hisason
during life,'according to my faithful pro--
mise, which the plantation was to make
good as rent-charge.

_ Any one would'think, that, in this state
of complicated good fortune, I was past
running any more hazards; and so indeed
I had been, if other circumstances had not
concurred; butI was inured to a wander-
ing life, 'had no family, not many relations,-
nor, however rich, hadI contracted many
acquaintance; and though I had sold my-
estate in the Brasils, yet I could not keep
the country out of my head, and had 'a
great mind to be upon the wing again;
especially, I could not resist the strong in-
clination] had to see my island," and to'
lmow if the poor Spaniards were in being
there, and how the rogues I had left there
had used them. ' '

' My true friend, the widow, earnestly dis -
suaded me from it, and so far- prevailed
with me, that for almost seven years she
prevented my running abroad; during
which time I took my two nephews,- the
children of one of my brothers, into my
care. The eldest, having something of his
' own, I bred up as a gentleman, and gave
him a settlement of some addition to his
estate after my 'decease. The other I put
out to a captain of a ship; and, after five

Y
years, finding him a sensible, bold, enter
prising young fellow, I put him into-a
good ship, andsenthim to sea. In the
meantime, I in part settled myself here.
For first of all I married, and that not
either to my disadvantage or dissatisfac-
tion, and had three children, two sons
and one daughter: but my wife dying,
and my nephew coming home with good
success from a voyage to Spain, my incli-
nation to go abroad, and his importunity,
prevailed andvengaged me to go in his
ship, as a private trader, to the East Indies.
This was in the year 1694.

In this voyage I visited my new colony
in the island, saw my successors the Spa-
'niards, had the whole-story of their lives,
and of the villains I had left there ; how at
first they insulted the poor Spaniards; how
they afterwards agreed, disagreed, united,
separated; and how at last the Spaniards
were obliged to use violence With them;
how they were subjected to the Spaniards;
how- honestly the Spaniards used them.
A history, if it were entered into, as full
of variety andlwonderful accidents, as my
own part, particularly also as to their bat-
ties with the Carribeans, who landed several
times upon the island ; and as to the im-
provement they made upon the island itself;
and how five of them made an attempt
upon the mainland, and brought away
eleven men and five women prisoners, by
which at my coming I found about twenty
young children on the island. Here I stayed
about twenty days, left them supplies of
all necessary things, and particularly" of
arms, powder, shot, clothes, tools, and: two
workmen, which I brought from England
with me, viz. a carpenter and a smith. Bed
sides this, I shared the island into parts
with them, reserving to myself the property
of the whole, but gave them such parts
respectively as they agreed on; and having
settled all things with them, and engaged
them not to leave the place, Ileft them
there.

From thence I touched at the Brasils,
from whence I sent a bark, which I bought
there, with more people to the island. As
to the Englishmen, I promised to send them
from England a good cargo of necessaries,
if they Would apply themselves to planting,
which I afterwards performed. And the
fellows proved very honest and diligent
after they were mastered, and had their
pmperties-set apart for them.

I sent them also from the Brasils five
cows, three of them being with calf, Some
sheep, and some hogs, which, when I came

Y 2244 anvnnmnzs or 1101311515011 Cnuson.

again, \1 ere considerably increased. When
they had all these things, three hundred
Carribees came and invaded them, and
ruined their plantations They fought with
that number twice, and were at first de-
'feated, and three of them killed; but at
last a storm destroying their enemies'
canoes, they famished or destroyed almost
all the rest, and renewed and recovered
the possession of their plantation, and still
lived upon the island.

THE END.LIST of the PLATES.

 

 

Xury shooting the lion ............. . . . . . lO 2
Robinson shipwrecked. . . . . ............. 28 1
returning loaded from the w reck. . 38
contemplating the ocean. ...... 45
taking home the kid ............ 49'
---- making his boat ................ 123
The print of a foot in the sand. . . . ..' ...... 145 i
The old goat in the grotto ................ 155
The drowned sailor ................... . 163 "
Friday's submission ................... .. 175 '
Friday's manner of reckoning ........... .181
Robinson releasing the Spaniard .......... 199 ' '
The English captain and his company sur-
prised at the appearance of Robinson 216 .
Crusoe and Friday ................ .
Interview with the captain. . . . ........... 223

Friday shooting the but..............,.231'
Attackofthewolres....................235:T'v"- '--'--'--- -' - -v~----~r-- - WWW

TABART's' JUVENILE LIBRARY,

1 57,
NEW BOND-STREET.

 

The following instructive, interesting, and supe-
nor Boo/ca, for CluZdren and Young 1' ersuns

of both bcxes, have just been Imblz'shed by
'l'nbart & Co., at their J uvenile and School.
Library, No. 157', 'ezo Bond-sheet:

l. TIII; BOOK. of GAMES, explaining the Laws and
Modes of playing twenty-four of the Games, the most
common among Children and Young Persons, each illus~
trated with a Copper-plate, price 33. 6d. half-bound, or
55. with the Plates coloured.

'2. The BOOK 0! TRADES, or LIBRARY of the
USEFUL! P.TS, desstibing the useful. Trades and Ma-
nufactures carried on in Great Britain, with a familiar
Account of the Processes and of the Raw Materials, Price
of Labour, &I-.-&e.; each illustrated with a Copper-plate.
In three Parts, each containing Twenty Trades, price
35. ., or 55. with the Pl..tes coloured. ,

3. A VISIT to a FARM- HOUSE, describing the
Principles and Practice of l-' arming Business and Rural
Economy, in a pleasing and familiar manner, with several
Plates, mice 25. GJ. .-

4. A VISIT to LONDON, describing the Curiosities
an (l remarkable Objects In the Metmpolis, in an amusing.
way, adapted to the Capacity and Curiosity of an Early
Age, with several Plates, price 2s. 6.1.

5. The TRAVIS LS of ROLANDO ROUND the
W ORLD, explaining In a familiarand entertaining man.
ner, the Customs, Curiosities, and Productions, of various
Countries, In remote parts of the World, illustrated with .
various Plates. Translated from Javrrn'nr. ln4 vols.

pricedi's. lull-bound. .
6. A TOUR THROUGH ENGLAND, inaSeries of

Letters from a Young Gentleman to his Sister, with
several Views and a large Map, price 35. 6d. half-
bound.

1. A PUZZLE for a CURIOUS GIRL, displaying the
ill l-Zfl'eets of iii-placed Curiosity, with thirteen Plates,
price 25. (id.

8. The W ONDERS of the TELESCOPE, or a fami-
liar and popular Display of the Solar System and the
Starry Heavens, on a Plan calculated to give a new in-School-Bocks published by .Tabart'a' Co;
terest to the Study of Astronomy, with' numerous large}!
' Plates, price 49. 6d. half-bound. ' ~
' 9. The WONDERS of the MICROSCOPE, or 3 Dis-
play of the. Wonders of the Creation in comparatively
minu'te Objects, with-numerous large Plates, price 25; 6d.

l0. POPULAR STORIES, consisting of new and im.
pm'v'edjTranslations, or Revised EditiOns,ol' the Tales, 12-.
g'ends, and Romances, hitherto held in. general Estimation '-
in the Nursery, but debascd by vulgar and often by indecent '

_ guage. The Stories thus elegantly re-written in chaste"
ahd modern language, and here'published in one Comm,
tion. embellished 'With nfimequ! Copper-plates, consist 'of'
Cinderella. BlueHBeard,--Tom-'Thutnb, Jack the Giant-'
Killer, Whittington and his Cat, Robin Hood, Sleeping-
Beauty, Fertnnatns, Valentine and Orson, Children in the
Wood, Goody Two Shoes, The Seven Champions, &c. &c.,
in three Parts, price 23._6d.,_eac,h Part; -Or 35. 6;}. with
the Plates coloured; . ' . . ' ' -

N. B - Either ofthc foregoing Stories, TWENTY-FOUR
in number, may be'had separately, embellished with three beau--
tifully colouned Plates, price 6d. eacll. _ .

ll. POETRY for CHILDREN, consisting of Selec.
tions from the .best 'Poets, interspersed with' Original-
Pieces, by Miss Aunt, adapted to Children between the
Ages of Six and Twelve, price 2s. 6d. ' ' ' '

l2.- VISITS to the MENAGERIE and the BOTANI-
CAL GARDEN, illustrating the first'Principles and m'o'st
striking Facts in BOTANY and NATURAL HISTORY, in a
Style of easy Familiarity which has perhaps been never
surpassed. From the French-of J warmer; Price 29. 66.

13. The JUVENILE PLU'I'ARCII, containing the
Lives of celebrated Children, and Accounts of the early
Progress of remarkable Men; calculated to excite in
Young Minds 8 Spirit of Emulation; with several Plates,
price 2:. 6d. . .

14. MINCE PIES for CHRISTMAS, and for nvnnx'
Season on ma: YEAR; consisting of the best Riddles,
Charadcs, 'Rebnses, &c,&c., calculated to eiercise the
Invention and Fancy of Young Persons of both Sexes,
price. 23; 6d. _ _ , p ' j ..

15. UNIVERSAL msrony, Abridged {containing
a popular View of the History of'the' World, abstracted-
chiefly from the great History of Dr. Maven; with Maps,
price 2s. 6-:l. . ' - . .

16. SCRIPTUREHISTORIES, consisting of a Selecs
tion of all the interesting Narratives and insulated Biogra-SebaeLBoo '3 published by Taber! (3' Co'

phies and Histories contained in the Old and New Testis.
meet, in the Language of those Holy Scriptures; printed
on alarge' Type, and illustrated with Copper-plates, in
'2 vols., price 45. half-bound.

l'l. MEMOIRS of DICK the LITTLE PONEY; an
entertaining Narrative, calculated to teach Humanity to
that -su eful Animal the Horse, price 25. .

18. The LIFE of CARLO, the famous Dogs; of Druryc
lane Theatre, containing various Anecdotes of the Fidelity
and Sagacity of Dogs, with Plates, price 15.; or ls. 6d.
with the Plates coloured. .

19. FIRST GOING'to SCHOOL, or a,History of the
Feelings and Adventures of TOM BROWN on his First
Going to School, with LETTERS to his SISTERS, and
adorned with beautiful Engravings, price 25.

20. MARY and her CAT, a familiar and pleasing
Story, in Words not exceeding Two Syllables, with 12
Piates, price 15.

2]. PRESENTS for GOOD GIRLS, chiefly in Words
of One Syllable, with 12 coloured Plates, price is.

2'3. PRESENTS for GOOD BOYS, in Words of One
and Two Syllables, with 12 coloured Plates, price Is.

23. NEW DlALOGUE S for GOOD CHILDREN.
By M. P. with numerous Cuts, price Is.

)24. PROVERBS; or, the WISDOM of ALL AGES
and NATIONS, concentrated in a single Volume, price
'23. 6d. iii bounds.

25. NURSERX SONGS; being a Collection or the
small Ballads usn illy suns: in the Nurser , pIicc 6d.

26. The III.'T0l'Y of BRITISH DOMESTIC QUA-
DRUPEDS, illustrated'with entertaining Anecdotes and
numerous Engravni gs; price 23. (id. in boards.

'28. The BRIT Sr! NEPOS, or Mirror oi Y earth, - be-
ing select Lives of illustrious BI :Ions, II. he hate hee II dis--
tinguished by their V irtues, 'l alents, .or remarkable Atl-
vance: nent in Life, With inc: denial practical Retl actions ,
written purposely for the Use of V oung Persons, on the
obvious Principle, that " Example is more pammful and
more seductive Hit: It Prcccp'. " By VVrLIJA M MAVOR,
LL. I). Vicar of llurlet , in Berkshire, and Chaplain to the
iii-art of Moira. Price is. (ill. bound.

29. The LIVES of PLUTARCH, Abridgedtcontaining
Accounts of the most illustrious and estimableCharacters
01' Antiquity, by the same AuIlIor, price 4s. Gd. bound.

.I..___..--_.__.-------

RENEY,.1'RINTER, 933, BANSl"'x:.-t-.'l't:l'-:l'-'.'i'.

 

__--__-----_...._-------.- 7--...._ --.~ , ...c--..

\7M" {oi/(fill .

//
(.

 

"/x/Ifl

.W--uu .w. . __ .. . . ' . ' .WV , .. ..
r/ 3. . ' _. _. 2%.: V #6.}-
. 2"wa . . a . .. . e/IZWMWW/M/ ..,.

           
   

7/51"" row/r
Land/m, [21]). Jake 'y 43:; f,/{{/ 713/701"!- K" 6'"

     

   

. fiat,"

  

4 .. . 1 . ~ \\|Y=\ . "t . ./
2595. 3"? . _ \\ \SS\ 3% 6,.

{/1}

a

=\ m. Q53 . _.,. ...w a at.

g, * . . x . ..

. my? .8 55%,

q

I