Robmson Crusoe xnstrucung Frxdax:THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

OP YORK, MARINE".

I LLUSTBATED WITH

ONE HUNDRED AND TEN WOOD ENGRAVINGS.

 

LONDON:
WARD & LOCK, 158, FLEET STREET.('AMI'EN PRESS, LONDON.CONTENTS.

SECTION I.

nan

Robinson's Family, ac.--Eis Blopement from his Parents .. ......................... 1
SECTION II.

First Adventures It See, and Experience of a. Maritime Life-Vow to
Gnines...... ... . .... ................. ........ .

 

SECTION III.
Robinson' 5 Csptivity ot Ssllee.-- --Eseope with Xury. --Arrivel at the Brazils.

SECTION IV.

He settles in the Brazil: as a Plsnter.--Mnkee mother Voyoge, and is Ship-
wrecked ......... ..................... ............. ........

SECTION V.

Robinson finds himself in l. Duolate Islnndr-Procmm a. Stock of Articles
tom the Wreck--Constructs his Hebitstion ..

SECTION VI .

Curries all his niches, Provisions, to. into his Habitstion.--Dreerinees or
Solitude.--Oonsolotory Reflections .............................

SECTION VII.

Robinson's Mode of Reckoning Time.--Difllculties arising from want of
Tools--He muses his Hsbitstiou ........... .......

SECTION VIII.

Robinson's "mammal-11s of his Domestic Economy and Contrivsnoee.
fShook of on Esrthqunke ............. ................. .

SECTION IX.
Robinson obtains more Articles tron: the Wreck--His Illneu end Afliietion

SECTION VI.

His Recovery--His Comfort in Reading the Smiptum--Mskes sn Excur-
sion into the Interior of the Island--Forms his " Bower " . ....... . .....

 

11

31

67iv coxrnnrs.

 

 

 

.I'AGL
SE CTION XI.
30 ' makes a Tour to Explore his Island ..... .............. 65
SECTION XII.
He re . to his Cave--His Agricultural Laboura and Success ..... 69
' SECTION x111.
His Manufacture of Pottery. and Contrivance for baking Bread ..... 74

SECTION XIV.

Meditates his Escape from the Island.--Builds a Canoe--Failure of his
Scheme--Resignation to his Condition--Makes himself a new Dress ...... '18

SECTION XV.

He makes a smaller Canoe, in which he attempts to cruise round the Island.
--Ris perilous situation at Sea--He returns home ............................... ....... 8'

SECTION XVI.

He rears 2. Flock of Goats.--His Diem--His Domestic habits and Style of
Living--Increasing Prosperity .......................................................... ..... so

SECTION XVII.
Unexpected Alarm and Cause for Apprehension.-- He For-tines his Abode--- as

SECTION XVIII.
Precautions against Surprise--Robinson discovers that his Island has been
visited by Cannibals ...................................................... . ............ .............. 99
SECTION XIX.
Robinson discovers a Cave which serves him as a Retreat against the
Savages ........................................................................................... ........ 103
SECTION XX.

Another visit of the Savages--Robinson sees them dancing.--Peroeivea the
Wreck of a Vessel .................................................................................... 108

SECTION XXI.
He visits the Wreck and obtains many Stores from it.---Again thinks of
quitting the Islani--Has a remarkable Dream ......................................... 112
STCTION K_XXII.

Robinson rescues one of their Captives from the Savages. whom he nama
Friday, and makes his Servant ................................................ .. ............... 116

SECTION XXIII.

Robinson instructs and civilizes his man Pridav--Endeavours to give him
an Idea of Christianity..i..i .. . ..
' SECTION XXIV.

Robinson and Fridsy build s Canoe to carry them to. Friday's Country
Their Scheme prevented by the arrival of s Psrty of Ssvnges.............

SECTION XXV.

Robinson releases a Spaniard.---Eridey discovers his Fathom--Awe
tion provided for these new Guests--who are afterwards sent to ii to
the other Epsom--Arrival of on English Vessel It 137

SECTION XXVI.

Robinson discovers himself to the English Cerium--Assists him in reducing
his mutinous Crew.--who submit to him . ..... . ................... .......... .. 152

SECTION XXVII.

I Atkins entrests the Captain to spore his Life--The latter recovers his Vessel
from the Mutineers.--And Robinson leeves the Islsnd ..... ......... 168

SECTION XXVIII.

Robinson goes to Lisbon. where he finds the Portuguese Captain, who renders
him an Account of his Property in the Basile--Sets out on his Return to ~
Euglnnd by Lend ... ..... .................... . .......................... ............ 171

SECTION XXIX.

Friday's Encounter with s Bean--Robinson and his fellow Travellers
attacked by a. Flock of Wolves--Bis Arrangement oi' his sflhirs, and
Marriage after his Return to England........ ..... . ..... ....... .......... . 179

SECTION XXX.

He is seized with s Desire to revisit his blend--Loses his Wit ' tempted
to go to See again--Takes out o Cargo {or his Colony . 13']

SECTION XXXI.
Robinson's Ship relieves the Crew oi' a French Vessel that had caught Fire... 190

PAGE

   
   

. 181

 

 

SECTION XXXII. '

 

SECTION XXXIV.

The Account continued--Quads between the Englishmen.--A Bettie
between two Parties of Bungee who visit the hind--Fresh Mutiny
unong the Settlers ........ ........ ...... ..... ....... see
SECTION XXXV.

FAG)
The mutinous Englishmen are dismissed from the Island.---B;eturn with

several captive Savages--Take the Females as Wives 232

SECTION XXXVI.

Several Savages killed: the Remainder leave the Island--A Fleet of them
afterwards arrives-A general Battle.-the Savagw am overcome, and
Tranquility restored ............ ' ................ . ..... . ................ .. ............. .. 22$

 

SECTION XXXVII.

Robinson learns from the Spaniards the Dilflculties they had to encounter.-
He furnishes the People with Tools, Sc.--The French Ecclesiastic ....... 246

SECTION XXXVIII .

Encounter with Savages at Sea--Friday's Death--Robinson finds his former
Partner in the Brazils.--Sails for the East Indies ............ .............. 25o

SliC'l'ION XXXIX .
The Vessel touches at Madagascnn--Afl'ray with the Nativesr-who are mas-
sacred by the Crew--The Sailors afterwards refuse to sail with Robinson.
who is left by his Nephew. the Captain, in Bengal...... ...................... . ....... 259

SECTION XL.

Meets with an English Merchant with whom he makes some trading
Voyages.--They are mistaken for Pirates.--Vanquiah their Pursue".--
Voyage to China-Recontre with the Cochin-Chinese.--Island of Formosa.
-Gulf of Nanquiu.---Apprehension of falling into the Hands of the Dutch. 268

SECTION XLI.

Journey to Pekin.--Robinson joins a Caravan proceeding to Moscow--Ben-
eontres with the Tartars .. ..................... . ........ . .....

SECTION XLIl.

Route through Mnscovy.---Robinson and a Scots Merchant destroy an Idol.
--'l'he whole Caravan in great Peril from the Pursuit of the Pagans.--
Tobolski.--Departure from Tobolski.--Encounter with a Troop of Robbers
in the Desert--Robinson reaches Archangel, and finally arrives in England 296BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICE

OF THE

AUTHOR OF ROBINSON CRUSOE.

DANIEL Daron, the author of numerous works of fiction, among
which the " History of the Plague " has attained a certain popularity,
and " Robinson Crusoe " a lasting and'world-wide renown, was born
in the parish of St. Giles, Cripplegate, in the city of London, in the
year 1661. He was educate at a dissentin school at Newington
Green; his father, astrict dissenter, intending ' for the priesthood.
But this project seems to have been abandoned, for some unknown
reason, and young Daniel became a tradesmen, like his father. Some-
thin of the roving, restless nature, so admirabl described in
"' inson Crusoe," seems to have been inherent in efoe himself;
for his life is full of strange vicissitudes, and he a pears continually
involved in trouble on one account or another. lSSe find him taking
part in the most ill-considered and unfortunate enterprise of his
time, the Rebellion of Monmouth, and narrowly escaping what the
cynical s irit of the time dubbed " a merry -round at rope fair,"
namely, eath by strangulation, for the o ence. In after-er he
was hotly embroiled in the political quarrels of his age. At one
time he was compelled to stand in the pillory, as a punishment for
wit a well-timed and thoughtful pamphlet on " The shortest wa
with t e Dissenters." The lJpopulace, ilympathizintg with and -
miring him, crowned the p' cry with owers, an converted his
penance into a triumph; but this could not relieve him from the

urden of the heavy fine he was compelled to pay, and which ham-
pered him for years afterwards. At another time he suffered along
imprisonment, obtainin his release after two years by the interven-
tion of Harley, Earl of %xford. But he had not the art of advancing
his fortunes, though his evident merit procured him em loyment in
several matters of conse uence; and, at the end of his 011% life, he
was in poverty and ne ect. He died in his native paris of St.
Giles, Cripplegate, Ap ' 24, 1781, at the age of seventy, and was
interred in Bunhill Fields burial-ground. , ,

The political works of Defoe are numerous, and had a sensible
effect on the times in which he lived. A thorou h lishman, out-
spoken, vehement, and uncom romis' , he 8 cute out lustily
against abuses and wrong-doingw erever e found them; andinmany
respects his ideas were greatly in advance of his time. Some of his
schemes may have been Visionary and impracticable ; but it is pleasant
to hear his sturdy voice raised, and to see his nervous pen wielded so
unflinchinglyin advocacy of his principles, and to mark howunvarymgly
those principles point to moderation, mercy, and the law of kindness.
His Review, which he conducted for nine years, may certainly be
considered as the pioneer of the Spectator, Taller, Guardian, and
other collections of essays which enriched the literature of the first
half of the eighteenth century.

His political writings, however, have mostly passed away with the
troublous times which gave them birth, and to which their interest
was confined. It was as a writer of fiction that Defoe was to
achieve more lasting fame. Two, at least, of his works have a value
and a significance uite irrespective of time and place,--thc one as a
record of a nationiil calamity, the other as a wonderful piece of ima-

inary autobiography. These two books are the "History of the
I'lague of 1665," and the " Adventures of Robinson Crusoe."

At the time when the scourge was decimatin London, Daniel
Defoe was only four years old. It could not, t erefore, be from
memory that he so vividly described its incidents; though, doubtless,
in his youth he heard many an anecdote about the pestilence and its
ravages, from men of uiaturer years, on whose memories it must have
made an indelible impression. But his chief talent la in the
management of detail and accarate description; and it is ifiicult to
imagine, as we read the graphic record of the state of the terror-
stricken, desolate city, that we have not before us the real daily
notes of an actual indweller in the city of the laguc. In Robinson
Crusoe the Same marvellous ower is shown, ut in a much hi her
dcoree. With matchlcss sk' l, the doubts and sorrows, the srifts
and expedients, the little domestic triumphs and disappointments of
the ship-wrecked mariner in his solitary home are put before the
reader in the very form most calculated to enlist his interest and
sympathies. So thoroughly has the author identified himself with the
hero of his romance, that Defoe disappears, and it is Robinson Crusoe
himself who becomes a living personality, and moves and speaks
before the reader, and becomes as clearly and distinctly personified
as any hero of real life.

The first edition of Robinson Crusoe was published in 1719. In
the century and a half that has since elapsed, hundreds of edi-
tions have a peared in all European languages. Everywhere the
book has wor ed its way; and as for the German version, " Robinson
de Jungere" is chronicled as one of the greatest successes of the
eminent Hamburgh firm of Camps and Co.

In the present volume, the original text, slightly shortened, has
been adhered to. The operation of modernizing the language, ne-
cessary, perhaps, in a scientific <<work, would have taken away one of
the chie charms from the narrative of the simple sailor, who is
therefore left to tell his tale in his own rou h, pathetic, old-fashioned
way. The drawings are from an eminent 'erman pencil, and apart

from their artistic value, serve the purpose of thoroughly illustrating
the text.uonmsox's FAMILY, are--ms mornmm'r raom ms mums.

I was born in the year 1632, in the cit of York, of a good family,
though not of that country, my father eing a foreigner of Bremen,
named Krcutznaer, who settled first at Hull. He got a 0d estate
by merchandise, and leavin off his trade, lived afterwar s at York;
from whence he had marrie my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very good family in that country, and after whom I was
so called, that is to say, Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual
corru tion of words in England, we are now called, nay, we call
ourscli'es, and write our name, Crusoe; and so my companions always
called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-colonel to an
English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly commanded by the
famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards. - What became of in second brother, I never
knew, any more than my father and mot or did know what was
become of me.

Being the third son of the famil , and not bred to any trade, my
head began to be filled very eary with rambling thoughts. My
father, who was very aged, had given me a competent share of
learning, as far as house education andacountry free school generally
go, and designed me for the law; but I would be satisfied wit
nothing but go' to sea; and my inclination to this led me so
strongly againstnae will, na , the commands of my father, and
against all the entreaties an persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that pro ension of
nature, tending directly to the life of misery which was to efall me.

, n
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one
morninrr into his chamber, where he was contiiied by the gout, and
expostiilated very warnily with me upon this subject; he asked mt'
what reasons, more than a mere wandeiing inchnation, I had for
leaving his house, and my native country, where I might be well
introduced, and had a prospect of raisin" niy fortune, by application
and industry, with a hfe of case and p ensure. He told me it was
men of desperate fortunes, on one hand, or of superior fortunes, on
the other, who went abroad upon adventures, aspiring to rise by
enterprise, and make themselves famous in undertakings of nature
out of the common road; that these things were all either too far
above me, or too far below me ; that mine was the middle state, or
what might be called the upper station of low life, which he had
found, by long experience, was the best state in the world, the most
suited to human ha ipiness; not ex osed to the miseries and hard-
shi s, the labOur an sufferings, of tie mechanic part of mankind,
an not embarrassed with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of
the upper part of mankind : he told me, I might judge of the liappi
ness of this state by one thing, viz., that this was the state of hte
which all other people envied ; that kings have frequently lamented
the miserable consequences of beiii born to great things, and wished
they had been placed in the middle of two extremes, between the
mean and the (treat; that the wise man gave his testimony to this
as the just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have " neither
povert nor riches."

He ade me observe it, and I should alwa 5 find, that the calami-
ties of life were shared amonv the upper an lower part of mankind;
but that the middle station iad the fewest disasters, and was not
exposed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of man-
kiiid; nay, they were not subjected to so many distempers and
nneasinesses, either of body or mind, as those were, who, by vicious
living, luxury, and extravagancies, on one hand, or, b hard labour,
want of necessaries, and mean and insufiieient diet, ont e other hand,
bring distempers upon themselves by the natural consequences of
their way of iviiig; that the middle station of life was calculated for
all kind of virtues, and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and
plenty were the handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance,
moderation, quietness, health, societ , all agreeable diversions, and
all desirable pleasures were the biessings attending the middle
station of life; that this wa men went silently and smoothly thron h
the world, and comfortably out of it, not embarrassed with t e
labours of the hands or oi the head, not sold to the life of slaver
for dail bread, or harassed with perplexed circumstances, which rob
the so of peace, and the body of rest; not enraged with the assion
of envy, or secret burning lust of ambition for great things ; ut, in
easy circumstances, sliding gently through the world, and sensibly
tasting the sweets of living. without the bitter; feelingutlhat they are
happ ,1 and learning by every day's experience, to ow it more
sens: .

Aftei this he ressed me earnestly, and in the most afi'ectionate
manner, not to p ay the young man, nor to precipitate myself into
miseries which nature, and the station of life I was born in seemed
to have provided against; that I was under no necessity of seeking
my brca ; that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter me
fairly into the station of life which he had been just recommen '
to me; and that if I was not very easy and ha py in the world, it
must be my more fate, or fault, that must hin er it; and that he
should have nothing to answer for, liavin thus discharged his duty
in warninrr me against measures which heinew would be to my hurt;
in a wor , that he would do very kind thin for me if I would
stay and settle at home as he directed; he to d me I had In elder
brother for an example, who had run into the army, where e was
killed during the Low Country wars; that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me; and I would have leisure, hereafter,
to reflect upon having neglected his counsel, when there might be
none to assmt in my recove .

I observed the tears run 1down his face very plentifully, especially
when he spoke of my brother who was killed , and that, when he
spoke of m ha ' leisure to re ent, and none to assist me, he was
so moved, t at he roke 011' the iscourse, and told me his heart was
so full, he could say no more to me.

1 was sincerely afi'ected with this discourse; as, indeed, who
could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of going abroad any
more, but to settle at home, according to m father's desire. But
alas! a few days wore it all off : and, in 5 mt, to prevent an of
my father's further importunities, in a few weeks after I reso ved
to run quite away from him. However, I did not act so hastily,
neither, as my first heat of resolution prompted; but I took my
mother, at atime when I thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary,
and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing
the world, that I should never settle to anythin with resolution
enough to go through with it, and my father had etter give me his
consent than force me to go without it; that I was now e' hteen
years old, which was too late to apprentice to a trade, or c erk to
an attorney; that I was sure, i I did, I should never serve out
my time, and I should certainly run away from my master before my
time was out, and go to sea; and if she would speak to my father to
let me make but one voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did
not like it, I would go no more; and I would promise by a double
dili ence, to recover the time I had lost. ,

his put my mother in a great passion: she told me she knew It
would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such a sub-
ject; that he knew too well what was my interest to give his consent

32
to anything so much for my hurt; and that she wondered how I
could think of any such thing, after such a discourse as I had from
my father, and such kind and tender ex ressious as she knew my
father had used : that for her art, she wo d not have so much hand in
my destruction; and I shor d never have it to say, that my mother
was willing when my father was not.

Though my mother refused to more it to my father, yet, as 1 have
heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him; and that
mv father, after showing agreat concern at it, said to her with a sigh :
" That- boy miOht be happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes
abroad, he w' 1 be the most miserable wreteh that ever was born;
I cannot give consent to it."

 

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose ; though
in the meantime I continued obstinately deaf to all )roposals of
settling to business, and frequently expostulating with my father
and mother about their being so positively determmed against what
dial knew my inclinations rompted me to. But being one day at
H , whether I went casua ly, and without any purpose of making
an elopemeut at that time, and one of my companions then going
to London by sea in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with
them by the common alluremcnt of seafaring men, viz., that it should
cost me nothing for my passage, I consulted neither father nor
_mother any more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but left.
them to hear of it as they might, without asking God's blessing,
or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances or conse-
quences, and in an ill hour, God knows.
FIRST ADVENTURES AT SEA, AND EXPERIENCE OF A MARITIME LIFE.
VOYAGE TO GUINEA.

ON the let September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for
London. Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,
began sooner, or continued longer, than mine. The ship had no
sooner got out of the Humber, than the wind began to blow, and the
waves to rise, in a most frightful manner; and as I had never been
at sea before, I was most inexprcssibly sick in body, and terrified in
mind; I be an now seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and
how justly was overtaken b the judgment of Heaven, for wickedly
leaving my father's house. the good counsels of my arents, my
father's tears, and my mother's entreaties, came now resh to my
mind; and m conscience, which was not yet come to the itch of
hardness to w 'eh it has been since, re reached me with t e eon-
tenfllt of advice, and the abandonment o my duty.

this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I had
never been upon before, went very high, though nothin like what
I have seen many times since; no, nor what I saw a few ys after;
but, such as it was, enough to afi'ect me then, who was but 8. yo
sailor, and had never known anything of the matter. I expecte
every wave would have swallowed us up, and that eve time the
Slnp fell down, as I thought in the trough or hollow of t e sea, we
should never rise more; and in this agony of mind I made mill,
vows and resolutions, that if it would please God to are runly e
this voyage, if ever I t my foot once on dry. land, we d
directly home to my fa er, and never set it into a ship again w e
I lived; that I would take his advice, and never run myself into
such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the goodness
of his observations about the middle station of life ; how easy, how
comfortable, he had lived all his days, and never had been exposed
to tempests at sea or troubles on shore; and I resolved thatI would,
like a true repeating prodigal, go home to m father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued during the storm, and
indeed sometime after; but the next day as the wind was abated,
and the sea calmer, I began to be a little inured to it. However, I
was very grave that day, being also alittle sea-sick still; but towards
night the weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charm-
ing fine evening followed: the sun went down perfectly clear, and
rose so the next morning; and having little or no wind, and a smooth
sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most
delideghtful that I ever saw.

Iahad slept. well in the night, and was now no more sea-sick, but
ve cheerful, looking with wonder u on the sea that was so rough

an terrible the day before, and cou d be so calm and pleasant in a
little time after.

 

And now, lost my good resolutions should continue, my companion,
who had mdeed enticed me away, came to me, and said, " Well, Bob,"
clapping me on_ the shoulder, " how do you do after it? I warrant
you you were frightened, wa'n't you, last night, when it blew a ca
full of Wind ?"--" A cap-full, do you call it?" said I; " 'twas a teer e
storm.:'---" A storm you fool?" replies he, " do you call that a storm!
Why, it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship, and sea-room,
and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; you are but
a fresh water sailor, Bob; come, let us make a bowl of punch, and
we'll forget all that. D'ye see what charming weather tis now?"
To make short this sad part of my story, we went the way of all
sailors; the punch was made, and I was made drunk with it; and in
one mght's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflec-
tions upon my ast conduct, and all my resolutions for the future.
In a word, as t e sea was returned to its smoothness of surface andmvmtrms or noamsox onuson. 7

settled calmness by the abatement of the storm, so the hurry of .
my thou hts being over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallow up b t e sea to tten, and the current of my former
desires returne , I entirely orgot the vows and promises I had
made in ml: distress.

The sixt day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads ;
the wind having been contrary and the weather calm, we had
made but little way since the storm. Here we were obliged to
come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary,
viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days, during which time a great
many ships from Newcastle came into the same roads, as a common
harbour where the ships might wait for a wind for the river Thames.
We had not, however, rid here so long, but we should have tided up
the river, but that the wind blew too fresh; and, after we had lain
four or five days, blew very hard. However, the roads being reckoned
as good as a harbour, the anchorage od, and our ground tackle
very strong, our men were unconceme , and not in the least appre-
hensive ofD danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the
manner of the sea. But the eighth day, in the morning, the wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our topmasts, and
make everything sun and close, that the shi might ride as easy as

ossible. By noon t e sea went very high in eed, and our ship rode
orecastle in, ship ed several seas, and we thought, once or twice our
anchor had come ome; upon which our master ordered out the sheet
anchor; so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and cables veered
out to thebetter end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to
see terror and amazement inthe faces of even the seamen themselves.
The master was vigilant in the business of preserving the ship; but,
as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly
sa to himself several times, " Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be

lest; we shall be all undone ;" and the like.

The storm was so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the
master, the boatswain, and some others, more sensible than the rest,
at their prayers, and ex cctin every moment the ship would go to
the bottom. In the middle 0 the night, and under all the rest of
our distresses, one of the men, that had been down on purpose to see,
cried out, " We have sprun a leak!" another man said " there was
four feet water in the ho] ." Then all hands were called to the
pump. At that very word my heart as I thought, died within me,
and fell backwards upon the side of my bed, where I sat in the
cabin. However, the men roused me, an told me that I, who was
able to do nothing before, was as well able to pnm as another ;_ at
which I stirred u and went to the pump, and wor ed very heartily.
While this was 0' , the master seeing some light colliers, who,
not able to ride outntfiie storm, were obli ed to slip and run away to
sea, and would not come near us, ordered us to fire a gun as a signal
of distress. I, who knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised,
that I thought the ship had broke, or some dreadful thing hep ened.
In a wordjfi was so sur rised, that I fell down in a swoon. 2i): this
was a time when every ody had his own life to think of, no one
minded me, or what was become of me; but another man step ed
up to the pump, and thrustinv me aside with his foot, let me ie,
thinkliing I had been dead; and it was a great while before I came to
m se .

yWe worked on; but the water increasin in the hold, it was
apparent that the ship would founder; and t ough the stomi began
to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she could swim till we
mieht run into a port;--so the master continued firing guns for help;
an a light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat
out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat came near
us, but it was impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat. to
lie near the ship's side; till at last the men rowing very heartily,
and venturing their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope
over our stern with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great
length, which they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of, and
we hauled them close under our stern, and got all into the boat.
It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to
think of reaching their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and
only to pull her in towards shore as much as we could; and our
master promised them, that if the boat were stavcd upon shore, he
would make it good to their master; so partly rowing and (psartly
driving, our boat went away to the northward, sloping towar the
shore almost as far as Winterton-Ness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship
when we saw her sink; and then I understood, for the first time,
what was meant by a ship foundering in the sea. I must acknow-
ledge, I had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told me she was
sinkin ; for, from that moment, they rather put me into the boat
than t rat I might be said to go in.. My heart was, as it were, dead
within me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind, and the
thou hts of what was yet before me.

While we were in this condition, the men et labouring at the our
to bring the boat near the shore, we coul see (when, our boat
mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore) 3. eat many
people running alone the strand, to assist us when we s ould come
near; but we madecbut slow way towards the shore; nor were we
able to reach it, till being past the lighthouse at Winter-ton, the
shore falls off to the westward, towards Cromer, and so the land
broke off a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in, and,
though not without much dilliculty, got all safe on shore', and walked
afterwards on foot to Yarmouth; where, as unfortunate men, we were
used with great humanity, as well by them aistrates of the town, who
assigned as good quarters, as by the particu ar merchants and owners
of ships; and had money given us sufficient to carry us either to
London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have
gone home, I had been happy: and my father, an emblem of our

 

blessed Saviour's parable, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for,
hearing the ship I went in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was
a great while before he had any assurance that I was not drowned.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was
the master's son, was now less forward than I ; the first time he s eke
to me after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or t ree
days, for we were separated in the town to several quarters; I as the
first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was altered, and, 100 ing
very melancholy, and shaking his head, he asked me how I did;
telhng his father who I was, and how I had come this vo age only
fora trial, in order to go farther abroad. His father t ed very
gravel to me; exhorted me to go back to my father, and not tempt
Provi ence to my ruin; told me, I might see a visible hand of
Heaven against me; "and, young man," said he, "depend u on it, if
you do not go back, wherever you go, you will meet with not ' but
disasters and disappointments, till your father's words are ed
upon you."

We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw him
no more; which way he went, I know not; as for me, having some
money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as
well as on the road, had many stru les with myself what course of
hfe I should take, and whether I sfiguld go home or go to see. As
to going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered to my
thoughts ; and it immediately occurred to me how I should he laughed
at among the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not in
father and mother only, but even everybody else. I'h'om whence
have often observed, how incongruous and irrational the common
tem er of mankind is, es ecially of youth, to that reason which
oug it to guide them in sue 1 cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action for
.which they ought justly to be esteemed fools; but are ashamed of
the returning, which only can make them be esteemed wise men.

I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or as the
sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.

It. was my lot, first of all, to fall into pretty good com an in Lon-
don; I bceame acquainted with the master of a ship, w 0 rod been
on the coast of Gmnea, and who having had very good success there,
was resolved to go again. He, takin a fancv to my conversation,
which was not at all disagreeable at t iat time, and hearin me say I
had a. mind to see the world, told me, that if I would go t. tat voyage
with him, I should be at no expense; I should be his messmutc and
his companion; and if I could carry anything with me, I should have
all the advantage of it. the trade would admit; and erhaps I might
meet with some encouragement. I embraced the 0 er, and, entering
into strict friendship with this captain, who was an honest and plain-
dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and carried a small adventure
with me; which, by the disinterested honesty of my friend the ca -
lain, I increased very considerably; for I carried about forty poun s
in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy. This
forty pounds [ mustered together by the assistance of some of my
relations whom I corresponded with; and who I believe, got my
father, or at least, my mother, to contribute so much as that to my
first adventure. This was the only vo are which I may say was
successful in all my adventures, and whic inf owe to the inte rity and
honesty of my friend the captain; under whom also got a
competent knowledge of mathematics and the rules of navi tion,
learned how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an ofigerva-
tion, and, in short, to undeistand some things that were needful to
be understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to instruct me, I
took deli'rht to learn ; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and a merchant; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces
of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London, on
my return, almost tirce hundred pounds, and this filled me with
those aspiring thoughts which have since so completed my ruin. Yet
even in this voyage I had my misfortunes, too; particularly, that I
was continually sick, being thrown into a violent calenture by the ex-
cessive heat of the climate; our principal trading being upon t e coast,
from the latitude of fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself.
NOIHNSON'S CAPTIVITY AT SALLEE--ESCAPE WITH XURY--ABEIVAL
AT THE BRAZILS.

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and m friend, to my great
misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I reso ved to go the same
voyage again; and I embarked in the same vessel with one who was
his mate in the former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiest voy that ever man made; for
thou h I did not carry uite a hunfid ounds of my new-pained
wealt 1, so that I had two undred pounds eft, and which I odged
with my friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into
terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was this, Via--our
ship, making her course towards the Canary Islands, or rather
between those Islands and the African shore, was s rised, in the
grey of the morning, by a Turkish rover, of Sallee, w 0 gave chase
to us, with all the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
canvass as our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to get clear;
but finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainl come
up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight, our ship avmg
twelve guns and the rover eighteen. About three in the afternoon
he came up with us; and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our
quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a broadside
upon him, which made him sheer ofi'again, after re ' ourfire,
andpo' inalsohiasmallshot from near two hun dmen
whom he on board. However, we had not a man touched, all19. anvnnruaes or noamsox causoe.

our men keeping close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to
defend ourselves; but laying us on board the next time upon our
other quarter, he entered sixty men u on our decks, who immediately
fell to cutting and hacking the sai s and rigging; We plied them
with small shot, half-pikes, owder-chests, an sue like, and cleared
our decks of them twice. owever, to cut short this melancholy
art of our story, our ship being disabled, and three of our men
liilled, and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were
carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belon ' g to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so drea ful as at first I appre-
hended; nor was I carried up the country to the emperor's court,
as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the captain of the
rover as his proper prize and made his slave, being yo and nimble,
and fit for his business. At this surprising change 0 my circum-
stances, from a merchant to a miserab e slave, I was perfectly over-
whelmed; and now looked back u on m father's prophetic discourse
to me, that I should he miserab e, an have none to relieve me;
which I thought was now so efl'ectuallyibrought to pass, that it could
not be worse; that now the hand of eavcn had overtaken me, and
I was undone, without redemption. But, alas! this was but a taste
of the misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of
this story.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his house,
so I was in hopes hewould take me with him when he went to sea
again, believing that It would, some time or other, be his fate to be
taken by a Spanish or Portuguese man of war, and that then I
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken
away, for when he went to sea he left me on shore to look after his
little arden, and do the common drudgery of slaves about his house;
and w ien he came home ain from his cruise, he ordered me to lie
in the cabin, to look after t 1e ship. >>

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method I
might take to effect it, but found no way that had the least proba-
biht in it. Nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational;
for had nobody to communicate it to that would embark with me;
no fellow-slave, no Englishman, Irishman, or Scotchman there but
myself; so that for two years, though I often pleased myself with
the imagination, yet I never had the least encouraging prospect of
putting it in practice.

After about two ears, an odd circumstance presented itself,
which put the old t ought of making some attempt for my libert
agaih into my head. My patron lying at home longer than usu ,
wrthont fittini out his ship, whic , as I heard, was for want of
money, he use constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes oftener,
if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pinnacle, and go out into

'the road a fishing; and as he always took me and a young Moresco
with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and 1 provedanvnmms or ROBINSON causon. 13

very dexterous in catching fish, insomuch that sometimes he would
send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the
Moresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time, that going a fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we were not half a league
from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowin , we knew not
whither, or which way, we laboured -all day, and al the next night,
and when the morning came, we found we had pulled off to sea,

 

instead of pulling in for the shore, and that we were at least two

leagues from the shore; however, we got well in again, though With

a great deal of labour, and some danger, for the wind began to blow

pretty fresh in the morning; but particularly we were all very
ungry- . .

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to. take more
care of himself for the future; and having lyin by him the long-
boat of our English shi he had taken, he resolve he would not
a fishing any more wit out a compass and some rowsron; so 6
ordered the carpenter of the ship, who was an nglish slave, . to
build a little state-room or cabin in the middle of the longboat, hke
that of a barge, with a lace to stand behind it, to steer and haul
home the main sheet, and room before for a hand or two to stand
and work the sails. She sailed with what we called a leg-of-mutton
sail, and the boom 'ibbed over the to of the cabin, which lay very
snug and low, and ad in it room for ' to lie, with a slave or two,
and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bottles
of such liquor a he thought fit- to drink, and particularly his bread,
rice, and coffee.

We went freguently out with this boat a fishing, and as Iwas
most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went without me.
It happened that he had appointed to go out in this boat, either
for leasure or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction
int at place, and for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and
had therefore sent on board the boat, overnight, a larger store of
revisions than ordinary, and had ordered me to get read three
nsees, with powder and shot, which were on heard his ship, or that
the desinrne some sport of fowling as well as fishing.
got rill things ready as he directed, and waited the next morning
with the boat wasth clean, her ensign and pendants out, and every-
thing to accommodate his guests: when, by and by, my patron came

 

on board alone, and told me his guests had put otl' going, 11 on some
business that fell out, and ordered me, with a man an boy, as
usual, to go out with the boat, and catch them some fish, for that
his friends were to su at his house; and commanded, that as soon
as I had got some fis , I should bring it home to his house; all
which I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance darted into my
thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little ship at my
command; and my master being gone, I prepared to furnish mysel ,
not for a fishing business, but for a voyage; though I knew not,
neither did I so much as consider, whither I should steer; for any
where, to get out of that place, was my way,

My first eontrivance was to make a pretence to s eak to this Moor,
to get something for our subsistence on board; or I told him we
must not presume to eat of our patron's bread; he said, that was
true ; so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit, of their kind,
and three jars wrth fresh water, into the boat. ,I knew where my
patron's case of bottles stood, which it was evident, by the make,
.were taken out of some English prize, and I conveyed them into the
boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before
for our master" I conveyed also a eat lump of bees-wax into the
boat, which weighed above half a undred-weight, with a parcel of
wine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all which were of
great use to us afterwards, especially the wax, to make candles.
Another trick I tried upon him, which he innocently came into also;
his name was Ishmael, whom they call Muley, or Moley ; so I called to
him; " Moley," said I, " our patron's guns are on board the boat, can
you not get a little powder and shot? It may be we may kill some
alcamies (fowls like our curlews) for ourselves, and I know he keeps the
gunner's stores inthe shi ."----"Yes," says he, " I will bring some ;"
and accordingly he broug t a great leathern pouch, which held about
a pound and a half of powder, or rather more, and another with shot,
that had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put all into
the boat; at the same time I found some fpowder of my master's in
the great cabin, with which I filled one o the large bottles in the
case, which was almost empty, curing what was in it into another;
and thus furnished with every t ing needful, we sailed out of port to
fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we
were, and took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out
of the port, when we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish.
The wind blew from NN. E., which was contrary to m desire ; for,
had it blown southerly, I had been sure to have m e the coast of
Spain, and at last reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions
were, blow which way it would, I would be gone from the horrid
place where I was, and leave the rest to fate. .

After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for when I
had fish on my hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see
them, I said to the Moor: " This will not do; our master will not be
thus served; we must stand further off." He, thinking no harm,
agreed; and being at the head of 'the boat, set the sails ; and as I
had the helm, I run the boat near a league farther, and then bro ht
to, as if I would fish. Then givingIthe boy the helm, I stepped or-
ward to where the Moor was, and took him b surprise, with my
arm under his waist, and tossed him clean ever card into the sea.
He rose immediatel , for he swam like a cork, and called to me,
begged to be taken in, and told me he would go all the world over
wrth me. He swam so strong after the boat, that he would have
reached me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon which
I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowhng-pieces,
Ipresented it at him, and told him, had done him no hurt, and
if he would be quiet, I would do him none. " But," said I, "you
swrm well enough to reach the shore, and the sea is calm; make the
best of your way to shore, and I will do you no harm; but if you
come near the boat, I will shoot you through the head; for I am
resolved to have my liberty." So he turned himself about, and swam
for the shore; and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for
he was an excellent swimmer.
I could have been content to have taken this Moor with me and
have drowned the boy, but there was no venturmg to trust him.
When he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury,
and said to him, " Xlu-y, if you will be faithful to me I Will make you
a great man; but if you will not stroke your face to be true to me
(that is, swear by Mahomct and his father's board), I must_throw you
into the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently,
that I could not mistrust him; and swore to be faithful to me, and
go all over the world with me.

 

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I stood out
directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to Windward, that
they might think me gone towards the Straits' mouth (as indeed any
one that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do); for
who would have supposed we were sailing on to the southward, to the
truly Barbarian coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure to
surround us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could never
once go On shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or
more merciless savages of human kind?

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course,
and steered directly south and by east, bending my course a little
towards the cast, that I miwht keep in with the shore ; and having a
fair fresh gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such sail,
that I believe by the next day, at three o'clock in the afternoon,
when I made the land, I could not be less than one hundred and
fifty miles south of Sallee, quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions, or indeed of any other king thereabout; for we saw no

co 1e.

p at such was the fri ht I had taken at the Moors, and the dreadful
apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that I would not stop,
or 0 on shore, or come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I
hm? sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind shifting to
the southward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in
chase of me, the also would now give over; so I ventured to make
to the coast, an came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river;
I knew not what or where, neither what latitude, what country,
what nation, or what river. I neither saw, nor desired to see, any
people; the rincipal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came
mto this cree in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon
as it was dark, and discover the country; but as soon as it was
quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring,
and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that the
poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on
shore till day. " Well, Xury," said I, "then will not ; but it may be
we shall see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."
" Then we may give them the shoot-nun," says Xury, laughing, " make
them run awa ." Such English fury spoke by conversing amo
us slaves. owever, I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, anan
gave him a dram out of our patron's case of hott es to cheer him up.
After all, Xury's advice was good, and I took it. We dropped our
little anchor, and lay still all mght ; I say still, for we slept none ; for in
two or three hours we saw vast creatures (we knew not what to call
them), of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and run into the
water, wallowing and washing themselves, for the leasure of cooling
themselves; and they made such howlings and ye ' gs, that I never
indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was I too; but we
were both more frightened when we heard one of these creatures
swimming towards our boat; and we could hear by his blowing that
he was a monstrous, huge and furious beast. Poor Zury cried to me
to wei h the anchor and row away. " No," says I, " Xury, we can slip
our ca 1e with /a buoy to it, and go off to sea; they cannot follow us
far." I had no sooner said so, but Iperceived the creature within two
oars' length, which sur rised me; however, I immediately stepped
to the cabin door, an tak' 0 up my gun, fired at him; upon
which he immediately turne about, and swam to the shore

It is impossible to describe the horrible noises, and hideous cries
and howlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as
higher wrthin the country, upon the norse or re ort of the an ; a
thing, I believe, these creatures had never hear before. T ' con-
vmeed me there was no going on shore for us in the night upon that
coast; and how to venture on shore in the day, was another question

0
too; for "to have fallen into the hands of any~ of the savages, had
been as had as to have fallen into the paws ol honshand tigers; at
least, we were equally apprehensive of the danger of 1t.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go. on shore somewhere or
other for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat; when and
where to get it was the point. Xury said,_ It I would let hnn go on
shore with one of the jars, he would find 11 there was any water, and
bring some to me. I asked him why he would go; why I should
not go, and he stay in the boat. The bov answered wrth so much

 

affection, that he made me love him ever after. Says he, " If wild
mans come, they eat me, you go away.--" Well, Xury," said I, " we
will both go ; and if the wild mans come, we will kill them; they shall
eat neither of us." So I gave Xury a iece of rusk bread to eat, and
a dram out of our patron's case of bott es, which I mentioned before;
and we hauled in the boat as near the shore as we thought was
proper, and so waded to shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and
two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the coming
of canoes with savages down the river; but the boy, seeing a low
place about a mile up the country, rambled to it; and, by and by,

saw him come runmng towards me. I thought he was pursued by
some savage, or frightened by some wild beast, and I therefore ran
forwards to help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw some-
thing hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature that he had
shot, like a hare, but different in colour and longer legs; however,
we Were very glad of it, and it was very g-pod meat; but the great

e

joy that oor Xury came with, was to 1: me he had found good
water, an seen no wild mans.snvnnrms or nonmson cnvson. 19

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well
that the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd Islands also,
lay not far from'the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation, to find what latitude we .were in, and did not exactly
know, or at least remember, what latitude the were in, I knew not
where to look for them, or when to stand 0 to sea towards them,
otherwise I might now have easily found some of these islands. But
m hope was that if I stood alon this coast till I came to the part
where the English traded, I sho d find some of their vessels upon
their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take us in.

B the best of my calculation, the place where I now was, must
be that country which, lyingl between the Emperor of Morocco's
dominions and the Negroes, 'es waste, and uninhabited, except by
wild beasts; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther
south, for fear of the Moors, and the Moors not thinking it worth
inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness; and, indeed both forsaking
it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, leo ards, and
other furious creatures which harbour there; so that the oors use
it for their hunting only, where the go like an army, two or three
thousand men at a time; and, in eed, for near a hundred miles
together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a. waste, uninhabited
country by day, and heard nothing but howlings and roaring of
wild beasts by night.

Once or twice, in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of
Tenerifi'e, being the top of the mountain Tenerifi'e, in the Canaries,
and had a great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither;
but having tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds; the
sea also oing too high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue
my first esign, and keep along the shore.

After this stop we made on to the southward continually, for ten
or twelve days, hving very sparingly on our provisions, which began
to abate very much, and going no oftener into shore than we were
obliged to for fresh water. My design in this, was to make the
river Gambia. or Senegal; that is to say, anywhere about the Cape
de Verd, where I was in hopes to meet some European ship; and if
_I did not, I knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for the
islands or erish among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships from
Europe, w ich sailed either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or
to the East Indies, made this Cape, or those islands; and in a word

I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point, either that I
must meet some ship, or perish.

When I had nrsued this resolution about ten days longer,
Ibegau to see t t the land was inhabited; and in two orthree
places, as we sailed b , we saw people stand upon the shore to
look at us; we could o perceive they were quite black and stark
naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but
Xury was my better counsellor,and saidtome, " No go, no go." How-

0 220 amen-runes or nonmson cnuson.

ever, I hauled in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them; and 1
found they ran along the shore b me a good we . I observed
they had no wea ons in their ban s, except one, w 0 had a lo
slender stick, w ich Xury said was a lance, and that they woul
throw them a great way With good aim; so I kept at a distance, but
talked to them by signs, as well as I could, and particularly made
signs for something to eat. 'l'hey beckoned to me to stop my boat,
and they would fetch me some meat ; upon this I lowered the top of
my sail, and lay by, and two of them ran up into the country ; and
in less than half an hour came back, and brought with them two
pieces of dry flesh and some corn, such as the produce of their
country ; but we neither knew what the one or the other was; how-
ever, we were willing to acce >t it. But how to come at it was our
next dispute, for I was not for venturing on shore to them, and
they were as much afraid of us; but they took a safe way for us all,
for they brought it to the shore, and laid it down, and went and
stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then came
close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make
them amends ; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige
them wonderfully; for while we were lyin by the shore, came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other as we took it) with great
fury, from the mountains towards the sea; whether it was the male
pursuing the female, or whether they were in sport or in rage, we
could not tell, any more than we could tell whether it was usual or
strange; but I believe it was the latter, because, in the first place,
these ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the hi t; and, in the
second place we found the people terribly frightened, especiall the
women. The man that had the lance, or dart, did not fly from t em,
but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any of the Negroes,
but plunged themselves into the sea, and swam about, as if they had
come for their diversion; at last, one of them began to come nearer
our boat than I at first expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had
loaded my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load both
the others. As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and
shot him directly in the head; immediately be sunk down into the
water, but rose instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was
st gling for life, and so indeed he was; he immediately made to
the s ore ; but between the wound which was his mortal hurt, and the
strangling of the water, he dicd'just before he reached the shore.

It is im ossible to express the astonishment of these poor crea~
tures, at 1. 0 noise and fire of my gun; some of them were even
ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the very terror;
but when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the water, and
that I made signs for them to come to the shore, they took heart
and came to the shore, and began to search for the creature. I
found him b his blood staining the water; and by the hel of a
rope, which slung round him, and gave the Negroes to ha the
dragged him on shore, and found that it was a most curious leo

s otted, and fine to an admirable de ree; and the Negroes h (1 up
their hands with admiration, to t ' what it was I had killed him
wit .

The other creature, frightened with the flash of fire, and the noise
of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the mountains
from whence they came; nor could I, at that distance, know what
it was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of this

 

creature, so I was willing to have them take it as a favour from me;
which, when I made signs to them that the might take him, they
were very thankful for. Immediately they ell to work with him;
and though they had no knife, yet With a sharpened piece of wood,
the took off his skin as readily, and much more readil , than we
co _d have done with a knife. They offered me some 0 the flesh,
which I declined, makin as if I would ive it them, but made
Signs for the skin, which t ey gave me very Freely, and brought me a
great deal more of their revisions, which, though I did not under-
stand, 1yet I accepted. then made signs to them for some water,
and he d out one of my jars to them, turning it bottom upwards, to
show that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to some of their friends, and there came two
women, and brought a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I
suppose, m the sun; this they set down to me, as before, and I sent-
Xury on shore With my jars, and filled them all three.
I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and
water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, i made forward for eleven
lays more, without. offering to go near the shore, till_ 1 saw the land
run a great length into the sea, at. about the distance of four
or five leagues before me; and the sea beintr very calm, I kept a
large offing, to make this point. At length, doubling the oint, at
about two leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on tie other
side, to seaward; then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed,
that this was the Ca e de V erd, and those the islands, called, from
thence, Cape de Ver' Islands. However, they were at a great dis-
tance, and 1 could not well tell what I had best to do; for if I
should be taken with a sale of wind, I might reach neither.

In this dilemma, as 1 was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin,
and sat, me down, Xury having the helm; when, on a sudden, the
boy cried out, " Master, master, a shi with a sail !" and the foolish
boy was frightened out of his wits, t Linking it must needs be some
of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were
gotten far enough out of their reach. I jumped out of the cabin,
and immediately saw, not only the ship, but what she was, viz. that
it. was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the
Coast of Guinea, for Negroes.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to
come in their way; but. after I had crowded to the utmost,
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me, by the help (if their
perspective glasses, and that it was some European boatxwhieh, they
supposed, must belong to some ship that was lost; so they shortened
sail; and in about three hours' time 1 came up with them.

They asked me what I was in Portuguese, and in Spanish, and in
French ; but I understood none of them; but, at last, a Scotch
sailor who was on board, called to me, and I answered him, and told
him I was an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of slavery
from the Moors, at Sallee; they then bade me come on board, and
very kindly took me in, and all my goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will believe, that
I was thus delivered, as 1 esteemed it, from such a miserable, and
ahnost ho eless condition as I was in; and I immediately ofi'ered all
I had to t e captain of the shi , as a return for my deliverance; but
he generously told me, he won d take nothing from me, but that all
l had should be delivered safe to me, when 1 came to the Brazils.

1 will carry you thither in charity, and these things will help to buy
your subsrstenee there, and your passage home again.
"E SBTTLES IN THE BRAZILS AS A l'LANTER--MAKES ANOTHER
VOYAGE, AND IS SlllPWRECKED.

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the perform-
ance, to a tittle : for he ordered the seamen, that none should offer
to touch anything I had: then he took everything into his own
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I
might have them, even so much as In three earthen jars.

We had a very good voyage to the lh'azils, and arrived in the Bay
de Todos los Santos, or all Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two days
after. And now I was once more delivered from the most miserable
of all conditions of life ; and what to do next with myself, I was now
to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough
remember: he would take nothin of me for my passage, gave me
twenty ducats for the leopard's s 'in, and forty for the lion's skin,
which I had in my boat, and caused everything I had in the ship to
he punctually delivered to me; and what I was willing to sell, he
bought of me; such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a
piece of the lum of bees-wax,--for I had made candles of the rest ;
in a word, I ma e about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of
all my cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here, before I was recommended to the house
of a good honest man, like himself, who had an ingenio as they call
11; (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house.) I lived with him some
t1me,_ and acquainted myself, by that means, with the manner of
planting and of making sugar; and seeing how well the planters
lived, and how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could et a
license to settle there, I would turn planter among them: en eav-
ouring, in the meantime, to find out some way to get my money,
which I had left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose,
getting a kind of letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land
that was uncured as m money would reach, and formed a plan for
my plantation and settfement; such a one as might be suitable to
the stock which I prop0scd to myself to receive from England.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born of English

arents, whose name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as
I was. I call him my neighbour, because his plantation lay next to
mine, and we went on very sociably together. My stock was but
low, as well as his; and we rather planted for food than anything
else, for about two years. However, we began to increase, and our
land bclran to come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for
planting canes the next year.

I was, in some degree, settled in my measure for carryinfir on the
plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the ship that took
me up at sea, went back ; for the ship remained there, in providing
his landing, and preparing for his vovage, near three months; when
telling him what little stock I had left behind me in London, he
gave me this friendly and sincere advice: " Senhor Inglez," says he
(for so he always called me,) "if you will give me letters, and a pro-
curation here in form to me, with orders to the crson who had your
money in London, to send your effects to Lis on, to such persons
as I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this country, I
will bring you the produce of them, God willing, at m return: but
since human affairs are all subject to changes an disasters, I
would have you give orders for but one hundred pounds sterling,
which, you say, is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the
first, so that if it come safe, on may order the rest the same way;
and, if it miscarry, you may have the other half to have recourse to
for your supply." This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the best course I
could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I left my money, and a procuration to the Portuguese
ca tain, as he desired me.

wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all my
adventures; whereupon she not only delivered the money, but, out
of her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very handsome
present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in English
goods, such as the captain had written for, sent them directly to

'm at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me at the Brazils: I
found means to sell them to a very great advantage; so that I
might say, I had more than four timest e value of my first cargo,
and was now infinitel beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in the
advancement of my p antation; for the first thing I did, I bou ht
me a Negro slave, and a European servant also , 1 mean anot er
besides one whom the captain brought me from Lisbon.

Having lived almost four years in the Brazils, and be inning to
thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, I ha not only
learned the language, but had contracted an acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as among the mer-
chants at St. Salvador, which was our port; and that, in my dis-
courses among them, I had freauently given them an account of in
two voyages to the coast of uinca, the manner of trading with
the Negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase on the coast for
trifles--sueh as beads, toys, knives, scissars, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like--not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth,
&e., but Negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.

 

They listened always very attentively to m discourses on these
heads, but es eeially to that art which illated to the buyin'
Negroes; wine was a trade, at t at time, not only not far entere
mto, but, as far as it was, had been carried on by the am'entos, or
permission of the kings of Spain'and Portugal, and engrossed from
alga-public; so that few Negroes were bought, and those excessively

It happened, being in company with some merchants and lanters
of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnest y, three
of them came to me the next mo ' , and told me the had been
musing very much upon what I hid diseoursed with them of the
last night, and they came to make a secret proposal to me: and,26 ADVENTURES or nonmsoa cruiser-z.

after enjoining me to secrecy, they told me that they had a mind to
fit out a ship to go to Guinea; thit they had all plantations as well
as I, and were straitcncd for nothing so much as servants; that as
it was a trade that could not be earned on. beeanse they could not
publicly sell the Negroes when they came home. so they desired to
make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore. privately, and
divide them among their own plantations; and, in a word, the
question was, whether I would go as their supercargo in the ship, to
manage the trading part upon the coast of tluiuea; and they otlcred
me that I should hare. an equal share of the Negroes, without pro-
viding any part of the stock.

I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist the
odor, than 1 could restrain mv first rambling designs. In a word, I
told them I would go with all my heart. it they would undertake to
look after my plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it as I
should direet, if 1 miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and en-
tered into writings or covenants to do so, in case of my death;
making the captain of the ship that had saved my life, as before, my
universal heir; but obl'iginv him to dis ose of my ctl'ects as I had
directed in my will ; one--hzdt' ot' the prom uce being to himself, and the
other to be shipped to England.

The ship being titted out. and the cargo furnished, and all things
done as by agreement, by partners in the voyage, I went on board in
an evil hour again, the first of September, 1659, being the same day
eight years that 1 went from my parents at Hull, in order to act the
re e] to their authority, and the fool to my own interest.

We passed the Line in about twelve days' time, and were, by our
last observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes northern lati-
tude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took as quite out of our
knowledge; it began from the south-east, came about to the north-
west, and then settled in the north-east ; from whence it blow in
such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together we could do
nothing but drive, and, scudding away before it, let it carry us
whithcrsocver fate and the fury of the winds directed; and, during
these twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to be
1siwallowed up; nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save their

ves.

About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master
made an observation as well as he could. He found that he had got.
upon the coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the
river Amazon, toward that of the Oronoco, commonly called the
Great River; and as the ship was leaky and very much disabled he
was for going back to the coast of Brazil. -

I was positively against that ; and looking over the charts of the
sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there was no inhabited
country for us to have recourse to, till we came within the circle of
the Carribee islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for Barba-amearcnes or aoamsoa' causes. 27

does ; which by keeping off to sea, to avoid the inth of the bay or
gulf of Mexico, we might easily (perform, as we hoped, in about
fifteen days' sail; whereas we coul not possibly make our voyage to

the coast of Africa without some assistance, both to our ship and
ourselves.

With this design, we changed our course, and steered awa N. W.
by W. in order to reach some of our English islands, where hoped
for relief; but our voyage was otherwise determined; for in the
latitude of twelve devrces eighteen minutes a second storm came
upon us, which carried3 us away with the same impetuosity westward,
and drove us so out of the very way of all human commerce, that
had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we stood a greater chance
of being devoured by savages than ever returning to our own
country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men
earl in the morninv, cried out, " Land !" and we had no sooner run out
of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world
we were, than the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment, her
motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in such a manner,
that we expected we should all have perished immediately; and we
were immediately driven into our close quarters, to shelter us from
the very foam and spray of the sea.

The ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast
for us to expect her getting 011, we were in a dreadful condition
indeed, and had nothing to do, but to think of saving out lives as
well as we could. We hada boat at our stern just before the storm,
but she was first stavcd by dashing against the shlp's rudder, and, in the
next place, she broke away, and either sunk, or was driven of to
sea; so there was no hope from her; we had another boat on board,
but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing; however,
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in
pliecej every minute, and some told us she was actually broken
ll 1'08, y .

_In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold of the boat, and
With the help of the rest of the men, they got her flung over the
ship's side ; and getting all into her, we let go, and committed our-
selves. being eleven in number, to God's mere , and the wild sea;
for thouoh the storm was abated considerab y, et the sea went
dreadfully high upon the shore, and might be we called den wild
zee, as the Dutch call the seain a storm.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a half,
as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern
of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup de grace. In a word, it
took us with such fury, that it overset the boat at once; and separa-
ting us, as well from the boat as from one another, gave us time

hardly to say, "0 God!" for we were all swallowed up in a
moment.
Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, when
I sunk into the water; for though I swam very well. yet I could not
deliver myself from the waves so as to draw my breath, till that
wave havmg driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards
the shore, and having 5 cnt itself, went back, and left me upon the
land almost dry, but ha f dead with the water I look in. I had so
much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that seeing myself
nearer the main land than I expected, I ot upon my feet, and
endeavoured to make on towards the land as last as I could, before
another wave should return and take me up again; but I soon found
it was impossible to avoid it; for I. saw the sea come after me as
high as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy which I had no
means or strength to contend with; my business was to hold my
breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I could; and so, by swim-
ming, to preserve my breathing, and pilot myselftowards the shore, if
possrble; my greatest concern now being, that the wave, as it would
carry me a great way towards the shore when it came'on, might not
carry me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea.

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty or
thirty feet deep in its own body; and I could feel myself carried
with a mighty force and swiftness towards the shore, a very great
way; but 1 held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward
with all my might. I was ready to burst with holdin my breath,
when, as I felt in 'self rising up, so, to my immediate re icf, I found
my head and Iran 5 shootout above the surface of the water; and
though it was not two seconds of time that I could keep myself so,
yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was
covered again with water a good while, but not so long but I held it
out; and finding the water had spent itself, and began to return, I
struck forward against the return of the waves, and felt round
again with my feet. I stood still a few moments, to recover reath,
and till the water went from me, and then took to my heels, and ran
with what strength I had farther towards the shore. But neither
would this deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pourin
in after me again; and twice more I was lifted up by the waves an
carried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well ni h been fatal to me ; for the
sea, having hurried me along, as before, anded me, or rather dashed
me, a inst a piece of rock, and that with such force, that it left me
sense ess, and indeed hel less, as to my own deliverance ; for the
blow, taking my side and roast, beat the breath, as it were, uite
out of my body; and had it returned again immediately, I must ave
been strangled in the water; but I recovered a little before the
return of the waves; and, seeing I should again be covered with the
water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of rock, and so to hold my
breath, if ossiblc, till the wave went back. Now as the waves were
not so big as the first, being nearer land, I held my hold till the
wave abated, and then fetched another run, which brought me so
near the shore, that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did
not so swallow me up as to carry me away ; and the next run I took,
I got to the main land! where, to my great comfort, I clambered up
the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down upon the grass, free from
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.

Lwas now landed, and safe on shore; and began to look up and
thank God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there was,
some minutes before, scarcely any room to hope. I believe it is im-
pOssible to express, to the life, what the ccstasies and transports of
the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the grave ; and

 

ldid not wonder now at the custom, viz., that when a mall-factor,
who has the halter about his neck, is tied up, and 'ust going to be
turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him-- say, I do not
wonder that the bring a surgeon with it, to let blood that very
moment they tellhim of it, that the surprise may not drive the
animal spirits from the heart, and overwhelm him.

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.

_I walked about on the shore, liftin" up my hands, and my whole
being, as I may say, wra ped up in the contemplation of my deliver-
ance ; making a thonsan gestures and motions, which I cannot des-
cribe; reflecting upon my comrades that were drowned, and that
there should not be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I
never saw them afterwards, or any sign of them, except three of
their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows. .
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel--when the breach and froth
of the sea being so big I could hardly see it, it lay so far oil--and
" considered, Lord! how was it possible l (could get on shore I" "

 

I began to look around me to see what kind of a place I was
in, and what was next to be done; and I soon found my comforts
abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance ; for l was
wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink,
to comfort me; neither did I see any pros ect before me, but that
of perishing with hunger, or being devourei by wild beasts; and that
whlch was particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend
myself . <<rainst an other creatures that might desire to kill me for
theirs. n a wor , I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-

ipe, and a little tobacco. Night coming upon me, I began, with a
eavy heart, to consider what would be my lot if there were any
ravenous beasts in that country.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, was, to get up into a
thick bushy tree. I walked about a furlong from the shore, to see
if I could find any fresh water; which I did, to my great joy; and
having drunk, and ut a little tobacco into my mouth to prevent
hunger, I went to t re tree, and etting up into it, endeavoured to
piece myself so as that, if I should fall asleep,'l might not fall; and

ving cut me a stick, for my defence, .[ took up my lodging; and
he. been excessively fatigued, I fell asleep, and sle t as com-
fortabe as, I believe, few could have done in my eon 'tion; and
found myself much refreshed.
ROBINSON FINDS IIIMSELF IN A DESOLA'I'E lSLAND--PROCURES A

STOCK 01' ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK--CONSTIKUCTS HIS
HABITATION.

WHEN I woke it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm
abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before; but that
which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted ofi' in the
mght from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and
was driven up almost as far as the rock which I at first mentioned,
where I had been so bruised by the wave dashing me against it.
This being within about a mile from the shore where I was, and the
Ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that
at- east I might save some necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my a nrtment in the tree, I looked about
me again, and the first thin I ibund was the boat; which lay, as
the Wind and sea had tossed er u , upon the land, about two miles
on my right hand. I walked as ar as I could upon the shore to
have got to her; but found a neck, or inlet, of water, between me
and the boat, which was about half a mile broad; so I came back
for the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I
hoped. to find somet for my present subsistence.

A little after noon, found the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed
so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship:
and here I found a fresh renewing of m grief ; for I saw evident y,
that if we had kept on board, we had een all safe; that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore, and had not been so miserable as to he
left. entirely destitute of all-comfort and company, as I now was.
This forced tears from my e es again; but as there was little relief
in that, I resolved, if possi le, to get to the ship: so I pulled off
my clmhes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and took the
water 2 but when 1 came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater
to know how to get on board: for as she lay "round, and high out
of the water, there was nothing in my reach to ay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I spied a small piece of rope,
which I wondered I did not see at first, hang down by the fore-
chains so low, as that with great dithculty I got hold of it, and by
the he] ) of that rope got into the forecastle of the ship. HereI
found Illmt the ship was bilged, and had a great deal of water in her
hold ; but that she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather
earth, that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost 10 the water. By this means all her uarter was free, and
all that was in that part was dry; for you may e sure my first work
was to search and to see what was spoiled and what was free: and,
first, I found that all the ship's provisions were dry and untouched
oy the water; and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the
bread-room, and filled my pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went
about other things, for I had no time to lose. I also found some
rum in the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and which I
had indeed need enough of, to spirit me for what was before me.
Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many
things which I foresaw would be very necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be had,
and this extremity roused my application: we had several spare
yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a spare topmast or
two in the ship; I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung as
many overboard as I could manage for their weight, tying every one
with a rope, that they might not drive away. When this was done,
I went down the ship's srde, and pulling them to me, I tied four of
them fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a
raft, and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them, cross-
ways, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it was not
able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too light: so I went
to work, and with the. carpenter's saw I cut a spare to mast into
three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great de of labour
and pains. But the hope of furnishing myself with necessaries,
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able to have
done upon another occasion.

My raft was now stronv enough to bear any reasonable weight.
My next care was what tonload it with, and how to preserve what I
laid upon it from the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering
this. I first laid all the lanks or boards upon it that I could get,
and having considered we what I most wanted, I got three of the
seamen's chests, which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered
them down upon my raft; these I filled with provisions, viz. bread,
rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried oats' flesh (which we
lived much u on), and a little remainder of uropean corn, which
had been laid y for some fowls which we had brought to sea with
us, but the fowls were killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together, but, to my great disappointment, I found afterwards
that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found
several cases of bottles belon ' to our ski per, in which were
some cordial waters; and, in , ve or six galibns of rack. These
I stowed by themselves, there bei no nee to put them into the
chests, nor any room for them. ' e I was do' this, I found
the tide began to flow, though very calm; and I h the mortifica-
tion to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore,
upon the sand, swim away; as for m breeches, which were only
linen, and open-knead, I swam on boar in them, and my stockings.
However, this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found
enough, but took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had
other things which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work
with on shore: and it was after long searching that I found the
carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and
much more valuable than a ship-lading of gold would have been
at that time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was,
without losing time to look into it, for I knew in general what it
contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were
two very good fowling-pieces in the eat cabin, and two pistols;
these I secured first, with some ow er-homs and a small bag of
shot, and two old rusty swords. knew there were three barrels of
powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them; but with much search I found them, two of them dry and
good, the third had taken water. Those two I got to my raft, with
the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and
be. to think how I should get to shore with them, having neither
8 , oar, nor rudder; and the least ca ful of wind would have over-
set all my navigation. I hoped to find some creek or river which I
mlght make use of as a port to get to land with my cargo. .

As I ' ed, so it was; there appeared before me a httle
opening of t e land, and I found a stro current of the tide set
Into 1t; so I guided in raft, as well as"? could, to get into the
middle of the stream. at here I had like to have sufiered a second
shipwreck, which, if I had, I think it verily would have broken my
heart; for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at
one end of it upon a shoal, and, not being aground at the other end,

- n
it wanted but. a little that all my cargo had slipped off towards the
end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did my utmost,
by setting my back against the chests, to keep them in their places,
but conldhrot thrust off the raft with all my strength; neither durst
I stir from the posture l was in, but- holding up the chests with all
my might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time
the rising of the water brought me a little more upon a level; and
a little after, the water still rising, my raft tloated again, and I
thrust. her oll' with the our I ltad into the channel, and then driving
up higher, 1 at length found myself in the mouth of a little river,
with land on both sides. and a strong current or tide running up.
I looked on both sides for a proper place to get to shore, for was
not willing to be driren too high up the river; hoping, in time, to
see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near
the coast as I could.

;\t length l spied a little core on the right shore of the creek, to
which. with great pain and ditliculty, I guided my raft, and at. last
got so near. as that. reaching ground with my our, I could thrust
her directly in: but here I had like to have dipped all my cargo into
the sea again; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to say,
sloping. there was no place to land, but where one end of my float,
it' it ran on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink lower, as
before, that it would endanger my earn-o again. All that I could do
was to wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft with my
oar like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a
Hat piece of ground, which I expected the water would flow over;
and so it did. As soon as I found water enourrh, for my raft drew
about a foot of water, I thrust her upon that llat piece of ground,
and there fastened or moored her, by sticking my two broken oars
into the ground, one on one side, near one en , and one on the other
side, near the other end: and thus I lay till the water ebbed away,
and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to View the country, and seek a proper place
for my habitation, and where to stow my oods, to secure them from
whatever might happen. Where I was yet knew not; whether
on the continent, or on an island; whether inhabited, or not in-
habited; whether in danger of wild beasts, or not. There was a
hill, not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep and high,
and which seemed to overtop some other lllllS, which lay as in a
ridge from it, northward. I took out one of the fowlin - ieces, and
one of the pistols, and a horn of powder; and thus armed, travelled
for discovery up to the top of that hill; where, after I had, with
great labour and difficulty, got up to the top, I saw my fate, to my
great affliction, viz. that I was in an island, envnoned in every way
with the sea, no land to be seen, except some rocks, which lay a
great way off, and two small islands, less than this, which lay about
three leagues to the west.
I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I saw
wood reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of whom,
iowevcr, I saw none; et I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds; neither, w en I killed them, could I tell what was fit
for food, and what not. At my coming back, I shot at a great bird,
which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side of a great wood. I
believe it was the first un that had been fired there since the
creation of the world: I ad no sooner fired, but from all parts of
the wood there arose an innumerable number of fowls, of many
sorts, making a confused screaming, and crying, every one according
to his usual note; but not one of them of any kind that I knew.
As for the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its
colour and beak resembling it, but it had no talons or claws more
than common. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.

I now be an to consider that I might yet get a great many things
out of the s ip, which would be uselul to me, and particulme some
of the ringing and sails, and such other things as mi ht come to
land; an I resolved to make another voyage on boar the vessel,
if possible. And as I knew that the first storm that blew must
necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things
apart, till I got everything out of the ship that I could get. Then
I called a council, that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should
take back the raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved
to go as before, when the tide was down; and I did so, only that I
stripped before I went from my hut; having nothing on but a
phequered shirt, 8. pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my
eet.

I got on board the ship as before, and pre ared a second raft;
and having had experience of the first, I neit er made this so un-
meldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought away several things
Very useful to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores, I found two
or three bags of nails and s ikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two
of hatchets; and, above a , that most useful thingncalled a grind-
stone. All these I secured together, with several t ' belonging
to the ilmner; particularly, two or three iron crows, an two barrels
of mus et bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-piece, with
some small quantity of powder more; a large bag full of small shot,
and a great roll of sheet lead; but this last was so heavy, I could
not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side. Besides these things,
I teak all the men s clothes that I could find, and a s are fore-top-
sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and with thisII loaded my
:SCOpdt raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great

m o .

Ha ' got my second car on shore--tho h I was fain to open

the barrels of powder, and bg'.rmg them b par-25s, for they were too

heavy, bemg large casks--I went to work to make a little tent, with

the sails, and some poles which I cut for that purpose; 3nd into
n
this tent I brought every thing that I knew would 5 oil either with
rain or sun; and I piled all the empty chests and cas '5 up in a circle
round the tent, to fortify it from any sudden attempt either from
man or beast.

When 1 had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with
some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without;
and spreading one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols
just at my head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed for the-
first time, and slept very quietly all night, for I was very weary and
heavy; for the night before I had slept little, and had laboured very
hard all day. as vccll to fetch all those things from the ship, as to get
them on shore.

 

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid
up, I believe, for one man: but I was not satisfied still; for while
the ship sat upright in that )osture, I thought I ought to get every
thing out of her that I co (1; so every day, at low water, I went
on board, and brought away something or other: but particularly
the third time I went, I throught away as much of the rigging asl
could, as also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a
piece of spare canvass, which was to mend. the sails upon occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word, I brought away all
the sails first and last; only that I was fain to cut them in pieces, w
and brinnr as much at a time as I could; for they were no more .'

useful totbe sails, but as mere canvass only. 'i
But that which comforted me still more was, that, last of all, after i
I had made five or six such voy es as these, and thought I had
nothing more to expect from the 5 ip that was worth my meddling
with; I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread, an
three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box of sugar, and a barrel
of fine flour; this was surprismg to me, because 1 had given over
expectimr any more provisions, except what was spoiled by the
water. I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it
up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I out out; and, in
a word, I got all this sate on shore also.

The next day I made another vogage, and now having plundered
the ship of what was portable and t to hand out, I began with the
cables, and cutting the great cable into pieces such as I could move,
I got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the iron work I
could get; and having cut down the spritsail-yard. and the mizen-
yard, and everythin I could, to make a large raft, I loaded it with
all those heavy goo s, and came away: but my good luck be an new
to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so overla en, that
after I was entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest of
my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it
overset, and threw me and all my cargo into the water ; as for
myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the shore; but as to
my cargo, it was a great part of it lost, especiall the iron, which I
espected would have been of great use to me: rowever, when the
ti 0 was out, I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of
the iron, though with infinite labour; for I was fain to go for it into
the water, a work which fatigued me very' much. After this I went
every da on board, and brought away w at I could get.

I rad een now thirteen days ashore, and had been eleven times
on board the shi ; in which time I had brought away all that one
pzir of hands cou dwell be supposed ca able to bring; thoughI

lieve verily, had the calm weather hel , I should have brought
away the whole ship, piece by piece, but preparing the twelfth time,
to go on board, I iound the wind began to rise: however, at low
water, I went on board; and though I thought I had rummaged the
cabin so effectually, as that nothing could be found, yet I discovered
a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three
razors, and one air of large scissars, with some ten or a dozen of
good knives and) forks; in another I found about thirty-six pounds
1n mono , some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight,
some go d, and some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money; " 0 drug!" I ex-
clalmed, " what art thou good for? Thou art not worth to me, no,
not the taking off the ground; one of those knives is worth all this
heap: I have no manner of use for thee; e'en remain where thou
art, and go to the bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth
savmgf' However, upon second thoughts, I took it away; and
Wrapme all this in a piece of canvass, began to think of making
another raft; but while I was preparing this, I found the sky over-
cast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew
a fresh gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me, that It
was in vain to reteud to make a raft with the wind off shore ; and
that it was myllmsiness to be gone before the tide of flood began, or
otherwise I miwht not be able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly
I let myself down into the water, and swam across the channel
which lay between the ship and the sands, and even that w1th
difficulty enough, partly with the weight of the things I had about
me, and partly the roughness of the water; for the wind rose very
hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm. '

 

But Iwas got home to my little tent, where I lay, with all my
wealth about me very secure. It blew very hard all that night, and
in the morning, when I looked out, behold no more ship was to be
seen! I was a little surprised, but recovered myself with this
satisfactory reflection, viz., that I had lost no time, nor abated no
diligence, to get everything out of her, that could be useful to me,
and that, indeed, there was little left in her that I was able to bring
away, if I had had more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything
out of her, except what might drive on shore, from her wrech ; as,
indeed, divers pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were
of small use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself
against either savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any
were in the island; and I had many thouOhts of the method how to
do this, and what kind of dwelling to mahe, whether I should make
a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth; and, in short, I. resolved
upon both; the manner and description of which, it may not be
im roper _to give an account of.

I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement, par-
ticularly because it was upon a low, moorish ground, near the sea,
and I believed it would not be wholesome; and more particularly
because there was no fresh water near it: so I resolved to find a
more healthy and convenient spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation, which I found would
be proiper for me; first, air and fresh water, I just now mentioned:
secon , shelter from the heat of the sun: thirdly, security from
ravenous creatures, whether men or beasts: fourthly, a view to the
sea, that if God sent any ship in si ht, I might not lose any advan-
tage for my deliverance, of which was not willing to banish all my
ex ectation yet.

11 search for a lace prop? for this, I found a little plain on the
side of a rising h' , whose nt towards this little plain was steep
as a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from the
top. On the side of this rock, there was a hollow place, worn a
little way in, like the entrance or door of a cave; but there was not
really any cave, or way into the rock, at all.

On the flat of the reen, just before this hollow place, I resolved
to pitch my tent. his lain was not above one hundred ards
broad, and about twice as 0113, and lay like a green before my oor;
and, at the end of it, descended irregularly every way down rate the
low ground by the seaside. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill ;
so that it was sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a
W. and by S. sun or thereabouts, which, in those countries, is near
the settiu .

BeforeEil set up my tent, I drew a. half-circle before the hollow
place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from
thefirnock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and
en 0.

In rthis half~circle I llpitched two rows of strong stakes, driving
them into the ground t' they stood very firm like piles, the biggest
end bein out of the und, about five feet and a half, and
sharpene on the top. e two rows did not stand above six inches
from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I cut in the ship, and laid
them in rows, one upon another, within the circle, between these
two rows of stakes, up to the top, plac' other stakes inthe inside,
leaning against them, about two feet an a half high, like a spur to
a post; and this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast
could get into it or over it. This cost me a great deal of time and
labour, es ecially to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the
place, an drive them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but by a
short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when I was in, I
lifted over after me; and so I was completely fenced in and fortified,
as I thought, from all the world, and consequently sle t secure 'z"
the night, which otherwise I could not have done; t ough, as it
appeared afterwards, there was no need of all this caution against
t e enemies that I apprehended danger from.
CARRIES ALL "IS RICHES, PRO\'lSIONS, ETC. INTO ms HABITATION--
DREARIXESS 0F SOLITUDE--CONSOLATORY REFLECTIONS.

Ixro this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my
riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have
the account above; and I made a large tent, which, to preserve me
from the rains, that in one art of the year are very violent there, I
made double, viz., one sm er tent within, and one larger tent- above
it, and covered the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, which 1 had
saved among the sails.

And nowI lay no more for a while in the bed which I had brought
on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed a very good one, and
belonged to the mate of the shi .

Into this tent I brought my provisions, and everything that
would spoil by the wet; and having thus enclosed all my goods, I
made up the entranee, which till now I had left open, and so passed
and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.

When I had done this I began to work my way into the rock, and
bringi all the earth and stones that I dug down out through my
' tent, I aid them up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, so
that it raised the ground withm about a foot and a half; and thus I
made me a cave, Just behind my tent, which served me like a cellar
to my house. It cost me much labour and many days, before allnonmsox cnusos. 41

these things were brought to perfection; and therefore, I must
back to some other things which took up some of my thoughts. 1;
the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the
setting up of my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick, dark cloud, asudden flash of lightninghhap ed,
and after that, a great clap of thunder, as is naturally t e e ect of
it. I was not so much surprised with the lightning as I was with
a thou ht which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning
itself: my pgwder! My very heart sunk within me when I ought,
that at one b t all my powder might be destro ed ; on which not
my defence only, but the providing me food, as thought, entirely
depended. I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger,
though, had the powder taken fire, I should never have known who
had hurt me.

Such impressions did this make upon me, that after the stormwas
over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and
applied myself to make b and boxes to separate the powder, and
to keep it a little and a ittle in a parcel, in ho e that whatever
might come, it might not all take fire at once; an to keep it so
apart, that it should not be possible to make one art fire another.
I finished this work in about a fortnight; and I t ' my owder,
which in all was about two hundred and forty pounds weig t, was
divided into not less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that
had been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that; so I placed
it in my new cave, which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen, and the
rest I hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet

' ht come to it, marking ve carefully where I laid it.

the interval of time while this was do' , I went out at least
once eve day with my gun. One day I ' ed a shegcat, which
had a litt e kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me
heartily; but when the old one fell, the kid stood stock still by her,
till I came and took her up; and not only so, but when I carried the
old one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to
my enclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the kid
in my arms, and carried it over mipale, in hopes to have bred it up
tame; but it would not eat; so was forced to kill it, and eat it
myself. These two supplied me Wltll. flesh a great while, for I eat
sparingly, and preserved my promious (my bread especially) as
much as possibly I could. _

And now being about to enter mto a melancholy relation of a
scene of silent life, such erhaps, as was. never heard of in the world
before, I shall take it om its beginning, and continue it in its
order. It was, by my account, the 0th of September, when, in the
manner as above said, I first set foot upon'this horrid island; when
the sun being to us in its autumnal equinox, was almost just over
in head : for I reckoned myself, by observation, to he inthe latitude
0 nine degrees twenty-two minutes north of the Line.
liOBIKSOX'S MODE 0F RECKOXISG TIME--DIFFICL'LTIES ARISING FROM
WANT 0F TOOLS--HE ARRANGES llIS HABITATIOS.

AMI-1R I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came into my
thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books,
and pen and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath days from the
working days: but, to prevent this, I cut it with my knife into a
large post, in capital letters; and making it into a great cross, I set
it up on the shore where I first landed, viz., "I came on shore here
on the 30th of September, 1659." Upon the sides of this square
post I out every day a. notch with my knife, and ever seventh notch
was as long again as the rest, and every first day 0 the month as
long again as that long one: and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly,
month y, and yearly reckoning of time.

But it happened, that among the many things which I brought out
of the ship, in the several voyages which, as above mentioned, I
made to it, I got several things of less value, but not at all less
useful to me, which I found some time after, in rummag' o the chests:
as inparticular, pens, ink, and paper; several parcels m t e captain's,
mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; three or four'compasses,
some mathematical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books
of navigation; all of which I huddled together, whether I might
want them or no: also I found three very d Bibles, which came to
me in my cargo from England, and which Ioliid packed up among my
things; some Portuguese books also, and, among them, two or three
poplsh prayer-books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget, that we had in the ship a dog, and
two cats, of whose eminent histor I ma have occasion to say some-
tlnnfi, in Its place; for I carried oth t e cats with me; and as for
the 0g he Jumped out of the ship himself, and swam on shore the
day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a trusty ser-
vant to me for many years: I wanted nothing that he could fetch
me, nor any company that he could make up to me, I only wanted
to have him talk to me, but that he could not do. As I observed
before, 1 found ens, ink, and pa er, and I husbanded them to the
utmost; and I 5 show that w 'e my ink lasted, I kept things
very exact, but after that was gone I could not; for I could not
make any ink by any means that I could devise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, notwithstand-
ing all that I had amassed together; and of these, this of ink was
one; as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or remove the
earth; needles, pins, and thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want
that without much difficult .

This want of tools ma e eve work I did PS35m heavily: and it
was nearly a whole ear before I ad entirely ' hed my] little pale,
or surrounded my abitation. The piles or stakes, w ich were as
heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in cutting and preparing
in the woods, and more by far in bringing home; so that I spent

sometimes two days in cutting and bringing home one of those posts,
and a third in dri ' it into the groun ; or which purpose, I got a
heavy peace of woo at first, but at last bethought me of one of the
iron crows; which, however, though I found it answer, made driving
these osts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what
need {have been concerned at the tediousness of whing I had
to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in; nor h I an other
employment, if that had been over, at least that I could oresee,
except the ranging the island to seek for food; which I did more or
less, every day.

I have already described my habitation, which was a tent under
the side of a rock, surrounded with a stro pale of posts and cables;
but I might now rather call it a wall, or I raised a kind of wall
against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside: and after
some time think it was a year and a half) I raised rafters from it,
leaning to t e rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees,
and such things as I could get, to keep out the rain; which I found,
at some times of the year, very violent. .

I have already observed how I bro ht all my goods into this pale,
and into the cave which I had in e behind me. But I must ob-
serve, too, that at first this was a confused heap of , which, as
they lay in no order, so they took up all my place ; had no room to
turn myself: so I set myself to enlarge my cave, and work further

t44 auvax'rvaiss or aosmsou causes.

into the earth; for it was a loose sanc'lly rock, which yielded easily to
the labour I bestowed upon it; an when I found I was prett
safe as to the beasts of prey, I worked sideways, to the right han ,

 

into the rock, and then turning to the right again, worked uite
out, and made me a door to come out in the outside of my p e or
fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were, a back way
to Iely tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to stow my
0 s.
goAnd now I began to apply myself to make such necessa thin s as
I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a table; or wit out
these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world;
I could not write, or eat, or do several things with so much pleasure,
without a table; so I went to work. And here I must need ob-
serve, that as reason is the substance and original of mathematics,
so that by statilfi and squaring everything by reason, and by making
the most ratio judgment of thi , every man may be, in time,
master of every mechanic art. I hissnever handled a tool in my
life; and yet, in time, by labour, ap lication, and contrivance I found
at last, that I wanted nothing but I could have made, especially if I
had had tools. However, I made abundance of things, even without
tools; and some with no more tools than an adze and ahatchet, which
erhaps were never made that way before, and that with infinite
labour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but
to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on
either side with my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank,
and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, this method, I
could make but one board of a whole tree; but this I had no remedy
for but patience, any more than I had for a prodigious deal of time
and labour which it took me up to make a plank or board: but my
time or labour was little worth, and so it was as well employed one
we. as another.

{made me a table and a chair, in the first place; and this I did
out of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft from the
shi . But when I wrought out some boards, as above, I made large
shelv , of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another, all
along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron work
on; and, in a word, to separate every thing at large in their
places, that I might easily come at them. I knocked pieces into
the wall of the rock, to hang my guns, and all things that would
hang up; so that had my cave been seen, it looked hke a general
magazine of all necessary things; and I had every thin so read
at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to me to see my goo
in such order, and especially to find my stock of all necessaries so

eat.
grAnd now it was that I to keep a journal of every day's em-
ployment; for, indeed, at st, I was in too much hurry, and not
only as to labour, but in much discomposure of mind; and my
journal would, too, have been full of man dull things.

Some days after this, and after I had een on board the ship and
got all that I could out of her, I could not forbear getting up to the
top of a little mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a
ship: then fancy that, at a vast distance, I s ied a sail, please my-
selt with the hopes of it, and, after looking stea ' y, till I was almost
blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus
increase my misery by my folly.

But having got over these t ' in some measure, and having
settled my household stufi' and ha itation, made me a table and a
chair, and all about me as handsome as I could, I began to kee my
journal: of which I shall here give on the copy (thou h in it w be
told all these articulars over ageing as long as it last ; for, having
no more ink, {was forced to leave it ofl'.
ROBINSON'S JOL'RXAL--DETAILS OF HIS DOMESTIC ECONOMY AXD
COXTRIV'AXCES--SHOCK OF AN EARTHQUAKE.

TEE J OURNAL.

Serrmmen 30th, 1659. I, oor miserable Robinson Crusoe, being
shipwrecked, during a drca ful storm, in the oiling, came on shore
on this dismal unfortunate island, which I called the ISLAND or
Desmm; all the rest of the ship's company being drowned, and
myself almost dead.

Ocronen 1. In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the ship
had floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore in mm
nearer the island. I hoped, if the wind abated, I mig t get on
board, and get some food and necesssries out of her for my relief.
I spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on these thi ";
but, at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went u on the sun as
near as I could, and then swam on board. This day 0 it continued
raining, though with no wind at all.

From the 151: of October to the 24th. All these da. 5 entirely
spent in many several voyages to get all I could out o the ship;
which I brought on shore, ever tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain
also in these days, though wit some intervals of fair weather: but
it seems this was the ram season.

OCT. 25. It rained night and all day, with sOme ts of
wind; during which time the ship broke in pieces (the wind lowing
a little harder than before) and was no more to be seen, exce t the
wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent this y in

covering and securing the goods which I had saved, that the rain
mi ht not spoil them.

'rom the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all my
goods to my habitation, though some part of the time it rained ex-
ceedingly hard.

The 3lst, in the mo ' , I went out into the island with my gun,
to see for some food, and 'scover the coun ; when I killed a she-

at, and her kid followed me home, which afterwards killed also,

ecause it would not feed.

NOVEMBER 1. I set up In tent under a rock, and lay there for
the first night; making it as arge as I could, with stakes driven in
to swing my hammock upon.

Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times of work, of
going out with my , time of sleep, and time of diversion; viz.,
every morning I w ed out with my gun for two or three hours, if
it did not rain; then employed myself to work till about eleven
o'clock ; then eat what I had to live on ; and from twelve to two I
lay down to sleep, the weather being excessively hot; and then, in
the evening, to work again. The working part of this day and the
next was wholly employed in making in table, for I was yet but
a very sorry workman: though time an necessi made me a
complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe t ey would any
one e se.

Nov. 13. This day it rained; which refreshed me exceedingly,
and cooled the earth: but it was accom anied with terrible thunder
and lightning, which frightened me eadfully, for fear of m
powder. As soon as it was over I resolved to separate my sto
gf poweder into as many little parcels as possible, that it might not

e m an er.

Nov. 1 . This day I began to dig behind my tent, into the rock,
to make room for my further convemence.

Nona. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this work, viz., a
pickaxe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket: so I desisted from
my work and began to consider how to supply these wants, and make
me some tools. As for ickaxe, I made use of the iron crows, which
were proper eno h, t ough heavy: but the next thing was a
shovel or spade; t ' was so absolutely necessary, that, indwd, I
could do nothing effectually without it; but what kind of one to
make I lmew not.

Nov. 18. The next day, in searching thewoods, I found a tree of
that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they call the iron tree,
from its exceeding hardness: of this, with great labour, and almost
spoiling my axe, I cut a piece; and brought it home, too, With diffi-
culty enough, for it was exceeding heavy. The excesswe hardness
of the wood, and my having no other way, made me a long while
upon this machine: for I worked it effectually by little and little,
into the form of a shovel or s ado; the handle exactly sha ed
like ours in En land, only that he broad part having no iron 5 rod
upon it at the ottom, it would not last me so long; however, it
served well enou h for the uses which I had occasion to put it to;
but never was a 5 level, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long
in making.

 

N or. 23. My other work havino- now stood still, because of my
makinnr these tools, when they were finished I went on; and working
every day, as my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days
entirely in widening an deepening my cave, that it might hold my
goods eommodiously.

DECEMBER 10. I began now to think my cave or vault finished;
when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great quantity
of earth fell down from the top and one side; so much, that, in short,
. it frightened me, and not without reason too; for if I had been under
it, I should never have wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster,
I had a great deal of work to do over again, for I had the loose
earth to carry out; and, which was of more importance, I had
she ceiling to prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come

own.

DEC. 11. This day I went to work with it accordingly; and got
two shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of
board across over each ost: this I finished the next da ; and
setting more posts up wit boards, in about a week more I ad the
roof secured; and the posts standing in rows, served me for parti-
tions to part of my house.

DEC. 17. From this da. to the 20th, I placed shelves, and knocked
up nails on the posts, to ang everything up that could be hung up:
and now I be an to be in some order within doors.

Dec. 20. carried everything into the cave, and began to furnish
my house, and set up somsrsieces of boards, like a dresser, to order
my victuals upon; but b0 began to be very scarce with me; also
I made me another table.

Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats and no breeze; so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food; this time I
spent in putting all my things in order within doors.

 

JANUARY 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early and late with
my and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening, '
furt er into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the is an
I found there were plenty of goats, though exceedingly shy, and hard
to come at; however, I resolved to try if I could not bring my dog
to hunt them down. Accordingly, the next day, Iwent out with 1:1in
dog, and set him upon the goats: but I was mistaken, for they
faced about upon the dog: and he knew his danger too well, for he-
would not come near them. _ . _ .

JAN. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being still Jealous of'
my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thick and'
stro .

Dliigring this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game every

day when the rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveries, in
these walks, of something or other to my advantage; particularly, I,
z.
found a kind of wild pigeons, who build, not as wood-pigeons, in a
tree, but rather as house-pigeons, in the holes of the rocks: and,
taking some young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and
did so ; but when they grew older, they flew all away; which, per-
haps, was, at first, for want of feeding them, for I had noth' to
give them; however, I frequently found their nests, and gotnaieir
young ones, which were very good meat. In the middle of all my
abours it happened, that in rumm wing my things, I found a little
bag; which, as I hinted before, h been filled with corn, for the
feeding of 1ploultry; not for this voy are, but before, as I su pose,
when the s '13 came from Lisbon. hat little remainder 0 corn
had been in the bag was all devoured b the rats, and I saw nothing
in the bag but husks and dust: and eing willing to have the b
for some other use (I think it was to put powder in, when I divide
it for fear of the lightning, or some such use), I shook the husks of
corn out of it, on one side of my fortification, under the rock.

It was a little before the great rain now mentioned, that I threw
this stuff away; takinv no notice of anything, and not so much as
remembering that I had thrown anything there: when, about a month
after, I saw some few stalks of something green shooting out of the
ground, which I fancied might be some p ant I had not seen; but I
was surprised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a longer time, I
saw about ten or twelve ears come out, which were perfect green
Earley, of the same kind as our European, nay, as our English

ar e .

I ayt first thought these the pure productions of Providence for my
support; and, not doubting that there was more in the place, I went
over all that part of the island where I had been before, searching in
every corner, and under ever rock, for more of it; but I could not
find any. At last it occurre to my thou hts, that I had shaken out
a bag of chicken's-meat in that place, an then the wonder began to
cease; and I must confess, my religious thankfulness to God's
providence began to abate, too, upon the discovering that all this
was nothing but what was common; though I o ht to have been
as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a provi ence, as if it had
been miraculous: for it was really the work of Providence, as to me,
that should order or a point that ten or twelve rains of corn should
remain uns oiled, w en the rats had destro e all the rest, as if it
had been opped from heaven; as also, 1; at I should throw it
out in that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a
high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown
it anywhere else, at that time, it Would have been burned up and
destroyed.

I carefullyl saved the ears of this corn, you may be 'sure, in their
season, whic was about the end of June; and, laying up every com,
I resolved to sow them all again; hoping, in time, to have some
quantity sufficient to supply me with bread. But it was not till the
fourth year that I could allow myself the least grain of this corn
to eat, and even then but a aringl , as I shall show afterwards in its
order; for I lost all that sowe the first season, by not observing
the proper time; as I sowed just before the drymseason, so that it
never came up at all, at least not as it would ve done: of which
in its lace.

Besxdes this barley, there were, as above, twent or thirty stalks
of rice, which I reserved with the same care; an whose use was
of the same kin , or to the same purpose, viz., to make me bread,
or rather food; for I found ways to cook it up without bal'fi,
though I did that also after some time.--But to return to my J on .

I worked excessively hard these three or four months, to get my
wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up; eontriving to get
into it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that there
might be no sign on the outside of my habitation. .

APRIL 16. I finished the ladder; so I went u with the ladder
to the top, and then pulled it up after me, and et it down in the
inside: this was a complete enclosure to me; for within I had room
enough, and nothing could come at me from without, unless it could
first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost all
my labour overthrown at once, and myself killed; the case was
thus -.--As I was busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, 'ust at the
entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened by a s ock of an
earthquake!

I was so much amazed with the thing itself (having never felt the
like, nor discoursed with any one that had) that I was like one dead
or stupified ; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like
one that was tossed at sea: but the noise of the falling of the rock
awaked me, as it were ; and rous' me from the stupified condition
I was in, filled me with horror, an I thought of nothing but the hill
falling upon my tent and my household goods, and burying all at
once; this sunk my very soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time,
I began to take courage; yet I had not heart enough to over my
wall again, for fear of being buried alive; but sat s ' upon the
ground greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do.
All this while I had not the least serious religious thought; nothing
but the common " Lord, have mercy on me! ' and when it was over
that went away too.

This set me thinking about what I had best do; conclud-
ing, that if the island was sub'ect to earthquakes, there would be
no living for me in a cave, but must consider of building me some
little but in an open place, which I might surround with a wall, as I
had done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts or men;
for if I staid where I was, I should certainly, one time or other, be
buried alive. 9

a
With these tho hts, I resolved to remove my tent from the lace
where it now stoo being 'ust under the hanging recipice o the
hill, and which, if it shoul be shaken again, WO (1 certainly fall
uFon my tent. I spent the next two days, being the 19th and 20th
0 April, in contriving where and how to remove m habitation. I
resolved that I would 0 to work with all speed to uild me a wall
with piles and cables, c. in a circle as before, and set my tent in it
when it was finished; but that I would venture to stay where I was
till it was read , and fit to remove to. This was the 2lst.

APRIL 22. he next morning I began to consider of means to put
this measure into execution; and I was at a great loss about the

 

tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of hatchets (for we
carried the hatchets for traffic with the Indians); but with much
chop mg and cuttingbknotty hard wood, they were all full of notches,
and 1111: and thong I had a grindstone, I could nor turn it and
grind m5 tools too. This caused me as much thought as a states-
man wo dihave bestowed upon a grand point of olitics, or a judge
man the h_fe and death of a man. At length foontrived a wheel
wrth a string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my
hands at liberty.

Arm 28, 29. These two whole days I took up in grinding my
tools, my machine for turning my grindstone gerforming very well.

{121111. 30. Havmg perceived that my brea had been low a great
while, I now took a survey of it, and reduced myself to one biscuit-
cake a day, which made my heart very heavy. -
ROBINSON OBTAINS MORE ARTICLES FROM THE WRECK--
ILLNESS AND AFFLICTION.

MAY 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-side, the tide
being low, I saw something lie on the shore b' ger than ordinary,
and it looked like a. cask; when I came to it I ound a small barrel,
and two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven
on shore by the late hurricane ; and looking towards the wreck itself,
I thought it seemed to lie higher out of the waterthan it used to do.
I examined the barrel that was driven on shore, and soon found it
was a barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water, and the powder
was caked as hard as a stone; however, I rolled it farther on the
shore for the present, and went on upon the sands, as near as I could
to the wreck of the ship, to look for more. .

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely removed.
The forecastle, which lay buried in the sand, was heaved up at least
six feet; and the stern which was broke to pieces, and parted from
the rest, h the force of t e sea, soon after I had left rummag' her)
was toss , as it were, up, and cast on one side: and the san was
thrown so high on that Slde next her stern, that I could now walk
quite up to her when the tide was out.

This wholly diverted my thougfhts from the design of removing my
habitation; and I busied myse mightily, that day especially, in
searching whether I could make any way into the ship; ut I ound
nothingwas to be expected of that kin , forall the inside of theship
vies choked 11 1:813: and. ficwever, as I had lmefifoi to dee f
can ', vto everyt' topiecestt co 0
the shifincluding that egerything Ilsguld get from her would be
ofsomeuseor othertome. '
MAY 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam through,
which I thou ht held some of the up er part or quarter-deck to-
gether; and when I had cut it through, fcleared away the sand as well
as I could from the side which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I
was obliged to give over for that time.

MAY 4. I went a. fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat
of, tillI was weary of my sport; when just goin to leave ofi', I
caught a young dolphin. I had made 8. Ion line 0 some rope-yarn,
but I had no hooks; yet I frequently cau t fish enough, as much
as I cared to eat; all of which I dried in t e sun, and ate them dry.

MAY 5 to 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck;
and with hard labour I loosened some things so much, with the crow,
that the first blowing tide several casks floated out, and two of the
seameu's chests; but the wind blowino from shore, nothino- came to
land that day but pieces of timber, an a hogshead, which had some
Brazil pork in it. I continued this work every day to the 15th of
June, exce t the time necessary to get food; which I alwa s
appointed, uring this part of my employment to be when the ti e
was 11 , that I might be ready when it was ebbed out; and by this
time had otten timber, and plank, and iron work, enough to have
built a good: boat, if I had known how; and I also got, at several
tings, and in several pieces, near one hundred weight of the sheet-
ea .

J use 16. Goi 0 down to the seaside, I found a large tortoise, or
turtle. This wasnthe first I had seen; which, it seems, was only to
my misfortune, not any defect of the 1place or scarcity; for had I
happened to be on the other side of t e island, I might have had
hundreds of them eve day, as I found afterwards; but perhaps had
paid dear enouOh for t em.

JUNE 17. fs ent in cooking the turtle. I found in her three-
score eggs; and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most savoury
and pleasant that I ever tasted in my life; having had no flesh, but
of goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place.

Just: 18. Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thou ht at
this time, the rain felt cold, and I was somewhat chilly; w 'ch I
knew was not usual in that latitude.

1.1111" 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had been
00 .

J on 20. No rest all ni ht; violent pains inmy head, and feverish.

J UN}: 21. Very ill; frig tened almost to death with the apprehen-
sions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no help; prayed to God,
for the first time since the storm of Hull; but scarce knew what I
said, or why, my thou hts being all confused. -

JUNE 22. A little etter; but under dreadful apprehensions of
sickness.

JUNE 23. Very had again; cold and shivering, and then a violent
headache.
JUNE 24. Much better.

JUNE 25. An he very violent; the fit held me seven hours;
cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats after it.

JUNE 26. Better; and having no vituals to eat, took mygun, but
found myself very weak; however, I killed a she-goat, and with
much difficulty got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. I
would fain have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.

J UN}: 27. The e again so violently that I lay abed all day,
and neither ate norailrlank. I was ready to perish for thirst; but so
weak, I had not the strength to stand up, or get myself any water
to drink. Prayed to God again, but was light-headed; and when I
was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say; only lay
and cried, "Lord, look u on me! Lord, ity me! Lord, have mergyl
upon me!" I su pose I 'd nothirf else For two or three hours; '
the fit wearing 0%, Ifell asleep, an did not wake till far in the night.

When I awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and
exceeding thirsty; however, as I had no water in my whole habita-
tion, 1 was forced to lie till morning.

Ihad, alas! no divine knowledgle: what I had received by the
good instruction of my father was t en worn out, by anuninterrupted
series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant
conversation with none but such as were, like myself, wicked and
profane to the last de ee. I do not remember that I had, in all
that time, one thoug t that so much as tended either to looking
upward towards God, or inward towards a reflection upon my own
ways; but a certain stu idity of soul, without desire of good, or
consciousness of evil, ha entirely overwhelmed me; and I was all
that the most hardened, unthinki , wicked creature among our
common sailors, can be supposed to e; not having the least sense,
either of the fear of God, in danger, or of thankfulness to him, in
deliverances.

It is true, when I first t on shore here, and found all mmhip's
crtr drowned, and mysel?o spared, I was surprised with a ' d of
ecstacy, and some transports of soul, which, ad the grace of God
assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness; ut it ended
where it b in a mere common flight of joy, or, as I ma . say,
being lad I was alive, without the least reflection u on the tin-
guis es goodness of the hand which had preserve me, and had
singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were destroyed, or
an inquiry why provi ence had been thus merciful to me; just the
same common sort of joy which seamen have, after they are t safe
ashore from a shipwreck; which they drown all in the next wl of

unch, and forget almost as soon as it is over; and all the rest of'my
e was like it, Even when I was, afterwards, on due consideration,
made sensible of my conditiom--how I was cast of on this dreadful
place, out of the reach ofhuman kind, out of all hope of relief, or
prospect of redemption,--as soon as I saw but a prospect of hvmg,
and that I should not starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of
afihction wore ofi', and I-beeame to be very easy, ap lied myself to
the worlrs proper for my preservation and su ply, an was far enough
from being aillicted at my condition, as a judgment from heaven, or
as the hand of God against me; these were thoughts which very
seldom entered into my head.

 

But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisure view of_t_he
miseries of death came to place itself before me; when my spirits
began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper, and nature
was exhausted with the violence of the fever; conscience, that had
slept so long, began to awake; and I reproached myself with my
past life, in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness,
provoked the justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and
to deal with me in so vindictive a manner. - .~ . .~_..-. -=-=>>~ i

" Now," said I, aloud, " my dear father's words are come to pass;
God's justice has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear _me.
I rejected the voice of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a
station of life wherein I might have been happy and easy; but I
would neither see it myself, nor learn from my parents the blessing
of it. Ileit them to mourn over my folly; and now I am left to
mourn under the consequences of it." Then I cried out, " Lord, be my
help, for I am in great distress." This was the first rayer, if I may
gall it so, that I had made for many years. gBut return to my

ournal. .
ms uncovers--ms comm 1N READING THE scnmnnss--
mes AN sxcunsmN mro ms mrsmon or THE ISLAND--
romxs ms "sown."

JUNE 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had
had, and the fit eing entirely oil, I got u , and considered now
was in ~ time to get something to refres and support in self
when should be ill. The first thing I did was to fill a ige
case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in reachof my b ;
and to take of the chill or aguis disposition of the water, I ut
about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed them toget er.
Then I t me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals,
but co (1 eat very little. I walked about, but was very weak, and
withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable con-
dition, dreading the return of my distemper the next day.

Now,'as the apprehension of the return of my distemper terrified
me very much, it occurred to my thought, that the Brazilians take
no physic but their tobacco for IL'most all distempers; and I had a
piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was quite
cured; and some also that m green, and not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heavem'no doubt: for in this chest I fiound s
cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what I
looked for, viz., the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay
there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned before,
and'wbich, to this time, I had not found leisure or so much as
mclmation, to look into. I say, I took it out, and brought both
thatandthetobaccowith me to the table. What use tomakeof
the tobacco I knew not, as to my distemper, nor whether it was
good for it or not; but I tried several experiments with it, as if I
was resolved it should hit one way or other. I first took a piece of
a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth; which, indeed, at first, almost
stupified my brain; the tobacco being green and strong, and such
as had not been much used to. Then took some an steeped it
an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it when
I lay down: and lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and held
my nose close over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it; as
well for the heat, as almost for sufl'oeation. In the interval of this
operation, I took u the Bible, and began to read: but my head was
too much disturbe by the tobacco to bear reading, at least at that
time; only, having opened the book casuall , the first words that
occurred to me were these: " Call on me in the day of trouble, and
I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." These words were
very apt to my case; and made some impression upon my thourrhts
at the time of reading them, though not so much as the did .Iter-
wards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no soun , as I may
say, to me; the thing was so remote, so impossible in my appre-
hension of thinrrs, that, as the children of lsrael said when they
were promised flbsh to eat, " Can God spread a table in the wilder-
ness ?" so I began to say, " Can even God himself deliver me from
this place?" And as it was not for many years that any hopes
appeared, this revailed very often upon my thoughts: but, however,
t e words ma e a great impression upon me, and I mused upon
them very often. It now grew late: and the tobacco had, as I said,
dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep: so I left my lam

burning in the cave, lest I should want anything in the night, an

went to bed. But before I lay down, I did what 1 never had done
in all my life: I kneelcd down, and prayed to God to fulfil the
promise to me, that if I called u on him in the day of trouble, he
would deliver me. After m bro "en and imperfect prayer was over,
I drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco; which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce get it
down; immediately u on this I went to bed. I found presently the
rum flew up into my dread violently; but I fell into a sound sleep,
and waked no more till by the sun, it must necessarily be near three
o'clock in the afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour, I am artly
of opinion, that I sle t all the next day and night, and till ost
three the day after; or otherwise, I know not how I should lose a
day out of my reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared
some years after I had done ; for it I had lost it by crossing and
re-crossino the Line, I should have lost more than one day; but
certainly I lost a day in my account, and never knew which way.
Be that, however, one wa or the other, when I awaked I found
myself exceedinIgly refres ed, and in Spirits lively and cheerful:
w en I got up was stronger than was the day before, and my
stomach better, for I was hungry: and, in short, I had no fit the
iglexlt day, but continued much altered for the better. This was the
9t .
The 30th was my well day, of course; and I went abroad with
my gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a seafowl or

 

two, something like a brand goose, and brought them home; but
was not very forward to eat them; so I ate some more of the turtle's
eggs, which were ve ood. This evening I renewed the medicine,
\v ich I had suppose 'd me good the day before, viz. the tobacco
steeped in rum; only I did not take so much as before, nor did I
chew any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke: however, I
was not so well the next day, which was the 1st of July, as I hoped
I shpluld have been; for I had a little of the cold fit, but it was not
muc .

J on 2 and 3. I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I

JULY 4. In the mornmg' I took the Bible; and begmmng' ' at the
New Testament, I began seriously to read it; and imposed u
myself to read a while every mormng and every night; not bin
myself to the number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts
should engage me. It was not long after I set seriously to this
work, that I found my heart sincerely affected with the wickedness of
my past life. The words, "All these things have not brought thee to
repentance," ran seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging
of God to give me repentance, when it happened providentially, the
ve same , that, reading the scripture, I came to these words,
" e is exalted a Prince and a Saviour; to give repentance and to
give remission." I threw down the book; and with my heart as
well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a kind of cos y of jo , I
cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus, thou exafted
I_Pnnce and Sawour! rrive me re entance." This was the first time
in all my hfe I coul st , in t e true sense of the words, that I
prayed; .for now I praye with a sense of my condition, and with a
true scri ture View of hope, founded on the encouragment of the
word of 0d: and from this time, I may say, I began to have hope
that God would hear me.

 

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly employed in
walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a 'tt e at a
time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after a fit of sick-
ness: for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to what
weakness I was reduced. The application which I made use of was
perfectly new, and perhaps what had never cured an ague before:
neither can I recommend it to any one to practise, by this experi-
ment: and though it did carr off the fit, yet it rather contributed
to weakening me; for I had requent convulsion in my nerves and
limbs for some time: I learned from it also this, in particular; that
bein abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my
healt that could be, especially in those rains which came attended
with storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came in
the dry season was almost always accompanied with such storms, so
I found that this rain was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October.

I had now been in this unha py island above ten months: all
possibility of deliverance from t is condition seemed to be entirely
taken from me; and I firmly believed that no human shape had ever
set foot 11 n that place. 'Having secured my habitation, as I
thought, i" ly to my mind, I had a great desire to make a more
perfect discovery of the Island, and to see what other productions
might find, which I yet knew nothing of.

It was on the 15th of July that I began to take a more articular
surve of the island itself. I went up the creek first, w ere, as I
hinte , I brought my rafts on shore. I found, after I came about
two miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher; and that it was
no more than a little brook of running water, very fresh and good:
but this being the dry season, there was hardl any water in some
parts of it; at least, not any stream. 0n the anks of this brook

found many pleasant savannahs or meadows, lain, smooth, and
covered with grass; and on the rising parts 0 them, next to the
higher groun (where the water, as it might be sup osed, never
overflowed), I found a great deal of tobacco, green, a growing to
a very great and stro stalk: and there were divers ot er lants,
which had no knowedge of, or understanding about, an that
might, perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could not find
out. I searc ed for the cassava root, which the Indians, in all that
climate, make their bread of; but I could find none. I saw large
plants of aloes, but did not understand them. I saw several sugar-
canes, but wild; and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I con-
tented myself with these discoveries for this time; and came back,
musing with in self what course I might take to know the virtue
and goodness 0 any of the fruits or plants which I should discover;
but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had made so
little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of the
plants in the fields; at least, very little that might serve me to any
pnr ose now in in distress.

be next day, t e 16th, I went up the same wag again; and after
oing something farther than I had gone the day efore, I found the
Eroo and the savannahs begin to cease, and the country become
more woody than before. In this part I found difi'erent fruits; and
particularly I found melons upon the ground in rest abundance,
and grapes upon the trees: t e vines, indeed, h spread over the
trees, and the clusters of grapes were now just in their prime, very
ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I was ex-
ceedingly glad of them, but I was warned by my experience to eat
s aringly of them; remembering that when I was ashore in Barbary,
tiie eating of gra es killed several of our Englishmen, who were
slaves there, by t owing them into fluxes and fevers. I found,
however, an excellent use for these grapes; and that was to .cure or
dry them in the sun, and kee them as dried pes or raisins are
kept; which I thought woul be (as indeed t ey were as whole-
some and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes were to be d.

Having spent three days in this journey, I came home, so I must
now call my tent and my cave.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with great
pleasure the fruitfulness 'of that valley, and the pleasantness o the

l
I
situation; the security from storms on that side; the water and the
wood; and concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my
abode in, which was by far the worst part of the country. Upon
the whole, I began to consider of removing my habitation, and to

 

look out for a place equally safe as where I was now situate; if
possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the island.

I was so enamoured of this place, that I spent much of my time
there for the whole remaining part of the month of July; and
though, upon second thoughts, I resolved not to remove, yet I built
me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a
strong fence, beinv a double hedge, as high as I could reach, well
staked, and filled between with brushwood. Here I lay very secure
sometimes two or three nights together; always oing over it with
aladder, as before: so that I fancied now Iha my country and
Ky sea-coast house. This work took me up to the beginning of

ugust-

About the beginning of August, I had finished my bower, and
be 11 to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August, I found the grapes I
ha hun up were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good
raisins o the sun; so I began to take them down from the trees;
and it was very hap y that I did so, as the rains which followed
would have spoiled them, and I should have lost the best part of my
winter food; for I had above two hundred large bunches of them.
No sooner had I taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to m cave, but it began to rain: and from hence; which was
the 14th 0 August, it rained, more or less, every day till the middle
of October; and sometimes so violently, that I could not stir out of
my cave for several days. .
In this season, I was much surprised with the increase of my
family. I had been concerned for t e loss of one of my cats, who
ran awa from me, or, as I thought, had been dead; and I heard no
more 0 her, till, to my astonishment, she came home with three

kittens. This was the more strange to me, because, about the end

 

of August, thou h I had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my
gun, yet I thong tit was quite a different kind from our European
cats: yet the young cats were the same kind of house-breed as the
old one; and both of my cats being females, I thought it ve

strange. But from these three, I afterwards came to be so estererd
w1th cats that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild) beasts,

and to drive them from my house as much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain; so that I
could not stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In
this confinement, I b an to be straitened for food, but vent ' out
twice, I one day kille a goat, and the last day, which was the 4th,
found a very lar e tortoise, which was a treat to me. My food was
now regulated t us: I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a
piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle, broiled for my dinner, (for,
to my great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew anything.)
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for my supper.

During this confinement in my cover from the rain, I worked daily
two or three hours at enlarging my cave; and by d ens worked it
on towards one side, till I came to the outside of the ' : and made
a door, or way out, which came beyond my fence or wall; and so I
came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly easy at lyinrg so
open: for as I had managed myself before, I was in a ect
enclosure; whereas now, I thought I lay exposed; and yet could
not perceive that there was any living t ' to fear, the biggest
creature that I had as yet seen upon the islan being a goat.

SEPTEEBER 30. I was now come to the unhappy annive of
my landing: I cast up the notches on my post, and found I
been on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as
a solemn fast! setting it a art for religious exercise, prostrating
myself on the ound with t e most serious humiliation, confessing
my sins to Go , acknowledging his righteous judgments upon me,
and praying to him to have mercy on me through esus Christ; and
having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till
the going down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit and a bunch of

apes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I b it. I had all
t 's time observed no sabbath-day; for as at first had no sense of
religion upon my mind, I had, after some time, omitted to (list uish
the weeks, by making a lo r notch than ordinary for the ssh ath-
day, and so did not really ow what an of the days were: but
now havin cast u the days, as above, I ound I had been there a
year; so divide it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for
a sabbath: though I found, at the end of my account, I had lost a
day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my ink beginning
to fail me, I contented myself to use it more s aringly; and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my ' e.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to ap ear regular
to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide for them
accordingly; but I bought all in experience before I had it.

While my corn was growing, made a little discovery, which was
of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over, and the

a weather began to settle, which was about the month of November,
I made a Visit up the country to my bower; where, tho h I had
not been for some months, yet I found all things just as had left
them. The circle or double hedge that I had made was not only firm
and entire, but the stakes which had cut out of some trees that grew
thereabouts, were all shot out and grown with 102g branches, as
much as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year ter 10 ping its
head; but I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes were
cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well leased, to see the

young trees grow; and I pruned them, and le them to grow as

much alike as I could: and it is scarce credible how beautiful a

figure they grew into in three years: so that, though the hedge
made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the trees,
for such I might now call them, soon covered it, and it was a com-
plete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry season. This made
me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make me a hedge like this, in

a semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which

I did: and placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight

yards distance from my fence, they grew presentl ; and were at

first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwar served for a

defence also; as I shall observe in its order.nonmsox mass A roun r0 aerom: ms ISLAND.

I FOUND now that the seasons of the year might generallybe divided,
not into summer and winter as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons
and the dry seasons, which were enerally thus: From the middle
of February to the middle of Apr' , rainy; the sun being then on
or near the e uinox. From the middle of A ril till the middle of
August, d ; t e sun be' then north of the ine. From the middle
A t t' the middle 0 October, rainy; the sun being then come
bae to the Line. From the middle of October till the middle of
February, dry; the sun being then to the south of the Line.

The rain seasons held sometimes longer and sometimes shorter,
as the win hapfiened to blow; but this was the general observation
I made. After had found, by experience, the ill consequences of
being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with provisions
beforehand, that I ' ht not be obliged to go out; and I sat within
doors as much as pegggble during the wet months. In this time I found
much employment, and very suitable also to the time; as I found
great occasion for many thing; which I had no way to furnish m elf
with, but by hard labour an constant application; particular y, I
tried many ways to make myself a basket; but all the twigs I could
get for the pugs-pm proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of ex ent advantage to me now, that when I was a boy, I
used to take great delight in standing at a basket-maker's in the
town where my father lived, to see them make their wicker-ware;

'1'
and being, as boys usually are, very oflicious to help, and a great
observer of the manner how they worked those things, and sometimes
lending a hand, I had by these means full knowledge of the methods
of it, so that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it came into
my mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes
that grew, might 0551ny be as tough as the sallows, willows, and
osiers, in England, and I resolved to try. Accordingly, the next
day, I went to my country-house, as I called it, and cutting some of
the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could

 

desire; whereupon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to
cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there was great plenty
of them. These I set up to dry within my circle or bed e; and
when they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave; an there,
durin the next season, I employed myself in making, as well as
I co d, several baskets; both to carry earth, or to carry or lay up
anything I had occasion for. Though I did not finish them very
handsomely, yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose;
and thus, afterwards, I took care never to be without them; and as
my wicker-ware decayed, I made more; especially stron deep
baskets to place my corn in, instead of sacks, when I shoul come
to have any quantity of it.

I mentioned before, that I had great mind to see the whole island;
and that I had travelled u the brook, and so on to Where I had.
built my bower, and where had an o ening quite to the sea, on the
other Side of the island. I now resdlved to travel quite across to
the sea-shore, on that side; so taking my gun, a hatchet, and my
dog, and a. larger quantity of powder and shot than usual, with two
biscuit-cakes, andagreat no of raisins in my pouch, for my store,
I be m journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower
stoo , as a ove, I came within view of the sea, to the west; and it
being a clear day, I fairly descried land, whether an island or con-
tinent I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from W. to W.
S.W. at a very great distance; by my guess, it could not be less
than fifteen or twenty leagues ofi.

 

I could not tell what part of the world this might be; otherwise
than that I knew it must be lpart of America, and as I concluded
by all my observations, must e near the Spanish dominions; and
perlflis .was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should have lauded,

11 been in a worse condition than I was now. I therefore ac-
quiesced in the disposition of Providence, which I began now to
own and to believe ordered everything for the best ; I say, I quieted
mfy mind with this, and left off afflicting myself with fruitless wishes
0 being there. Besides, after some reflection upon this affair,
I considered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I should certainly
one time or other, see some vessel pass or repass one way or other;
but if not, then it was a savage coast between the Spanish country
and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the worst of savages;
for they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to murder and
devour all human beings that fall into their hands.

With these considerations, walking very leisurely forward, I found
this side of the island, where I now was, much pleasanter than mine;
the open or savannah fields sweetly adorned with flowers and ,
and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots; an fain
would have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and
taught it to speak to me. I did, after taking some aina catch a
young parrot; for I knocked it down with a stick, and, a ' recov-
ered it,.I bro ht it home; but it was some years before could
make him 315$; however, at last I taught him to call me by my
name very amiliarly. '

r 2
I was exceedingly amused with this journe . I found in the low
grounds hares, as I thought them to be, and oxes; but they difi'ered
greatly from all the other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy
myselt to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no need to
be venturous; for I had no want of food, and of that which was very
good too , especially these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle,
or tortoise.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see that I
had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island; for here indeed
the shore was covered with innumerable turtles; whereas, on the
other side I had found but three in a. year and a half. Here was
also an infinite number of fowls of many kinds; some of which I had
not seen before, and many of them very good meat, but such as I knew
not the names of, except those called penguins.

I confess this side of the country was much leasanter than mine;
yet I had not the least inclination to remove; oras I was fixed in my
habitation, it became natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was
here to be as it were upon a journe , and from home. However, I
travelled along the seashore towar the east, I suppose about twelve
miles, and then setting up a great pole upon the seashore for a mark,
I concluded I would go home again; and that the next journey I
took should be on the other side of the island, east from my dwelling,
and so round till I came to my post again; of which in its place.

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I could
easily keep so much of the island in my view, that I could not miss
finding my first dwelling by viewing the country; but I found myself
mistaken; for being come about two or three miles, I found myself
descended in a very large valley, but so surrounded with hills, and
those hills covered with wood, that I could not see which was my way
by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew
very well the position of the sun at that time of the day. And it
happened to my farther misfortune, that the weather proved hazy for
three or four days while I was in this valley; and not being able to
see the sun, I wandered about ve uncomfortable, and at last was
obliged to find out the seaside, 100 for my post, and come back the
same way I went; and then by easy journeys I turned homeward,
the weat er being exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet,
and other things very heavy.
HE RETURNS TO HIS CAVE--HIS AGRICULTURAL LABOURS AND
SUCCESS.

IN this journey, my do surprised at 0 kid and seized upon it ;
and I running to take hold of it, cauyglitnii and saved it alive from
the dog. I had a great mind to bring it home if I could; for I had
often been musing whether it might not be possible to get a kid or
two, and so raise a breed of tame goats, which mi ht supply me with
food when my powder and shot were all 5 cut. Imade a collar for
this little creature, and with a string whic I had made of some rope
yarn, which I alwa 3 carried about me, I led him alo , though with
some difliculty, tilly I came to my bower, and there enclosed him
and left him; for I was very impatient to be at home, from whence
I had been absent above a month.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself after my long
journey; during which, most of the time was taken up in the weighty

affair of ' a cage for y Poll, who began now to be more do-
mestic, and to mightyw ac uainted with me. Then I began to
think of the cor ki w ich I h penned within my little circle, and

resolved to etch it home, or give it some food; accordiugl I went,
and found it where I left it (for indeed it could not t out, but was
almost starved for want of food. I went and cut ugbs of trees,
and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and having fed
1t,_ I tied it as I did before, to lead it away; but it was so tame
with being hungry: that I had no need to have tied it, for it
followed me hke a dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature be-
came so lovmg, so_ gentle, and so fond, that it was from that time
one of my domestics also, and would never leave me afterwards.
It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy the
life I now led was, with all its miserable circumstances, than the
wicked, cursed, abominable life I led all the past part of my days;
and now having changed both my sorrows and my joys: my very
desires altered, my afiectious, changed and my delights were per-
fectly new from what they were at my first coming, or indeed for the
two years past. Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting,
or for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition
would break out upon me on a su den, and my very heart would die
within me, to think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts I was
in ; and how I was a prisoner, locked u with the eternal bars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, without redemption.
In the midst of the greatest composures of my mind this would
break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring my hands and
wee like a child: sometimes it would take me in the middle of my
work, and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the

round for an hour or two together: and this was still worse to me ;

but if I could burst into tears, or give vent to my feelings by words,
it would go off; and my grief haying exhausted itself would abate.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I b my third year; and
though I have not iron the reader the trou le of so particular an
account of my wor '5 this year as the first, yet in general it ma be
observed, that I was very seldom idle, having regularly divide my
time, according to the several daily employments that were before me ;
such as, first, My duty to God, and reading the scriptures, which
I constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day: secondly,
Going abroad with my gun for food, which generally took me up three
hours every morning, when it did not rain: thirdly, The ordering,
curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or catched for in
supply; these took up great part of the day, when the sun was in
the zenith the violence of the heat was too great to stir out; so that
about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be sup osed
to work in; with this exception, that sometimes I changed my ours
of hunting and workin , and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in t e afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may be added the
exceedingly laboriousness of in work; the many hours which, for
want of tools, want of help, an want of skill, everythi I did took
up out of my time: for example, I was full two an forty days
making me a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave;
whereas, two sawyers, with their tools and a sawpit, would cut six
of them out of the same tree in half a day.

My case was this; it was a large tree that was to be cut down,
because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I was three
days cutting down, and two more in cuttin oi? the boughs, and

. reducing it to a log, or piece of timber. Wit inexpressible hac '
and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into chips, till it was light
enou h to move; then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth
and Eat as a board, from end to end; then turning that side down-
ward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be about three
inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one may 'udge the
labour of my hands in such a piece of work; but labour an patience
carried me through that, and many other things; I only observe
this in particular, to show the reason why so much of my time went
away w1th so little work, viz. that what might be a little to be done
with he] and tools, was a vast labour, and required a rodigious
time to 0 alone, and by hand. Notwithstanding this, wit patience
and labour I went throu h many things; and, indeed, everything
that my circumstances ma e necessary for me to do, as will appear
by what follows. '

 

I was now, in the months of November and December, ex acting
my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or ug up
for them was not great; for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
more than half a peck, having lost one whole crop b sowing in the
drfv season: but now my crop promised very well; w en, ona sudden,
I ound I was in danger o osing it again by enemies of several
sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep from it; as, first, the
goats, and wild creatures which I called hares, who, tasting the
sweetness of_ the blade, lay in it ' ht and day, as soon as it came
ugh: and ate it so close, that it co d get no time to shoot up into
a

I saw no remedy for this, but by making an enclosure about it72 mvnnruans or 3.031st): causon.

with a hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil; and the more,
because it required speed. However, as my arable land _was but
small, suited to my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in about
three weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures in the day-
time, I set my do to guard it at night, tying him up to a stake at
the gate, where e would stand and bark all night long; so in a
little time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very
strong and well, and began to ripen apace.

 

But as the beasts ruined me before, while in corn was in the
blade, so the birds were likely to ruin me now, w en it was in the
ear; for going alon by the place to see how it throve, I saw my
little crop surrounde \vith fowls, I know not of how many sorts, who
stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone. I immediate] let
fly among them, for I always had my With me, and killed t ee
0 them. I took them up, and serve them as we serve notorious
thieves in E land, viz. hanged them in chains, for a terror to others.
It is impossib e to imagine that this should have such an effect as it
had; for the fowls not only never came to the corn, but, in short,
they forsook all that part of the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there. This I
was very glad of, you may be sure; and about the latter end of
December, which was our second harvest of the year, I reaped my
com.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down: and all
I could do was to make one as well as I could, out of one of the
broad swords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the
(3123. However_ as my first crop was but small, I had no t

culty to cut it down: in short, I reaped it my way, for F3:
nothing ofi' but the ears, and carried it awa in a great basket which
I had made, and so rubbed it out with my ds; and at the end of
all my harveet' , I found that out of my half peek of seed I had
near two buslfis of rice, and above two bushels and a half of
barley; that is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure.

However, this was great encouragement to me; and I foresaw
that, in time, it would please God to supply me with bread; yet here
I was erplexed again; for I neither ew how to grind, or make
meal 0 my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it; nor if made
into meal, how to make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I
knew not how to bake it; these things being added to my desire of
having a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply, I
resolved not to taste any of this cum, but to preserve it all for seed
against the next season; and, in e meantime, to employ all my
study and hours of working to accomplish this great wor o provi -
i myself with corn and bread.

t might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It is a
little wonderful, and what Ibelieve few people have thought much
upon, viz. the strange multitude of little things necessary in the pro-
viding, producing, curing, dress' , making, and finishing this one
article of bread. I that was re uced to a mere state of nature,
found this to my daily discouragement, and was made more sensible
of it every hour, even after I had got the first handful of seed corn,
which, as I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a
s rise.

' st, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade or shovel _
to dig it; well, this I congpered by making a wooden spade, as I
observed before; but this '6. my work in but a wooden manner. The
corn was sown; I had no harrow, but was forced to go over it myself,
and drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it
may be called, rather than rake or harrow it. Then I wanted a mill
to (grind it, sieves to dress it; yeast and salt to make it into bread,
an an oven to bake it; and yet all these things I did without, as
shall be observed; and the corn was an inestimable comfort and
advant to me; and as I resolvedto use none of the corn for bread
till I a ter quantity by me, I had the next six months to
apply mys wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish myself with
utensils proper for the performing all the operations necessary for

making corn fit for my use.
HIS MANUFACTURE 01' POTTERY, AND COXTBIVANCE FOB. BAKING
BREAD.

Bur now I was to prepare more land; for I had seed enough to sow
above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I had a week's work at
least to make me a spade; which, when it was done, was but a so
one indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to work wit
it; however, I went through that, and sowed my seed in two large
flat gieces of ground, as near my house as I could find them to my
min , and fenced them in with a good hedge; the stakes of which
were all cut off that wood which I had set before, and knew it would
grow; so that, in one year's time, I knew I should have a quick or
Vinlfil hedge, that would want but little repair. This work took me
up 1' three months ; because a great part of the time was in the wet.
season, when I could not go abroad. Within doors, that is, when it
rained, and I could not go out, I found employment on the followi
occasions; always observing, that while I was at work, I diverte
myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I
quickly taught him to know his own name, and at last to speak it
out retty loud, Poll; which was the first word I ever heard spoken,
in t e island by any mouth but my own. This, therefore, was not
my work, but an assistant to my work; for now, as I said, I had a
t employment u on my hands, as follows: I had long studied,
some means or at er, to make myself some earthen vessels, which
indeed I wanted much, butknew not where to come at them; how-
ever, considering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I
could find out any clay, I mi ht botch up some such ot as might,
being dried in the sun, be and strong enou h to ar haudhng,
and to hold anything that was dry, and require to be kept so; and
as this was necessary in preparing corn, meal, &c., which was the
thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and
fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell
how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste; what odd, mis-
shapeu ugly things I made; how many of them fell in, and how
many fell out, the clay not being stifi' enough to bear its ownweight;
how many cracked by the over violent heat of the sun, being set out
too hastily; and how many fell in pieces with only removing, as well
before as after they were dried; and, in a word, how, after having
laboured hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it, I could not make above two large earthern ugly
t ' (I cannot call them aiiiars) in about two months' labour.

owever, as the sun b ed these two very dry and hard, I lifted
them very gentl up, and set them down again in two great wicker
baskets, which had made on purpose for them, that they might not
break; and as between the ot and the basket there was a little
room to spare, I stufi'ed it ull of the rice and barley straw; and
these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought would hold my
dry corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large 1pots, yet I
made several smaller things with better success; such as ttle round
pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and everything my hand turned
to; and the heat of the sun baked them very hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen

ot to hold liquids, and bear the fire, which none of these could do.
It happened some time after, making' a pretty [fade fire for coo '
my meat, when I went to put it out atter done with it,
found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,
burnt as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeabl sur-
prised to see it; and said to in self, that certainly they inig t be
made to burn whole, if they woul burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to make it burn
some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the otters burn in,
or of glaz' them with lead, though 1 had some le to do it with;
but I place three large pipkins and two or three ts in a pile, one
upon another, and place my fire-wood all roun it, with a great
heap of embers under them. I plied the fire with fresh fuel round
the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-
hot quite through, and observed that they did not crack at all; when
I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six
hours, till I found one of them, tho h it did not crack, did melt or
run; for the sand which was ' with the clay melted by the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I had gone on;
so I slacked my fire gradually, till the pots began to abate of the red
colour; and watching them all night, that I might not let the fire
abate too fast, in the morning I had three very good, 1 will not say
handsome, pipkins, and two other earthern pots, as'hard burnt as
could be desired; and one of them perfectly glazed wrth the running
of the sand. .
My next concern was to get a stone mortar to beat some corn in;
for as to the mill, there was no thought of arriving to that perfection
of art with one air of hands. To supply this want I was at a great
loss; for, of trades in the world, was as perfectly un ualified
for a stone-cutter as for any whatever; neither had I any too to go
about it with. I spent many a day to find out a great stone big
enough to cut hollow, and make fit tor a mortar; but could find none

 

at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I had no way
to dig or cut out; nor, indeed, were the rocks in the island of
sufficient hardness, as they were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which
would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would break
the corn without filling it wrth sand; so, after a great deal of time
lost in 100 ' fora stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out
for a block 0 hard wood, which I found indeed much easier; and
getting one as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded and formed
it on the outside with my axe and hatchet; and then with the
help'of the fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow in it, as the
Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a t
heavy pestle, or heater, of the wood called iron-wood; and t ' I
prepared and laid by against 1- had my next cro of corn, when

proposed to myself to grind, or rather poun , my corn into
meal, to make my bread.

The baking artwas the next thing to beconsidered, and howI should
make bread w en I came to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast;
as to that art, there was no supplying the want, so I did not con-
cern mys f much about it; but or an oven I was indeed puzzled.
At length I found out an expedient for that also, which was this: I
made some earthen vessels very broad, but not deep, that is to say,
about two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I
burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and laid them by; and
when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon my hearth, which
I had paved with some square tiles, of my own making and burning
also; but I should not call them s uare. When the firewood was
burned into embers, or live coals, drew them forward upon the
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there let them lie till the hearth
was very hot; then sweeping away all the embers, I set down my
loaf, or loaves, and covering them with the earthen ot, drew the
embers all round the outside of the pot, to keep in an add to the
heat ; and thus, m well as in the best oven in the world, I baked my
barley loaves, and became, in a little time, a good pastrycook into
the bargain; for I made In self several cakes and puddings. of the
rice; but made no pies, as had nothing to put into them except
the flesh of fowls or goats.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I really wanted to
build my barns bigger; I wanted a place to lay it up in; for the
increase of the corn now yielded me so much, that had of the
barley about twenty bushels, and of rice as much, or more, insomuch
that now I resolved to b in to use it freely; form bread had
been quite gone a great w ' e ; I resolved also to see w at quantity
would be sufiicient for me a whole year, and to sow but once a

ear.

y Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice
were much more than I could consume in a year; so I resolved to
sow just the same quantity eve ear that I sowed the last, in
hopes that such a quantity would y provide me wrth bread, &c.
HIEDITATES HIS ESCAPE FROM THE ISLAND--BUILDS A CANOE---

FAILURE OF HIS SCHEME--RESIGNATION TO HIS CONDITION--n
MAKES HIMSELF A NEW DRESS.

ALL the while these things were doin , you may be sure my thoughts
run man times upon the prospect of and which I had seen from the
other si e of the island; and I was not without some secret wishes
that I was on shore there; fancying, that seeing the main land, and
an inhabited country, I might find some way or other to convey
myself farther, and perhaps at last find some means of escape.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with the
shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles
on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain; then I tho ht I
would go and look at our ship's boat, which, as I have sai , was
blown up upon the shore a Feat way, in the storm, when we were
first cast away. She lay near y where she did at first, but not nite;
having turned by the force of the waves and the winds, ost
bottom upward, against a ' h ridge of beachy rough sand; but no
water about her as before. f I had had hands to have refitted her,
and to have launched her into the water, the boat would have done
very well, and I might have gone back into the Brazils with her
easily enough; but I might have foreseen that I could no more turn
her and set her upright upon her bottom, than I could remove the
island; however, went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and brought them to the boat, resolving to t 'what I could do;
suggesting to myself, that if I could but turn er down, and repair
the damage she ad received, she would be a very good boat, and I
might venture to sea in her.

spared no pains, indeed in this piece of fruitless toil, and spent
I thin , three or four weeks about it; at last, finding it impossible
to heave her up with my little strength, I fell to dig ' away the
sand, to undermine her, and so as to make her fall 5:511, setting
pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right in the fall. But when
[ had done this, I was unable to stir her u ' or to get under
her, much less to move her forward towar s t e water; so I was
forced to give it over; and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the
boat, my desire to venture over the main increased, rather than
diminished, as the means for it seemed impossible.

At length, I began to think whether it was not possible to make
myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives of those climates
make, even without tools, or, as I might say, without hands, of the
trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possible, but easy,
and pleased myself extremely with the idea of making it, and with
my having much more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or
Indians; but not at all consideriigatllsie articular inconvenience
which I lay under more than the In di , viz. the want of hands
to move it into the water when it was made.>>

I went to work u u this boat the most like a. fool that ever man
did, who had any 0 his senses awake. I pleased myself with the
design, without determining whether I was able to undertake it; not
but that the difiiculty of launching my boat came often into my head;
but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it, by this foolish answer:
Let us first make it; I warrant I will find some way or other to
get it along when it is done.

This was amost preposterous method; but the eagerness of m
fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I felled a cedar tree, and
question much whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building
of the Temple at Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches diameter at
the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches diameter
at the end of twenty-two feet, where it lessened and then (1 into
branches. It was not without infinite labour that I fell this tree;
I was twenty days hacking and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen
more getting the branches and limbs, and the vast spr ' head of
it, cut off; after this, it cost me a month to shape it and du it to a
proportion, and to somet ' like the bottom of a boat, that it might
sw1m upright as it o ht to o. It cost me near three months more
to c1ear_the inside, an work it out soas to make an exact boat of it ;.
thisI did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by
the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very hand-
some periagua, and big enough to have carried me and all my
car .

,- ut all my devises to get it into the water failed me; though theg
cost an inexpressible labour too. It lay about one hundre yar
from the water, and not more; but the first inconvenience was, it
was up hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this discourage:
ment, I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so make a
declivity; this I began, and it cost me a prodigious deal of ams;
but who grudge pains that have their deliverance in view? an
this was worked through, and this difficulty m d, it was still
much the same, for I could no more stir the canoe t an I could the
other boat. Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved

 

to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I
could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began this
work; and when I began to enter upon it, and calculate how dee
it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to be thrown out, I
found by the number of hands I had, having none but my own, that
it must have been ten or twelve years before I could have gone
throu h with it ; for the shore lay so high, that at the u per end it
must have been at least twenty feet dee ; this attempt, though with
great reluctanc , I was at length oblige to give over also.

This ieve me heartil ; and now I saw, though the late, the
folly of e ' ' g a work efore we count the cost, and before we
jud e~right y of our Own stre h to go through with it.

1% the middle of this work, finished my fourth year in this place,
and kept mi anniversary with the same devotion and with as much
comfort as efore; for, by aconstant study and serious application
to the word of God, and ithe assistance of his grace, I ained a
difi'erent knowledge from w at I had before; I entertained ' erent
notions of thin ; I looked now upon the world as a thing remote,
which I had not ing to do with, no expectation from, and indeed, no
desires about : in a word, I had nothing to do with it, nor was even
likely to have; I thou ht it looked, as we may perhaps look 11 on
it hereafter, viz. as a p I had lived in, but was come out o it
and well might I say, as father Abraham to Dives, " Between me and
thee is a great gulf fixed."

, s '

m . a \ '
a..." "7'- __>>,, _
.__ _C/.'. w} \

 

I spent whole hours, I may as whole days, in representing to
myself, in the most lively colours, ow I must have acted if I had
t nothing out of the ship. I could not have so much as got any
ood, except fish and turtles ; and that, as it was long before . found
an of them, I must have perished, like a mere savage; that if I had
' ed a. goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way to flay or
open it, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it
n , but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it to pieces With my
c ws, like a beast. .
These reflections made me ver sensible of the goodness of Progn-
dence to me, and very thankful or my present condition, With all its
hardships and misfortunes; and this part also I cannot but recommend
to the reflection of those' who are apt, in their misery, to say, "Is
any affliction like mine?" Let them consider how much worse the
' G
cases of some people are, and their case would have been, if Provi-
dence had thought fit. ' .
With these reflections I worked my mind up, not only to a_resig-
nation to the will of God in the present dis osxtion of my circum-
stances, but even to a sincere thankfulness or my condition; and
that I, who was yet a living man, ought not to complain, seeing
I had not the due punishment of my sms; that I enjoyed so man
mercies that I had no reason to have expected in that place, that
' ought never more to repine at my condition, but to reJ01ce, and to
ive daily thanks for that daily bread, which nothing but a crowd

a
U

 

of wonders could have brought; that I ought to consider I had been
fed b a miracle (even as great as that of feeding Eliyah by ravens),
nay, y a long series of miracles; and that I cou d hardl have
named a place, in the uninhabited art of the world, w ere I
could have been cast more to my a vantage; a place where, as I
had no society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I found no
ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my life; no
venomous or poisonous creatures, which I might feed on to my hurt;
no savages to murder and devour me. In a word, as my life was a
life of sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy another; and I
wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort, but to make myself-
sensible of God 3 goodness to me, and care over me in this condition;
and after I did make a just improvement of these things, I went
awa , arid {as no mire sad. d 11 ' hn had
ycotesnow egan to eca 'h't' ;asto 'en, I
none for a great while, except solndmgheqdered shirts which 1
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I carefully

I
preserved, because many times I could bear no clothes on but a
shirt, and it was a very great help to me that I had, among all
the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts.

I b to consider about putt' the few rags I had, which I
called c othes, into some order. I adworn out all thewaistcoats
I had, and my business was now to try if I could not make 'ackets
out of the great watch-coats that Lhad ably me, and with suc other
materials as I had ; so I set to work a t ' oring, or rather, indeed, a
batching, for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made
shift to make two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped would
serve me a great while.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that
I killed, I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them up, stretched
out with sticks, in the sun, by which means some of them were so
dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others I found very
useful. The first thing I made of these was a great cap for in
head, with the hair on the outside, to shoot ofi' the rain; and this
performed so well, that after this I made me a suit of clothes wholly
of the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at the
knees, and both loose; for they were rather wanting to kee me cool
than warm. I must not omit to acknowled that t ey were
wretchedly made ; for if I was a bad carpenter, was a worse tailor
However, they were such as I made ve glad shift with; and when
I was abroad, if it ha pened to rain, t e ' of my waistcoat and
cap being uppermost,I was kept very dry.

After this, I spent a great deal of time and pains to make me an
umbrella. I made one and covered it with skins, the hair upwards,
so that it cast off the rain like a pent-house, and kept of the sun
so effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the weather
with eater advantage than I could before in the coolest; and
when had no need of it, could close it 'and carry it under my
arm.
Thus I lived migh comfortably, in mind being entirely com-
posed by resigning ?) the will of (god, and throwing myself
wholly upon the disposal of his rovidence. This made my life
better than sociable; for when he to regret the want of
conversation, I would ask myself, whet er thus conversing mutu-
ally with m own thou hts, and as I ho e I ma say with even
God himse , by ejaculations, was not tter t n the utmost
emoyment of human society in the world?

02
HE MAKES A SMALLER CANOE, IN WHICH 11E ATTEMPTS T0 CRUISE

ROUND THE ISLAND--BIS PERILOUS SITUATION AT SEA--E}:
RETURNS HOME.

I CANNOT say that after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing
happened to me, but I lived on in the same course, in the same pos-
ture and place, 'ust as before; the chief things I was employed in,
besides my year y labour of plantin my barley and rice, and curing
my raisins, of both which I always ept up just enough to have sufii-
cient stock of one year's provision beforehand; I say, besides this
yearly labour, and my daily pursuit of going out with my gun, I had
one labour, to make me a canoe, which at last I finished; so that by

' ' a canal to it six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought it
into the creek, almost half a mile.

However, though my little periagua was finished, et the size of
it was not at all answerable to the design which I h in view when
I made the first; I mean, of venturing over to the term firma, where
it was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the smallness of my
boat assisted to at an end to that design, and now I thought no
more of it. As had aboat, in next design was to make a cruise
around the island; for as I had 'een on the other side in one place,
crossing, as I have alread described it, over the land, so the dis-
coveries I made in that 'ttle journey made me very eager to see

other parts of the coast: and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing
but sailing round the island.
It was on the, sixth of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or
my captivity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I
found it much longer than I expected ; for though the island itself
was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the sea, some
above water, some under it; and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying
dry half al e more, so that I was obliged to go a great way out
to sea to don lo the point.

When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my enter-
prise, and come back again, not knowing how far it might oblige me
to go out to sea, and above all, doubting how I should get back
aginn; so I came to an anchor with a piece of abroken grappling
w ich I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gunand went on shore, climb-
' up on a hill, which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw
the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I eroeived a
strong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran to t e east, and
even came close to the point; and I took the more notice of it,
because I saw there might be some danger that, when I came into
it, I might be carried out to sea b the stre h of it, and not be
able to make the island ' ; an , indeed, h I not got first upon
this bill, I believe it wou d have been so; for there was the same
current on the other side of the island, onl that it set off at a farther
distance, and I saw there was a strong e dy under the shore; so I
had nothing to do but to get out of the first current, and I should
presentl be in an eddy.

I lay ere, however, two days, because the wind blowing pretty
fresh at E. S. E., and that being just contrary to the said current,
made a great breach of the sea I: on the point; so that it was not
safe for me to keep too close to are shore, for the breach, nor to go
too Tiar- fificaause 0th the stream. h d ha ha ed ht

et' ,intemorning,tewin vinga t overnig ,
the sea was cahyn, and I ventured; but I am a warning piece again to
all rash and. ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the int,
when I was not even my boat's length from the shore, but I ound
myself in a great de th of water, and a current like the sluice of a
mill; it earned my goat along with it with such violence, that all I
could do could not keep her so much as on the eed'ge of it; but I
found it hurried me farther and farther out from the dy, which was
on"? dleft hand. There was n; Kind stirring ac helpIme, and all I
co owit mypaddles s' ' e nothing' ;an now befiauto 've
in self over for lost; for 1agsnihe current was on both si es ofgtlhe

d, I knew in a few leagues' distance they must join again, and
then I was irrecoverably gone; nor did I see any possibility of word-
Ing it; so that I had no prospect before me but of perishing, not b
the sea, for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunger.
had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could
lift, and had tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh
water, that is to say, one of my earthen ots; but what was all this
to being driven into the vast ocean, w ere there was no shore, no
main land or island, for a thousand leagues at least?

It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I was now in,
being driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now
to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost
despair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till _
indeed in strenoth was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as
much to t e northward, that is, towards the side of the current
which the eddy lay on, as possibl I could; when about noon, as the
sun assed the meridian, I thou t1 felt a little breeze of wind in
my ace, springing up from 8.8. . This cheered my heart a little,
and especially when, in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty
gentle gale. By this time I was got at a frightful distance from the
island, and had the least cloudy or liaz weather intervened, I had
been undone another way too; for I ha no compass on board, and
should never have known how to have steered towards the island, if
I had but. once lost sight of it; but the weather continuing clear, I
applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread my sail, stand-
ing away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch
away, I saw even by the clearness of the water some alteration of
the current was near; for where the current was so strong, the
water was foul; but perceiving the water clear, I found the current
abate; and presently I found to the east, at about half a mile, a
breach of the sea upon some rocks ; these rocks I found caused the
current to part again, and as the main stress of it ran away more
southerly, leavin the rocks to the north-east, so the other returned
-by the repulse o the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back
again to the north-west, with a very sharp stream.

The who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them
upon t e ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder
them, or who have been in such-like extremities, may guess what
my present sur rise of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into
the stream of t iis eddy; and the wind also freshening, how gladl I
spread my sail to it, running cheerfully before the Wind, and wit a
strong tide or eddy under foot.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again directly
towards the island, but about two._ leagues more to the northward
than the current which carried me away at first; so that when I
came near the island, I found myself Open to the northern shore of
it, that is to say, the other end of the island, opposite to that which
I went out from.

When I had made something more than a league of way by the
help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and served me no
farther. However, I found that being between two great currents,
viz. that on the south side, which had hurried me away, and that on
the north, which lay about a league on the other side; I say,
between these two, in the wake of the island, I.found the water at
least still, and running no way; and having still a breeze of wind
fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the island, though not
making such fresh way as I di before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a league of
the island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this dis-
aster stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, and
casting of the current more southerly, had, of course, made another

 

eddy to the north; and this I found very strong, but not directi
setting the way my course lay, which was due west, but almost f
north. However, having a fresh gale I stretched across this eddy,
slanting north-west; and, in about an hour, came within about a
{11113 0 the shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to
an . -

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks
for m deliverance, resolv' to lay aside all thoughts of my deliver-
ance y my boat; and refrlgsfiiing myself with such things as I had, I
brought my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had spied
under some trees, and laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with

the labour and fatigue of the voyage.
I now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had
enough to do for many days to sit still, and to reflect upon the
danger 1 had been in. I would have been verynglad to have had my
boat again on my side of the island; but I ew not how it was
practicable to get it about. As to the east side of the island, which

had gone round, I knew well enough there was no vent ' that
way; my very heart would shrink, and m very blood run c ' , but

- to think of it; and as to the other side 0 the island, I did not know
how it might be there; but supposing the current ran with the same
force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other, 1
might run the same risk of being driven down the stream, and
carried by the island, as I had been before of being carried away
from it; so, with these thoughts, I contented myself to be without
any boat, though it had been the product of so many months' labour
to make it, an of so many more to t it into the sea.

In this government of my temper remained near a year, lived a
very sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and my thoughts
being very much composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted
in resigning myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I
lived really very ha ily in all things, except that of society.

I improved myse in this time in all the mechanic exercises which
my necessities put me upon applying myself to ; and I believe I could,
upon occasion, have made a very good carpenter, especially consider-
' how few tools I had.

esides this, I arrived at an unexpected erfection in my earthen-
ware, and contrived well eno h to make t rem with a wheel, which
I found infinitel easier and etter; because I made things round
and a cable, w 'ch before were filthy things indeed to look upon.
But I t ' I was never more vain of my performance, or more joy-
ful for anyt ' g I found out, than for my being able to make a
tobacco-pipe: and though it was a very ug y clumsy thing when it
was done, and onl burned red, like ot er earthenware, yet it was
hard and firm, an would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly com-
forted with it, for I had always been used to smoke. _

I began now to perceive in powder abated considerably ; this was
awant which it was impossib efor me to sufply, and I began ser-
iously to consider what I must do when 5 cold have no more

pow er, that is to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as
is obserVed, in the third year of my being here, kept a young kid,
and bred her up tame, and I was in hopes of ett' a he-goat; but
I could not b any means bring it to pass, tifi kill 'd grew an old
goat; and as could never fin in my heart to ' her, she died at

last of mere age.
Ills REARS A FLOCK 0F GOATS--EIS DAIRY--HIS DOMESTIC HABITS
AND STYLE 0? LWmF--WCREASING PROSPERITY.

BEING now in the eleventh year of my residence, and as I have said
my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap
and snare the goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them
alive. I dug several large pits in the earth, in places where I had
observed the oats used to feed, and over those pits I placed hurdles,
of my own m ' too, with a eat weight upon them; and several
times I put ears of barle and rice, without setting the trap; and
I could easily erceive t t the goats had gone in and eaten up the
corn, for I co (1 1see thg marks 01f: their feet. At leIn h Ilstlzlt thrzlel
trasinone ' t,an goingtenextmorning, oun tem
staiiding, mdlylegt the bait eaten and gone. This was very discourag-
ing: however, I altered my traps; and one morning I ound in one
of them 9. lat old he-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a
male and two emales.

As to the old one, Iknew not what to do with him; he was so
fierce, I dnrst not go into the g t to him; that is to say, to go about
to bring him away alive, whic was what I wanted. I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it answer my
end; so I even let him out, and he ran swagf as if he had been
frightened out of his wits. I went to the three 'ds, and ' them
one b one, I tied them with strings together, and with some ' culty
hroug t them all home.
It was a good while before they would feed; hut throwing them
some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be tame. And
now I found that if I expected to supply myself with goats' flesh
when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my
only way; when, erha s, I might have them about my house like a
flock of sheep. ut t en it occurred to me, that I must keep the
tame from the wild, or else the would always run wild when they
grew up; and the onl wa for t is was, to have some enclosed piece
of ground, well fence , eit 1er with hedge or pale, to keep them in so

 

gfl'eglteually, that those within might not break out, or those without
re in.
But this was not all; for now I not only had goats' flesh to feed
on when I leased, but milk too; a thing which, indeed, in the be-
ginning, I id not so much as think of, and which, when it came into
my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise; for now I set up my
dairy, andhad sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as
Nature, who gives supplies of food to ever creature, dictates even
naturally how to make use of it, so I,- that ad never milked a cow,
much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, only when I was a
ho , aftera great many essays and miscarriages, made me'both butter
. and cheese at last, an also salt (though I found it partlymade to my
hand by the heat of the sun upon some of the rocks of the sea), and
never wanted it afterwards.
It would have made a stoic smile to have seen me and my little
family sit down to dinner. There was my ma'esty, the prince and
lord of the whole island; I had the lives of my subjects at my
absolute command; I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it
sure ; and no rebels among all mansubjects.

T en to see how like a km I ' ed too, all alone, attended by my
servants; Poll, as if he had een my favourite, was the only erson
permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now own very o d and
crazy, and two cats, one on one side of the ta 1e, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of
special favour.

My own figure was ancouth enough. I had a eat high shapeless
cap, made of a goat's skin, with a flap hanging own behind, as well
to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain of from running into
my neck; not ' being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon
the flesh, under t e clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to
about the middle of the thighs, and a pair of open-knead breaches of
the same; the breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat,
whose hair hung down such a. length on either side, that, like anta-
loons, it reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and s oes I
had none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know what
to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace on either
side like spatterdashes, but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed
were all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together
with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles; andin a kind of
fro on either side of this, instead of a sword and r, hung a
litt e saw and a hatchet; one on one side and one on t e other. I
had another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same manner,
which hung over my shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left
arm, hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin too; in one of
which hung in powder, in the other my shot. At my backI carried
my basket, and on my shoulder my gun; and over my head a great
clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most
necessary thing I had about me, next to my gun. As for my face,
the colour of it was not so mulatto-like a one might expect from a
man not at all careful of it, and living within nine or ten degrees of
the equinox. My heard I had once suifered to grow tillit was about
a uarter of a yard long; but as I had both scissars and razors
s cient, Ihad cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper hp;
which I had tr'm-red into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, an
'as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee; for the Moors did not
wear such, though the Turks did; of these mustachios or whiskers,
I will not safy they were 10 enough to hang my hat upon them, but

they were 0 a le h and s ape monstrous enough, and such as, in
England, would have passed for frightful.
You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one my little fortification or tent with the
wall about it, under the rock, with the cave behind me, which, by
this time, I had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one within
another. One of these, which was the driest and largest, and had a
door out beyond my wall or fortification, that is to say, be end
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled u with the ge
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, an with fourteen or
fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each,
where I laid u my stores of provision, es cially my corn, some in
the I1;.ar,dcut 0 short from the straw, and th: other rubbed out with
m an .

yAs for in wall, made, as before, with long stakes or piles, those
piles ew like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and
sprea so very much, that there was not the least appearance, to
an one's view, of any habitation behind them.
ear this dwelling of mine, but a. little farther within the land,
and u on lower ground, lay in two pieces of corn land, which I
kept uly cultivated and sowe , and which duly yielded me their
harvest in its season; and whenever I had occasion for more com, I
had more land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my coun seat; and I had now a tolerable
plantation there also: for, first, had my little bower, as I called it,
which I kept in repair; that is to say, I ke t the hedge which
encircled it in constantly fitted up to its usual he' ht, the ladder
standing always in the inside: I kept the trees, whiifii at first were
no more than my stakes, but were now grown ve firm and t
always out so, that they might spread and grow thic and wild, and
make the more ble shade, which the did efi'ectually to my
mind. In the mid e of this I had my tent ways standing, being a
piece of a sail spread over poles, set up for that p use, and which
never wanted any re air or renewing; and under t ' I had made
me a squab or couc , with the skins of the creatures I had killed,
and with other soft things; and a blanket laid on them, such as be-
longed to our sea bedding, which I- had saved, and a great watch-
coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be absent
from my chief seat, I took up my country habitation.
UNEXPBCTED ALARM AND CAUSE FOB. Al'l'REBENSION--EE PORTI-
FIES HIS ABODB.

excee 1y surprise with the print of a man's naked foot on the
shore, w 'ch was very lain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one
thunderstruck, or as if hadseen an apparition; I listened, I looked
round me, but I could hear nothing, nor see anything; I went up to
a ris' ground, to look further; I went up the shore and down the
- shore, ut it was all one; I could see no other impression but that
one. I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to
observe if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room for
that, for there was exactly the print of a foot, toes, heel, and every
part of a foot: how it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the
east imagine; but, after innumerable fluttering thoughts. like a
man perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my forti-
fication, not f ' , as we sa , the ground I went on, but terrified
tocthe last degree; coking be ' d me at every two or three sing:
mmtakmigvery bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a '
a man. Nor is it possible to describe how many various
shapes wll'ld affrighted imagination represented things to me in, how
many ideas were found every moment in my ,
strange unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts y the way.

I! hagged one da , about noon, going towards my boat, I was
When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after
thisd), I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went over by the
lad er, as first contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I
had called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor could I remember
the next morning; for never fri htened hare fled to cover, or fox to
earth with more terror of mind gran I to this retreat.

I presently concluded that it must be some of the savages of the
main land over against me, who had wandered out to sea in their
canoes, and, either driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had
made the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away fin
to sea; being as 10th, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate is d
as I would have been to have had them.

 

While_these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very
thankfulm my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts
at that time, or that they did not see my boat, by which they would
have concluded that some inhabitants had been in the lace, and
perhaps have searched farther for me: then terrible thong ts racked
my imagination about their havino found my boat, and that there
were people here; and that if so, fshould certainly have them come
again in greater numbers, and devour me: that if it should happen
so that they should not find me, yet they would find my enclosure,
destroy all my corn, and carry away all my flock .of tame goats, and
I should perish at last for mere want. '

Thus my fear banished all my religious ho e, all that former con-
fidence in God, which was founded u on 51131 wonderful experience
. as I had had of His goodness, as if e that had fed me by miracle

hithertocould not preserve, by His power, the provision which He
had made for me b His goodness. I reproached myself with m
lazmess, that woul not sow any more com one year than would
Just serve me till the next season, as if no accident would intervene
to prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the mid; and
this I thought so Just a reproof, that I resolved for t e future to
have two or three year's corn beforehand, so that, whatever might
come, I might not perish for want of bread.

In the middle of these cogltations, apprehensions, and reflections,
it came into my thoughts one day, that all this might be a mere
chimera of me own, and that this foot might be the print of my
foot, when came on shore from my boat; this cheered me up

 

a little too, and I b to persuade myself it was all a delusion,
that it was nothing e e but my own foot: and why might I not
come that way from the boat, as well as I was going that way to
the boat? Again, I considered also, that I could by no means tell
for certain, where I had trod, and where I had not: and that if, at
last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had played the part
of those fools, who try to make stories of spectres and apparition.
and then are frightened at them more than anybody.

Now I began to take courage, and to eep abroad again, for I
had not stirred out of my castle for three ya and nights, so that}
began to starve for provisions; for I had httle or~noth1ng within
doors but some barley cakes and water : then I knew that my goats
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening diversion;
and the poor creatures were in great ain and inconvenience for
want of it: and, indeed, it almost spoil some of them and almost
dried up their milk. Encouraging myself, therefore with the belief
that this was nothing but t print of one of my own feet,
and that I might be truly said to start at m own shadow, I began
to go abroad again, and went to my country ouse to milk m flock:
but to see with what fear I went forward, how often I loo ed be.
hind me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down In
basket, and run for my life, it would have made any one think
was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had been latel most
terribly frightened; and so, indeed, I had. However, as went
down thus two or three days, and having seen nothing, I began to
be a little bolder, and to think there was really nothmfgluin it but
my own imagination; but I could not persuade myself y of this
t' I should go down to the shore again, and see this print of afoot,
and measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitude or
fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot: but when I
came to the place, first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I
laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere there-
about: secondly, when I came to measure the mark with my own
foot, I found my foot not so large by a great deal. Both these
things filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me the
vapours again to the highest degree, so that I shook with cold like
one in an ague; and I went home again, filled with the belief that
some man or men had been on shore there; or, in short, that the
island was inhabited, and I might be sur rised before I was aware;
and what course to take for my security,I knew not.

0 what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear!
It deprives them of the use of those means which reason offers for
their relief. The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw
down my enclosures, and turn all m tame cattle wild into the
woods, est the enem should find tllem, and then frequent the
island in prospect of t e same or like boot ; then to the sim le
thing of diggin up my two corn fields, lest t ey should find sue a
grain there, an still be prom ted to fre uent the island; then to

emolish my bower and tent, t at they mig t not see any vestiges of
habitation, and be prompted to look farther, in order to find out the
persons inhabiting.

These were the subject of the first night's co itations, after I was
come home again, while the a prehensions whic had so overrun my
mind were fresh upon me, an my head was full of vapours, as above.
Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times more terrif ' g than
danger itself when apparent to the eyes; and we find the urden of
annety greater, by much, than the evil which we are anxious about;
and, which was worse than all this, I had not that relief in this
trouble from the resignation I used to practise, that I hoped to have.
I looked, I thought, like Saul, who complained not only that the
Philistines were upon him, but that God had forsaken him; for I did
not now take due ways to compose my mind, b c ' to God in my
distress, and rest' upon his providence, as {had done before, for
my defence and de 'verance; which, if I had done, I had at least
been more cheerfully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps
<<carried through it with more resolution.

This confusion of m thoughts kept me awake all night; but in'
the morning I fell aseep; and havmg, by the amusement of my
mind, been as it were tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very
fioundly, and waked much better composed than I had ever been

efore.

Now I b sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so lar e as
to brin a it??? through again, which door, as I said, came oug be-
yond w ere my fortification joined to the rock: upon maturely con-
sidering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification,
in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my wall,
'ust where I had lanted a. double row of trees about twelve years

efore, of which Ipmade mention: these trees ha ' been planted
so thick before, they wanted but few piles to be 'ven between
them, that they might be thicker and stron er, and my wall would
be soon finished: so that I had now a den 1e wall; and my outer
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and eve h' I
could think of, to make it strong, having in it seven litt e ho es,
about as big as I might put my arm out at. In the inside of this
I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick, with continually bring-
' earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall, and
Ivlvlgking upon it; and through the seven holes I contrived to plant
the muskets, of which I took notice that I had got seven on shore
out of the ship: these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them
into frames, that held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all
the seven uns in two minuta' time: this wall I was many a weary
grouth in finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was

one.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for
a great length every way, as full with stakes, or sticks, of the osier-
like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand;
insomuch, that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand of
them, leaving a pretty large space between them and my wall, that
I might have room to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter
from the young trees, if they attempted to approach in outer wall.

Thus, in lei ears' 2%? I had adthlelclllingrove ; an in five or six
years' time a woo e ore my w ' , ' so monstrous
thick and stro , that it was indeed perfectlfinfiable; and no
men of what kin soever, would ever imagine that there was anythin
beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the way in which I propose
to in self to go in and out (for I left no avenue,) it was by setting
two adders, one to a part of the rock which was low, and then
broke in, and left room to place another ladder upon that; so when
the two. ladders were taken down, no man living could come down
to me Without doing himself mischief ; and if they had come down,
they were still on t e outside of my outer wall.

- E
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for
my own preservation; and it will be seen, at length, that t ey were
not altogether without just reason, thou h I foresaw nothing at
that time more than my mere fear suggeste to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other
afi'airs ; for I had a great concern for my little herd of goats ; they
were not only a ready supply to me on every occasion, and began to
be sufficient for me, without the expense of powder and shot, but
also without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones ; and I was
loth to lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up
over again.

For this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but
two ways to preserve them; one was, to find another convenient

 

place to dio a cave under ground, and to drive them into it ever
night; and3 the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of Ian
remote from one another, and as much concealed as I could, where
I might keep about half a dozen young goats in each place; so that
if any disaster happened to the flock in general, I mi ht be able to
raise them again with little trouble and time; andt '5, though it

would require a great deal of time and labour, I thought was the
most rational design.

Accordin 1y, I 5 cut some time to find out the most retired arts
of the island ; and pitched upon one, which was as private, in eed,
as my heart could wish for; it was a little damp piece of ound, in
the middle of the hollow and thick woods, where as is 0 served, I
almost lost myself once before, endeavo ' to come back that way
from the eastern part of the island. He I found a clear piece of
land, near three acres, so surrounded with woods, that it was'almost
an enclosure by nature; at least it did not want near so much

lhabtaur to make it so as the other pieces of ground I had worked so
ar at.
PRECAUTIONS AGAINST SURPRISE'ROBINSON DISCOVERS THAT HIS
ISLAND HAS BEEN VISITED BY CANNIBALS.

I IMMEDIATELY went to work with this piece of ground, and in less
than a month's time I had so fenced it round, that my flock, or herd,
call it which you lease, who were not so wild now as at first they
might be suppos to he, were well enough secured in it; so, with-
out any further delay, I removed ten young she-goats, and two he-

ats to this iece ; and when they were there I continued to perfect
t e fence, t' I had made it as secure as the other, which, however,
I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal.
All this labour I was at the expense of purely from m ap rehen sions
on the account of the rint of a man's foot which {has seen; for,
as (yet, I never saw any man creature come near the island; and I
ha now lived tw'olyears under this uneasiness, which, indeed, made In
hie much less co ortable than it was before, as may be well im ' e
by any one who knows what it is to live in the constant snare o the
fear of man.

After I had thus secured one part of my little living stock, I went
about the whole island, searching for another private place to make
such. another deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of
the island than I had ever done yet, and looln'ng out to sea, I
thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at 3 eat distance. I had
PS011? a perspective lass or two in one o the seamen's chests,
Which I saved out 0 our shi , butI'Ihad it not about me; and
this was so remote, that-i oonl not tell what to make of it, though
I looked at it till my eyes were not able to look any longer;
whether it was a boat or not, I did not know, but as I descended

32
from the hill I could see no more of it, so I gave it_over; only I
resolved to go no more out without a perspective glass _1n my pocket.
When I was come down the hill to the end of the_rsland, where,
indeed, I had never been before, I was presently convmced that the
seei the print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in the
islan as I imagined; and, but that it was a special provrdence that
I was cast 11 on the side of the island where the savages never came,
I should easi y have known that nothing was more frequent than for
the canoes from the main, when they hap ened to be too far out at
sea, to shoot over to that side of the islau for harbour; likewise, as
they often met and fought in their canoes, the victors having taken
any prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, accordin
to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill an
eat them; of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore as I said above,
being the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly con-
founded and amazed ; nor is it possible for me to express the
horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands,
feet, and other bones of human bodies; and, particularly, I ob-
served a lace where there had been a fire made, and a circle
dug in t e earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the savage
wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies
of their fellow-creatures.

I was so astonished \fith the sight of these things, that I enter-
tained no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while:
all my ap rehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of
inhuman rutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human
nature, which, though I had heard of it often, yet I never had so
near a. view of before.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still
awhile, as amazed, and then recovering myself, I looked up with the
utmost affection of my soul, and with a. flood of tears in my eyes,
gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures as these;
and that, though I had esteemed in present condition very miser-
able, had yet given me so many comdorts in it, that I had still more
to oive thanks for than to complain of : and this, above all, that I
had: even in this miserable condition, been comforted with the
knowledge of Himself, and the hope of His blessing, which was a
felicity more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery I had
suffered or could suffer.

I could not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the
other boat round the island to me, lest I should meet with some of
these creatures at sea: in which if I had happened to have fallen
into their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.

Time, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger of being
discovered by these people, began to wear ofi' my uneasiness about
them; and I began to live just in the same composed manner as
before, only with this dilference, that I used more caution, and kept
my eyes more about me, than I did before, lest I should happen to
be seen by any of them; and particularly, I was more cautious of
firifig my gun, lest any of them being on the island should happen
to ear it.

It would take up a larger volume than this whole work is intended
to be, to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded
upon, in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures, or at least
in htening them so as to prevent their coming hither any more.

ometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place where
they made their fire, and putting in five or six pounds of powder,
winch, when they kindled their fire, would consequent y take fire,
and blow up all that was near it; but as, in the first place, I should
be unwilling to waste so much powder upon them, my store being
now within the quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure
of its going off at a certain time, when it might surprise them:
and, at best, that it would little more than just blow the fire about
their ears and fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake
the place : so I laid it aside; and then roposed that I would place
myself in ambush in some convenient p1 ce, with my three guns all
double-loaded, and, in the middle of t eir bloody ceremony, let fly
at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or
three at every shot: and then fallin in upon them with my three
pistols and my sword, I made no dou tbut that if there were twenty
should kill them all. This fancyl pleased my thoughts for some
weeks; and I was so full of it, t at I often dreamed of it, and
sometimes that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I
went so far with it in my imagination, that I employed myself
several days to find out proper places to put myself in ambuscade,
as I said, to watch for them; and Iwent frequently to the place
itself, which was now own more familiar to me: but while my
mind was thus filled wit thoughts of revenge, and a putting twent
or thirty of them to the sword as I may call it, the orror I
had at the place, and the signals of the barbarous wretches devour-
ing one another, abetted my malice. Well, at length, I found a
place in the side of the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely
wait till I saw an of their boats coming; and might then, even
before they would e ready to come on shore, convey myself, unseen,
into some thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow
large enough to conceal me entirely; and there I might sit and
observe all their fearful doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together, as that it would be next to
1mpossrble that I should miss my shot, or that I should fail woun '
three or four of them at the first shot. In this place, then,
resolved to fix m design ; and, accordingly, I prepared two
muskets and my or ' owling-piece. The two muskets I loaded
with a brace of 511105 each, and four or five smaller bullets, about
the size of pistol-bullets; and the fowling-piece I loaded with near
a handful of swamshot, of the largest size: I also loaded my
pistols with four bullets each; and in this posture, well rovided
with ammunition for a second and third charge, I prepare myself
for my ex edition.

After had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in my
imagination, put it in practice, I continually made my tour ever
morning 11 to the top of the hill, which was from my castle, as
called it, a out three miles, or more, to see it I could observe any
boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or standing over
towards it; but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had,
for two or three months, constantly kept my watch, but came
always back without any discovery: there having not, in all that
time, been the least appearance, not only on or near the shore, but
on the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach every
wav.

As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long
also I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be
all the while 111 a suitable form for so outrageous an execution as the
killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for an offence, which I had
not at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any further
than my assions were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the
umiaturailcustom of the people of that country; who, it seems, had
been suffered by Providence, in his wise disposition of the world, to
have no other guide than that of their own abominable and vitiatcd
passions; and, consccfiiently, were left, and perhaps had been so for
some ages, to act sue hom'd things, and receive such dreadful cus-
toms, as nothing but nature, entirely by Heaven, and actuated by
some hellish degeneracy, could have run them into. But now, when,
as I have said, I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion, which
I had made so long and so far every morning in vain, so my opinion
of the action itself began to alter; and I began, with cooler and
calmer thoughts, to consider what I was going to en age in: what
authority or call I had to pretend to be judoe an executioner
upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so
many ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, at it were, the
cxecutioners of his judgments one upon another
ROBINSON DISCOVERS A CAVE, WHICH SERVES HIM AS A RETREAT
AGAINST THE SAVAGES.

IN this disposition I continued for near a year after this. I kept
myself more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell, except
upon my constant employment, viz. to milk my she-goats, and man-
age my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the other
part of the island, was quite out of danger; for certain it is, that
these sav people, who sometimes haunted this island, never came
with any t on hts of finding anythino here, and consequentl never
wandered ofi' om the coast ; and I doubt not but they mig t have
been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had
made me cautious, as well as before.

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if I confess
that these anxieties, these constant da rs I lived in, and the con-
cern that was now upon me, put an en to all invention, and to all
the contrivances that I had laid for in future accommodations and
conveniences. I had the care of my 5 ety more now upon my hands
than that of my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick
of wood now, for fear the noise I might make should be heard;
much less would I fire a gun, for the same reason: and, above all, I
was mtolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which is
Visible at a great distance in the day, should betray me. For this
reason, I removed that part of my business which required fire,
such as burning of pots, i es, &c. into m new apartment in the
woods ; where. after I een some time, found, to my unspeak-
able consolation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went in a
vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the
mouth of it, would be so hard as to venture in: nor, indeed, would
an man else, but one who, hire me, wanted nothing so much as a
s e retreat.

While I was cutting down some wood here, I erceived that be-
hind a very thick branch of low brushwood, or un erwood, there was
a kind of hollow place: I was curious to look in it, and gettin with
difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty large: amt is
to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps another

 

with me: but I must confess to you that I made more haste out
than .I did in, when, looking farther into the place, and which was
perfectly dark, I saw two broad shinin eyes of some creature, which
twinkled like two stars, the dim light rom the cave's mouth shinin
directly in, and making the reflection. Plucking up my courage,
took up a firebrand, and in I rushed again, with the stic flaming in
my hand: I had not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much
frightened as I was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of
a man in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as of '
words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back,
and was indeed struck with such a surprise, that it put me into a
cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I will not answer
for it, that my hair might not have lifted it oh". But still plucki
up in spirits as well as I could, and encouraging myself a little wit
consi ermg that the power and presence of God was everywhere, and
was able to protect me, upon this I step ed forward in, and by
the light of the firebrand, holding it up a 'ttle over my end, I saw
lying on the ound a most monstrous, fri htful old he-goat, just
making his w , as we say, and gasping for ' e, and dying, indeed,
of mere old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
and he essa ed to t up, but was not able to raise himself; and I
thought wit in se he ' ht even lie there; for if he had frightened
me, so he woul certainly right any of the sav es, if any of them
should be so hardy as to come in there while he ad any life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and b to look round
me, when I found the cave was but very s , that is to say, it
might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, neither
round nor square, no hands having ever been employed in making it
but those of Nature. I observed also that there was a place at the
farther side of it that went in farther, but was so low that it re-
quired me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and
whither it went I knew not: so having no candle, I gave it over for
that time; but resolved to come again the next day, provided with
candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of the
muskets, with some wildfire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large candles
of my own making (for I made very good candles now of goat's tal-
low, but was hard set for candle-wick, using sometimes rags or
rope-yam, and sometimes the dried rind of a reed like nettles) ; and
gomg into this low place, I was ob ' ed to creep upon all fours, as I

ave said, almost ten yards; whic , b the way, I thought was a
venture bold enou h, considerin that I ew not how far it might

, nor what was eyond it. en I had got thro h the strait, I
ound the roof rose higher up, I believe near twenty eet; but never
was such a lorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was, to
look round t e sides and roof of this vault or cave; the wall reflected
a hundred thousand lights to me from my two candles. What it
was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or
gold, which I rather sup ed it to be, I knew not. The place I
was in was a most delightlflilS cavity or grotto of its kind, as could
be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and
had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any
damp or wet on the sides or roof: the on] dificulty in it was
the entrance; which, however, as it was a p ace of security, and
such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so
that I was really rejoiced at the discove , and resolved, without any
delay, to bring some of those thin whilch I was most anxious about
to this lace; particularly, I reso ved to bring hither my ' e
0f pow er, and all my spare arms, viz. two fowling-pieces, for I had
three in all, and three muskets, for of them I had eight in all: so I
kept at my castle only five, which stood ready mounted like pieces
of cannon on my outmost fence, and were ready also to take out upon
any expedition. U n this occasion of removing m ammunition, I
luppened to open t e barrel of powder which I too up out of the
sea, and which had been wet; and I found that the water had pene-
trated about three or four inches into the powder on every side,
which caking and grow-inn hard, had preserved the inside like a ker-
nel in the shell ; so that I had near Sixty pounds of very good pow-
der in the centre of the cask: this was a very agreeable discovery to
me at that time; so I carried all away thither, never keeping above
two or three pounds of )owder with me in my castle, for fear of a
hul rise of any kind: I also carried thither allthe lead I had left for
ets.

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which were
said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come
at them; for I persuaded myself, while I was here, that if five
hundred sav cres were to hunt me, they could never find me out; or,
if they did, zthey would not venture to attack me here. The old
goat, whom I found expiring, died in the mouth of the cave next
day after I made this discover : and I found it much easier to dig
a great hole there, and throw ' in and cover him with earth, than

to drag him out; so I interred him there, to prevent offence to my
nose.

 

I was now in the twenty-third year of my residence in this island;
and was so naturalised to the place, and the manner of li ' , that
could I have but enjoyed the certainty that no savages woul come
to the lace to disturb me, I could have been content to have capitu-
lated or s ending the rest of my time there, even to the last
moment, t' I had laid me down and died, like the old goat in the
cave. I had also arrived to some little diversions and amusements,
which made the time pass a eat deal more pleasantly with me than
it did before; as, first, I ha taught my Poll, as I noted before, to
s ak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulate] and
p ' that it was very pleasant to me: for I believe no bir ever
spoke lainer; and he lived with me no less than six~and-twent
years: ow long he might have lived afterwards I know not, thong
I know they have a notion in the Brazils that they live a hundred
years. My dog was a very pleasant and loving eomslauion to me for
no less than sixteen years of my time, and then 'ed of mere old
age. As for my cats, they multiplied to that degree, that I was
0 liged to shoot several of them at first, to keep them from devour-
ing me and all I had; but, at length, when the two old ones I
brought with me were gone, and after some time continually dri '
them from me, and letting them have no provision with me, them
ran wild into the woods, exec t two or three favourites, which I
kept tame, and whose fyoung, w en they had any, I always drowned;
and these were part 0 m amily. Besides these, I alwa s kept two
or three household kids a at me, whom I "Ell? to 1' out of in
hand; and I had two more parrots, which edpretty well, and
would all call Robin Crusoe, but none like in first; nor, indeed,
did I take the pains with an of them that I done with him. 1
had also several tame sea- owls, whose names I knew not, that I
caught upon the shore, and cut their ' ; and the little stakes
which I had planted before my castle wall ing now wn up to a
good thick grove, these fowls all lived among these ow trees, and
red there, which was very eeahle ',t0 me: so that, as I said
above, I began to be very we contented with the life I led, if I
could have been secured from the dread of the savages. But it was
otherwise directed; and it may not be amiss for all people who shall
meet with my story, to make this just observation from it, viz. How
frequent] , in the course of our lives, the evil which in itselfwe see]:
most to s an, and which, when we are fallen into, is the most dread-
ful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverance, by
which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen
into. I could give many examples of this in the course of m un-
accountable life, but in nothing was it more particularly remar able

than in the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in
this island.
ANOTHER VISIT OF THE SAVAGES--ROBINSON SEES THEM DANCING-
PERCEIVES THE WRECK OF A VESSEL.

IT was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-
third ear; and this being the southern solstice (for winter I can-
not 0 it), was the particular time of my harvest, and required my
be' much abroad in the fields; when goino out pretty early
inntie morning, even before it was thorough da light, I was
surprised with seeino a light of some fire upon the s iore, at a dis-
tance from me of a out two miles, towards the end of the island
where I had observed some savages had been, as before; and not
on the other side, but, to my great affliction, it was on my side of
the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short
within my rove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised;
and yet lad no more peace within, from the apprehensions I
had that if these savages, in rambling over the island, should find
my corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improvements,
they would immediately conclude that there were peo 1e in the

lace, and would then never give over till they had foun me out.

this extremity, I went back directly to my castle, pulled up the

ladder after me, and made all things without look as wild and as
natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of
defence: I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is to say,
3y muskets, which were mounted upon myf new fortification, and
my pistols, and resolved to defen in se to the last gasp; not
forgetting seriously to commend myse to the divine protection,
an earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the hands of
the barbarians. I continued in this posture about two hours; and
began to be mighty impatient for intellifipce abroad, for I had
no spies to sen out. After sitting aw 'e longer, and musing
what I should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ' -
norance any longer; so setting up my ladder to the side of the ' ,
where there was a flat place, as I observed before, and then pull-
ing the ladder up after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the
to of the hill; and pulling out my perspective glass, which I had
t en on p ose, I laid me down flat on the ground, andb
to look for t e place. I presently found there were no less t
nine naked sav , sitting round a small fire they had made, not
to warm them, or the had no need of that, the weather being
extremely hot, but, as an posed, to dress some of their barbar-
ous diet of human flesh, w ch they had brought with them, whe-
ther alive or dead I could not tell.

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up upon
the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to me to
wait for the return of the flood to go away again. It is not easy
to imagine what confusion this sight ut me into, especially seeing
them come on my side of the islan , and so near me too; but
when I considered their coming must be always with the current of
the ebb, I be , afterwards, to be more sedate in my mind, being
satisfied that flight go abroad with safety all the time of the tide
of flood, if they were not on shore before; and having1 made this
observation, I went abroad about my harvest work wi the more
composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to the
westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call
it) away. I should have observed, that for an hour or more before
they went off, they went a dancing; and I could easily discern their
postures and gestures by in glass. I could not perceive, by my
nicest observation, but that t ey were stark naked, and had not the
least covering upon them; but whether they were men or women,
I could not distinguish.

As soon as I saw them shipped and ne, I took two gIms upon
my shoulders, and two istols in my ' e, and my reat sword by
my side, without a scab ard, and wit all the spec I was able to
make, went away to the hill where I had discovered the first appear-
ance of all; andas soon as I got thither, which was not in less than
two hours (for I could not go space, being so loaden with arms as
I was), I perceived there had been three canoes more of savages at
that place; and looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea to-
gether, making over for the main. This was a dreadful sight to me.
especially as, goin down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror, which the ismal work they had been about had left behind
it, viz. the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh, of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and sport.
I wore out a year and three months more before I ever saw any
more of the savages.

The perturbation of m mind, during this fifteen months'
interval, was very great; slept unquiet, dreamed always fright-
ful dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night; in the
day, great troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the night,
I dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the reasons why I
might justify the doing of it. It was in the middle of May, on the
sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would
reckon, for marked all upon the post still; I say, it was on the
sixteenth of May that it blew a very reat storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and thun er, and a very foul night it
was after it. I knew not what was the particular occasion of it,
but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken 'up with very serious
thoughts about my resent condition, I was surprised with the noise
of a gun, as I thong t, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise
quite of a difi'erent nature from any I had met with before; for the
notions this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I
started up in the greatest haste imaginable, and, in a trice, clapped
my ladder to the middle place of the rock, and pulled it after me;
and mounting it the second time, got to the top of the hill the ver
moment that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, whic
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard; and, by the sound,
knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was driven down
the current in my boat. I immediate] considered that this must
be some ship in distress, and that they ad some comrade, or some
other ship in company, and fired these guns for signals of distress,
and to obtain hel . I had the presence of mind, at that minute, to
think that though I could not help them, it might be they might
help me: so I brought tonether all the dry woo I could get at
hand, and making a 0d handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the
hill. The wood was gory, and blazed freely; and though the wind
blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out: so that I was certain, if
there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it ; and no
doubt they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up I heard another
gun, and after that several others, all from the same quarter. I plied
my fire all night long, till daybreak; and when it was broad day,
and the air cleared u , I saw something at a eat distance at sea,
full east of the islan , whether a sail or a hull- I could not distin-
guish, no, not with my lass; the distance was so great, and the
weather still something azy also; at least it was so out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that it
did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor;
and being r, you ma be sure, to be satisfied, I too In gun in
in hand, an ran towar the south side of the island, to t e rocks
w ere I had formerly been carried away with the current; and get-
ting up there, the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could
plainly see, to m great sorrow, the wreck ot a ship, cast away in
the m ht upon those concealed rocks which I found when I was out
in myioat; and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the
stream, and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occa-
sion of m recovering from the most des crate, hopeless condition
that ever lyhad been in, in all my life. hus, what is one man's
safety is another man's destruction; for it seems these men, who-
ever they were, beingh out of their knowledge, and the rocks being
wholl under water, ad been driven upon them in the night, the
wind lowing hard at E.N.E. Had they seen the island, as I must
necessaril su pose they did not, they must, as I thought, have en-
deavoure to have saved themselves on shore by the elp of their
boat; but their firing of guns for help, especially when they saw, as
I imagined, my fire, filled me with man t oughts: First, Imagined
that upon seeing my light, they might ve ut themselves into their
boat, and endeavoured to make the shore; at that the sea going
very high, they mi ht have been cast away: other times I imagine
that they might ave lost their boat before, as might be the
case many ways; as particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon
their ship, which many times obliges men to stave, or take 111
pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard with their
own hands: other times I imagined they had some other ship or
shi s in company, who, upon the signals of distress the had made
had) taken them up and carried them off: other times I ancied they
were all ne ofi' to sea in their boat, and being hurried away by the
current t at I had been formerly in, were earned out into t 6 great
ocean, where there was nothing but misery and perishing ; and that
perhaps, they might by this tune be starving, and in a condition to
think of eating one another.

"'23
HE VISITS THE WRECK AND OBTAINS MANY STORES FROM IT--
AGAIX THINKS 0F QUITIING THE ISLAND.

TILL the last year of m being on this island, I never knew whether
any were saved out of tiat- ship or no; and had only the affliction,
some days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore
at the end of the island which was next the shipwreck. He had no
clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of opcn--kneed linen
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much
as to guess what nation he was of : he had nothin in his pockets
but two pieces-of--cight and a tobacco pipe :--the t was to me of
ten times more value than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my
boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on
board that might be useful to me: but that did not altogether

ress me so much, as the possibility that there might be yet some
fiving creature on board, whose life I might not only save, but
might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree. And
this thought clung so to my heart, that I could not be uiet night
or day, but I must venture out in my boat on board t ' wreck;
and committing the rest to God's providence, I thou ht the im-
pression was so strong upon my mind that it could not e resisted,
that it must come from some invisible direction, and that I should
be wanting to myself if I did not 0.

Under the power of this impressron, I hastened back to my castle,
prepared everything for my voyage took a quantity of .bread, a great
pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (or I
had still a great deal of that left) and a basket of raisins; and thus
loading myself with everythin necessary, I went down to my boat,
got the water out of her, put er afloat, loaded all my cargo in her,
and then went home afigm for more. My second cargo was a great
bag of rice, the umbre to set up over my head for a shade, another
lar e ot of fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves,
or bar ey-cakes, more than before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a
cheese: all which, with eat labour and sweat, I carried to my boat;
and ray' to God to 'rect my voyage, I put out ; and rowing, or
pad ' (antic canoe along the shore, came at last to the utmost
point 01 the island on the north-east side.

Having hauled my boat into a little_ creek on the shore, I stepped
out, and sat me down upon a rising bit of ground, very pensrve and

 

anxious, between fear and desire, about my voyage: when, as I was

musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood

fiome on; upon which my going was impracticable for so many
ours. '

I resolved, the next morning, to set out with the first of the tide;
and reposing myself for the night in my canoe, under the great
watch-coat I mentioned, Ilaunchcd out. I went at a great rate directly
for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came u to it. It was a
dismal sight to look at: the ship, which, by its buil 'ng, was Spanish,
stuck fast,j ammed in between two rocks; all the stern and quarter of her
were beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her forcastle, which
stuck in the rocks, had run on with wreat violence, her mainmast
and foremast was brought by the board, that is to say, broken short
011'; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared
firm. When I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, whO,
seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as I called him
jumped into the sea to come to me. I toolshlm mto the boat, but
found him almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake
of my bread, and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had been
starving afortnight in the snow. I then [gave the poor creature
some fresh water, with which, if I would ave let him, he would
have burst himself. After this, Iwent on board; but the first Sight
1 met with was two men drowned in the cook room, or forecastle of

 

the ship, with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as
indeed robable, that when the shi struck, it being in a storm, the
sea bro 'e so high, and so continu y over her, that the men were
not able to bear it, and were strangled with the constant rushing in
of the water, as much as if they had been under water. Besrdes
the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that had life; nor any
goods, that I could see, but what were spoiled by the water.

I found, however, besides several chests, a little cask full of liquor,
of about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much
difficulty. There were several muskets in the cabin, and a great
powder-hom, with about four pounds of powder in it: as for the
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took the
powder-horn. Itook a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted ex-
tremely; as also two little brass kettles, a cop er pot to make
chocolate, and a gridiron: and with this cargo, an the dog, I came
away, the tide beginning to make home ' ; and the same evening,
about an hour within night, I reached t re island again, weary and
fativued to the last de ree. I reposed that night in the boat; and
in the morning I reso ved to harbour what I had got in my new
cave, and not carry it home to to castle. After refreshing myself,
I t all my cargo on shore, and began to examine the particulars.
I ound on emptying the chest among other things some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about a dozen and a
half of white linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths; the
former was also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe
my face in a hot day. Upon the whole, Igot very little by this voy-
a e that was of an use to me: for, as to some money, I had found
find no manner 0 occasion for it; it was to me as the dirt under
my feet; and I would have given it all for three or four pair of
English shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly wanted,
but had none on my feet for many years.

I lived in this condition near two years more; all the time filled
with projects and designs, how, if it were possible, I might get away
from this island; and believe verily, if I had the boat that I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea, bound any where, I
knew not whither.

It was one of the nights of the rainy season in March, the four-
and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in this island of solitari-
ness, I was la in my ed awake. I had no uneasiness of mind
more than or ' ary, but could by no means close my eyes, that is, so
as to sleep ; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than as
follows:

I ran over the whole histo of my life by abri ent, as I may
call it, to my coming to this is nd; and also since came to this
island. In my reflections u on the state of my case, since I came
here, I was comparing the appy posture of m afi'airs in the first

ears of m habitation, with the life of anxiet , gear, and care, which
I had live ever since I had seen the print 0 a foot in the sand.

Then I came to reflect serious] upon the real danger I had been
in for so many years; and how had walked about in the greatest
security, and with all possible tranquility, when perha s nothing
but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the casual approac of night,
had been between me and the worst kind of destruction, viz. that of
falling into the hands of cannibals and savages. I would unjustly
slander myself, if I should sa I was not sincerely thankful to my
great Preserver, to whom all t ese unknown deliverances were due.

I made this conclusion, however, that my only way to go about
an attempt for an escape, was, if ossible, to get a savage into my
possession ; and, if possible, it s ould be one of their risoners
whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should b ' t 'ther to
hill; but these thoughts were still attended with this ' culty, that
it was impossible to effect this without attac ' a whole caravan of
them, an killing them all; and in heart tremb ed at the thoughts
of shedding so much blood, thoughy it was for my deliverance.

However, after many disputes with myself, I determined, if
possible, to (get one of the savages into my hands, cost what it would:
so I resolve to put myself upon the watch to see them when they
came on shore, and leave the rest to the event.

124%

.9 ,' i ..'--- "
~.?SS'$m5"",SSC/.~" --"-----~""':'"'fj=3

 

   

SECTION XXII.

ROBINSON RESCUES ONE OF THEIR CAPTIVES FROM THE SAVAGES,
"711011 I": NAMES FRIDAY, AND MAKES HIS SERVANT.

ABOUT a year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by
long musing had. as it were, resolved them into nothing, for want
of an occasion to nt them into execution), I was surprised, one
morning early, \viti seeing no less than five canoes all on shore
together on my side the island, and the people who belonged to
them all landed, and out of my sight. The number of them broke
all my measures; for seeing so many, and knowing that they
always came four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not
tell what to think of it, or how to take my measures, to attack
twent ' or thirty men single-handed; so lay still in my castle, per-
plexc and discomforted: however, I put myself into all the same
postures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just
ready for action, if anything had presented. Having waited a good
while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at length, being
very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and clam-
bered u to the top of the hill, by my West 0'05, as usual; stand-
ing so, owever, that my head did not appear :bove the hill, so that
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the
help of my pers ective glass, that they were no less than thirty in
number; that t ey had a fire kindled, and that they had meat
dressed. How they had cooked it I knew not, or what it was; but
the were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures
an figures, their own way, round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my erspec-
tive, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats, w ere, it
seems, they were laid by, and were now brou ht out for the
slaughter. I perceived one of them immediatel fa , being knocked
down, I suppose, with a club or wooden swor , for that was their
way, and two or three others were at work immediately, cutting
him open for their cookery, while the other victim was left standing
by himself, till they should be ready for him. In that very moment,
this poor wretch seeing himself a little at liberty, and unbound,
nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he started awa from
them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands, ' ectly
towards me, I mean towards that part of the coast where my habi-
tation was. I was dreadfufly frightened, I must acknowledge, when
I perceived him run my way, and especially when, as I thought, I
saw him pursued by the whole body. However, I kept my station,
and my spirits began to recover, when I found that there was not
above three men that followed him; and still more was I encouraged
when I found that he outstri ped them exceedingly in running, and

ained ground of them, so t at if he could but hold it for half an
our, I saw easily he would fairly get away from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek, which I men-
tioned often in the first part of my story, where I landed my
cargoes out of the ship; and. this I saw plainly he must necessarily
swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken there: but when the
savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, though the
tide was then up; but lunging in, swam through in about thirt
strokes, or thereabouts, Ended, and ran on with exceeding strength
and swiftness. When the three ersons came to the cree , I found
that two of them could swim, ut the third could not, and that,
standing on the other side, he looked at the others, but went no
farther, and soon after went softly back vain; which, as it hap-
pened, was very well for him in the end. observed that the two
who swam were yet more than twice as long swimming over the
creek as the fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was
the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant,
and that I was called plainl by Providence to save this poor
creature's life. I immediate y ran down the ladders with all
possrble expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both'at the
cot of the ladders, as I observed above, and getting up again, with
the same haste, to the top of the bill, I crossed toward the sea, and
havmg a very short cut, and all down hill, laced myself in the way
between the pursuers and the pursued, h ooing aloud to him that
,fled, who, looking back, was at first, perhaps, as much frightened at
Inc as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come back;
and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that fol-
lowed: then rushing at once upon the foremost, I knocked him
down with the stock of my piece. I was 10th to fire, because 1
would not have the rest hear; though, at that distance, it would
not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of the smoke too,
they would not have easil known what to make of it. Having
k necked this fellow down, t e other who pursued him stopped, as if
h e had been fricrhtened, and I advanced apace towards him: but as
I came nearerj erceived presently he had a bow and. arrow, and
was fitting it to 5 root at me: so I was then necessitated to shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor
savage who fled but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies
fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so fri htened with the fire
and noise of my piece, that he stood stock st , and neither came
forward nor went backward, though he seemed rather inclined to
fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him to come forward,
which he easily understood, and came a little way; then stop ed
again, and then a 'ittle further, and then sto ed a in; an I
could then perceive that he stood trembling, as 1? lie h been taken
risoner, and had just been to be killed, as his two enemies were.
beckoned to him again to come to me, and ve him all the signs
of encouragement that I could think of; an he came nearer and
nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve ste s, in token of
acknowledgment for havin" saved his life. I 5 ed at him, and
looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer: at
length e came close to me; and then he kneeled down vain,
kissed the ground, and laid his head 11 on the ground, and t '
me by the cot, set my foot u on his ead: this, it seems, was in
token of swearing to be my 5 ave for ever. I took him up, and
made much of him, and encou ed him all I could. But there
was more work to do yet; for perceived the savage whom I
knocked down was not killed but stunned with the blow, and began
to come to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the
savage, that he was not dead: upon this he spoke some words to
me, and though I could not understand them, yet I thought they
Were pleasant to hear; for they were the first sound of a. man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-five
years. But there was no time for reflections now; the savage who
was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up on the
ground, and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid; but
when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the man, as if I
would shoot him: upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made
a motion to me to lend him my sword which h naked in a bolt
,by my side, which I did. He no sooner had it, ut he runs to his
enemy, and, at one blow, out off his head so cleverly, no execu~
tioner in Germany could have done it sooner or better; which I
thought ve strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never
saw a sworldyin his life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden
swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will
cut elf heads even with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow
too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to me, in sign of
triumph, and bro ht me the sword again, and with abundance of
gestures, which I 'd not understand, laid it down. But that which
astonished him most was to know how I killed the other Indian so
far off : so pointing to him, he made some to me to let him filtno
him; so I bade him go as well as I coul . When he came to ' ,
he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turning him first on one
side, then on the other, looked at the wound the bullet had made,
which, it seems, was just in his breast, where it had made a hole,
and no eat quantity of blood had followed, but he had bled in-
wardly, or he was quite dead. He took up his bow and arrows,
and came back; so I turned to go away, and beckoned him to
follow me, making signs to him that more might come after them.
Upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them with
sand, that they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed; and
so I made signs to him to do so. He fell to work; and, in
an instant, he had scrape a hole in the sand with his hands, bitr
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and
covered him; and did so by the other also: I'Meve he had
buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away,
I conveyed him, not to my castle, but quite away, to my cave, on the
farther part of the island. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of
raisins to eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was
indeed in rest distress for, by his running; and having refreshed
him, I ma e signs for him to go and lie down to slee , showing him
a place where I had laid some rice straw, and a b ct upon it,
which I used to sleep 11 on myself sometimes; so the poor creature
lay down and went to s eep.

He was a. comely, handsome fellow, perfectl well-made, with
straight, strong limbs, not too lar , tall, and we] -shaped, and, as I
reckon. about twenty-six years 0 age. He had a very od coun-
tenance, not a fierce and surly aspect; but seemed to ave some-
thing very manl in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and
softness of an uropean in his countenance too, es ecially when he
Inflfigad His hfiigrhwasdltliprg and btliack, not curl lilredwool;lih-ui.s'e
ore ve ' an ; an a t vivacity an s '
sharpness in ' eyes. Thegzolour of filth was not quitgablack,
out very tawny; and yet not an ly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the
Brazilians and Virginians, and ot er natives of America are, but of
a bright kind of a dun olivercolour, that had something in it ve'
agreeable, though not ve easy to describe. His face was 1'0
and plump; his nose sm , not flat like the Negroes; a very good
mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth well set, and as white as
ivory. _

_ ter he had slumbered, rather than slept, about half an hour, he
awoke again, and came out of the cave to me, for I had been milking
my goats, which I had in the enclosure 'ust by: when he espied me;
he came running to me, laying himself own ' upon the ground,
with all the possible signs of an humble, tha ' ul disposition, makin
a great many antic gestures to show it. At last, he lays his hea
flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon
his head, as he had done before; and after this made all the signs to
me of subjection. servitude, and submission imaginable, to let me
know how he would serve me as long as he lived. I understood

 

him in many things, and let him know I was very well pleased with
him. In a little time I began to speak to him and teach him to
speak to me; and, first, I let him know his name should be FRIDAY,
which was the day I saved his life: I called him so for the memory
of the time. I likewise taught him to say Master: and then let him
know that was to be my name: I likewise taught him to say Yes
and No, and to know the meaning of them. I gave him some milk
in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him, and so
my bread in it; and gave him a cake of bread to do the like, whi
he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very good for
him. I kept there with him all that night; but as soon as it was
day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know that I
would give him Some clothes: at which he seemed very glad, for he
was stark naked. As we went by the place where he had buried
the two men, he pointed exactly to the s 0t, and showed me the
marks he had made to find them again, making signs to me that we
should dig them up again, and eat them. At this I appeared vex-a
angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, and beckoned with my han
to him to come away, which he did immediately, with eat submis-
sion. I then led him up to the top of the hill, to see ' his enemies
were gone ; and pulling out in glass, I looked, and saw plainly the
place where they had been, ut no appearance of them or their
canoes: so that it was plain they were gone, and had left their
two comrades behind them, without any search after them.

But I was not content with this discovery ; but having now more
courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man Frida
with me, iving him the sword in his hand, with the how an
arrows at iris back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him can one gun for me, and I two for myself ; and away -
we marched to t e place where these creatures had been, for I had
a mind now to get some further intelligence of them. When I
came to the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins, and m
heart sunk Within me, at the horror of the spectwle: indeed, it
was a dreadful si ht, at least it was so to me, though Friday made
nothincr of it. he place was covered with human bones, the
groumf dyed with their blood, and great pieces of flesh left here
and there, half-eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the
tokens of the triumphant feast they had been makingmgiere, after a
victory over their enemies. I saw three sculls, five ds, and the
bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts
of the bodies; and Friday, by his si 3, made me understand that
they brought over four pnsoners to east upon; that three of them
were eaten up, and that he, oint' to himself, was the fourth;
that there had been a great attle etween them and their next
king, whose subjects, it seems, he had been one of, and that they
had taken a great number of risoners ; all which were carried to
several places by those who h taken them in the fight, in order to
feast upon them, as was done here by these wretches upon those
the brou ht hither.

caused Friday to gather up all the sculls, bones, and flesh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make a
great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had
still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a
cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the
very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it, that he durst
not discover it: for I had, by some means, let him know that I
would kill him if he ofi'ered it..

When he had done this, we came back to our castle; and there I
fell to work for my man Friday: and, first of all, I gave him a pair
of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor gunner's chest I
mentioned which I found in the wreck; and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well, and then I made him a jerkin of
goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow (for I wu now grown a
tolerable good tailor); and I gave him a $0.1 cap, which I made of
hare's skin, very convenient and fashiona 1e enough; and thus he,
was clothed for the present, tolerably well, and was mighty well
pleased to see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It is
true, he went awkwardly in those clothes at first: wearing the
drawers was ver awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat
galled his shoul ers, and the inside of his arms; but after a little
easing them where he complained they hurt him, and using himself
to them, he took to them at length very well.

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him, I began
to consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do well for
him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him
in the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last and in the outside of the first. As there was a door or
entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case,
and a door to it of boards, and set it up in the passage, a little
within the entrance; and causing the door to open in the inside, I

 

barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders too; so that Fridzfiy
could in no way come at me in the inside of my innermost wa ,
without making so much noise in getting over that it must needs
waken me: for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of
long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the
hill; which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead of
laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice-straw,
which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or place which was
left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind of trap door,
which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but would have fallen down, and made a teat noise :
as to weapons, I took them all into my side every nig 1:. But I
needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more faith-
ful, loving, sincere servant than Frida was to me; without pas-
sions. sullenness, or designs, perfectly o liged and engaged--his very,r
affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a father; and I
dare say, he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine upon
any occasion whatsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of this
put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no
precautions as to my safety on his account.

This frequently gave. me occasion to observe, and that with
wonder, that however it had pleased God, in his providence,
and in the government of the works of his hands, to take from
so great a part of the world of his creatures the best uses to which
their faculties and the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that he
has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason, the
same affections, the same sentiments of-kindness and obligation, the
same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same sence of grati-
tude, sincerity, fihelity, and all the capacities of doing good, and
receavin good, that he has given to us; and that when he pleases
to offer t em occasions of exerting these they are as ready, nay, more
ready, to apply them to the right uses for which they were bestowed,
than we are.

With my new companion I was eatly delighted, and made it my
business to teach him ever hing t t was proper to make him use-
ful, handy, and helpful; at especially to make him 3 eak, and
understand me when I s oke: and he was the aptest sc olar that
ever was; and particular dy was so merry, so constautl diligent, and
so pleased when he coul but understand me, or m 6 me under-
stand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. Now
my life began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself, that
could I have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was
never to remove from the place where I lived.
ROBINSON IXSTRUCTS AND CIVILIZES HIS MAN FRIDAY--ENDEAVOURS
TO GIVE HIM AN IDEA OF CHRISTIANITY.

AFTER I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought
that, in order to bring Friday 011' from his horrid we. of feeding,
and from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to et him taste
other flesh ; so I took him out with me one morning to the woods.
I went, indeed, intending to kill a kid out of m own flock, and
bring it home and dress it; but as I was oiug, saw a she-goat
lying down in the shade, and two young gkids sitting by her. I
caught hold of Friday ;--" Hold," said I ; "stand still ;" and made
si ns to him not to stir: immediately I presented my iece, shot, and

'led one of the kids. The poor creature, who he , at a distance,
indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor
could imagine, how it was done, was sensibly surprised, trembled
and shook, and looked so amazed, that I thought he would have
sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at, or erceived 1 had
killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to feel whet er he was not
wounded, and, as I found resently, thought I was resolved to kill
him: for he came and knee ed down to me, and embracing my knees,
said a great many things I did not understand; but I could easily
see the meanin was, to pray me not to kill him.

I soon foun a way to convince him that I would do him no
harm ; and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing
to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it,
which he did; and while he was wondering, and looking to see how
the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again. By and by, I saw
a great fowl, like a hawk, sitting upon a tree, within shot; so to let
Friday understand a little what would do, I called him to me '

ointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it
liad been a hawk, I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and
to the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall,
I made him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird:
accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and immediatel he saw
the arrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, notwithstanding
all {had said to him; and I found he was the more amazed, because
he did not see me put amr thino into the gun, but thought that there
must be some won erful lund OI death an destruction in that thing,
able to kill man, beast, or bird, or any thing near or far off ; and
the astonishment this created in him was such, as could not wear
off for a long time; and I believe, if I would have let him, he would
have worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would
not so much as touch it for several days after; but he would speak
to it, and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by
himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not
to kill him. Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did,
but sta ed some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had
fluttere away a good distance from the place where she fell: how-
ever, he found her, took her up, and brought her to me; and as I
had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took this advan-
tage to charge the gun again, and not to let him see me do it, that
I might be ready for any other mark that might present; but
nothing more ofi'ered at that time: so I brought ome the kid, and
the same eve ' I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I
could; and haying a pot fit for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very lad
of it, and liked it veg well: but that which was strangest to rim,
was to see me cat s twith it. He made a sign to me that the
salt was not good to eat; and putting a little into his month, he
seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing
his mouth with fresh' water after it - on the other hand, I too
some meat into my month without salt, and I pretented to spit and
sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it
would not do; he would never care for salt with his meat or in his
broth; at least, not a great while, and then but very little.126 .mn-zxrrnrs or aomxsox cursor.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved
to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I did,
by hanginrr it before the fire on a string, as I had seen many people
do in Eng and, setting two (poles up one each side of the tire, and
one. across on the top, an tying the string to the cross stick,
lettingl the meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much:
but w en he came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell
me how well he liked it, that I could not but understand him ; and at
last he told me, as well as he could, that he would never eat man's
flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.

"The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and
sitting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and he

 

soon understood how to (lo it as well as I, especially after he had
seen what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of
it : for after that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it too;
and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as
well as I could do it. myself.

I began now to consider, that having two mouths to feed instead
of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, and plant 'a
larger quantity of com than I used to do: so I marked out a larger
piece of land, and began the fence in the same manner as before,
in which Friday worked not only very willinglyand very hard, but
did it very cheerfully : and I told him what it was for; that it was
for corn to make more bread, because he was now with me, and
that I might have enough for him and myself too. 'He appeared
ver sensrble of that part, and let me know that he thounrht I
ha much more labour upon me on his account than I had for
myself; and that he would work the harder for me, if I would tell
him what to do.
This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of
almost eve thing I had occasion to call for, and of every place I
had to son him to, and talked a great deal to me; so that, in
short, I began now to have some use for my tongue again, which,
indeed, I had very little occasion for before, that is to say, about
speech. Besides the 1pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular
satisfaction in the fel ow himself: his simple, unfcigned honesty
appeared to me more and more every dig, and I began really to
love the creature; and, on his side, I be 'eved he loved me more
than it was possible for him ever to love any thing before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankermtr inclination to
his own country again; and having taught him in lish so well
that he could answer me almost any question, I asked him "whether
the nation that he belon ed to never con uered in battle?" At
which he smiled, and sai , "Yes, yes, we a ways fight the better: "
that is, he meant, always get the better in fight; and so we began
the following discourse :--

Mksrnk. "You always fierht the better? how came you to be
taken prisoner then, Friday?"

FRIDAY. "M nation beat much, for all that."

MASTER. "Hziw beat? If your nation beat them, how came
you to be taken?"

FRIDAY. "They more money than my nation in the place where
me was; they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overheat
them in the yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take
one, two, great thousand."

MASTER. "But why did not your side recover you from the
hands of your enemies, then?"

FRIDAY. "They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in
the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time."

hhsrnn. "Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they take? Do they carry them away and eat them,
as these did?"

FRIDAY. " Yes, my nation eat man's too; eat all up."

Mas'rnn. "Where do they ca them?"

FRIDAY. " Go to other place, w ere they think."

Mas'rnn. "Do they come hither?"

FRIDAY. " Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else place."

MASTER. " Have on been here with them?"

FRIDAY. "Yes, I ave been here ; " (Spoints to the NW. side of
the island, which, it seems, was their si e.)

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among
the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part of the
island, on the same man-eating occasions he was now brought for:
and some time after, when I took the courage to carry him to that
side, being the same [ formerly mentioned, he presently knew the
place, and told me he was there once when they ate up twenty men,
two women, and one child- he could not tell twenty in English, 'but
he numbered them, by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing
to me to tell them over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows ; that
after I had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it was from
our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost.
He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that, after
a little way out to sea, there was a current and wind, always one
wa in the morning, the other in the afternoon. This I understood
to be no more than the sets of the tide, as going out or coming in;
but I afterwards understood it was occasioned by the great draft
and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or gulf of
which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay; and that this
land which I crceired to the W. and N.W. was the great island
Trinidad, on t c north point of the mouth of the river. I asked
Friday a thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants, the
sea, the coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he knew,
with the greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the names of
the several nations of his sort of people, but could get no other
name than Caribs: from whence I easily understood, that these were
Caribbees, which our maps place on the part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to Guiana, and on-
wards to St. Martha. He told me that upla great way beyond the
moon, that was, beyond the setting of t e moon, which must be
west from their country, there dwelt white bearded men, like me,
and pointed to my great whiskers, which I mentioned before; and
that they had killed much mans, that was his word: by all which I
understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had
been spread over the whole country, and were remembered by all
the nations, from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might o from this island ant
get among these white men; he told me: " es, yes, you may go in
two canoe." I could not understand what he meant, or make him
describe to me what he meant by two canoe; till, at last, with great
difliculty, I found he meant it must be in a large boat, as big as two
canoes. This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me
very well: and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one
time or other, I might find an opportunity to make my escape from
this place, and that this poor savage might be a means to help me.

During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that
he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wantin to
lay a foundation of religious knowledge in his mind; particularIy I
asked him, one time, who made him? The poor creature did not
understand me at all, but thought- I had asked him who was his
father; but I took it up by another handle, and asked him who
made' the sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods?
He told me, it was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all; he
could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old, much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the moon or
the stars. I asked him then, if this old firson had made all things,
whidid not all thin worship him? e looked very ve, and
wit a erfect look 0 innocence, said: " All things say to him."
I aske him "if the eople who die in his country went awa an
where?" He said, " es: they all went to Benamuckee;" t en
ask:d gm "whether these they ate up went thither too?" He
8&1 ' u as.>>

From these thingls I began to instruct him in the knowledge of
the true God: I to d him that the great Maker of all things 'ved
up there, pointing up towards heaven; that be governed the world

 

by the same power and providence by which he made it; and that
he was omnipotent, and could do eveifithing for us, give everything
to us, take everything from us; and t us, by degrees, I opened his
e es. He listened with great attention, and received with leasurc

e notion of Jesus Christ be' sent to redeem us, an of the
manner of making our prayers to 0d, and his being able to hear us,
even in heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could hear us
up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God than their Ben~
amuckee, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till
they went up to the eat mountains where he dwelt to speak to
him. I asked him i?ever he went thither to speak to him? He _
said: "No ;" the never went that were young men; none went
thither but the oldy men, whom he called their Oowookakee: that is,
as I made him ex lain to me, their religious, or clay; and that
thei went to say 8 (so he called saying prayers), an that came
bac , and told them what Benamuckee said.

K
I endeavoured to clear u this fraud to my man Friday; and told
him, that the pretence of t eir old men goinghup to the mountains
to say 0 to their god Benamuckee was a c eat: and that their
bringing word from thence what he said was much more so; that if
they met with any answer, or spake with any one there, it must be
an evil spirit; and then I entered into along discourse about the
devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to
man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the
world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
stratagems he made use of to dcludc mankind to their ruin; how he
had a. secret access to our passions and to our afi'ections, and to
adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be our
own tempters, and run upon our destruction by our own choice.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the
methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must
aeknowled e, what I believe all that act upon the same principle
will find,t at in laying things open to him, I reallv informed and
instructed myself in many things that either I did not new, or had
not fully considered before, but which occurred naturally to my
mind upon searching into them, for the information of this poor
savage: and I had more affection in my inquiry after things upon
this occasion than ever I felt before: so that, whether this poor wild
wretch was the better for me or no, I had great reason to be thank-
ful' that ever he came to me; my 'ef sat lighter upon me; mv
habitation grew comfortable to me fiyond measure; and when l
reflected, that in this solitary life which I had been confined to, I
had not only been moved to look up to Heaven myself, and to seek
to the hand that had brought me here, but was now to be made an
instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and, for aught I
knew, the soul, of a poor savage, and bring him to the true know-
ledge of religion, and of the Christian doctrine, that he might know
Christ Jesus, in whom is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon
all these things, a secret joy ran throuoh every part of m soul, and
I frequently rejoiced that ever I was rou ht to this p e, which
I had so often thought the most dreadful 0 all afliictions that could
possibly have befailcn me.
ROBINSON AND FRIDAY BUILD A CANOE TO CARRY THEM TO FRIDAY'S

COUNTRY--THEIR. SCHEME PREVENTED BY THE ARRIVAL 01' A
PARTY OF SAVAGES.

AMER Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he
could understand almost all I said to him, and speak prett fluently,
though in broken English, to me, I ac uainted him wit my own
history, or at least so much of it as re ted to my com' to this
place; how 1 had lived here, and how lonv; I let him into t e mys-
tery, for such it was to him, of gunpowder and'bullet, and taulgllllt
him how to shoot. I ave him a knife, which he was wonderf y
delighted with; and made him a belt with a frog hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangers in; and in the rog, mstead of
a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only m good a
weapon, in some cases, but much more useful upon other occas10ns.

I described to him the country of Europe, particularly England,
which I came from ; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we
behaved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of
the world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been
on board of, and showed him, as near as I could, the place where she
lay ; but she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. I showed
him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped, and
which I could not stir with m whole strength then; but was now
fallen almost all to pieces. Ilpon seeing this boat, Friday stood
musm .a. great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it was
he stu ed upon? At last, he says : " Me see such boat like come
to place at in nation." I did not understand him a good while;
but, at last, when I had examined farther into it, I an erstood by
him, that a boat such as that had been, came on shore ugmn the

x
country where he lived; that is, as he explained it, was driven
thither by stress of weather. I presently imagined that some
European ship must have been cast awa upon their coast, and the
boat might et loose, and drive ashore; ut was so dull, that Inever
once thong t of men makin their escape from a wreck thither,
much less whence they mig t come; so I only inquired after a
descri tion of the boat.
Fri ay described the boat to me well enough; but brought me
better to understand him when he added with some warmth. " We
save the white mans from drown." Then I presently asked him, if
there were any white mans, as he called them, in the boat? " Yes,"
he said; "the boat full of white mans." I asked him how many?
He told u on his fingers seventeen. I asked him then what became
of them; fie told me, " They live, they dwell at my nation."
This put new thoughts Into my head ; for I presently imagined
that these might be the men heloninng to the ship that was cast
away in the Sight of my island, as now called it; and who, after
the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her inevitably lost,
had saved themselves in their boat, and were landed upon that wild
shore among the savages. Upon this, I inquired of him more criti-
cally what was become of them; he assured me they lived still there;
that they had been there about four years; that the savages let them
alone, and gave them victuals to live on. I asked him how it came
to ass they did not kill them, and eat them, He said, " No, they
ma e brother with them ;" that is, as Iunderstood him, atrnce; and
then he added, " They no eat mans but when make the war fight 2"
that '3 to say, they never eat any men but such as come to fight
with them, and are taken in battle.
Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my desi of
going over with him to the continent, that I told rim we woude o
and make a boat as big as that, and he should go home In it. e
answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I asked
him what was the matter with him? He asked me Gain, "Why you
angry mad with Friday? What me done?" I aske him what he
meant? I told him I was not angry with him at all. " No angry?"
says he, repeating the words severaltimes; " Why send Friday home
away to my nation? "--" Why," says I, " Friday, did not you sa you
wished you were there ?"--" Yes, yes," says he, " wish he botht ere;
no wish Friday there, no master there." In a word, he would not think
of going there without me. " I go there, Friday ! " says I; " what shall I
do there P" He returned very quick upon me at this : "You do great
deal much good," sa 3 he; " you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame
mans; you tell them now God, pray God, and live new life."--"Alas!
Friday," says I, "thou knowest not what thou sayest; I am but an
ignorant man myself."--" Yes, es," says he, " you teachee me good,
you teachee them good."---" 0, no, l'riday," sa 5], " you shall

' without me, leave me here to live by myself, as did before." 1%:
looked confused again at that word; and runnin to one of the hatchets
which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, an 'ves it to me. "What
must I do with this P" as s I to him. "You take ' Friday," says he.
" What must I kill you or P " said I 3am He returns ver nick,
" What you send Friday away for? T kill Friday, no send Friday
away." This he spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his
eyes: in a word, I so lainly discovered the utmost affection in him
to me, and a firm reso ution in him, that I told him then, and often
after, that I would never send him away from me, if he was willing
to stay with me.

Upon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse, a settled affec-
tion to me, and that notln'ng should part him from me, so I found all
the foundation of his desire to go to his own country was laid in his
ardent afi'ection to the (people, and his hopes of m doing them good;
a thing, which as I ha no notion of myself, so had not the least
thought, or intention, or desire, of undertaking it. But still I found
a strong inclination to my attempting an escape, as above, founded
on the supposition gathered from the discourse, viz. that there were
seventeen bearded men there: and, therefore, without any more
delay, I went to work with Friday, to find out a great tree proper to
fell, and make a large periafiua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage.
There were trees enough in t c island to have built a little fleet, not
of periaguas, or canoes, but even of good large vessels; but the
mam thing I looked at was, to get one so near the water that we
might launch it when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed
at first. At last, Friday itched upon a tree; for I found he knew
much better than I what " d of wood was fittest for it ; nor can I
tell, to this day, what wood to call the tree we cut down, except
that it was very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to
make it for a boat, but I showed him how to cut it with tools;
which, after I had showed him how to use, he did very handily: and
in about a month's hard labour we finished it, and made it very
handsome; especially when, with our axes, which I showed him how
to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get
her along, asit were inch by inch, upon great rollers, into the water;
but when she was in, she would have carried twenty men with great.
ease.

I was near two months rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for.
I finished them very com lete, making a small stay, and a sail, or
foresail, to it, to assist, ' we should turn to windward; and, which
was more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with.
I was but a b ling shipwright, yet, as I knew the usefulness, and
even necessity 0 such a thing, I applied myself with so much pains
to do it, that at last I broug t it to pass; though, considering the
many dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it cost me
alnwst as much labour as making the boat.

When the settled season began to come in, as the thonvht of my
design returned with the fair weather, I was reparing dal y for the
voyage, and the first thing I did was to lay y a large quantity of
provisions, being the stores for our voyage; and intended, in a week
or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I
was busy one morning upon something of this kind, when I called to
Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a
turtle, or tortoise, a thing we generally got once aweek, for the sake
of the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone,
when he came running back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and

 

before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me, " Oh master!
0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad!"--" What's the matter, Friday?"
says I. " O yonder, there, " says he, " one, two, three canoe: one,
two, three !" By this way of s eaking, I concluded there were six ;
but, on inquiry, I found it was lint three. "'Vell Frida , " says I,
" do not be frightened !" So I heartened him up as we as I could:
however, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared : for nothin

ran in his head but that they were come to look for him, and won]

cut him in pieces, and eat him; and the poor fellow trembled so that
I scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him as well as I
could, and told him I was in as much danger as he, and that they
would eat me as well as him. "But," says I, "Friday, we must
resolve to fight them." "Can you fight, Friday ?"--"Me shoot,"
says he; " but there come many great number."--"No matter for
that," saidI, again, "our guns will fright them that we do not
kill." So I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he
would defend me, and stand b me; and do just as I bid him. He
said, "Me die, when you bid ie, master." So Iwent and fetched a
good dram of rum and gave him; for I had been so good a husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he had drank it, I
made him take the two fowlin -pieces, which we always carried, and
loaded them with large swan-s ot, as bigas small Pistol-bullets ; then
I took four muskets, and loaded them with two 5 ugs, and five small
bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets
each; I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side; and gave
Friday his hatchet. When I had thus prepared myself, I took in

pcrs ective glass, and went up to the Side of the hill, to see what

could discover; and I found quickly by my glass, that there were

 

one-and--twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes; and that
their whole business seemed to be the triumphant banquet ugon
these three human bodies; a barbarous feast indeed! but nothm
more than, as I had observed, was usual with them. I observe
also, that they were landed, not where they had done when Friday
made his esca e, but nearer to my creek, where the shore was low,
and where a t 'ck wood came almost close down to the sea. This,
with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down again to
Friday, and told him that I was resolved to down to them and
kill them all; and asked him if he would stan by me. lie had now
got over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised With the dram

had 'ven him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he
wouldfilie when I bid die. _

In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms which I had
charged, as before, between us; I gave Friday one 1pistol to stick In
his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder; and took one pistol,
and the other three s myself; and in this posture we marched
out. I took a small ottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a
large bag with more powder and bullets; and, as to orders, I charged
him to kee close behind me, and not to stir, or shoot, or do an -
thing, till bid him; and, in the mean time, not to speak a wet .
In this posture, Ifetched a compass to my right hand of near a mile,
as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, so that Imight
come within shot of them beforeI should be discovered, which I had
seen, by m glass, it was easy to do.

I cntere the wood; and, with all possible wariness and silence,
Friday following close at my heels, 1 marched till I came to the skirt
of the wood, on the side which was next to them, only that one
corner of the wood, lay between me and them. Here I called softly
to Friday, and showinnr him a great tree, which was just at the cor-
ner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if he
could see there plainly what they were doing. He did so ; and came
immediately bac ' to me, and told me they might be lainly viewed
there; that they were all about their fire, eating the esh of one of
their prisoners, and that another lay bound upon the sand, a little
from them, which, he said they would kill next, and which fired all
the very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their nation,
but one of the bearded men he told me of, that came to their
country in the boat. I was tilled with horror at the very naming
the white bearded man; and, going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my
trlass, a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his
iands and his feet tied with flags or things like rushes, and that he
was an European and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty
yards nearer to them than the place where I was,which by oing a little
way about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and t at then I
should be within half a shot of them: so I withheld my passion,
though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree; and going back
about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held all the
way till I came to the other tree; and then came to a little rising
ground, which gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about

eighty yards
ROBINSON RELEASES A SPANIABD--PRIDAY DISGOVEBS HIS FATHER
--ACCOMMODATION PROVIDED FOB. THESE NEW GUESTS--WHO

ARE mnnwms SENT TO LIBERATE THE OTHER SPANIAEDS--
ABRIVAL OF AN ENGLISH VESSEL.

I HAD now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful
wretches sat upon the ground, all close-huddled together, and had
just sent the other two to butcher the cor Christian, and bring him
perhaps, limb by limb, to their fire; and they were stoo ing down to
untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday--" Now, 'day," said
I, " do as I bid thee." Frida said he would. "Then, Friday," said I,
" do exactly as you see me o; fail in nothi ." So I set down one
of the muskets and the fowling-piece uponntIie ground, and Friday
did the like by his; and with the other musket I took an aim at
the savages, bidding him to do the like; then askin him i he was
ready, he said, "Yes." "Then fire at them," said ; and the same
moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that
he shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three more; and on my
side, I killed one, and wounded two. The were, you may be sure,
in dreadful consternation; and all of t em who were not hurt
Jumped up upon their feet, but did not immediate] know which way
to run, or which waye'tlo look, for they knew not rom whence thelr
destruction came. 'day kept his eyes close upon me that, as I
had bid him, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as the first
shot was made, I t ew down the piece, and took up the fowlm -
P1805, and Friday did the like: he Saw me cock and present; he did
the same again. "Are on ready, Friday?" said I. " Yes," says he.
" L" fix. then," says I, "in the name of God!" And with that I
fired again among the amazed watches, and so did Friday; and as our
ieces were now loaden with what I called swan- shot, or small pistol
Bullets, we found only two drop, but so man were wounded, that
they ran about yelling and screaming like ma creatures, all blood ,
and most of them miserably wotmdcd, whereof three more fell quic y
after, though not quite dead.

"Now, Friday,"said I, laying down the discharged pieces, and takino
up the musket which was yet loaden, " follow me 3" which he did with
a great deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood, and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon as I perceived
they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so
too; and runnino as fast as I could, which by the way was not very
fast, being loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the

poor v1ctim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or shore,

 

between the place where they sat and the sea. The two butchers,
who were just going to work with him, had left him at the surprise
of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had
jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest made the same way.
I turned to Friday, and hade him step forward, and fire at them; he
understood me immediately, and running about forty yards, to be
nearer them, he shot at them, and I thou ht he had killed them all,
for I saw them all fall of a heap into the oat, though I saw two of
them up again uiekly: however, he killed two of them, and
wounded the thirc , so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as
if he had been dead.

While my man Frida ' fired at them; I ulled out my knife, and
cut the flags that boun the poor victim; oosing his hands and feet,
I lifted him up and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he Was.
He answered in Latin, Christianus; but was so weak and faint that

he could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket,
and gave it him, making si that he should drink, which he did;
and I gave him a piece of read which he ate. Then I asked him
what countryman he was : "Espagniole 3" and being a little recovered,
let me know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how much he
was in my debt for his deliverance. " Si nor," said I, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, "we will t afterwards, but we must
fight now; if you have any strength left, take this pistol and sword,
and lay about you. He took them very thankfully; and no sooner
had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour into
him, he flew upon his murderers like afury, and had out two of them
in pieces in an instant; for the truth is the whole was a surprise to
them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise
of our pieces, that they fell down for mere amazement and fear, and
had no more power to attempt their own escape than their flesh had
to resist our shot; and that was the case of those five that Friday
shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they had
received, so the other two fell with the fright. _

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being Willing to
keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol and
sword; so I called to Frida , and bade him run up to the tree from
whence we first fired and fetc the arms which lay t ere that had been
discharged, which he did with great swiftness; and then giving him
my musket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me when they wanted. While I was loading these
pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard
and one of the savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the same-like weapon that was to have killed him be-
fore, if Ihad not prevented it. The Spaniard,who was as bold and
brave as could be im 'ned, though weak, had fought this Indian a good
while, and had out im two great wounds on his head; but the
sav are being a stout, lust fellow, closing in with him, had. thrown
him own, being faint, an was wringing my sword out of his hand;
when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely quitted the sword,
drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage through the bod ,
and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was running to he p
him, could come near him. _

Friday being now left to his libert , pursued the flying wretches,
with no weapon in his hand but is hatchet; and with that he
dispatched those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at first,
an fallen, and all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun I ve him one of. the fowling--pieces, with
which he pursued two of t e savages, and wounded them both; but,
as he was not able to run, they both t from him into the wood,
where Friday pursued them, and kille one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded, yet had
plunged himself into the sea, and swam, with all his might, of to
those who were left in the canoe, which three in the canoe, with one
wounded, that we know not whether he died or no, were all that
escaped our hands of one-and-twenty. The account of the whole is
as follows: three killed at our first shot- from the tree; two
killed at the next shot; two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed
by Frida of those at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the
wood; three killed by the Spaniard; four killed, being found dro ped
here and there of their wounds, or killed by Frida in his c use
of them; four escaped in the boat, whereof one woun ed if not dead.
--Twenty-one in all.

Those who were in the canoe worked hard to et out of gun-shot,
and though Friday made two or three shots at t em, I did not find
that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have had me take one
of their canoes, and )ursue them; and indeed I was very anxious
about their escape, lest, carrying the news home to their people,
they should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of the

 

canoes, and devour us by mere multitude ; so I consented to pursue
them by. sea, and runnin to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and
bade Friday follow me; hut when Iwas in the canoe Iwas surprised
to find another car creature lie there, bound hand and foot, as the
Spaniard was, or the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what was the matter; for he had not been able to look
up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels, and
had been tied so long, that he had really but little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had
bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not
stand or speak, but roaned most iteousl , believing, it- seems, still,
that he was only unfionnd to be ' ed. hen Friday came to him,
I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and,
pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram;
which, with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat
up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look
in his face, it would have moved any one to tears to have seen how
Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
' mped about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his own face and head; and then sang and 'umped about again,
like a distracted creature. It was a. good while efore I could make
him 5 eak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came
a litt e to himself, he told me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to ex ress how it moved me to see what
ecstacy and fihal affection ha worked in this poor savage at the
sight of his father, and on his being delivered from death; nor indeed
can I describe half the extravagancies of his afi'ection after this; for
he went into the boat, and out of the boat a great many times: when
he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and
hold his father's head close to his bosom for many minutes together,
to nourish it; then he took his arms and ancles which were numbed
and stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his
hands: and I, crceiving what the matter was, gave him some rum
out (pf my butt e to rub them with, which did them a great deal of

co .

g This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other
savages, who were now almost out of sight; and it was happy for us
that we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours after, and
before they could have got quarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard all night, and that from the north-west, which was
against them, that I could not suppose that their boat could live, or
that they ever reached their own coast.

But, to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father, that I
could not find in my heart to take him ofi' for some time: but after
I thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he
came 'umpinguand lau hing, and {leased to the highest extreme;
then asked 'm if be ad given 's father any bread. He shook
his head, and said, "None; u ly dog eat all up self." I then gave
him a cake of bread, out of afiittle pouch I carried on purpose; I
also gave him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but
carried it to his father. I had in my pocket two or three bunches of
raisins, so I ave him a handful of them for his father. He had no
sooner givenfiiis father these raisins, but I saw him come out of the
boat, and run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such a
rate; for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that I ever saw: I
say, he ran at such a rate, that he was out of sight, as it were, in
an instant; and though I called, and hallooed out too, after him, it
was all one, away he went; and in a quarter of an hour I saw him
come back again, though not so fast as he went; and as he came
nearer I found his pace slacker, because he had something in his
hand. When he came up to me, I found he had been quite home
for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father some fresh water, and
that he had two more cakes or loaves of bread; the bread he gave
me, but the water he carried to his father; however, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. The water revived his father
more than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just
fainting with thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was
any water left; he said "Yes ; " and 1 bade him give it to the poor
Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent
one of the cakes that Friday brought to the Spaniard too, who was
indeed ve weak, and was reposing himself upon a green place
under the s ade of a tree ; and whose limbs were also very stiff, and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with.
When I saw that, upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he
sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began to eat, I went to
him and gave him a handful of raisins; he looked up in my face
with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear
in any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding he had
so exerted himself in the fight, that he. could not stand up upon his
feet; he tried to do it two or three times, but was really not able,
his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit
still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with rum,
as he had done his father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes, or
perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn his head about to see
if his father was in the same place and posture as he left him
sitting: and at last he found that he was not to be seen; at which
he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew with that swift-
ness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to touch the
ound as he went; but when he came he only found he had lain
mself down to ease his limbs, so Friday came back to me pre-
sently; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up,
if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him
to our dwellinn, where I would take care of him; but Friday, a
lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back, and
carried him away to the boat, and set him down softl upon the side
or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside 0 it; and then,
liftlng him quite in, he set himself close to his father; and pre-
sently step ing out again, launched the boat off, and paddled it
along the s ore faster than I could walk, though the wind blew
pretty hard too: so he brought them both safe into our creek, and
eaving them in the boat, ran away to fetch the other canoe. As
he assed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he went. He
tol me, " Go fetch more heat: " so away he went like the wmd, for
sure never man or horse ran like him; and he had the other canoe
in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land; so he wafted me
over, and then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which
he did; but they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor
Friday knew not what to do. .

To remedy this, I went to work in 1:1}; thought, and calling to
Friday to bid them sit down on the ba while he came to me, I
soon made a kind of hand--barrow to lay them on, and Frida and I
carried them both up together upon it, between us. But w en we
got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we were at a
worse loss than before, for it was impossible to get them over, and
I was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work again; and
Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a ver handsome
tent, covered with old sails, and above that w1th bong s of trees,
being in the space without our outward fence, and between that and
the grove of young wood which I had planted; and here we made

 

them two beds of such thin as I had, viz. of good rice straw,
with blankets laid upon it, to 'e on, and another to cover them, on
each bed.
_ My island was now peopled, and I thought myself rich in sub-
Ets; and it was a merry reflection, which frequently made, how

e a king I looked. First of all, the whole country was my own mere
property, so that I had an undoubted right of dominion. Secondly,
my people were rfeetly subjlfcted: I was absolutely lord and
lawgiver; they owed their 'ves to me, and were ready to lay
down their lives, if there had been occasion for it, for me. It was
remarkable, too, I had but three subjects, and they were of three
difi'erent religions: my man Frida was a Protestant, his father was
aI'agan and a cannibal, and the aniard was a. Papist: however,
I allowed liberty of conscience t oughout my dominions.--But
this is by the way.

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners, and
given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I began to think
of making some provision for them; and the first thing I did, I
ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat,
out of my particular flock, to be killed; when I cut off the hinder

uarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set Frida to work to
goilin and stemng, and made them a very good dish, assure you,
of ties and broth, having put some barle and rice also into the
broth; and as I cooked it without doors, or I made no fire within
m inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and having set a
ta 1e for them, I sat down, and ate my dinner also with them, and, as
well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them. Friday was my
interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard
too: for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take
one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire-
arms, which, for want of time, we had left 11 on the place of battle;
and, the next day, I ordered him to go and ury the dead bodies of
the savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently be
ofl'ensive. I also ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their
barbarous feast, and which I could not think of doing m self; nay,
] could not bear to see them, if I went that way; a which he
)unctnally performed, and efi'aced the very appearance of the savages
being there; so that when I went again, I could scarce know
where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing
to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects; and first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he
thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether we
might ex ect a return of them, with a power too reat for us to
resist. is first opinion was that the sava es in tie boat could
never live out the storm that blew that ni t they went off, but
must of necessity be drowned, or driven sent to those other shores,
where they were as sure to be devoured as they were to he drowned,
if they were cast away: but, as to what they would do if they came
safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it was his opinion, that they
were so dreadfully frightened with the manner of their bein
attacked, the noise, and) the fire, that he believed they would te
the (people they were all killed by thunder and lightni , not by the
ban of man; and that the two which appeared, viz. riday and I,
were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them,
and not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew: because he
heard them all cry out so, in their language, one to another; for it
was im ossible for them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and
speak t under, and kill at a distance, without lifting u the hand, as
was done now: and this old savage was in the rig t; for, as I
understood since, by other hands, the savages never attempted to go
over to the island afterwards, they were so terrified by the accounts
given by those four men (for, it seems, they did escape the sea),
t at they believed whoever went to that one anted island would be
destroyed by fire from the gods. This, however, I knew not; and
therefore was under continual apprehensions for a good while, and
kept always upon my rd, with all my army: for, as there were
now four of us, I wo d have ventured upon a hundred of them,
fairly in the open field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes a pearing, the fear of
their comin wore off, and I be to take my ormer thoughts of a
voyage to t e main into consi eration; being likewise assured b
Friday's father that I might depend upon good usage from their
nation, on his account, if I would go. But my thoughts were a
little suspended when I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard,
and when I understood that there were sixteen more of his country-
men and Portuguese, who, having been cast away, and made their
escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages,
but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I
asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and found they were a
Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata, to the Havannah,
being directed to leave their loadinig there, which was chiefl hides
and silver, and to bring back what uropean goods the co d meet
with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen on oard, whom
they took out of another wreck; that five of their own men were
drowned, when first the ship was lost, and that these escaped
through infinite dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on
the cannibal coast, where they ex eeted to have been devoured
every moment. He told me the ad some arms with them, but
the were perfectly useless, for t at they had neither powder nor
bally, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a
little, which they used at their first landing, to provide themselves
some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and
if they had formed no desi of making their escape. He said the
had many consultations a out it; but that having neither vessel
nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind, their councils
always ended in tears and despair. I asked him how he thought
they would receivea proposal from me, which might tend towards an
esca e; and whether, if they were all here, it might not be done. I
told 'm, with freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage
of me, if I put my life in their hands, for that gratitude was no in-
herent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations thei had received, so much as they did
by the advant es they expecte .

He answere with a great deal of caudour and ingenuousness,
that their condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible of
it, that he believed they would abhor the thought of us any man
unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance; an that, if I
pleased, he would go to them with the old man, and discourse With
them about it, and return again, and bring me their answer; that

L
he would make conditions with them 11 on their solemn oath, that
they should be absolute] under my 1e ' g,as their commander and
captain; and that they 5 ould swear, upon the _holy sacraments and
gospel, to be true to me, and go to such Christian country as that I
should agree to, and no other, and to be directed wholly and abso-
lutely b my orders, till they were landed safely in such country as
I inten ed; and that he would bring a contract from them, under
their hands, for that purpose.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if
possrble, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them
to treat. But when we had got all things in readiness to go, the
Spaniard himself started an objection, which had so much rudence
in it, on one hand, and so much sincerity, on the other 'han , that I
could not but be very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put off
the deliverance of his comrades for at least half a ear. The case
was thus : He had been with us now about a mont , during which
time I had let him see in what manner I had rovided, with the
assistance of Providence, for my support; and re saw evidently
what stock of corn and rice I had land up; which, though it was
more than sufficient for myself, yet it was not sufiicient, without
good husbandr , for my family, now it was increased to four; but
much 1655 won d it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were, as he
said, sixteen, still alive, should come over; and least of all would it
be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voy-
age to any of the Christian colonies of America; so he told me he
thought it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig
and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow,
and that we should wait another harvest, that we might have a
supply of corn for his countrymen, when they should come; for
want might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not to think
themselves delivered, otherwise than out of one difiiculty into an-
other. " You know," says he, "the children of Israel, though they
rejoiced at first for being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even
against God himself, that delivered them, when they came to want
bread in the wilderness."

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I
could not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I
was satisfied with his fidelity: so we fell to digging, all four of us, as
well as the wooden tools we were furnished w1th permitted; and in
a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had got as
much land cured and trimmed up as we sowed two and twenty
bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice ; which was, in short,
all the seed we had to spare: nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves
barley sufficient for our Own food, for the six months that we had to
expect our crop ; that is to say, reckoning from the time we set our

seed aside for sowmg; for it IS not to be supposed it is six months
in the ground in that country. '
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock of tame
oats as much as I could; and, for this urpose, I made Friday and
t e Spaniard go out one day, and myselg wrth Friday the next day
(for we took our turns), and by this means we got about twenty
young kids to breed up with t e rest; for whenever we shot the
dam, we saved the kids, and added them to our flock. But, above
all, the season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a ro-
digious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that, I believe, ha we
been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could
have filled sixty or eighty barrels: and these, with our bread, was a
great part of our food, and was very good living, too, I assure you,
or it is exceedingly nourishing.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the

 

most glentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was
enoug to answer our end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley
we brought in and threshed out above two hundred and twenty
bushels, and the like in Emportion of the rice; which was store
enough for our food to t e next harvest, though all the sixteen
Spaniards had been on shore with me; or if we had been ready for a
voyage, it would very plentifuny have victualled our ship to have
can-ied us to any part of the world, that is to say, any part of Ame.
rica. When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn,
we fell to work to make more wickerware, viz. eat baskets, in
which we kept it; and the S aniard was very han y and dexterous
at this part, and often blame me that I did not make some things
for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need of it.

And now, having a full supfly of food for all the guests I ex-
pected, I gave the Spaniard eave to go over to the mail; to see

I.
what he could do with those he had left behind him there. I gave
him a strict charge not to bring any man with him who would not
first swear, in the presence of himself and the old savage, that he
would no way injure, tight with, or attack the )erson he should find
in the island, who was so kind as to send for trern in order to their
deliverance; but that they would stand by him, and defend him
against all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely
under and subjected to his command; and that this should be put
in writing, and signed with their hands. How they were to have
done this, when I knew they had neither pen nor ink, was a ques-
tion which we never asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard
and the old savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the
canoes which they might be said to come in, or rather were brought

 

in, when they came as prisoners. to be devoured by the sav. "es: 1
gave each 'ol' them a musket, with a tireleck on it, and about eight
charges of powder and ball, charging them to be very good husbands
of both, and not to use either of them but upon urgent oecasrons. _

This was a cheerful work, being the first. measures used by me, ur
view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some days.
I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried graylies, sufiiclent tor
themselves for many days, and sutticient for all tie Spaniards for
about eight days' time; and wishing them a good voyage,l saw
them go; agreeing with them about a signal they should hang out
at their return, by which I should know them again, when they
came back, at a distance, before they came on shore. They went
away with a fair gale, en the day that the moon was at full, by my
account in the mom h of October; but. as for an exact. reckoning of
days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover it again; nor
had I kept even the number of years so )unctually as to be sure I
was right; though, as it proved, whenlI afterwards examined my
account, I found I had kept a true reckoning of years.
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not
perhaps been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch
one morning, when my man Friday came running in tome, and
called aloud, " Master, master, they are come, they are come! " I
jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could

et my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way, was
Ey this time grown to a very thick wood; I say, regardless of dan-

 

er, 1 went without my arms, which it was not my custom to do;

at I was surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, I presently
saw a boat about a league and a half distance, standing in for the
shore, with a shonlder-of--mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing fair to brin them in: also I observed presently, that they
did not come from hot side which the shore lay on, but from the
southernmost end of the island. Upon this, I called Friday in, and
bade him lie close, for these were not the people we looked for, and
that we might not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.
1n the next place, 1 went in to fetch my perspective glass, to see
what I could make of them; and having taken the ladder out, I
climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was a pre-
hensivc of anythin , and to take my view the plaincr without eing
discovered. I ha scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my e c
)lainlv discovered a ship lying at anchor, at about two leagues an a
talf distance from me, S.S.E., but not above a league and a half
from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to be an
English ship, and the boat appeared to he an English long-boat.

1 cannot express the confusion I was in; though the joy of
seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned
by my own countrymen, and, consequently, friends, was such as I
cannot describe ; but yet I had some secret. doubts hang about me--
I cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me keep upon my
guard. In the tirst place, it occurred to me to consider what bust-
ness an English ship could have in that part of the world, since it
was not the way to or from any part of the world where the English
had any traflic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive them
in there, as in distress; and that if they were really English, it was
most probable that they were here upon no good design ; and that I
had better continue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and
murderers.

I had not kept myself mug in tins posture, but I saw the boat
draw near the shore, as if they looked for a creek to thrust in at,
for the convenience of landing; however, as they did not come
quite far enough, they did not see the little inlet where I formerly
landed my rafts, but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at
about hall a mile from me, which was very happy tor me ; for other-
wise they would hare landed just at my door, as I may say, and
would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plun-
dered me of all I bad. When they were on shore, I was fully satis-
fied they were Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two I
thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in all
eleven men, whereof three I found were unarmed, and, as I thought,
bound; and when the first four or five of them were jumped on
shore, they took those three out of the boat, as prisoners; one of
the thrch could perceive using the most assionate gestures of
entrcaty, atllietion, and despair, even to a kind) of extravagance; the
other two, 1 could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and
appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the first.
I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the
meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in English, as
well as re could, " 0 master! you see English mans cat prisoner as
well as savage mans."---" Why, Friday," says I, " do you think they
are going to eat them then? "--" Yes," says Friday, "they will eat
them." " No, no," says I, " Friday; I am afraid they will murder
them, indeed, but you may be sure they will not eat them."mvnurunes or ROBINSON CltUSOE. 151

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was,
but stood tremblin with the horror of the sight, expecting every
moment when the t ree prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw
one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen
call it, or sword, to stri e one of the poor men; and I expected to
see him fall every moment; at which all the blood in my body
seemed to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily now for my
Spaniard, and the savage that was no with him, or that I had any
way to have come undiscovered wit iin shot of them, that I might
have rescued the three men, for I saw no fire-arms the had me
them : but it fell out to my mind another way. After I lad observldg
the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolcnt seamen, I
observed the fellows run scattering about the island, as if they
wanted to see the country. I observed that the three other men

   

' ' Ml: >> ' 4'"

had liberty to go also where they pleased; but they sat down all
three upon the ground, vc pensive, and looked like men in despair.
This put me in mind of 1the first time when I came on shore, anp
began to look about me: how I gave myself over for lost; how
wildl I looked around me; what dreadful ap rehcnsions I had; and
how i lodged in the tree all ni ht, for fear of eing devoured by wild
beasts. As I knew nothing 1; at night of the supply I was to re-
ceive by the rovidcntial driving of the ship nearer the land by the
storms and tide, by which I have been so long nourished and sup-
ported; so these three oor desolate men knew nothing how certain
of deliverance and supp y they were. So little do we see before us
in the world, and so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon
the great Maker of the world, that He does not leave His creatures
so a solutely destitute, but that, in the worst circumstances, they
have always something to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer
their deliverance than the imagine; nay, are even brought to their

deliverance by the means y which they seem to be brought to their
destruction.
ROBINSON DISCOVIZEIS IIIT-INELF TO THE ENGLISH CAI'TAIN--ASSISTS
Ill)! IN REDUCING llIS MUTXNOUS CREW-- "'IH) SUBMIT TO HIM.

11' was just at the top of high water when these people came on
shore; and partly while they rambled about to see what kind of a
place they were in, they had carelessly stayed 1ill thc'gide was spent,
and the water was r-bhed considerably away, lcavm their boat
aground. They had left two men in the boat, who, as found after-
wards, having drunk a little too much brandy, fell aslee ; however,
one of them wakiuga little sooner than the other, an finding the
boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed out for the rest,
who were straggling about; upon which they all soon came to the
boat : but it was )ast all their strength to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and t re shore on that side being a soft cozy sand, almost
like a quickszmd. In this condition, like true seamen, who are
perhaps the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it
over, and away they strolled about the country again; and I heard
one of them say aloud to another, callin them 011' from the boat,
" Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you? src'll float next tidez" by
which I was fully confirmed in the main in uiry of what country-
men they were. All this while I kept myse very close, not once
daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place of
observation, near the top of the hill; and very glad I was to think
how.well it was fortified. I knew it was no less than ten hours
before the boat could float again, and by that time it would be dark,
and I might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear
their discourse, if they had any. In the meantime, I fitted myself
up for a. battle, as before, though with more caution, knowing I
had to do with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered
Friday also, whom I had made an excellent marksman with his gun,
to load himself with arms. I took myself two fowling-pieces, and
I ave him three muskets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce; I
h my formidable goats' skin coat on, with the great ea I have
mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my bel , and a
gun upon each shoulder.

It was my desi , as I said above, not to have made an attempt
till it was dark: Eiit about two o'clock, being the heat 0 the day,
I found that, in short, they were all gone strag ling into the woods,
and as I thought, laid down to sleep. The t ree poor distressed
men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, however,
sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of an of the rest.
Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, an learn some-
thing of their condition; immediately I marched in the figure as
above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable
for his arms as I, but not makin quite so staring a spectre-like
figure as I did. I came as near t em undiscovered as I could, and
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish,
" What are ye, gentlemen?" They started at the noise; but were
ten times more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought I

erceived them just going to fiy from me, when I spoke to them in

'uglish: "Gentlemen," said , " do not be surprised at me; per-
ha 3 you may have a friend near, when you did not expect it."
" e must he sent directllfl'from Heaven then," said one of them
very gravely to me, and p 'ng off his hat at the same time to me;
"for our condition is past the help of man."--"All help is from
Heaven, sir," said I : " But can you put a stranger in the way how
to help you? for you s cm to be in some (great distress. I saw you
when you landed; and when you seeme to make supplication to
the brutes that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword
to kill you." .

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembhng,
looking like one astonished, returned, " Is it a real man or an
angel? '--" Be in no fear about that, sir," said I; " if God had sent
an angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and
armed after another manner than you see me: pray lay aside your
fears; I am a man, an En lishman, and disposed to mist you: you
see I have one servant o y; we have arms and ammunition; tell
us freely, can we serve you? What is your case?"--" Our case,"
said he, "sir, is too long to tell you, while our murderers are so
near us; but, in short, sir, I was commander of that ship, my men154 maven-runes or nonmsou CBUSOE.

have mutinied inst me; they have been hardly revailed on not to
murder mc ; an at last have set me on shore in t llS desolate place,
with these two men with me, one my mate, the other a passenger,
where we expected to perish, believing the lace to be uninhabited,
and know not yet what to think of it."--" here are these hrutes,
your enemies?" said I: " Do you know where they are gone? "--
" There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees; " my
heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you s eak; if
they have, they will certainly murder us all."--" Have t ey any
fire-arms ? " said 1. He answered, " They had only two pieces, one
of which they left in the hoat."--"Well then," said I, " leave the
rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it is an easy thing to kill them
all: but shall we rather take them prisoners?" He told me there
were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce safe to

 

show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the
rest would return to their duty. I asked him which they were?
He told me he could not at that distance distinguish them, but he
would obey my orders in anything I would direct. " Well," says I,
"let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and
we will resolve further." So they willingly went back with me, till
the woods covered us from them.

"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliverance,
are you willinfito make two conditions with me?" He anticipated
my pro osals, telling me, that both he and the ship, if recovered,
should e who y directed and commanded b me in every thing;
and, if the shi was not recovered, he would 've and die with me
inwhat part 0 the world soever I would send him; and the two
other men said the same. " Well," says I, " my conditions are but
two: first, That while you stay in this island With me, you will not
pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms in your hands,
you will, upon all occasion, give them up to me, and do no prejudice
to me or mine upon this island ;_ and, in the mean time, be governed
by my orders: secondly, That if the ship is, or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England, passage free."

He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of man
could devise, that he would comply with these most reasonable
demands; and, besides, would owe his life to me, and acknowled
it upon all occasions, as long as he lived. "Well then," said ,
"here are three muskets for you, with powder and ball: tell me
next what you think is proper to be done." He showed me all the
testimonies of his gratitu e that he was able, but offered to be
wholly guided b me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing
anything; but t e best method I could think of was to fire u on
them at once, as they la , and. if any was not killed at the t
volle , and ofi'ered to su mit, we might save them, and so put it
who y upon God's providence to direct the shot." He said very
modestly, " that he was 10th to kill them, if he could help it: but
that those two were incorrigible villains, and had been the authors
of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we should be
undone still; for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's
company and destroy us all." "Well then," says I, "necessity
legitimates my advice, for it is the onl way to save our lives.
However, seeing him still cautious of s edding blood, I told him
they should 0 themselves and manage as they found convenient."

In the mi die of this discourse we heard some of them awake,
and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him " if
either of them were the heads of the mutiny?" -He said "no."
"Well then," said I, " you may let them escape; and Providence
seems to have awakened them on purpose to save themselves.
Now," says I, "if the rest esca e you, it is our fault." Animated
with this, he took the musket had given ' in his hand, and a
pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each a piece
in his hand; the two men who were with him going first, made
some noise, at which one of the seamen who was awake turned
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it
was too late then, for the moment he cried out they fired; I mean
the two men, the captain wisely reserving his own iece. They had
so well aimed their shot at the men they knew, tlat one of them
was killed on the spot, and the other ve much wounded; but not
being dead, he started up on his feet, an called eagerly for help to
the others; but the captain ste ping to him, told him it was too
late to cry for he] , he should call upon God to for 've his villany;
and with that wor knocked him down with the stoc of his musket,
so that he never spoke more; but there were three more in the
company, and one 0 them was also slightly wounded. By this time
I was come; and. when they saw their danger, and that it was in
vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them he
would spare their lives, if they would ive him any assurance of
their abhorrence of the treachery they had, been guilty of, and would
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the shi , and afterwards
inearrying her back to Jamaica, from whence t ey came. They
gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be

esired, and he was willing to believe them, and spare their hves,
which I was not against, only that I obliged him to keep them
bound hand and foot while they were on the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to
the boat, with orders to secure her and bring away the ears and
sails, which they did: and by and by three straggling men, that
were (ha pily for them) parted from the rest, came back 11 on
hearing t 1e guns fired, and seeing the captain, who before was t eir
prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also;
and so our victory was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
another's circumstances; I began first, and told him my whole his-
tory, which he heard with an attention even to amazement; and
particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished with
provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a whole
collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when be reflected
from thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved
there on purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and
he could not speak a word more. After this communication was at ~
an end, I carried him and his two men into my a artment, leadin
them in 'ust where I came out, viz. at the top of t e house, where
refreshed them with such provisions as I had, and showed them all
the contrivanees I had made, during my long, long inhabiting of
that lace.

I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectl amazing; but
above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how perfectly I
had concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, having been
now planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster
than in England, was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was
impassable in any part of it, but at that one side where I had reserved
my little winding pass e into it. I told him this was my castle and
my residence, but that had a seat in the country, as most princes
have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would show him
that too another time; but at present our business was to consider
how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that; but told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there
were still six-and-twenty hands on board, who havin entered into a
cursed cons iraey, by which they had all forfeited t eir lives to the
law, would e hardened in it now by des eration, and would carry it
on, knowing that, if they were subdued, t ey would be brought to the
gallows, as soon as they came to England, or to any of the English
colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no attacking them with
so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a
very rational conclusion, and that, therefore, somet ' was to be
resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men on bo into some
snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and
destroyino us. Upon this it presently occurred to me, that in a
little w ' e the shi '3 crew, wondering what had become of their
comrades, and of t e boat, would certainly come on shore in their
other boat, to look for them: and that then, erhaps, they might
come armed, and be too strong for us; this he owed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the
boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her
of ; and taking everythin out of her, leave her so far useless as not
to be fit to swim; accor ' g1 we went on board, took the arms
which were left on board out 0 er, and whatever else we found there.

Then we knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if the had
gome strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry 0 the

oat.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main
strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so hi h, that the tide would
not float her off at high-water mark, and besi es, had broke a hole
in her bottom too big to be quiickly stopped, and weie musing what
we should do, we heard the s 'p fire a gun, and saw er make a waft
with her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on board; but no
boat stirred; and they fired several times, making other sigials for
the boat. At last when all their signals and firing proved uitless,
and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of
my glasses, hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore; and
we found, as the ap roached, that there were no less then ten men
in her, and that t e ad fire-arms with them.

As the ship lay dmost two leagues from the shore, we had a full
view of them as they came, and a plain sight even of their faces;
because the tide having set them a little to the east of the other
boat, they rowed u under shore, to come to the same place where
the other had lande , and where the boat lay; by this means, I say,
we had a full view of them, and the captain knew the ersons and
characters of all the men in the boat, of whom he sai there were
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this con-
spiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as
for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief ofiicer among them,
and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew,
and were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; and
terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us.
I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circumstances were
past the operation of fear; that seeing almost every condition that
could be was better than that which we were supposed to be in, we
ought to expect that the consequence, whether death or life, would
be sure to be a deliverance.

We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from the
ship, considered of se arating out prisoners; and we had, indeed,
secured them effectually. Two of them, of whom the captain was
less assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men, to m cave, were they where remote enough,
and out of danger of eing heard or discovered, or of finding their
way out of the woods if they could have delivered themselves: here
the left them bound, but gave them provisions; and promised them
if t ey continued there quietly, to "ive them their liberty in a day
or two; but that it' they attempted their escape, they should be put
to death without mercy. They promised faithfull to bear their con-
finement with patience, and were very thankful t at they had such
good usage as to have provisions and light left them; for Friday
gave them candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort;
and they did not know but that he stood sentinel over them at the
entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept

inioned, indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them:
but the other two were taken into my service, upon the captain's
recommendation, and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die
with us; so with them and the three honest men, we were seven men
well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal well
enough with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain
had said that there were three or four honest men among them also.
As soon as they got to the place where their other boat la , they ran
their boat into the beach, and came on shore, ha ' t e boat 11
after them, which I was glad to see; for I was afrai they won]
rather have left the boat at an anchor, some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her to guard her, and so we should not be able
to seize the boat. Being on shore, the first thi they did, they
ran all to their other boat; and it was easy to see t ey were under
a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her,
and a great hole in her bottom. After they had mused awhile u on
this, they set up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all tJeir
might, to try if they could make their companions hear, but all was
to no purpose; than they came all close in a ring, and fired a volley
of their small arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made
the woods ring; but it was all one; those in the cave we were sure
could not hear; and those in our keeping, though they heard it well
enough, yet durst ive no answer to t em. They were so astonished
at the surprise of t is, that, as the told us afterwards, they resolved
to go all on board again to their s ' , and let them know that the
men were all murdered, and the ong-boat staved; acccordingly,

geydimmediately launched their boat again, and got all of them on
er .
The captain was terribly amazed and even confounded at this,
believing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving
their comrades over for lost, and so he should still lose the ship,
which he was in hopes we should have recovered; but he was
quickly as much frightened the othenway.

They had not been long put ofi' With the .boat, but we perceived -
them all coming on shore again; but With this new measure in their
conduct, which it seems they consulted together upon, viz. to leave
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and 0 up into
the country to look for their fellows. This was a great appoint-
ment to us, for now we were at a loss what to do; as our seizing
those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us, if we let the
boat escape; because they would then row awayto the ship, and

 

then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our
recovering the ship would be lost. However we had no remedy but
to wait and see what the issue of things might resent. The seven
men came on shore, and the three who remaine in the boat put her
ofi' to a good distance from the shore, and came to ananchor to wait
for them; so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the
boat. Those who came on shore kept close tOfifther, mare '
towards the to of the little hill under which my ha. itation lay;

we could see t em plainly, though the could not perceive us. We
could have been very lad if they wo d have come nearer to us, so
that we might have red at them, or that the would have gone
farther ofi', that we ' ht have come abroad. at when they were
come to the brow oimtfiie hill, where the could see a great way into
the valleys and woods, which lay tower the north-east part, and
where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till they were
weary; and not car' , it seems, to venture far from the shore, nor
far from one anotherintiey sat down together under a tree, to con-
sider of it. Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the
other part of them had done, they had done the job for us; but they
were too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep,
though they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation
of theirs, viz. that pcrha 5 they would all fire a volle vain, to en-
deavour to make their fe ows hear, and that we shoul iii sally upon
them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and
they would certainly yield, and we should have them without blood-
shed, I liked this proposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come 11 to them before they could load their pieces again.
But this even di not happen; and we lay still a long time, very
irresolute what course to take. At length I told them there would
be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then, if they did not
return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them
and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in the
boat to get them on shore. We waited a great while, though very
impatient for their removing; and were veryr uneasy, when, after long
consultations, we saw them all start up, and march down towards the
sea: it seems they had such dreadful apprehensions u on them of the
danger of the place, that they resolved to go on boar the ship again,
give their companions over for lost, and so go on with their intended
voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, I imagined
it to be, as it really was, that they had given over their search, and
were for oing back vain; and the captain, as soon as I told him
my thougits, was reailcy to sink at the a prehensions of it: but I
presently thought of a stratagem to fete them back again, and
which answered my end to a tittle. I ordered Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to go over the little creek westward, towards the place
where the savages came on shore when Frida was rescued, and as
soon as they came to a little rising ground, at shout half a mile dis-
tance, I bade them halloo out, as loud as they could, and wait till
they found the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they heard
the seamen answer them, they should return it again; and then keep-
inagl out of sight, take a round, always answering when the others
h ooed, to draw them as far into the island, and among the woods,
as possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as I
directed them.

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed: and they resently heard them, and answering, run along

_ the shore westward: towards the voice they heard, when they were
presently stopped by the creek, where the water being up, they could
not get over, and called for the boat to come up and set them over;

\
as, indeed, I expected. When they had set themselves over, I
observed that the boat being gone a good way into the creek, and, as
it were, in a harbour within t e land, they took one of the three men
out of her, to alongI with them, an left only two in the boat,
hav' fastened er to t e stump of a little tree on the shore. This
was w at I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and the cap-
tain's mate to their business, I took t e rest with me, and crossing
the creek out of their sight, we 3 rised the two men before they
were aware; one of them lying on t e shore, and the other being in
the boat. The fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking,
and goingmto start up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon
him, an ocked him down; and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few arguments
to persuade a single man to (yield, when he saw five men upon him,
an his comrade knocked own ; besides, this was, it seems, one of
the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the
crew, and therefore was eas' y persuaded not only to yield, but after-
wards to join very sincerely With us. In the mean time, Friday and
the captain's mate so well m ed their business with the rest, that
they drew them, by hallooing an answering, from one hill to another,
an from one wood to another, till they not only heartily tired them,
but left them where they were ver sure they could not reach back to
the boat before it was dark; an , indeed, they were heartily tired
themselves also, by the time they came back to us.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark and
to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It was
several hours after Frida came back to me before they came back
to their boat; and we co 6. hear the foremost of them, long before
they came quite up, callin to those behind to come alo ; and could
also hear them answer, an complain how lame and tire they were,
and not able to come any faster, which was very welcome news to
us. At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to
express their confusion when they found the boat fast ound in the
creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. resolved to
wait, to see if they did not separate; and, therefore, to make sure of
them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and the cap-
tain to cree upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as
they could, t at the might not be discovered, and get as near them
as they could possib y, before they offered to fire. _

They had not been lo in that posture, when the boatswam, who
was the principal ringle er of the mutin , and had now shown him-
self the most dejected and dispirited 0 all, came walking towards
them, with two more of the crew ; the captain was so er at havmg
this principal ro e so much in his power, that he coul hardly have
patience to let him come so near as to be sure of him, for they onlg

card his tongue before: but when they came nearer, the captain an
Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them. The hoatswam was
I .
killed u on the s ot; the next man was shot in the body, and fell
just by ' , thoug he did not die till an hour or two after ; and the
third ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediatel advanced
with my whole arm , which was now eifiht men, viz. my: , general-
issimo; Friday, mylieutenant-general; t e ca tain and ' two men,
and the three prisoners of war, whom we trusted with arms.
We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see
our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat, who was
now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could brin them to
a parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms; whic fell out
just as we desired; for, indeed, it was easy to think, as their condi-
tion then was, they would be willing to ca itulate. So he calls out
as loud as he could, to one of them, " om Smith! Tom Smith!"
Tom Smith answered immediate] , "Is that Robinson ?" For it
seems, he knew the voice. The ot er answered, " (y, ay; for God's
sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yiel , or you are all
dead men this moment."-----" Who must we yield to P Where are they ?"
says Smith again. " Here they are," says he; "here's our captain
and fifty men with him, have been huntin you these two hours: the
boatswain is killed, Will Fry is wounde , and I am a prisoner ; and
if you do not yield, you are all lost."--" Will they give us quarter
then?" says Tom Smith, "and we will yield."--" I Will 0 and ask,
if you promise to yield," says Robinson: so he askedt e captain;
and the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith, you know 111
voice; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit, you shad
have your lives, all but Will Atkins."
ATKINS ENTREATS TEE CAPTAIN T0 SPARE HIS LIFE--TEE LATTEB
BECOVEBS HIS VESSEL FROM THE MUTINEEBs--AND ROBINSON
LEAVES IRE ISLAND.

Urox this Will Atkins cries out, "For God's sake, captain, give me
quarter; what have I done? They have all been as bad as 1:"
which, by the way, was not true; for it seems, this Will Atkins was
the first man that laid hold of the captain when they mntinied,
and used him barbarously, in tying his hands, and giving him inju-
rious lang . However, the captain told him he must lay down
his arms at ' cretion, and trust to the govemor's mercy; by which
he meant me, for they all called me governor. In a word they all
laid down their arms, and begged their lives; and I sent the man
that had parleyed with them, and two more, who bound them all ;
and then my great army of fifty men, which particularly with those
three, were in all but e ht, came 1]? and seized upon them, and upon
their boat; only that I ept myse and one more out of sight for
reasons of state.
par next work was to repair the boat, and think of s ' ' the
p: and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with em,
he expostnlated with them u on the villany of their practices with
him, and at length upon the her wickedness of their design, and
how certamly it must bring them to misery and distress in t e end,
and perhaps to the gallows. They all appeared very penitent and
begged hard for their lives. As for that he told them that they
were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of the island; that
they thought they had set him on shore on a barren, uninhabited
Island; but it had pleasedGod so to direct them, thatitwasingabit-
- - I

L1
ed, and that the governor was an Englishman; that he mioht hang
them all there, if he leased; but as he had given them all uarter,
he supposed he would], send them all to England, to be de t with
there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded
by the governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would be
hun in the morning.

T rough all this was but a fiction of his own, yet it had the desired
effect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to betr the captain to inter-cede
with the governor for his life; and all the rest begged of him, for
God's sake, that they might not be sent to England.

 

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come,
and that it would be a most easy thing to br' these fellows in to
be hearty in getting possession of the ship; so retired in the dark
from them, that they might not see what kind of a governor they
had, and called the captain to me: when I called, as at a good
distance, one of the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the
captain, " Captain, the commander calls for you ;" and presently the
captain re lied, " Tell his excellency I am just a-cominfi." This more
perfectly eceived them, and they all believed that t e commander
was just by with his fifty men. Upon the captain's coming to me, I
told him my project for seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully
well, and resolved to put it into execution the next morning. But,
in order to execute it with more heart, and to be secure of success,
I told him we must divide the prisoners, and then he should 0 and
take Atkins and two more of the worst of them, and sen them

inioned to the cave where the others lay. This was committed to

riday and the two men who came on shore with the captain. They
were conveyed to the cave as to a prison: and it was indeed a dis'
mal place, especially to men in their condition. The others I
. ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have iven a full
description: and as it was fenced in and they 1pinion , the place
was secure enough, considering they were upont eir behaviour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter into
a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and tell me whether he
thought they might be trusted or no to go on board and surprise the
ship. He talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition
they were brought to, and that though the governor had given them
quarter for their lives as to the present action, yet that if they were
sent to England, they would all be hanged in chains, to he sure : but
that if they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship,
he would have the governor's engagement for their pardon.

An one may guess how rea 'y such a proposal would be ac-
cepte by men in their condition; they fell down on their knees to
the captain, and romised, with the deepest implrecations, that they
would he faithf to him to the last drop, and t at they should owe
their lives to him, and would go with him all over the world : that
they would own him as a father as long as they lived. "Well," says
the ca tain, " I must go and tell the governor what you say, and see
what can do to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an
account of the temper he had found them in, and that he verily be-
lieved they would be faithful. However, that we might be very
secure, I told him he should back again and choose out those five,
and tell them that they mi t see he did not want men, that he
would take out those five to e his assistants, and that the governor
would keep the other two, and the three that were sent prisoners to
the castle (my cave) as hos for the fidelity of those five; and
that if they proved unfaithfu in execution, the five hostages should
be hanged in chains alive on the shore. This looked severe, and
convinced them that the governor was in earnest: however, they
had no way left them but to acce t it; and it was now the business
of the prisoners, as much as of t e captain, to persuade the other
five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition: first the
captain, his mate, and passe r; second, the two prisoner of the
first gang, to whom, havingt cir character from the ca tam, I had
given their liberty, and trusted them with arms: third, t e other two
that I had kept till now in my bower, pinioned, but, on the captain's
motion, had now released; fourth, these five released at last; so that
these were twelve in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the cav
for 110st es.

When showed in self to the two hostages, it was with the cap-
tain, who told them Iwas the person the governor had ordered to
look after them ; and that it was the governor's pleasure they should
not stir any where but by my direction; that if t ey did, they would
be fetched into the castle and laid in irons: so that as we never
suffered them to see me as the governor, I now appeared as another

rson, and spoke of the governor, the garrison, t e castle, and the

' e, upon all occasions. , _ .
The captain now had no difienlty before him, but to furnish his
two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made his
passenger captain of one, with four of the men; and himself, his
mate, and five more, went in the other; and they contrived their
business vcr well, for they came up to the ship about midni ht.
As soon as t 18y came within call of the ship, he made Robinson ail
them, and tell them they had brought off the men and the boat, but
that it was a long time before they had found them, and the like,
holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's side; when the
captain and the mate entering first with their arms. immediately

 

knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the but end of
their muskets, being very faithfully seconded b their men; they se-
cured all the rest that were upon the main an quarter decks, and
began to fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below;
when the other heat and their men entering at the fore-chains,
secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle which went down
into the cook-room, makinnr three men they found there prisoners.
When this was done, and afi safe upon deck, the captain ordered the
mate, with three men, to break into the round-house, where the new
rebel captain lav, who having taken the alarm, had got u , and with
two men and aboy had got lire arms in their hands; an when the
mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new captain and his men
fired boldl among them, and wounded the mate With a musket ball,
which bro e his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed
nobody. The mate calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-
house, wounded as he was, and With his pistol shot the new captain
through the head, upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was
taken effectually, without any more lives lost.

_ As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven
guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to ive
me notice of his success, which you may be sure I was very gla to
hear, having sat watching u on the shore for it till near two o'clock
in the mornin . Having t us heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it aving been a day of t fatigue to me, I slept ve
sound, till I was something surprise with the noise of a ; anrd
presently starting up, I heard a man call me by the name of " Edgernor,
Governor," and fpresently I knew the captain's voice; when climbing
up to the top 0 the hill, there he stood, and pointing to the ship, he
embraced me in his arms. " My dear friend and dehverer," an s he,
"there's your shi , for she is all yours, and so are we, and a that
belong to her." cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode
within little more than hflf a mile of the shore; for the had wei h-
ed her anchor as soon as they were masters of her, an the west er
bein lair, had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of
the ttle creek; and the tide being up, the captain had brought the
Elinnace in near the place where I at first landed in rafts, and so

nded just at my door. I was at first ready to sink own with the
surprise; for I saw my deliverance, indeed, Visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither
I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I was not able to answer
him one word; but as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by
him, or I should have fallen to the ground. I embraced him as my
deliverer, and we r 'oiced together.

When we had t ked a while, the ca tain told me he had brought
me some little refreshment, such ast e ship afi'orded, and such as
the wretches that had been so 10 his masters had not plundered
him of. U n this he called alou to the boat, and bade his men
bring the t ' ashore that were for the governor; and, indeed, it
was a present as if I had been one that was not to be carried away
with them, but as if I had been to dwell upon the island still. First,
he had brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters,
six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two quarts each),
two pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the
ship's beef, and six pieces of ork, with a bag of peas, and about a
hundred weight of biscuits: e also brought me a box of sugar, 9.
box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and
abundance of other things. But, besides these, and what was a
thousand times more useful to me, he brou ht me six new clean
shirts, six very good 'neckcloths, two pair of g oves, one pair of shoes,
a hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very good suit of clothes of
his own, which had been worn but very little; in a word, he clothed
me from head to foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as
any one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was
any thing in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and un-
easy, as it was to me to wear such clothes at first. .

After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things
were brought into my little apartment, we began toponsult what
was to be done With the prisoners we had ; for it was worth
considering whether we might venture to take them .awaywvith>>
us or no, especially two of them, whom we knew to' be incorrigible
and refractory to the last degree : and the captain said he knew they
were such rogues, that there was no obhging them; and if he did
carry them away, it must be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered
over to 'ustice at the first En lish colony he could come at; and I
found t at the captain himsef was very animus about it. . Upon
this I told him, that if he desired it, I would undertake to bring the
two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he should

 

leave them upon the island. " 1 should be very lad of that," 53 s
the captain, " with all mv hea ." "Well," says , "Iwill send or
them up, and talk with them for you." So I caused Friday and the
two hostages, _for they were now discharged, their comrades havin
performed their promise: I say, I caused them to go to the cave and
ring up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep
them there till I came. After some time, I came thither dressed in
my new habit ; and now I was called the governor again. Being all
met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to be brought before
me, and I told them I had ot a full account of their villanous
behaviour to their captain, an how they had run away with the ship,
and were preparing to commit farther robberies, but that Providence
had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they were fallen into
the pit which they had dug for others. I let them know that by my
direction the ship had been seized; that she lay now in the road:
and they might see by and by, that their new captain had received
the reward of his villany, and that they would see him hangin at
the yard-arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what they in to
any way I should not execute them as pirates, taken in the tact, as
by my commission they could not doubt but I had authority so to do.
One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had
nothing to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain
Eromised them their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy.
ut Itold them I knew not what mercy to show them; for as for
mself, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and had
'en a passaOe with the captain to go to England; and as for the
captain, he couild not carry t em to England other than as prisoners,
in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running away with the shj : the
consequence of which, they must needs know, would be the gallows;
so that I could not tell what was best for them, unless they had a
mind to take their fate in the island; if they desired that, as I had
liberty to leave the island, I had some inclination to give them their
lives, it they thou ht the could shift on shore. They seemed very
thankful for it, an said t cy would much rather venture to stay there
than be carried to En land to be hanged; so I left it on that issue.
When they had all eclared their willingness to sta , I then told
them I would let them into the story of my living t ere, and put
them into the way of making it easy to them: accordingly, I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my coming to it; showed
them my fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn,
cured my gra es; and, in a word, all that was necessary to make
them easy. ftold them the story also of the seventeen S aniards
that were to be expected, for whom I left a. letter, and m e them
promise to treat them in common with themselves. Here it may be
noted, that the captain had ink on board, who was greatl surprised
that 1 never hit upon a wa of making ink of charcoal an water, or
of something else, as I h done things much more diflicult.
However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if
he durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry
with the captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not his;
and seeing that I had ofi'ered them so much favour, I would be as
od as my word: and that if he did not think fit to consent to it,
would set them at liberty, as I found them; and if he did not like
it he might take them ' , if he could catch them. Upon this
the ap cared very thanfigulinmd I accor ' ly set them at liberty,
an b e them retire into the woods to the p whence they came,
and I would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and some
directions how they should live ve well, if the thought fit. Upon
this I prepared togo on board the 3 ip ; but to] the captain Iwould
stay that night to prepare my things, and desired him to go on board,
in the mean time, and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat
on shore next day for me; ordering him, at all events, to cause the
new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that
these men might see him.
I left them my fire-arms, viz. live muskets, three fowling--pieces,
and three swords. I had above a barrel and a half of powder left;
for after the first year or two I used but little, and wasted none. 1
wave them a description of the way I ma ed the oats, and
directions to milk and fatten them, and to m e both utter and
cheese: in aword, I gave them every part of my own story, and
told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gun owder more, and some garden seeds, which I told
them I would ave been very glad of : also I gave them the bag of
peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them be
sure to sow and increase them.

Having done all' this, I left them the next day, and went on board
the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that
night. The next morning early, two of the five men came swrmming
to the ship's side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the
other three, be ged to be taken into the ship, for God's sake, for the
should be mur ered, and begged the ca tain to take.them on boar ,
though he hanged them immediately. pon this, the captain pre-
tended to have no power without me; but after some difficult , and
after their solemn promises of amendment, the were taken on card,
and were some time after soundly whipped an pickled: after which
they proved very honest and uiet fellows. '

Some time after this, the cat was ordered on shore, the tide
being up, with the things promised to the men ; to which the ca -
tain, at my intercession, caused their chests and clothes to be added,
which they took, and were ver thankful for. I also encouraged
them, by telling them that if it ay in my power to send any vessel
to take them in, I would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for reli ues,
the great "oat-skin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one o m
parrots ; a so I forgot not to take the mone I formerly mentione ,
which had lain by me so long useless t at it had own rusty
or tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver, till it had een a little
rubbed and handled; as also the mOney I found in the wreck of the
Spanish ship. And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as
I found by the ship's account, in the year 1686, after I had been
upon it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days;
bein delivered from this second ca tivity the same day of the month
thatfi first made my escape in the 112mg boat, from among the Moors
of Sallee. In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England
the 11th of June, in the year 1687, having been thirty-five years
a sent.new]; '6
\.'.;._'F!1 c \\

r

    
     
 
   

  
      
  

. , _ 91'"

i9 "tsunamiuiuilw ;

SECTION XXVIII.

ROBINSON GOES TO LISBON, WHERE HE FINDS-TEE PORTUGUESE
CAPTAIN, WHO RENDERS HIM AN ACCOUNT OF HIS PROPERTYIN
THE BRAZILS.--SETS OUT ON HIS RETURN TO ENGLAND BY LAND.

WHEN I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all the
world as if I had never been known there. My benefactor and
faithful steward, whom I left m money in trust with, w" alive, but
had had great misfortunes in t e world; was become a widow the
second time, and very low in the world. I made her very eas as to
what she owed me, ass ' her I would give her no trouble; nt on
the contrary, in atitude or former care and faithfulness to me, I
relieved her as we as my little stock would afi'ord; which, at the time,
would allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her I would
never forget her former kindness to me; nor did I forget her when
I had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in its proper place.
I went down afterwards into Yorkshire: but my father and mother
were dead, and all the family extinct, except. that I found two sisters
and two of the children of one of my brothers, and as I had been
long ago given over for dead, there had been no provision made for
me: so that in a word, I found not ' to relieve or assist me: and
that the little money I had would not 0 much for me as to settling
in the world. .

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect;
and this was, that the master of the ship whom I so happily
delivered, and by the same means saved the ship and cargo, havmg
viven a ve handSome account to the owners of the manner how
had saved t e lives of the men and the ship, they invited me to meet
them, and some other merchants concerned, and all together made
me a very handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present of
almost two hundred pounds sterling. '
But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of my
life, and how little way this would go towards settling me in the
world, I resolved to go to Lisbon, and. see if I might not come by
some information of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of
what was become of my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had
some years past given me over for dead. With this View I took
shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in April following; my man
Friday accompan ing me very honestly in all these ramblin s, and
proving a most aithful servant upon all occasions. When came
to Lisbon, I found out, by in uiry, and to my particular satisfaction,
my old friend the captain of the ship who first took me up at sea on"
the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off going
to sea, having put his son, who was far from a oung man, into his
ship, and who still used the Brazil trade. The 0 (1 man did not know
me : and, indeed, I hardly knew him: but I soon brought him to my
remembrance, and as soon brought myself to his remembrance,
when I told him who I was.

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between
us, I inquired, you may be sure, after my plantation and m partner.
The old man told me he had not been in the Brazils for a out nine
years; but that he could assure me that when he came away my
partner was living ; but the trustees, whom I had joined with him
to take cognizance of my part, were both dead: that, however, he
believed I would have a very good account of the improvement of
the plantation; for that upon the general belief of my being cast
away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account of the ro-
duce of my part of t e plantation to the procurator-fiseal, who ad
appropriated it, in case I never came' to claim it, one-third to the
king, and two-thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be ex-
pgnded for the benefit of the oor, and for the conversion of the

dians to the Catholic faith; but that if I appeared, or any one
for me, to claim the inheritance, it would be restored; only that the
improvement, or annual production, being distributed to charitable
uses, could not be restored: but he assured me that the steward of
the king's revenue from lands, and the roviedore, or steward of the
monastery, had taken great care all ong that the incumbent, that
is to sa , my partner, gave every year a faithful account of the pro-
duce, o Wlllcll they had duly received my moiety. I asked him if
he knew to what height of improvement he had brought the lanta-
tion, and whether he thought it ' ht be worth looking a ter; or
whether, on my going thither, I sho d meet with any obstruction to
my possessi my just right in the moiety. He told me he could
not tell exact y to what degree the plantation was improved, but this
he knew, that my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the en'oy-
ing his part of 1t ; and that, to the best of his remembrance, he had
heard that the king's third of my part, which was, it seems, granted
away to some other monastery or religious house, amounted to above
two hundred moidores a year; that as to my being restored to a
quiet possession of it, there was no uestion to be made of that, my
partner being alive to witness my t't e, and my name being also en-
rolled in the register of the country; also he told me, that the survi-
vors of my two trustees were very fair honest people, and very
wealthy : and he believed I would not only have their assistance for
putting me in possession, but would find a very considerable sum of
money in their hands for my account, being the produce of the {arm
while their fathers held the trust, and before it was given up, as
above ; which, as he remembered, was for about twelve years.

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and
inquired of the old ca tain how it came to pass that the trustees
should thus dispose o my effects, when he knew that I had made
pry vgll, and had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal
ieir, c.

He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof of my
beinv dead, he could not act as executor, until some certain account
should come of my death; and, besides, he was not willing to inter-
meddle with a thin so remote: that it was true he had registered
my will, and put in '5 claim; and could he have given any account
of my being dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration, and
taken possession of the ingenio (so they called the sugar-house), and
have given his son, who was now at the Brazils, orders, to do it.
" But," says the old man, " I have one piece of news to tell you, which,
perhaps, may not be so acceptable to you as the rest; and that is,

elievmg you were lost, and all the world believing so also, your
partner and trustees did ofi'er to account with me, in your name, for
six or eight of the first years' profits, which I received." There
beino at that time great disbursements for increasing the works,
building an ingenio, and bu ' g slaves, it did not amount to near so
much as afterwards it pro uced: " however," says the old man, "I_
shall give you a true account of what I have received in all, and how
I have disposed of it." _ _ _

After a few days' further conference With this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the first six years' income of my plantar
tion, si ed by my partner and the merchant trustees, being always
delive in goods, viz. tobacco in roll, and an in chests, besides
rum, molasses, &c., which is the consequence o a sugar-work; and I
found, by this account, that every year the income considerably in-
creased; but, as above, the disbursements being lar , the sum at
first was small: however, the old man let me see that e was debtor
to me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold, besides Sixty
chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco, which were lost
in his ship; be having been shipwrecked comm home to Lisbon,
about eleven years after my leaving the place. he good man then
began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he had been obliged
,to make use of my money to recover his losses, and buy him a share
in a new shi . " However, my old friend," says he, "you shall not
want a sup y in your necessity; and as soon as my son returns, you
shall be fu y satisfied." Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch, and
gives me one hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold ; and take-
mg the writings of his title to the s 'p, which his son was one to
the Brazils in, of which he was a quarter art owner, and 's son
another, he puts them both into my ban 5, for security of the
rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor
man to be able to hear this; and remembering what he had done for
me, how he had taken me up at sea, and how generousl he had
used me on all occasions, and particularly how smcere a riend he
was now to me, I could hardl refrain weeping at what he said to
me , therefore I asked him ' his circumstances admitted him to
s are so much money at that time, and if it would not straiten him?

e told me he could not say but it might straiten him a little; but,
however, it was my money, and I might want it more than he.

Every thing the good man said was full of affection, and I could
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took one
hundred of the moidores, and called for a pen and ink to ive him a
recei t for them: then I returned him the rest, and told him if ever
I ha possession of the plantation I would return the other to him
also (as, indeed, I afterwards did ; and that as to the bill of sale of
his part in his son's ship, I wo d not take it by any means: but
that if I wanted the money, I found he was honest enough to pay
me; and if I did not, but came to receive what he gave me reason
to ex ect, I would never have a penny more from him.

en this was past, the old man asked me if he should ut me
into the method to make my claim to m lantation? I to] him I
tho ht to 0 over to it myself. He said Imight do so, if I pleased:
but t at if fdid not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and
immediately to appro riate the profits to my use: and as there were
ships in the river of isbon just ready to go away to Brazil he made
me enter my name in a ubhc register, with his affidavit, afiirming,
upon oath, that I was 've, and that I was the same person who
took up the land for the lanting the said plantation at first. This
being regularly attested 5y a notary, and a procuration affixed, he
directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant of
his agfiuaintance at the place; and then propose my staying with
him ' an account came of the return. v

Never was anything more honourable than the preceedings upon
this procuration; for in less than seven months I received a large
packet from the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, for whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed.

' First, There was the account-current of the produce of my farm
or plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with my
old Port captain, being for six (years: the balance appeared to
Eye one t ousand one hundred an seventy-four moidores in my
avour.

Secondly, There was the account of four years more, while they
kept the effects in their hands, before the government claimed the
administration, as bein the efi'ects of a person not to be found,
which they called civil eath; and the balance of this amounted to
nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-six crusadoes, being
about three thousand two hundred and forty moidores.

Thirdl , There was the prior of Agustine's account, who had re-
ceived t e profits for above fourteen years; but not being to
account for what was disposed of b the hospital, very honestly
declared he had eight hundred an seventy-two mordores not
distributed, which he acknowledged to my account; as to the king's
part that refunded nothing.

There was a letter of my partner's congratulating me affection-
ately upon my being alive, givrng1 me an account how the estate had
improved, and what it produce a year; with a Ealrticular of the
number of squares or acres that it contained, how p ted, how many
slaves there were u on it, and making two and twenty crosses for
bless' , told me e had said so many Ave Marius to thank the
blesse Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very passionately to
come over and take possession of in own; and, in the meantime,
to give him orders to whom he shoul deliver my effects, if I did not
come in self: concluding with a hearty tender of his friendship, and
that of ' famil ; and sent me, as a present, seven fine leopards'
skins, which he ad, it seems, received from Africa, by some other
ship he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made a better voy-
age than I. He sent me also five chests of excellent sweetmeats,
and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moi-
dores. By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped me
one thousand two hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of
tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in 1d.

I might well say now, indeed, the latter en of the Job was better
than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flutterings of
my very heart, when I found all my wealth about me; for as the
Brazil ships came all in fleets, the same ships which brought my
letters brought my goods: and the effects were safe in the river
before the letters came to my hand. In a word, I turned pale and
grew sick; and had not the old man run and fetched me a cordial. I

elieve the sudden surprise of 'oy had overset nature, andI had died
upon the spot: nay after that I continued very ill, and was so some
hours, till a phfiician being sent for, and something of the real cause
of _m illness ing known, he ordered me to be let blood; after
who had relief and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not
bhgen m by vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should

ve .
I was new master, all of a sudden, of above five thousand pounds
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the
Brazils, of above a thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of
lands in England ; and, in aword, I was in a condition which I scarce
knew how to understand, or how to compose myself for the enjoy-
ment of it. The first thing I did was to recompense m original
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first charita le to me
in my distress, hind to me in my beginning, and honest to me at the
end. I showed him all that was sent to me; I told him, that next
to the providence of heaven, which disposed all thin , it was owing
to him; and that it now lay on me to reward him, w rich I would do
a hundred-fold: so I first returned the hundred moidores, I had re-
ceived of him; then I sent for a notary, and caused him to draw up
a general release or discharge from the four hundred and seventy
moidores, which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the fullest and
firmest manner pessible. After which I caused a roeuration to be
drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of t e annual profits
of my plantation, and appointing my partner to account with him,
and make the returns by the usual fleets to him in my name : and a
clause in the end, being a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him
during his life, out of the effects, and fifty moidores a year to his son
after him, for his life; and thus I requited my old man.

Ha ' 0- settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and turned all my effects

into g'giid bills of exchange, my next dificult was, which way to
rro to England; I had been accustomed enoug to the sea, and yet
I had a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time; and
though I could give no reason for it, yet the difficulty increased
upon me so much, that though I had once shipped my baggage, in
order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not once, but two or
three times.

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, in old pilot, to whom
[communicated every thing, ressed me earnest y not to go by sea,
but either to go by land to t e Groyne (Corunna), and cross over
the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and
safe journey by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover, or to go
up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through France. In a
word, I was so repossessed against my going hiylsea at all, except
from Calias to Igover, that I resolved to travel the way by land;
which, as I was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was by
much the pleasanter way: and to make it more so, my old captain
brought an English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon,
who was willing to travel with me ; after which we picked 11 two
more English merchants also, and two young Portuguese gent emen,
the last going to Paris only; so that in all there were six of us, and

A five servants; the two merchants and the two Portu ese content'
themselves with one servant between two, to save 5i: charge; an
as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant,besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable
of supplying the place of a servant on the road. '

In t ' manner I set out from Lisbon; and our com any being
very well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof the
did me the honour to call me captain, as well because I was the o -
est man, as because I had two servants, and, indeed, was the original
of the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall
trouble you now with none of my land 'ournal; but some adventures
that happened to us in this tedious an difficult journey I must not
omit.

When we came to Madrid, we being all of us strangers to Spain,
were willing to stay some time to see the Court of Spain, and to see
what was worth observing; but it being the latter art of the sum-
mer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid a out the middle
of October; but when we came to the edge of Navarre, we were
alarmed at several towns on the way, with an account that so much
snow was fallen on the French side of the mountains, that several
travellers were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having
attempted, at an extreme hazard, to ass on.

When we came to Pampeluna itse , we found it so, indeed; and
to me, that had always been used to a hot climate, and to countries
where I could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufierable;
nor, indeed, was it more strange than surprising, to come but ten
days before out of Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm
but very hot, and immediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean
mountains, so veryl keen, so severely cold, as to be intolerable,

and to endanger t e benumbing and perishing of our fingers and
toes.

We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampeluna; when see'
the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it
was the severest winter all over Europe that had been known in the
memory of man, I pmrilosed that we should all go away to Fonts-
rabia and there take s ipping for Bordeaux, which was a very little
voyage. But while I was considering this, there came in four
French gentlemen, who having been stopped on the French side of
the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who,
traversing the country near .the head of Languedoc, had brought
them over the mountains by such ways, that they were not much
incommoded with the snow ; for where they met with snow in any
quantity, they said it was frozen hard enough to bear them and their
horses. We sent for this 'de, who told us he would undertake to
carry us the same wa wit no hazard from the snow, provided we
were armed suflicient y to protect ourselves from wild beasts; for, he
said, upon these great snows it was frequent for some wolves to
show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous
for want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told him

It
we were well enough prepared for such creatures as they were if he
would ensure us from a kind of two legged wolves, which, we were
told we were in most danger from, especially on the French side of
the mountains, He satisfied us that there was no dan er of that
kind in the way we were to go ; so we readily agreed to ollow him,
as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their servants, some
French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go, and
were obliged to come back again.

Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna, with our guide, on the
15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of
going forward, he came directly back with us on the same road that
we came from Madrid, about twenty miles; when having passed two
rivers, and come into the lain country, we found ourselves in a
warm climate again, where t e country was leasant, and no snow to
be seen; but on a sudden turning to his heft, he ap reached the
mountains another way: and though it is true the s and preci-
pices looked dreadful, yet he made so many tours, such meanders,
and led us by such wm ' ways, that we insensibly passed the
height of the mountains wit out being much incumbered with the
snow; and, all on a sudden, he showed us the leasant fruitful pro-
vinces of Languedoc and Gascon , all green an flourishing, though,
iuflfed, at a great distance, an we had some rough way to pass
st' .

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one
whole day and a nirrht so fast, that we could not travel; but he bid
us be easy; we should soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that we

began to descend every day, and to come more north than before;
an so, depending upon our guide, we went on.
FRIDAY'S ENCOUNTER WITH. A BEAR--ROBINSON AND ms FELLOW
TRAVEILEBS ATTACHED BY A FLOOR 0? WOLVES--BIS ARRANGE-
MENT OF HIS muss, AND MARRIAGE AFTER HIS RETURN TO
ENGLAND.

IT was about two hours before night, when out do being some-
thing before us, and not just in fight, out mshe three monstrous
wolves, and after them a bear, out of a hollow way, ad'oining to a
thick wood; two of the wolves made at the 'de, and he been
far before us, he would have been devoure before we could have
helped him; one of them fastened upon his horse, and the other at-
tac ed the man with that violence, that he had not time, or presence
of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us
most lustily. My man Friday being next me, I bade him ride up,
and see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight of
the man, he hallooed out as loud as the other, " 0 master! Omaster!"
bnt, like a bold fellow, rode directl up to the poor man, and with
his pistol shot the wolf, that attack him, in the head.

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all
mended our ace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very
diflicult, wo (1 give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon
as we came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw
clearly what had been the case, and how Friday had disengafidthe
poor guide, though we did not presently discern what ' of
creature it was he had killed.

Bntneverwasafi ht dsohardil,andinsuchasnrp"
manner, as that whi followfi: between Finlay and the bong, whiZE
x
gave us all, though at first we were surprised and afraid for him, the
greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is a_ heavy, clumsy crea-
ture, and does not gallop as the wolf docs, who is swrft and hght, so
he has two particular qualities, which generally are the rule of his
actions; first, as to men, who are not his proper rey (he does not
usually attempt them, except they first attack 1m, unless he he
excessively hungry, which it is probable might now be the case, the
ground being covered with snow), if you do not meddle With him, he
will not meddle with on; but then you must take eare to be very
civil to him, and give im the road, for he is a very mce gentleman;
he will not go a step out of his way for a pnnce; nay, if you are
really afraid, your best way is to loo another way, and keep dgomg
on; for sometimes if you stop, and stand still, and look stea astly

 

at him, he takes it for an affront, but if you throw or toss anything
at him and it hits him, though it were but a bit of stick as big as
your finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all other business
aside to pursue his revenge, and will have satisfaction in oint of
honour :--this is his first quality: the next is, if he be once routed,
he will never leave you night nor day, till he has his-revenge, but
follows, at a good round rate, till he overtakes ou.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, an when we came up to
him, he was helping him off from his horse, for the man was both
hurt and hi htened, when, on a sudden, we cspied the bear come out
of the woo , and avast, monstrous one it was, the biggest b far
that ever I saw. We were all a little surprised when we saw him ;
out when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the
fellow's countenance; " O, 0, 0 !" says Friday, three times, pointi
to him; "0 master! you give me te leave, me shakee te hand wit
him; me makee you good laugh."

I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased: "You fool,"|

anvesruass or nonmaon causal. 181

says I, " he will eat you up."--" Eatee me up! eatee me up!" says
Friday, twice over again; "me eatee him up, me makes you good
laugh; on all stay here, me show you good laugh." So down he
sits, an ets oil' his boots in a moment, and ate on a pair of pain
(as we <<El the flat shoes they wear, and whic he hadin his plocket ,
gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun, away e flew,
swift like the wind.

The hear was walking softly on, and ofi'ered to meddle with no-
bod , till Frida comingiplr'etty near, calls to him, as if the bear
co d understan him: " kg, hark ye," says Friday, "me speakee
with on." We followed at a tance; for now being come down on
the ony side of the mountains, we were entered a. vast great
forest, where the country was plain and prett o 11, though it had
many trees in it scattered here and there. i , who had, as we
say, the heels of the bear, came up with him q_uic ly, and takes up
a rest stone and throws it at him, and hit him Just on the head, but
di him no more harm than if he had thrown it ' t a wall; but
it answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so voi of fear, that he
did it purely to make the bear follow him, and show us some la h
as he called it. As soon as the bear felt the blow, and saw him, e
turns about, and comes after him, taking long strides, and shuflling
on at a strange rate, such as would put a horse to a mid ' gallofp;
away runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towar us or
help ; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver
my man; though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the hear
back upon us, when he was going about his own business another
way; and especially I was that he had turned the bear upon
us, and then run away; and E called out: " You dog, is this your
making us laugh? Come awa , and take your horse, that we may
shoot the creature." He hear me, and cried out: " No shoot, no
shoot; stand still, and you get much laugh ;" and as the nimble
creature ran two feet for the bear's one, he turned on a sudden, on
one side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose, he
beckoned to us to follow; and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up
the tree, laying his gun down upon the ound, at about five or six
yards from the bottom of the tree. The ear soon came to the tree,
and we followed at a distance: the first thing he did, he stopped at
the gun, smelt it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into t e tree,
chmbing like a cat, though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the
folly, as I thought it, at my man, and could not for my life see an -
thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree, we all e
near to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Frida got out to the small end
of a lar branch, and the bear got about f way to him. As soon
as the t out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker,--" !" says he to us, " now you see me teachee the bear
dance ; " so he falls a jumping and shaking the bough, at which the
bear began to totter, but stood still, and b an to look behind him,
to see how he should et back; then, indee , we did laugh heartily.
But Friday had not one with him by a great deal; when seeing
him stand still, he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed the
bear could speak English: " What, you come no farther? pm you
come farther," so he left jum ing and shaking the tree; an the
bear, 'ust as if he understood w at he said, did come a little farther;
then e fell a jumping again, and the bear stopped again We
thought now was a good time to knock him on the head, and called
to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear; but he cried
out earnestly: " O pray! O pray! no shoot, me shoot by and then;"

 

he would have said by and by. However, to shorten the story,
Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had
laughing enough, but still could not imagine what the fellow would
do; for first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear ofi' ; and
we found that the hear was too cunning for that too; for he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings. fast with his
great broad claws and feet, so that we could not 1m ' e what
would be the end of it, and what the jest would be at t. But
Friday puts us out of doubt guickl , for seeing the bear 0 ' fast to
the bough, and that he woul not e persuaded to come any arther :
"Well, well," says Friday, "you no come farther, me go; you no-
come to me, me come to you : " and u on this, he goes out to the
smaller end of the bough, where it wo d bend with his wci ht, and
gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the bough, till e came
near enough to jump down on his feet, and away he runs to his gun,
takes it u , and stands still. " Well," said I to him, "Friday, what
will you 0 now? Why don't you shoot him P"--" No shoot," says
Friday, " not et; me no shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you
one more laug ;" and, indeed, so he did, as you will see presentl ;
for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he comes back from t e
bough where he stood, but did it mighty cautiously, loo ' behind
him every ste , and coming backward t' he got into the b0 of the
tree; then wit the same hinder-end foremost, he came down t e tree,
ping it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, ve
eisurely. At this 'uncture, and just before he could set his hin -
foot on the groun , Friday stepped up close to him, cla fled the
muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead. 'f en the
rogue turned about, to see if we did not laugh; and when he saw
we were pleased, by our looks, he falls at laug ' himself very loud.
" So we kill bear in my country," says Frida . ' So you kill them?
says 1, "why you have no guns." " No,' says he, "no gun, but
shoot great much long arrow." This was a good diversion to us;
but we were still in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew; the howling of wolves run much in my
head; and, indeed, except the noise I once heard on the shore of
Africa, of which I have said something flready, I never heard any-
thing that filled me with so much horror.

'1' ese things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as
Friday would have had us, we should certainl have taken the skin
of this monstrous creature of, which was wort saving; but we had
near three leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so we left him,
and went forward on our journey;

We were not gone half over t e plain, when we b to hear the
wolves howl in the wood on our left in a fright manner, and
presently after, we saw about a hundred coming on directly towards
us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up b an experienced ofiicer. I scarce knew in what manner
to receive t em, but found to draw ourselves in a close line was the
only way; so we formed in a moment: but that we might not have
too much interval, I ordered that on] ever other man should
fire, and that the others who had not fire sho d stand ready to give
them a second volley immediatel , if they continued to advance upon
us; and then that t ose who h fired at first should not preten to
load their fuses again, but stand ready every one with a pistol, for
we were all armed with a fuse and a pair of pistols each man; so we
were, by this method, able to fire six volleys, half of us at a time.
However, at present we had no necessity, for upon firing the first

 

Seesaw. .
volley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as well with the
noise as with the fire; four of them, being shot in the head, dro (ped;
several others were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we co see
by the snow. I found they stop ed, but did not immediately retreat;
whereupon, remembering that fhad been told that the fiercest crea-
tures were terrified by the voice of a man, I caused all the company
to halloo as loud as we could; and I found the notion not altogether
mistaken; for upon our shout, the began to retire and turn about.
I then ordered a second volley to e fired in their rear, which put
them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave us
leisure to charge our pieces ' ; and that we might lose no time,
we kept going; we had but 'ttle more than loaded our fuses, and
put ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in the
same wood, on our left, only that it was farther onward, the same
we we were to go.

lhe night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which
made it worse on our Side; but the norse increasing, we could easily
perceive that it was the howling and yelling of these hellish creatures;
and on a sudden we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one on
our left, one behind us, and one in our front, so that we seemed to
be surrounded with them, however, as they did not fall upon us, we
kept our way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go, which,
the way being very rough, was only a 0d hard trot. In this manner
we came in view of the entrance 0 the wood, through which we
were to ass, at the farther side of the plain; but we were greatly
surprise , when, comiu nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused
number of wolves standing just at the entrance. On a sudden, at
another opening of a wood, we heard the noise of a n, and looking
that way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and bri e on him, flyino
like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full speei .

But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to the
entrance where the horse came out, we found the carcasses of another
horse and of two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures ; and one of
the men was no doubt the same whom we heard fire the gun, for
there lay a gun just by him fired ofi ; but as to the man, his head
and the 11 per art of his body were eaten up. This filled us with
horror, an we ew not what course to take; but the creatures re-
solved us soon, for they gathered about us presently, in hopes of
prey; and I verily beheve there were three hundre of them. It
lappened very much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the
wood, but a little way from it, there la some large timber trees,
which had been cut down the summer befhre, and I suppose lay there
for carriage. I drew my little troop in amon those trees, and
placing' ourselves in a line behind one long tree, advised them all
to alig t, and keeping that tree before us for a breastwork, to stand in a
triangle or three fronts enclosing our horses in the centre. We did
so, and it was well we did; for never was'a more furious charge
than the creatures made upon us in this place. They came on with
a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, as
I said, was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by
their seeing our horses behind us. I ordered our men to fire as be-
fore, every other man; and they took their aim so sure, that they
killed several of the wolves at the first volley; but there was a
necessit to keep a continual firing, for they came on like devils,
those he ' d pus ' on those before.

When we had fire a second volley of our fuses, we thought they
stopped a little; and I hoped they would have gone off ; but it was
only a moment, for others came forward again; so we fired two
vol e s of our pistols; and I believe in these four firings we had
killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice as many, yet
they came on again. I was 10th to spend our shot too hastily; so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was better employed,
for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable, he had char ed my fuse
and his own while we were engaged; but as Isaid, I ed my other
man, and giving him a horn of powder, I bade him lay a train all
alo the iece of timber, and let it be a large train. He did so;
and ut just time to get away, when the wolves came 11 to it,
and some got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol c ose to
the owder, set it on fire; those t at were upon the timber were
score ed with it, and six or seven of them fell or rather jumped in
among us, with the force and fright of the fire: we despatched these
in an mstaut, and the rest were so frightened with the light, which
the night, for it was now very near dark, made more terrible, that
they drew hack a little; upon which I ordered our last pistols to be
fired off in one volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty
lame ones, that we found st ling on the ground, and fell a cutting
them with our swords, whic answered our expectation; for the
crying and howling they made was better understood by their fellows;
so that they all fled and left us.

1 d1; about an hour more we came to the town where we were to
o .

The next mo ' our 'de was so ill, and his limbs swelled so
much with the m 0 his two wounds, that he could go no far-
ther; so we were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Tou-
louse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful leasant eoun ,
and no snow, no wolves, nor an hing like them; ut when we to
our story at Toulouse, they to d us it was nothing but what .was
ordinar in the t forest at the foot of the mountains, es ecially
when t e snow y on the ground; but they in aired muc what
kind of a guide we had got, who would venture to ring us that way

in such a severe season; and told us it was surprising we were not
all devoured.
I have nothin uncommon to take notice of in my passage through
France, nothing ut what other travellers have given an account of,
with much more advantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse
to Paris, and without any considerable stay came to Calais, and
landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January, after having a severe cold
season to travel in.

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little
time all my new discovered estate safe about me; the bills of
exchange which I brought with me havin been very currently paid.

My principal guide and privy counselor was in good ancient
widow; who, in gratitude for the money I had sent rer, thought no
pains too much, nor care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted

er so entirely with everything, that I was perfectly easy as to the
security of my effects: and, indeed, I was very happy from the be-
girming, and now to the end, in the unspottcd integrity of this good
gentlewoman.

I now resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils, if I
could find means. For this purpose, I wrote to my old friend at
Lisbon, who having offered it to the two merchants, the survivors of
my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, they accepted the offer, and
remitted thirt -three thousand pieces of eight to a correspondent of
theirs at Lis on, to pay for it. Having si ned the instrument of
sale, and sent it to my old friend, he remitte me bills of exchange
for thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate,
reservin the payment of a hundred moidores a year to himself
during is life, and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for life,
which I had romised them.

Though I ad sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not keep
the country out of my head; nor could I resist the strong inclination
I had to see my island. My true friend, the widow, earnest] dis-
suaded me from it, and so far prevailed with me, that, for ost-
seven years, she .revented my running abroad; during which time I
took my two nep ews, the children ot one of my brothers, into my
care: the eldest having something of his own, I bred up as a gentle-
man, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate, after
my decease. The other I put out to a captain of a ship; and after
five Ears, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I
put ' into a good ship, and sent him to sea: and this young fellow
afterwards drew me in, old as I was, to further adventures myself.

In the mean time, I'in part settled myself here: for, first of all,
I married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction,
and had three children, two sons and one daughter; but my wife
dying, and my nephew coming home with good success from a
voyage to S ain, my inclination to go abroad, and his importunity
prevailed, an eng <<ed me to go in his ship as a private trader to
the East Indies: this was in the year 1694.
HE IS SEIZED WITH A DESIRE TO REVISIT HIS ISLAND--1408155 HIS

WIFE--IS TEMPTED 1'0 60 T0 SEA AGAIN--TAKES OUT A CARGO
FOR HIS COLONY.

WHEN my wife was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me.. I
was as much a stranger in it, in my thoughts, as I was in the Brazils,
when I first went on shore there; and as much alone, except as to
the assistance of servants, as I was in my island. I knew neither
what to think nor what to do. I saw the world busy around me:
one part labouring for bread, another part squandering in vile ex-
cesses or emp leasures, equahy miserable, because the end they
pro osed still edp from them: for the men of pleasure every day
sur eited of their vice, and heaped up work for sorrow and re . t~
ance; and the men of labour spent their stre h in daily Whng
for bread to maintain the daily strength they la outed with; so mug
m a daily circulation of sorrow, li ' but to work, and working but
to live, as if daily bread were the o y end of wearisome life, and a
wearisome life the onl occasion of daily bread. .

This ut me in min of the life I lived in my kingdom, the island,
where suffered no more corn to grow, because I did not want 1t,
and bred no more ats, because I had no more use for them; where
the money la in t e drawer till it grew mouldy, and had scarce the
favour to be ooked upon in twenty years. . .

My counsellor was ne; I was like a ship Without a pilot,
that coul onl run beforet e wind: my tho hts ran all away again
Into the old atlair; my head was quite tune with the whimsiee of
foreign adventures; and all the pleasant, innocent amusements of
my farm, my garden, my cattle, and in family, which before entirely
possessed me, were nothing to me, ad no relish, and were like
music to one that has no ear, or food to one that has no taste; in a
word, I resolved to leave of housekeeping, let my farm, and return
to London; and in a few months after I did so.

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before;
I had no relish for the place, no employment in it, nothing to do but
to saunter about like an idle person, of whom it may be said he is
perfectly useless in God's creation, and it is not one farthing's matter
to the rest of his kind whether he be dead or alive. This also was
the thing which, of all circumstances of life, was the most my aver-
sion, who had been all my days used to an active life; and I would
often say to m self: " A state of idleness is the very dregs of life;
and indeed I t ought I was much more suitably employed when I
was twenty-six days making me a deal board."

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew,
whom, as I have observed before, I had brought up to the sea, and
had made him commander of a ship, was come home from a short
vo age to Bilboa, being the first he had made. He came to me, and
to d me that some merchants of his ac uaintance had been propos-
ing to him to go a voyage to the East ndies and to China, as pri-
vate traders.--" And now, uncle," says he, "if cu will go to sea
with me, I will engage to land you upon your 01 habitation in the
island, for we are to touch at the Brazils.

The scheme hit so exactly with my tern er, that is to say, the

repossession I was under, and of which I ave said so much, that
I told him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants I
would go with him; but I told him I would not promise to go any
farther than my own island. "Why, sir," says he, " you don't
want to be left there again, I hope?" "Why," said I, "can you
not take me up again on your return?" He told me it would not
be possible to do so; that the merchants would never allow him to
come that way with a laden ship of such value, itbei a month's
sail out of his way, and mi ht be three or four. " asides, sir,
if I should miscarry," said e, " and not return at all, then you
would be just reduced to the condition you were in before."

This was very rational; but we both found out a remed for it:
which was to carry a framed sloop on board the shi , whic be'
taken in pieces, and shipped on board the ship, migl t, b the help
of some carpenters, whom we reed to carry wit us, s set up
again in the island, and finished, t to go to sea, in a few days.

I was not long resolving; for, indeed, the im ortunities of my
nephew joined so effectually with my inclination, t at nothing could
oppose me; on the other hand, my wife being dead, I had nobody
concerning themselves so much for me as to persuade me to one
way or the other, except my ancient good friend the widow, who
earnestly st led with me to consider my years, my easy circum-
stances, and t e needless hazards of a long voyage, and above all,
my oung children. But it was all to no purpose; I had an irre-
sisti 1e desire to the voyage; and I told er I thought there was
something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind for
the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I
should attem t to stay at home; after which she ceased her expos.
tulations, an joined with me, not only in making provision for my
voyage, but also in settling my family afi'airs for my absence, and
providing for the education of my children.

In or er to this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had in
such a manner for my children, and. placed in such hands, that I was
perfectly easyl and satisfied they would have justice done them,
whatever mig t befall me; and for their education, I left it wholly
to the widow, with a sufficient maintenance to herself for her care:
all which she richly deserved, for no mother could have taken more
care in their education, or understood it better; and as she lived till
I clad-me horiie, I also his? to thin-1k liar for 1i1t. f J

nepewwasre ytos' aouttebegmmng" o anu
169433, and I, with my man Frida , went on board int e Downsadr'i
the 8th; harin , besides that s oosswhich I mentioned above, a
very considerabe car 0 of all kin of necessary things for my
polony, which, if I din not find in good condition, I resolved to
cave so.

Contrary winds first ut us to the northward, and we were
obliged to put in at way in Ireland, where we lay wind-hound
tweand-twenty days; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster,
that provisions were here exceeding cheap, and in the utmost plenty;
so that while we lay here, we never touched the ship's stores, but
rather added to them. Here, also, I took in several live hogs, and
two cows, with their calves, which I resolved, if I had a good pas-
sage, to put on shore in my island; but we found occasion to dispose
ot erwise of them.
ROBINSON'B SHIP RELIEVES THE CREW OF A FRENCH VESSEL THAT
HAD CAUGHT FIRE.

WE set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had a. very
fair gale of wind for some days. As I remember, it might be about
the 20th of February, in the evening late, when the mate, having the
watch, came into the round-house, and told us he saw a flash of fire,
and heard a gun fired; and while he was telling us of it, a boy came
in, and told us the boatswain heard another. This made us all run
out upon the quarter-deck, where, for a while, we heard nothing;
but in a few minutes we saw a very eat light, and found that there
was some very terrible fire at a ' tance; immediatel we had
recourse to our reckonings, in which we all agreed that t ere could
be no land that way in which the fire showed itself, no, not for five
hundred leagues, for it appeared at W.N.W. Upon this we con-
cluded it must be some 5 'p on fire at sea; and as, by our hearing
the noise of 5 just before, we concluded that it could not be far
off, we stoofudlirectly towards it, and were presently satisfied we
should discover it, because, the farther we sailed, the 1greater the
light appeared; though, the weather being hazy, we co d not per-
ceive anything but the light for a while. In about half an hour's
sailing, the Wind being fair for us, though not much of it, and the
weather clearing up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a
great ship on fire, in the middle of the sea.

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, thou b not at all
acquainted with the persons engaged in it; I resenty recollected
my former circumstances, and in what condition was in, when taken
up by the Portuguese captain; and how much more deplorable the
circumstances of the poor creatures belonging to that s ' must be
if they had no other s ip in compan with them. Upon t ' , I im-
mediately ordered that five guns s 0qu be fired, one soon after
another, that, if possible, we might give notice to them that there
was he] for them at hand, and that they might endeavour to save
themse ves in their boat; for tho h we coul see the flames of the
shi , yet they, it being night, coul see nothing of us.

Xbout eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's boats
by the help of our perspective glasses; found there were two of
them, both thro ed with people, and deep in the water. We per-
ceived the rowgg, the wind being against them; that they saw our
shi , and 'd their utmost to make us see them.

6% immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw
them, and hung a waft out, as 2} Signal for them to come on board
and then made more sail, standingldirectly to them. In little more
than half-an-hour we came up wit them; and, in a word, took them
all in, being no less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for
there were a great many passengers.

U on the whole, we found it was a French merchant-shi of three
hun ed tons, home-bound from Quebec, in the river 0 Canada.
The master gave us a long account of the distress of his ship; how
the fire began in the steerage, by the negligence of the steersman ;
but on his crying out for help, was, as everybody tho ht, entirlgg
put out; but they soon found that some sparks of the tfire
gotten into songsap'art of the ship so difiicult to come at, that they
could not eifec y quench it; and afterwards gettmg in between
the timbers, and Within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into
the hold, and mastered all the skill and all the application they were
able to exert.

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledfinents for the kind-
ness shown to them was wanting; the Frenc , it is known, are
naturally apt to exceed that way. The captain and one of the
priests came to me the next day, and desired to speak with me and
my nephew: the commander began to consult wit us what should
be done with them; and first, they told us that we had saved their
lives, so all they had was little enough for a return to us for that
kindness received. The captain said they had saved some money,
and some things of value, in their boots, catched hastily out of the
flames, and if we would accept it, they were ordered to make an
offer of it all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere
in our way, where, if possible, they might get a p e to France.
Mdv nephew was for accepting their mone at first worE and to con-
si er what to do with them afterwards; nt I overruled him in that
part, for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a 3 country:
and if the Portuguese captain that took me up at sea served me
so, and took all I had for my deliverance, I must have starved, or
have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had been at Barbary,
the mere being sold to a Mahometan excepted; and perhaps a Por-
tuguese is not a much better master than a Turk, if not, in some
cases, much worse.

I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them up in
their distress, it was true, but t at it was our duty to do so, as we
were fellow-creatures; and we would desire to be so delivered, if we
were in the like, or any other extremity; that we had done nothing
for them but what we believed they would have done for us, if we
hadheenintheircase, andtheyinours; but thatwetook themup
to save them, not to plunder them; and it would be a most barbar-
ous thing to take that little from them which they had saved out of
the fire, and then set them on shore and leave them; that this would
be first to save them from death, and then kill them ourselves;
save them from drowning, and abandon them to starviu ; and there-
fore I would not let the least thing be taken from t em. As to
sett' them on shore, I told them, indeed, that was an exeeedi
difiicu ty to us, for that the shi was bound to the East Indies; an
though we were driven out 0 our course to the westward a very
great way, and perhaps were directed by Heaven on purpose for
their deliverance, yet it was impossible for us wilfully to change our
voyage on their particular account; nor could my nephew, the
captain, answer It to the freighters, with whom he was under
charter-party to pursue his voyage by the way of Brazil: and all I
knew we could o for them, was to put ourselves in the wa of
meeting with other ships homeward bound from the West In 'es,
and get them a passage, if possible, to England or France.

The first part of the proposal was so enerous and kind, they
could not but be very thankful for it; but t ey were in a ve great
consternation, especially the passengers, at the notion 0 being
carried away to the East Indies; they then entreated me, that seein
I was driven so far to the westward before I met with them,
would at least keep on the same course to the Banks of Newfound-
land, wherc it was probable I might meet with some ship or sloop
that they might hire to carry them back to Canada, from whence
they came.

1 thou ht this was but a reasonable request on their art, and
therefor-ed inclined to agree to it; for, indeed, I considere , that to
earr this whole company to the East Indies, would not only be an
into erable severity upon the cor people, but would be ruining our
whole voyage, by devouring aiil our provisions: so I thought it no
breach of charter-party, but what an unforeseen accident made
absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one could sa we were
to blame: for the laws of God and nature would have orbid that
we should refuse to take up two boats' full of people in such a dis-
tressed condition; and the nature of the thing, as well respecting
ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on shore some-
where or other for their deliverance; so I consented that we would
carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit;
ang1 if not, that I would carry them to Martinico, in the West
In 'es.
RELIEVES TEE CREW 01' A BRISTOL SHIP, WHO ARE STABVING--
ARRIVES AT HIS ISLAND.

THE wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good, and
as the winds had continued in the points between NE. and S.E. a
long time, we missed several opportunities of sending them to
France; for we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two
were French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been so long
beating up against the wind, that they durst take in no passe rs,
for fear of wanting provisions for the voyage, as well for t em-
selves as for those that they should take in; so we were obliged to
if) on. It was about a week after this that we made the Banks of

ewfoundiand; where, to shorten my story, we put all our French
people on board a barque, which they hired at sea there, to put them
on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if they could get
provisions to victual themselves with. When 1 say all the French
went on shore, I should remember that a on priest on board,
hearing we were bound to the East Indies, esire to go the voyage
with us, and to be set on shore on the coast of Coromandel; which
I readily agreed to, for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very
good reason, as will appear afterwards: also four of the seamen
entered themselves on our ship, and proved ver useful fellows.

From hence we directed our course to the est Indies, steering
away S. and S. by E. for about twenty days together, sometimes
httle or no wind at all; when we met with another subject for our
humamty to work upon, almost as deplorable as that before.

It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes north,
on the 19th day of March, 1694-5, when we spied a sail, our course

0
S E. and by 8.: we soon perceived it was a large vessel, and that
she bore up to us, but could not at first know what to make of her,
till, after coming a little nearer, we found that she had lost her main
topmost, foremast, and bowsprit; and presently she fired a gun, as
a signal of distress : the weather was retty good, wind at N.N.W.,
a fresh gale, and we soon came to s )c with her.

We found her a shi of Bristol, bound home from Barbadoes,
but had been been bown out of the road at Barbadoes a. few
days before she was ready to sail, by a terrible hurricane, while
the captain and chief-mate were both gone on shore; so that, besides
the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent case for good
artists to bringr the shi home. They had been already nine weeks
at sea, and had met wit 1 another terrible storm, after the hurricane
was over, which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to
the westward, and in which they lost their masts, as above. ?1'hey
told us they expected to have seen the Bahama islands, but were
then driven away again to the south-east, by a strong gale of wind
at N.N.W., the same that blew now: and having no sails to work
the ship with but a. maincourse, and a kind of square sail upon a
jury foremast, which they had set 11 , they could not lie near the
wind, but were endeavouring to stair away for the Canaries.

But that which was worst of all was, that they were ahnost starved
for want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone:
their bread and flesh were quite gone; they had not one ounce left
in the ship, and had none left for eleven days. The only relief they
had was, their water was not all spent, and they had about half a.
barrel of tlour left; they had sugar enough; some succades, or
sweetmeats, they had at first, but they were devoured; and they
had seven casks of rum.

There were a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant, on board,
who were going passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail,
unhappily came on board the evening before the hurricane began;
and having no provisions of their own left, they were in a more de-
plorable condition than the rest: for the seamen, being reduced to
such an extreme necessity themselves, had no compassion, we may
be sure, for the poor passengers; and they were, indeed, in a. con-
dition, that their misery is very hard to describe.

I had perhaps not known this art, if my curiosity had not led
me (the weather be' fair, and tie wind abated) to go on board
the ship. The secoiid3 mate, who, upon this occasion, commanded
the ship, had been on board our ship, and he told me, indeed, they
had three passengers in the great cabin, that were in a deplorable
condition: "Nay," says he, "I believe they are dead, for I have
heard nothing of them for above two days; and I was afraid to
in ure after them," said he, "for I had nothing to relieve them with."
- e immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we
could spare; and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my.wvr-zxrurues or nonmsox onuson. 195

nephew, that I would have victualled them, though we had ne
away to Virginia, or any other part of the coast of America, to ave
su plied ourselves; but there was no necessity for that.

ut now they were in a new danger ; for they were afraid of
eating too much, even of that little we gave them. The mate or
commander brou ht six men with him in his boat; but these poor
wretches looked hked skeletons, and were so weak, that they could
hardly sit to their oars. The mate himself was very ill, and half-
starved, for he declared he had reserved nothin from the men, and
went share and share alike with them in every bit the ate.

I cautioned him to eat sparingly, but set meat be ore him imme-
diately ; and he had not eat three mouthfuls before he began to be
sick, and out of order; so he stop ed awhile, and our sur n mixed
him 11 somethin with some brot , which he said woul be to him
both cod and p ysic; and after he had taken it, he grew better.
In the meantime, I forgot not the men; I ordered victuals to be
given them; and the poor creatures rather devoured than ate it:
the were so exceeding hungry, that they were in a kind ravenous,
andyhad no command of themselves; and two of them ate with so
much greediness, that they were in danger of their lives the next
morning.

While I kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on board
with his men, to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew
that were left on board; but ordered my own boat to go on board
the ship, and, with my mate and twelve men, to carry them a sack
of bread, and four or five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon
charged the men to cause the meat to be boiled while they stayed,
and to keep guard in the cook-room to prevent the men talk it to
eat raw, or taking it out of the pot before it was well boil , and
then to give every man but a very little at a time: and b this
caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed
themselves with that very food that was given them on purpose to
save their lives.

At the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin,
and see what condition the poor passen rs were in; and if they
were alive, to comfort them, and give t em what refreshment was
proper: and the sur on gave him a large pitcher, with some of the
prepared broth whic he had given the mate that was on board, and
which he did not question would restore them gradually.

.I was not satisfied with this; but, as I said cove, havin a great
mind to see the scene of misery which I knew the ship itse f would
present me with, in a more lively manner than I could have it _b
report, I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, Wit
me, and went myself, a little after, in their boat.

I found the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get the
victuals out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate observed

his orders, and kept a good guard at the cook-room door; and the
man he placed there, after using all possible persuasion to have
patience, kept: them ofi' by force: however, he caused some biscuit-
cakes to be ' ped in the pot, and softened with the liquor of the
meat, which they called brewis, and gave them every one some, to
stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own safety that
he was oblived to give them but a little at a time. But it was all
invain; and had I not come on board, and their own commander
and officers with me, and with good words, and some threats also
of Giving them no more, I believe they would have broken into the
coonroom b' force, and tom the meat out of the furnace; for
words are in eed of very small force to a hungry belly: however, we

 

pacified them, and fed them gradually and cautiously for the first time,
and the next time gave them more, and at last filled their bellies,
and the men did well enough.

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another
nature, and far beyond the rest; for the ship's company had so little
for themselves, it was but too true that they had at first kept them
very low, and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or seven
days it might be said they had really no food at all, and for several
days before very little. The poor mother, who, as the men reported,
was a woman of sense and good breedi 0, had spared all she could
so afi'eetionatcly for her son, that at lastnshe entirely sunk under it;
and when the mate of our ship went, she sat upon the floor or deck,
wrth her back up against the' sides, between two chairs, which were
lashed fast, and her head sunk between her shoulders, like a corpse,
though not quite dead. My mate said all he 'eould to revive and
encourage her, and with a spoon put some broth into her mouth.
_ She opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but could not speak;
yet she understood what he said, and made signs to him, intimatingr
that it was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would
have said they should take care of him. However, the mate, who
was, exceedingly moved with the sight, endeavoured to get some of
the broth into her mouth, and, as he said, got two or three spoonfuls
down; though I question whether he could be sure of it or not:
but it was too late, and she died the same night.

The youth, who was preserved at the rice of his most afiectionate
mother's life, was not so far gone: et _e lay in a cabin-bed, as one
stretched out, with hardly any life eft in him. He had a piece of
an old glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it: however,
being young, and having more strenfih than his mother, the mate
got something down his throat, and e b sensibly to revive;
though by giving him, some time after, but two or three spoonfuls
extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it up again.

But the next care was the cor maid: she layaall along upon the
deck, hard by her mistress, an just like one t t had fallen down
with an apopleii, and struggled for life. Her limbs were distorted
one of her an was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she
griped it so hard, that we could not easil make her let it go: her
other arm lama her head, and her feet ay both together, set fast
against the e of the cabin-table: in short, she lay just like one
in the agonies of death, and yet she was alive too.

We knew not what to do with this poor ' l; for when our
surgeon, who was a man of very great knowl and ex erience,
had with great application recovered her as to ' e, be had er upon
his hands as to her senses , for she was little less than distracted for
a considerable time after, as shall appear presently.

Whoever shall read these memorandums must be desired to con-
sider, that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country,
where sometimes people stay a week or a fortnight at a place: our
business was to re 'eve this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by for
them; and though they were willing to steer the same course with
us for some days, yet we could carry no sail, to keep pace with a
ship that had no masts: however, as their captain begged of us to
help him to set up a main topmast, and a kind of a topmnst to his
Jury foremast, we did, as it were, lie b him for three or four days;
an then having given five barrels 0 beef, '9. barrel of rk, two
hogsheads of biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, and w other
things we could spare; and taking three casks of sugar, some rum,
and some pieces of eight from them for satisfaction, we left them ;
taking _on with us, at their own earnest request, the youth and
the maid, and all their ods.

The young lad was a ut seventeen years of ; a pre , well
bred, modest, and sensible youth, greatly dejec with. the 055 of
his mother, and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months
before, at Barbadoes: he beg of the surgeon to s to me to
take him out of the shi : for e said the cruel fellows murdered
his mother: and, ind so the had, that is to sally, passively; for
they might have spared a smfil sustenance to t e poor helpless
widow, that mi ht have "preserved her life, though it had been but
just enough to 'ecp her 've : but hunger knows no friend, no rela-
tion, no justice, no right; and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that it would
carry him away from all his friends, and put him perhaps in as bad
circumstances almost as those we found them in, that is to say,
starvin in the world. He said it mattered not whither he went, if
he was ut delivered from the terrible crew that he was among ;
that the captain (b which he meant me, for he could know nothing
of my nephew) ha saved his life, and he was sure would not hurt
him; an as for the maid, he was sure, if she came to herself, she
would be very thankful for it, let us carry them where we would.
The surgeon represented the case so affectionately to me, that I
yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their ods, except
eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be remove or come at;
and as the youth had a bill of ladino for them, I made his com-
mander sign a writing obliging himself to go, as soon as he came to
Bristol, to one Mr. R0 ers, a merchant there, to whom the youth
said he was related, an to deliver a. letter which I wrote to him,
and all the goods he had belonging to the deceased widow; which I
suppose was not done, for I could never learn that the ship came to
Bristol, but was, as is most probable, lost at sea; being in so
disabled a condition, and so far from any land, that I am of opinion
the first storm she met with afterwards she might founder in the
sea; for she was leaky and had damage in her hold, when we met
with her.

I was now in the latitude of nineteen degrees thirty-two minutes,
and had hitherto a tolerable voyage as to weather, though, at first,
the winds had been contrary. I shall trouble nobody with the little
incidents of wind, weather, currents, &c., on the rest of our voy
but to shorten my story, for the sake of what is to follow, 5
observe, that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the 10th of
April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty that I found the place;
for as I came to it, and went from it, before, on the south and east
side of the island, as coming from the Brazils, so now, coming in
between the main and the island, and having no chart for the coast,
nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether
I saw it or not.

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the
ship, sometimes with the Frenchmen's shallo _. which we had found
a convenient boat, and therefore kept her wit their very good will,
at length I came fair on the south side of m island, and presentl
knew the very countenance of the place: so brought the ship sa e

to an anchor, broadside with the little creek where my old habita-
tion was.

i
noamsox AND rmmr co muons--ms LAHER mars wun ms
runsu--accormr or wnur msssn on ma mum: amen
nonmsox's QUIT'IING 1r.

As soon as I saw the lace, I called for Friday, and asked him if he
knew where he was; he looked about a little, and presently clapping
his hands, cried: "0 yes, 0 there, 0 yes, 0 there," pointing to our
old habitation, and fell dancing and capering like a mad fellow; and
I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim
ashore to the place.

"Well, Frida ," says I, "Do you think we shall find anybody
here or no? an do you think we shall see your father?" The
fellow stood mute as a stock a good while, but when I named his
father, the poor afi'ectionate creature looked de'ected, and I could
see the tears run down his face very plent' y. "What is the
matter, Friday?" says I; "are on troubled because you may see
your father?" "No, no," says e, sha ' his head, "no see him
more: no, never more see him again." " yso," said I, "Friday?
how do you know that P" "0 no, 0 no," says Friday; "he long
ago die, long ago, he much old man." "Well, well," says I, "Friday
you don't know ; but shall we see an one else, then P " The fellow,
It seems had better eyes than I, and e points to the hill just above
In old house; and though we lay half a league of, he cries out,
" 8 see, we see, yes, yes, we see much man there, and there, and
there." I looked, but I saw nobod , no, not with a perspective
glass, which was, I suppose, because could not hit the place; for
the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day; and
there were five or six men all together, who stood to look at the
ship, not knowing what to think of us. .

_s soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the English
ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we
were friends; and in about half a quarter of an hour after we per-
ceived a smoke arise from the side of the creek; so I immediately
ordered the boat out, taking Friday with me; and ' out a
white flag, or a flag of truce, I went directly on shore, ' with
me the young friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the sto of my
11v there, and the manner of it, and every particular oth of
myse and those I left there; and who was, on that account,
extremely desrrous to gp with me. We had besides about sixteen
men well armed, if we ad found any new guests there which we did
not know of ; but we had no need of weapons.

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood, near high water, we
rowed directly into the creek; and- the first man that I fixed my
eye upon was the Spaniard whose life I had saved. and whom I knew
by his face perfectly well : as to his habit, I shall describe it after-
wards. I ordered nobody to go on shore but myself; but there was

 

no kee ing Friday in the boat, for the affectionate creature had 5 ied
his fat ier at a distance, a good way off the Spaniards, where in eed
I saw nothing of him; and if they had not let him go ashore, he
would have jumped into the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but
he flew away to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. It would
have made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to
have seen the first transports of this poor fellow's joy when he came
to his father: how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face,
took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree, and la down by
him; then stood and looked at him, as any one woul look at a
strange picture, for a. quarter of an hour together; then down upon
the ground, and stroke his legs, and kiss them, and then get up
again, and stare at him; one would have thought the fellow be-
witched.

It would he needless to take notice of all the ceremonies and
civilities that the Spaniards received me with. The first Spaniard,
who, as I said, I knew very well, was he whose life I had saved: he

came towards the boat, attended by one more, carrying aflag of
truce also: and he not only did not know me at first, ut he ha no

thoughts, no notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to
him. "Senhor," said I, in Portuguese, " do you not know me?"
At which he spoke not sword, but giving hismusket to the man that
was with him, threw his arms abroad, saying something in S anish
that I did not perfectly hear, came forward and embra me;
telling me he was inexcusable not to know the face again, that he
had once seen as if an angel came from heaven to save his life: he
said abundance of very andsome things, as a well-bred Spaniard
always knows how; and then beckoning to the rson that attended
him, bade him go and call out his comrades. e then asked me if
I would walk to my old habitation, where he would give me sses-
sion of my own house again, and where I should see they made
but mean improvements: so I walked alo with him ; but, alas! I
could no more find the place again than if had never been there;
for they had planted so many trees, and placed them in such a
posture, so thick and close to one another, and in ten years' time
they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was inaccessible,
except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves only,
who made them, could find. '

I asked them what put them 11 on all these fortifications: he
told me I would say there was nee enou, h of it, when they had
given me an account how the had passe their time since their

arriving in the island, especi y after they had the misfortune to
find that I was gone.

As to the three barbarians so he called them) that were left
behind, and of whom, he said, e had a long story to tell me, the
Spaniards all thought themselves much better amo the savages,
only that their number was so small: and, says he, d the been
strong enough, we had been all long ago in purgatory; an with
that he crossed himself on the breast. " But, srr," says he, "I ho
you will not be displeased when I shall tell you how, forced y
necessity, we were obli for our own fireservation, to disarm them,
and make them our su 'ects, who woul not be content with being
moderately our masters, ut would be our murderers." I answered:
"I was heartily afraid of it when I left them there, and nothing
troubled me at my part' from the island but that they were not
come back, that 1 mighltnfiave put them in possession of everything
first, and. left the others in a state of subjection, as the deserved;
but if the had reduced them to it, I was very glad, an should be
very far rom finding any fault with it; for knew they were a.
parcel of refractory, ungoverned villains, and were fit for any manner
of mischief."

While I was saying this, the man came whom he had_sent
back, and with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it
was impossible to guess what nation they were of; but he madefill
clear, both to them and to me. First he turned to me, and pomtmg
*0 them, said, " These, sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe
their hves to you ;" and then turning to them, and pointing to me,
~ he let them know who I was; upon which they all came up, one by
one, not as if they had been sailors and ordinary fellows, and the
like, but really as if they had been ambassadors of noblemen, and I
a monarch or great conqueror: their behaviour was to the last de-
gree obliging and courteous, and et mixed with a manly, majestic
gravity, which very well became t em; and, in short, they had so
much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
civilities, much less how to return them in kind.

I shall no lon er trouble the story with a relation in the first
person, which wfil put me to the expense of ten thousand said 1's
and said he's, and he told me's, and I told him's, and the like; but I
shall collect the facts historically, as near as I can ther them out
of my memory, from what they related to me, and rom what I met
with in my conversing with them and with the place.

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin
where I left off, was of their own part; and I desired he would give
me a particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with
the boat, when I sent him to fetch them over. He told me there
was little variety in that part, for nothing remarkable happened to
them on the way, having ad very calm weather and a smooth sea.
As for his countrymen, it could not be doubted, he said, but that
they were overy'loyed to see him (it seems he was the principal man
among them, t e ca tain of the vessel they had been shipwrecked
in having been dca some time); they were, he said, the more sur-
prised to see him, because they knew that he was fallen into the

ands of savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him, as
they did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he told them the
story of his deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished for
carrying them away, it was like a dream to them, and their
astonishment, he said, was somewhat like that of Joseph's brethren,
when he told them who he was, and told them the sto of his
exaltation in Pharaoh's court; but when he showed them the arms,
the powder, the ball, and provisions, that he brought them for their
journey or voyage, they were restored to themselves, took a 'ust
share of the joy of their deliverance, and immediately prepare to
come away With him.

Their first business was to get canoes: and in this they were
obliged not to stick so much upon the honest part of it, but to
trespass upon their friendly sav es, and to borrow two large
canoes, or eriaguas, on pretence 0 going out a fishing, or for plea-
sure. In t ese they came awayvthe next morning. t seems they
wanted no time to get themselves ready; for the had no baggage,
neither clothes nor provisions, nor anything in t e, world but what
the had on them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to

e their bread.
. They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily
or them, I had the occasion offered for my esca e, as I mentioned
in my other part, and to get of from the island), leaving three of
the most im udent, hardened, ungoverned, disagreeable villains
behind me, t at any man could desire to meet With; to the poor
Spaniards' great rief and disappointment, you may be sure.

The only just fixing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards
came ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions,
and other relief, as I had ordered them to do; also they gave them
the long pa er of directions which I had left with them, containing
the partic methods which I took for managing every part of my
life there; the way how I baked my bread, bred up tame goats, and
planted my corn; how I cured miegrapes, made my pots, and, in a
word, every thing I did; all this mg written down, they ave to
the Spaniards (two of them understood English well enoug ): nor
did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with anything else,
for they agreed very well for some time. They gave them an
equal admission into the house, or cave, and they began to live very
sociabl ; and the head Spaniard, who had seen retty much of my
metho s, and Friday's father to ether, manage all their afi'airs:
but as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble about the
island, shoot parrots, and catch tortoises; and when they came home
at night, the S aniards rovided their sup era for them.

The Spaniar wouldlhave been satisfie with this, had the others
but let them alone; which, however, they could not find in their
hearts to do long, but, like the dog in the manger, they would not
eat themselves, neither would they let the others eat. The differ-
ences, nevertheless, were at first but trivial, and such as are not
worth relating, but at last it broke out into open war: and it began
with all the rudeness, and insolence that can be imagined, without
reason, without provocation, contrary to nature, and, indeed, to
common sense; and though, it is true, the first relation of it came
from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the accusers, yet
wfhetn I came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a word
0 1 .

But before I come to the particulars of this art, I must sup 1y a
defect in my former relation; and this was, Ipforgot to set own,
amon the rest, that 'ust as we were we' hing the anchor to set sail,
there ppened a litt e narrel on boar of our ship, which I was
afraid would have turn to a second mutiny; nor was it a peased
till the captain, rousing up his courage, and t ' us to his
assistance, arted them b force, and making two 0 the most re-
fractory fe ows prisoners, e laid them in irons; and as they had
been active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly, dangerous
words, the second time he threatened to carry them in irons to
England, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running away
w1t_ the ship. This, it seems, though the captain did not intend to
do It, frightened some other men in the ship; and some of them had
put it into the heads of the rest that the captain only gave them
good words for the present, till they should come to some English,
port, and that then they should be all put into gaol, and tried for
their lives. The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us
with it; upon which it was desired that I, who still passed for a
great man amo them, should go down with the mate, and satisfy
the men, and te them that the might be assured, if they behaved
well the rest of the voy e, 1 they had done for the time past
should be pardoned. So went, and after passing my honour's
word to them, they appeared easy, and the more so when I caused
the two men that were in irons to be released and for 'ven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for t t night; the
wind also falling calm next morning, we found that our two men who
had been laid in irons had stole each of them a musket, and some
other weapons what powder and shot they had we knew not), and
had taken the s i 's pmnace, which was not yet hauled up, and run
awa with her to is companions in roguery on shore. As soon as
we ound this, I ordered t e long boat on shore, with twelve men and
the mate, and away they went to seek the re ues; but they could
neither find them nor any of the rest, for they fled into the woods
when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was once
resolved, in 'ustice to their rovuery, to have destroyed their lanta-
tions, burned all their househo d-stufi' and furniture, and left t em to
shift without it ; but having no orders, he let it all alone, left every-
thing as he found it, and bringing the pinnace away, came on board
without them. These two men made their number five; but the
other three villains were so much more wicked than the , that after
they had been two or three days together, they turned t e two new
comers out of doors to shift for themselves, and would have nothing
to do with them; nor could they, for a good while, be persuaded to
give them any food: as for the Spaniards, they were not yet come.

When the S aniards came first on shore, the business began to go
forward: the gpaniards would have persuaded the three English
brutes to have taken in their two countrymen ain, that, as they
said, they might be all one family; but they wo d not hear of it:
so the two poor fellows lived by themselves; and finding nothing
but industry and application would make them live comfortably, they
pitched their tents on the north shore of the island, but a little
more to the west, to be out of danger of the savages, who always
landed on the east parts of the island.

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to
lay up their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards ha '

iven them some corn for seed,.and es ecially some of the peas whic

had left them, they dug. planted an enclosed, after the pattern I
had set for them all, and be to live pretty well: Their first crop
of corn was on the can ; and though it was but alittle bit of
land which they had ug up first, having had but a little time, et
it was enough to relieve them, and find them with bread and ot er
eata es.
THE ACCOUNT CONTINUED--QUARRELS BETWEEN THE ENGLISHMEN
_A BATTLE BETWEEN TWO PARTIES 0F SAVAGES WHO VISIT THE
ISLAND--FRESH MUTINY AMONG THE SETTLEM.

THEY were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three

unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour, and

to insult them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was

theirs ; that the Governor, meaning me, had given them the posses-

sxon of it, and nobody else had any right to it; and that they should

hfiifld no houses upon their ground, unless they would pay rent for
em.

The two men, thinking they were 'esting at first, asked them to
come In. and sit down, and see whar ne houses they were that they
had built, and to tell them what rent the demanded; and one of
them merrily said, if they were the groun -1andlords, he hoped, if
they built tenements upon their land, and made improvements, they
would, according to the custom of landlords, grant a long lease; and
desrred they would get a scrivener to draw the writin 3. One of
the three, cursing and raging, told them they sho d see they
were not in Jest; and going to a little lace at a distance, where the
honest men had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a fire-
brand, and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly set it
on fire ; and it would have been burned all down in a few minutes,
if one of the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and

:rod the fire out with his feet, and that not without some difficulty
oo. '
The fellow was in such a r e at the honest man's thrusting him
away, that he returned upon im, with a pole he had in his hand,
and had not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the
but, he had ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger
they were both in, ran in after him, and immediately they both came
out with their muskets, and the man that was first struck at with
the pole knocked the fellow down that had begun the quarrel with
the stock of his musket, and that before the other two could come
to help him; and then seeing the rest come at them, they stood to-
gether, and presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade
them stand off.

The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the two hon-
est men, boldcr than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger,
told them, if they offered to move hand or foot they were dead men,
and boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not,
indeed, lay down their arms, but seeing him so resolute it brought
them to a parley, and they consented to take their wounded man
with them and be gone; and, indeed, it seems the fellow was
wounded sufficiently with the blow. However, they were much in
the wrong, since they had the advantage, that they did not disarm
them efl'ectually, as they might have done, and have gone immedi-
ately to the Spaniards, and given them an account of how the rogues
had treated them ; for the three villians studied nothing1 but revenge,
and every day gave them some intimation that they di so.

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of
the rooueries, such as treading down their corn; shooting three
young 'ids and a she goat, which the cor men had got to breed up
tame for their store; and, in a word p aguing them night and day in
this manner; it forced the two men to such a desperation, that they
resolved to fight them all three, the first time they had a fair op or-
tunity. In order to this, they resolved to go to the castle, as t ey
called it (that was, my old dwelling), where the three rogues and the
Spaniards all lived together at that time, intendino to have a fair
battle, and the Spaniards should stand by, to see (in play; so they
wot u in the morningl before day, and came to the (place, and called
the nglishmen by t eir names, telling a Spaniar that answered
that they wanted to speak with them.

It happened that the day before, two of the Spaniards, having
been in the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for
distinction, I called the honest men, and he had made a sad com-

laint to the Spaniards of the barbarous usage they had met with
rom their three countrymen, and how the had ruined their planta-
tion, and destroyed their corn that they ad laboured so hard to
bring forward, and killed the milch goat and their three kids, which
was all they had provided for their sustenance; and that if he and
his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them again, they
should be starved. When the Spaniards came home at night, and
they were all at supper, one of them took the freedom to reprove
the three Englishmen, though in very gentle and mannerly terms,
and asked them how they could be so cruel, they being harmless, in-
ofi'ensive fellows; that they were putting themselves in a way to
subsist b their labour, and that it _had cost them a great deal of
pains to ring thing]: to such perfection as they were then in.

One of the Eng ' hmen returned very brisk] : "What had they
to do there? that they came on shore without eave ; and that the
should not plant or build 11 on the island; it was none of their

ound." " Why," says t e Spaniard, very calmly, " Senhor

nglese, they must not starve." The Englishman replied, like a
rough-hewn tarpauling: "They might starve and be hanged; they
should not plant nor uild in that place." "But what must they
do, then, senhor?" said the Spaniard. Another of the brutes
returned: "Do? they should be servants, and work for them."
"But how can you ex ct that of them?" says the Spaniard;
"they are not bought wit your money: you have no right to make
them servants." The Englishman answered: "The island was
theirs; the Governor had given it to them, and no man had anfihing
to do there but themselves;" and with that swore by his or
that they would go and burn all their new huts; the should build
none upon their land." "Why, senhor," says the paniard, "by
the same rule, we must be your servants too." " Ay," says the
bold dog, "and so you shall too before we have done with on."
The Spaniard onl smiled at that, and made him no answer. ow-
ever, this little 'scoursc had heated them; and starting up, one
says to the other, I think it was he they called Will Atkins: " Come
J ack, let's go, and have 'tother brush with 'em; we'll demolish their
castle, I'll warrant you ; they shall plant no colony in our
dortaiinionsil'l's h all h
nt ' t ey went troo ' away, wit eve mana gun, a
pistol? and a sword, and muttereldudgme insolent things among them-
selves, of what they would do to the Spaniards too, when opportu-
nity ofi'ered; but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfect]
un erstaud them as to know all the particulars, onl that, in gene ,
the threatened them hard for taking the two Eng ' hmen's part.
ither they went, or how they bestowed their time that evening,
the Spaniards said they did not know; but it seems they wandered
about the country part of the night, and then lying down in the
place which I used to 0511 my bower, they were weary, and overslept
themselves. The case was this: they had resolved to stay till mid-
night, and so take the two poor men when they were aslee , and, as
they acknowledged afterwards, intended to set fire to t eir huts
while the were in them, and either burn them there, or murder
them as t ey came out; as malice seldom sleeps very sound, it was
ve strange the should not have been kept awake.
owever, as t e two men had also a design upon them, as I have
said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering,
it happened, and ve luckil for them all, that they were up, and .
gone a road, before t e bloc -minded rogues came to their huts.

When they came there, and found the men gone, Atkins, who, it
seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his comrade: "Ha,
Jack, here's the nest, but the birds are flown. They mused awhile
to think what should he the occasion of their being gone abroad so
soon, and suggested presently that the Spaniards had given them
notice of it; and with that they shook ands, and swore to one
another that they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as
they had made this blood bargain, they fell to work with the poor
men's habitation: they di not set fire, indeed, to anything, but they
pulled down both their houses, and pulled them so limb from limb,
that they left not the least stick standing, or scarce an sign on the

ound where they stood; they tore all their little co ected house-

old stuff in pieces, and threw eve thing about in such a manner,
that the poor men afterwards foun some of their things a mile off
their habitation. When they had done all this, they ulled up all
the young trees which the poor men had planted; p ed up an en
closure they had made to secure their cattle and their corn; and, in
a word, sacked and plundered every thing as completely as a horde
of Tartars would have done.

The two men were, at this 'uncture, gone to find them out, and
had resolved to fight them w erever they had been, though they
were but two to three; so that, had they met, there certainly would
have been bloodshed among them; for they were all very stout,
resolute fellows, to give them their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they
themselves could do to meet: for, as if they had dogged one ano-
ther, when the three were gone thither, the two were here; and
afterwards, when the two went back to find them, the three were
come to the old habitation again: we shall see their different con-
duct presently. When the three came back like furious creatures,
flushed with the rage which the work they had been about had ut
them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told them what t ey
had done, by way of scoff and bravado; and one of them, stepping
up to one ot the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at
p ay, takes hold of his hat as it was upon his head, and giving it a
twirl about, hearing in his face, says to him: "And you, Senhor
Jack Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, fi you do not mend your
manners." The Spaniard, who, though a quiet, civil man, was as
brave a man as could be, and withal a strong, well-made man, looked
at him for a good while, and then, having no weapon in his hand,
stepped gravely up to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked
him down, as an on is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the
rogues, as insolent as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard imme
'diately: he missed his body, indeed, for the bullets went througl
his hair, but one of them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled
retty much. The blood made the Spaniard believe he was more
hurt than he really was, and that put him into some heat, for before
he acted all in a perfect calm; ut now, resolving to go thro h
with his work, he stoo ed, and took the fellow's musket whom e
had knocked down, an was just ing to shoot the man whohad
fired at him, when the rest of the pamards, being in the cave, came
out, and calling to him'not to shoot, they stepped 1n, secured the
other two, and took their arms from them.

 

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the
Spaniards t eir enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they
began to cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have
their arms again; but the Spaniards, considering the feud that was
between them and the other two Englishmen, and that it would be
the best method they could take to keep them from killing one ano-
ther, told them they would do them no harm, and if they would live
peaceably, the would be very willing to assist and associate with
them as they 'd before; but that they could not think of giving
them their arms again, while they appeared so resolved to do mis-
chief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened
them all to make them their servants.

.The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to not
With reason;. but being refused their arms, they went raving away];
and raging like madmen, threatening what they would do, thong
they had no fire-arms. But the Spaniards, despising their threaten-
ing, told them they should take care how they ofiered any intjhury to
their plantation or cattle, for if they did, they would shoot em as
they would ravenous beasts, wherever they found them; and if they

P
fell into their hands alive, they should certainly be hanged. However,
this was far from cooling them, but away they went, raging and
swearing like furies As soon as they were gone, the two men
came back, in passion and rage enough also, though of another
kind; for, having been at their plantation, and finding it all demol-
ished and destroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had
provocation enough. They could scarce have room to tell their
talc, the Spaniards were so eager to tell theirs. And it was strange
enough to find that three men should thus bully nineteen, and
receive no punishment at all

The Spaniards, indeed, despised them, and especially, having thus
disarmed them, made light of their threatenings; but the two Eng-
lishmen resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains
soever it cost to find them out. But the Spaniards interposed here
too, and told them, that as they had disarmed them, they could not
consent that they (the two) should pursue them with tire-arms, and
perhaps kill them. " But," said the grave Spaniard, who was their
governor, " we will endeavour to make them do you justice, if you
will leave it to us; for there is no doubt but they "'1" come to us
again, when their passion is over, being not able to subsist without
our assistance: we promise you to make no peace with them, Without
having a full satisfaction for you; and upon this condition we hope
you will promise to use no violence with them, other than in your
own defence." The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly,
and with great reluctance; but the Spaniards protested they did it
only to keep them from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last.
" For," said they, " we are not so many of us; here is room enough
for us all, and it is a great pity we should not be all good friends."
At length they did consent, and waited for the issue of the thing,
livin for some days with 'the Spaniards, for their own habitation
was estroyed.

In about five da 5' time the three vagrants, tired with wandering,
and almost starve with hunger, having chiefly lived on turtles' eg
all that while, came back to the grove; and finding my Spaniar ,
who, as I have said, was the governor, and two more with him walk-
ing b the side of the creek, they came 11 in a very submissive,
humb e manner, and begged to be receive again into the family.
The Spaniards used them civilly, but told them they had acted so
unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly by them (the
Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclusion without con-
sulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but, however, they would
go to them, and discourse about it, and they should know in half an

our. It may be guessed that the were very hard put to it: for, it
seems, as they were to wait this half hour for an answer, they beg ed
they would send them out some bread in the meantime, which they
did, sending at the same time a large piece of goat's flesh, and a
boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily, for they were hungry
enough.
After half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a long
debate ensued; their two countrymen chargin them with the ruin
of all their labour, and a design to murder tiem; all which they
owned before, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole,
the Spaniards acted the moderator between them; and as they had
obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the three while they were
naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild
their fellows' two huts, one to he of the same, and the other of
larger dimensions, than they were before; to fence their ground

ain where they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room
0 those pulled up, dig up the land again for planting corn where
they had spoiled it, and, in a word, to restore every thing in the
same state as they found it, as near as they could; for entirely it
could not he, the season for the corn, and the growth of the trees
and hedges, not being ossible to be recovered.

Well, they submitte to all this; and as they had (plenty of pro-
visions given them all the while, they ew ve or erl , and the
whole society began to live pleasantly an agreeab y toget er again.
only that these three fellows could never be persuaded to work, 1
mean for themselves, except now and then a little, just as they
pleased; however, the S aniards told them plainly, that if they
would but live sociably an friendly together, and study the good of
the whole plantation, the would be content to work for them, and
let them walk about and e as idle as they pleased; and thus having
lived pretty well to ether for a month or two, the Spaniards gave
ihpm arms again, an gave them liberty to go abroad with them as

e ore.

It was not above a week after they had thfie arms, and went
abroad, but the ungrateful creatures egan to be as insolent and
troublesome as before: but, however, an accident hap ened pre-
sently upon this, which endangered the safety of them , and they
were ob ged to lay by all private resentments, and look to the pre-
servation of their lives. '

It happened one night, that the Spanish governor, as I call him,
that is to.say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now
the captain, or leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very
uneasy in the night, and could by no means get any sleep: he was
perfectly well in body, as he told me the story, only found his
thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran u on men fighting and killing
one another, but he was broad awalce, and could not by any
means get any sleep: in short, he lay a great while; but growing
more and more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so
many of them, 11 on goats' skins laid thick upon such couches and
pads as they in e for themselves, and not in hammocks and ship

eds, as I_ did, who was but one, so they had little to do, when they

were Willing to rise, but to get up upon their feet, and perhaps put

on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps, and they were rgeady for
- r
going any way that their thou ts guided them. Beingthus got up,
he looked out; but, bein dark, he could see little or nothing; and
besides, the trees which had planted, as in my former account is
described, and which were now rown tall, intercepted his sight, so
that he could only look up, and' see that it was a clear starlight
night, and hearing no noise he returned and laid him down again;
but it was all one, he could not sleep, nor could he compose him-
self to anything like rest; but his thoughts were to the last degree
uneasy, and he knew not for what.

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, goinrr out
and coming in, another of them waked, and callm , asked who it
was that was up. The governor told him how it ha been with him.
" Say ou so?" says the other Spaniard; "such things are not to
be slig ted, I assure you; there is certainly some mischief working
near us," and presently he asked him: "Where are the English-
men?" "They are all in their huts," says he, "safe enough." It
seems that the Spaniards had kept possession of the main apartment,
and had made a place for the three Enclishmen, who, since their
last mutiny, were always quartered by themselves, and could not
come at the rest. "Well," says the Spaniard, "there is something
in it, I am persuaded, from my own experience. I am satisfied our
spirits embodied have. a converse with, and receive intelli ence from,
the s irits unembodied, and inhabiting the invisible worl ; and this
frien ly notice is given for our advantage, if we knew how to make
use of it. Come," says he, "let us go and look abroad; and if we
find nothing at all in it to justify the trouble, I'll tell you a story to
the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my prOposing
it."

In a word, they went out, to go to the to of the hill where I
used to go ; but they being strong, and a goo company, not alone,
as I was, used none of my cautions, to go up by the ladder, and
pulling it up after them, to go up a second stage to the top, but
were going round through the grove, unconcerned and unwary, when
they were surprised with seeing a light as of fire, a very little way
oti' from them, and hearing the voices of men, not one or two, but of
a great number. .

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on the
island, it was my constant care to prevent them making the least
discovery of their being any inhabitant upon the place; and when
by any occasion they came to know it, they felt it so efi'ectually,
that they that got away were scarce able to give any account of it;
for we disappeared as soon as ossible; nor did ever any that had
seen me escape to tell any one e e, except the three savages in our
last encounter, who jumped into the boat; of'whom I mentioned,
I was afraid they should 'go home and bring more help. Whether
, it was the consequence o the escape of those men that so reat a
number came now together, or whether they came ignorant y, and
by accident, on their usual bloody errand, the S aniards could not,
it seems, understand; but whatever it was, it had een their business
either to have concealed themselves, or not to have seen them at all,
much less to have let the savages have seen that there were any in-
habitants in the lace; or to have fallen upon them so efi'ectuall , as
that not a man 0 them should have escaped, which could only ave
been bv getting in between them and their boats; but this presence
of mind was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their tranquil-
lity for a great while.

We need not doubt but that the governor and the man with him,
surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and raised their fel-
lows, giving them an account of the imminent danger they were all
in, an they again as readily took the alarm; but it was impossible
to persuade t em to stay close within, where they were, but they
must all run out to see how things stood.

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had
Opportunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the light of
the three fires they had made at a distance from one another; what
they were doing they knew not, and what to do themselves they
knew not. For, first, the enemy were too many; and, secondly,
thev did not keep together, but were divided into several parties,
and were on shore in several places.

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and
when they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore,
they made no doubt but, first or last, some ot' them would chop in
upon their habitation, or upon some other place where they would
see the token of inhabitants; and they were in eat purplexity also
for fear of their flock of goats, which would ve been little less
than starving them, if they should have been destroyed; so the first
thin 'they resolved upon was to despatch three men awa before it
was ght, two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive the goats
away to the great valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to
drive them into the very cave itself. Could they have seen the
savages all together in one body, and at a distance from their canoes,
they resolved, if there had been a hundred of them, to have attacked
them ,. but that could not be obtained: for they were some of them
two miles oil" from the other; and, as it appeared afterwards were of
two difi'erent nations.

After having mused a great while on the course they should take,
and beating their brains in conside ' their present circumstances,
they resolved, at last, while it was st' dark, to send the old savage,
Friday's father, out as a spy, to learn, if possible, something con-
cemmg them; as what they came for, what they intended to do,
and the like. The old man readily undertook it; and stripping
himself quite naked, as most of the savages were, away he went.
After he had been gone an hour or two, he brings word t lat he has
been among them undiscovered; that he found . they were two
parties, and of two several nations, who had war with one another,
and had a great battle in their own country; and that both sides
having had several prisoners taken in the fight, they were, by mere
chance, landed all on the same island, for the devouring their
prisoners and making mer , but their coming so by chance to
the same place had spoiled t their mirth; that they were in a great
rage at one another, and were so near, that he believed they would
fight again as soon as daylight began to a pear: but he did not

erceive that they had any notion 0 any bo y beinrr on the island

ut themselves. He had hardly made an end of tali 9 his story,
when they could perceive, by the unusual noise they ma e, that the
two lit tlc armies were eugawcd in a bloody fight.

Friday's father used all tie arguments he could to pursuade our
people to lie close, and not be seen: he told them their safety con-
sisted in it, and that they had nothing to do but lie still, and the
saiuves would kill one another to their hands, and then the rest
would go away; and it was so to a tittlc. But it was impossible to
prevail, especially upon the Englishmen; their curiosity was so
importunate upon their prudentials, that they must run out and see
the battle; however they used some caution too, viz. they did not
go o enly, just by their own dwellin , but went farther into the
woo s, and placed themselves to a vantage, where they might
securely see them manage the fight, and, as they thought, not be
seen by them; but it seems the savages did see them, as we shall
find hereafter.

The battle was very fierce; and, if I might believe one of the
Englishmen, one of them said he could perceive that some of them
were men of great bravery, of invincible spirits, and of great olicy
in guiding the tight. The battle, they said, held two hours efore
they could guess which part would be beaten; but then, that party
which was nearest our peop e's habitation began to appear weakest,
and, after some time more, some of them began to fly; and this ut
our men again into a great consternation, lest any one of those is at
fled should rim into the grove before their dwelling for shelter, and
thereby involuntarily discover the place; and that, by consequence,
the ursuers would do the like in search of them. Upon this they
reso vcd they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came
into the grove, they resolved to sally over the wall and kill them; so
that, if possible, not one should return to give an account of it: they
ordered also that it should be, done with their swords or by knocking
them down with the stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting
them, for fear of raising an alarm y the noise. .

As they expected, it fell out: t ee of the routed army fled for
life, and crossin the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the
. least knowing wiither they went, but running as into a. thick wood

for shelter. The scent they kept to look abroad gave notice of this
within, with this addition, to our men's great satisfaction, viz. that
the conquerors had not pursued them, or seen which way they were
gone: upon this, the Spamard governor, a man of humanity, would
not suffer them to kill the three fugitives, but sending three men
out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in behind
them, surprise and take them prisoners; which was done. The
residue of the conquered people fled to their canoes,.and got- 011' to
sea; the victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but drawin
themselves into a body together, gave two scream' shouts, whic
the supposed was by the way of triumph, and so t e fight ended:
andy the same day, a out three o'clock in the afternoon, they also
marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had their island
again free to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no
sav "es in several years after.-
ter they were all ne, the Spaniards came out of their den,
and viewing the field of attle, they found about two-and-thirty men
dead on the spot: some were killed with great long arrows, some of
which were found sticking in their bodies; but most of them were
killed with great wooden swords, sixteen or seventeen of which were
found on the field of battle, and as many bows, with a fiat many
arrows. These swords were strange, reat, unwieldy t ' , and
they must be very strong men that use them; most of those men
that were killed with them had their heads mashed to ieces, as we
may say, or, as we call it in English, their brains kn ed out, and
several their arms and legs broken; so that it was evident they
fight with inex ressible r e and fury. We found not one man that
was not stone- ead, for eit er they stay by their enemy till they have
quite killed him, or they carry all the wounded men that are not
quite dead away with them.
This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while; the
sight had filled them with horror, and the consequences appeared
.terrible to the last degree, especial] upon supposing that some
time or other they should fall into the ds of these creatures, who
would not only kill them as enemies, but kill them for food, as we
kill our cattle; and they professed to me, that the tho hts of being
eaten up like beef or mutton, though it was suppose that it was
not to be till they were dead, had something in it so horrible, that
it nauseated their very stomachs, made them sick when theythought
of it, and filled their minds with such unusual-terror, that the were
not themselves for some weeks after. This, as I said, tame even
the. three English brutes I have been speaking of, and, for a great
While after, they were tractable, and went about the common
busmess of the whole society well enough; planted, sowed, reaped,
and began to be all naturalised to the country. But some time after
this, they fell into such measures again, as brought them into a great
deal of trouble.
They had taken three prisoners, as I observed; and these three
being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants, and
taught them to work for them; and as slaves, they did well enough -,
but they did not take their measures with them as I did by my man
Frida , viz. to begin with them upon the principle of having saved"
their 'ves, and then instruct them in the rational principles of life ;_

 

much less of religion, civilizing and reducino them by kind usage
and afl'ectionate arguings; but as they gave them their food every
day, so they gave them their work too, and kept them fully employed
in drudgery enough; but they failed in this by it, that they never
had them to assist them, and fight for them, as I had my man Friday,
who was as true to me as the flesh u on my bones.

But to come to the family art. eing all now good friends, for
common danger, as I said a ove, had effectually reconciled them,
they bevan to consider their general circumstances; and the first
thing that came under their consideration was, whether, seeing the
savages particularly haunted that side of the island, and that there
were more remote and retired parts of it equally adapted to their way
of living, and manifestly to their advantage, they should not rather
move their habitation, and plant in some more proper place for their
safety, and especially for the security of their cattle and corn.

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would
not remove their habitation; because that, some time or other, they
thought they might hear from their governor again, meaninv me;
and if I should send any one to seek them, I should be sure to direct
them to that side; where, if they should find the place demolished,
the would conclude the savages had killed us all, and we were gone;
andy so our supply would go too. But as to their corn and cattle,
they reed to remove them into the valley where m cave was,
where t 6 land was as proper for both, and where, indee , there was.
land enough; however, upon second thoughts, they altered one art
of their resolution too, and resolved only to remove part of tieir'
cattle thither, and plant part of their corn there; and so if one part
was destroyed, the other might be saved. And. one part of prudence
they used, which it was very well they did, viz. that they never
trusted those three savages, which they had made prisoners, with
knowing an thing of the plantation they had made in that valley, or
of any catt e they had there, much less of the cave there, which
they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe retreat; and thither they
carried also the two barrels of powder which I had sent them at my
coming away. But, however, they resolved not to change their
habitation, yet the reed, that as I had carefully covered it
first with a wall or ort cation, and then with a. grove of trees, so
seeing their safety consisted entirely in their being concealed, of
which they were now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and
conceal the lace yet more efl'ectually than before. For this purpose,
as I plante trees, or rather thrust in stakes, which in time all grew
to be trees, for some good distance before the entrance into my
apartments, they went on in the same manner, and filled up the rest
of that whole space of ound, from the trees I had set, quite down
to the side of the cree , where, as I said, I landed my floats, and
even into the ve ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as leav-
'mg an place to and, or any sign that there had been any landing
therea out; these stakesalso being of a wood very forward to grow,
as I have noted formerl , they took care to have them nerally
much larger and taller than those which I had planted; an as they
grew 3 ace, so they lanted them so very thick and close together,
that w en they had een three or four years grown, there was no
piercin with the eye any considerable way into the plantation ; and
as fort at part which I had planted, the trees were grown as thick
as a man's thigh, and among them they placed so many other short
ones, and so thick, that, in a word, it stood like a palisade a quarter
of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to enetrate it, but
with a little army to cut it all down; for a little 0g could hardly
get between the trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all; for the did the same by all the ound to
the right hand and the left, an round even to the top 0 the hill,
leaving no way, not so much as for themselves to come out, but by
the la der placed u to the side of the hill, and then lifted n , and
placed again from t e first stage up to the top; and when the dder
was taken down, nothing but what had wings, or witchcraft to assist
it, could come at them. This was excellentl well contrived ; nor
was it less than what they afterwards foun occasion for; which
served to convince me, that as human prudence has the authority of
Prov1dence to justify it, so it has doubtless the direction of Provi
dence to set it to work; and if we listened carefully to the voice of
1t, I .am persuaded we might prevent many of the disasters which
EUR111! hves are now, by our own negligence, subjected to: but this by

e way.
I return to the story.--They lived two years after this in perfect
retirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They had
indeed an alarm given to them one morning, which put them into a
great consternation; for some of the Spaniards being out early one
morning on the west side, or rather end, of the island (which was
that end where I never went, for fear of being discovered), they
were surprised with seeing about twenty canoes of Indians just
comiun' on shore. They made the best of their way home, in hurry
enou h; and iviug the alarm to their comrades, they ke t close all
that y and t 1e next, going out only at night to make t eir obser-
vation: but theyr had the good luck to be mistaken; for wherever
the savages went, they did not land that time on the island, but
pursued some other design.

And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen; one
of whom, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the
three slaves, which I mentioned they had taken, because the fellow
had not done something right which he bid him do, and seemed a

 

little untractable in his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-
belt, in which he wore it by his side, and fell upon the poor savage,
not to correct him, but to kill him. One of the Spaniards, who was
by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous cut with the hatchet,
which he aimed at his head, but struck into his shoulders, so that he
thought he had cut the poor creature's arms off, ran to him, and en-
treatmg him not to murder the poor man, placed himself between
him and the savage, to prevent the mischief. The fellow being
enraged the more at this, struck at the Spaniard with his hatchet,
and swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the savage ;
which the Spaniard perceivinv, avoided the blow, and with a shovel
which he had in his hand (for they were allworking in the field
about their corn-land) knocked the brute down. Another of the
Englishmen running at the same time to_ help his comrade, knocked
the Spaniard down; and then two Spamards more came in to be]
their man, and a third Enghshman fell 1n upon them. They h
none of them any fire-arms, or autother weapons but hatchets and
other tools, exee t this third Eng hman; he had one of my rust
cutlasses, with w 'ch he made at the two last Spaniards and wound
them both. This fray set the whole family in an uproar, and more
help coming in, they took the three Englishmen prisoners. The
next question was, what should be done with them? They had
been so often mutinous, and were so very furious, so desperate, and
so idle withal, they knew not what course to take with them, for
they were mischievous to the highest degree, and valued not what
hurt they did to any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live
with them.

The Spaniard who was governor told them, inso many words, that
if they had been of his own country, he would have hanged them;
for all laws and all governors were to preserve society, and those
who were dangerous to the society ought to be expelled out of it;
but as they were Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kind-
ness of an Englishman that they all owed their reservation and
deliverance, he would use them with all possible enity, and would
leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen, who were
their countrymen.

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up, and said they desired
it might not he left to them: "For," says he, " I am sure we ought
to sentence them to the gallows :" and with that he 'ves an account
how Will Atkins, one of the three, had roposed to ave all the five
Englishmen join together, and murder all the Spaniards when they
were in their sleep.

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins,
" How Senhor Atkins, would you murder us all? What have you
to say to that?" The hardened villain was so far from denying it,
that he said it was true: and, that they would do it still,
before the had done with them." "Well, but Senhor Atkins,"
says the paniard, "what have we done to you, that you will kill
us? And what would you get by killing us? And what must
we do to prevent your killing us? Must we kill on, or you kill
us? Wh will you put us to the necessity of this, enhor Atkins?"
says the paniard, very calmly and smiling. Senhor Atkins was in
such a rage at the Spaniard's making a jest of it, that, had he not
been held by three men, and withal had no wea n near him, it was
tho ht he would have attempted to have kill the S aniard 1n the
midd e of all the company. Thishair-brained carriage oh god them to
consider seriously what was to be done: the two Englishmen, and
the Spaniard who saved the oor savage, were of the oplmon that
they should hang one of the three, for an example .to the rest; and
that particularly it should be he that had twice attempted to commit
murder with his hatchet; and, indeed, there was some reason to
believe he had done it, for the poor savage was in such a miserable
condition with the wound he had received, that it was thought he
could not live. But the governor Spaniard still said no; it was an
Englishman that had saved all their lives, and he would never con-
sent to put an Englishman to death, thouvh he had murdered half
of them; nay, he said, if he had been killed himself by an En lish-
man, and had time left to speak, it should be that they 3 ould
pardon him.

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that
there was no gainsaying it; and as merciful counsels are most apt to
prevail, where they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into
it: but then it was to be considered what should be done to keep
them from doing the mischief they designed; for all agreed, governor
and all, that means were to be used for preserving the society from
dancer. After a long debate, it was agreed, first, that they should
be disarmed, and not permitted to have either min, powder, shot,
sword, or any weapon; and should be turned out of the society, and
left to live where they would, and how they would, by themselves;
but that none of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should con-
verse with them, speak with them, or have anyt ing to do with
them : that they should be forbid to come within a certain distance
of the place where the rest dwelt; and if they offered to commit
any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill, or destroy any of the corn,
plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle belon ing to the society, they
should die without mercy, and they would 3 oot them wherever they
could find them.

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to
shift for themselves. They went awa sullen and refractory, as
neither content to ooaway nor to sta ; but as there was no remed ,
they went, pretending to go and c oose a place were they wo d
settle themselves; and some provisions were given them, but no
wea ons.

A out four or five days after, they came ' for some victuals,
and gave the governor an account where t ey had pitched their
tents, and marked themselves out a habitation and plantation;
and it was a very convenient place, indeed, on the remotest part of
the island, N.E., much about the place where <<I had providentially
landed in my first voyage, when 1 was driven out to sea, the Lord
alone knows whither, in my foolish attem t to sail round the island.

Here they built themselves two han some huts, and contrived
them in a manner like my first habitation, but close- under the side
of a hill, having some trees growin already on three sides of it, so
that by planting others, it would e very easil coveredfrom the

.sight, unless narrowly searched for. They desire some dned oats'-
skins, for beds and covering, which were given them; an upon
giving their words that they would not disturb the rest, or injure any
of their lantations, they gave them hatchets, and what other tools
they co d spare; some peas, barley, and rice, for sowing; and, in a
word, anything they wanted, exce t arms and ammunition.

They hved in this separate con 'tion about six months, and had
got in their first harvest, though the quantity was but small, the
parcel of land they had planted eing but little; for, indeed, having
all their plantation to iorm, they had 3. eat deal of work upon
their hands; and when they came to m e boards and pots, and
such things, they were quite out of their element, and could make
nothing of it: and when the rainy season came on, for want of a cave
in the earth, they could not keep their grain dry, and it was in great
danger of spoiling; and this humbled them much: so the came
and begged the Spaniards to help them, which they very ' y did;
and in four days worked a hole in the side of the hill for them, big
enough to secure their corn and other things from the rain: but it
was but a cor place, at best, compared to mine, and especially as
mine was t en, for the Spaniards had greatly enlarged it, and made
several new apartments in it.

About three-quarters of a year after this separation, a new frolic
took these rogues, which, together with the former villauy they had
committed, brought mischief enou h upon them, and had very
nearly been the ruin of the whole colony. The three new associates
began, it seems, to be weary of the laborious life they led, and that
Without hope of betterin their circumstances; an a whim took
them, that they would in e a voyage to the continent, from whence
the savages came, and would try if they could seize upon some
prisoners among the natives there, and bring them home, so to make
them do the laborious part of their work for them. .
The prpf'lect was not so preposterous, if they had ne no farther:
but the 'd nothing, and proposed nothing, but either mischief
in the esign, or mischief in the event: and, if I may give my opinion,
they seemed to be under a blast from Heaven; for if we will not allow
a v151ble curse to pursue visible crimes, how shall we reconcile the
events of things with the divine justice? It was certainly an
apparent vengeance on their crime of mutiny and piracy that
brought them to the state they were in; and they showed not the
least remorse for the crime, but added new villames to it, such as
the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor slave, because he
did 110'}, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he was directed;
and to wound him in such a manner as made him a cri ple all his
11,53, and m a dplace where no surgeon or medicine could had {or
his cure; an what was still worse, the murderous intent, or, to do
Justice to the crime, the intentional murder, for such to be sure it
was, as was afterwards the formed desivn they all laid, to murder
the Spamards in cold blood and in their Eleep.
TEE MUTINOUS ENGLISHMEX DISMISSED FROM THE ISLAND--RE-
TURN WITH SEVERAL CAPTIVE SAYAGES--TAKE THE FEMALES AS
WIVES--ARRIVAL 0F SAVAGES.

BUT I leave observing and return to the story.--The three fellows
came down to the Spaniards one morning, and in very humble terms
desired to be admitted to speak with them; the Spaniards very
readily heard what they had to sa , which was this :--That they
were tired of living in the manner t ey did; and that the were not
handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and t at having
no help, the found they should be starved; but if the Spaniards
would give tliem leave to take one of the canoes which they came
over in, and give them arms and ammunition pro ortioned to their
defence, they would go over to the main and see their fortunes,
and so deliver them from their trouble of supplying them with any
other provisions.

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them, but very
honestly represented to them the certain destruction they were run-
ning into; told them they had sufi'ered such hardships upon that
very spot, that they could, without any s irit of prophecy tell them
the would be starved, or murdered, and ade them consider of it.

e men replied audaciously, they should be starved if they stayed
here, for they could not work, and would not work, and they could ut
be starved abroad; and if they were murdered, there was an end of
them; they had no wives or children to cry after them: and, in
short, insisted importunatel upon their demand; declaring they
would go, whether the wo d in them arms or no.

The Spaniards told t em, wit great. kindness, that if they were re-
solved to go, the should not go like naked men, and be in no
condition to defen themselves: and that though they could ill spare
their fire-arms, having not enough for themselves, yet the would
let them have two muskets, a pistol and a cutlass, and eac man a
hatchet, which they thought was .suflicient for them. In a word,
they accepted the offer; and havmg baked them bread enough to
serve them a month, and given them as much goat's flesh as they .
could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket of dried grapes, a
pot of fresh water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in the
canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles
broad.

The boat, indeed, was a large one, and would very well have
carried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for
them to man ; but as they had a fair breeze, and flood tide with
them, they di well enough. They had made a mast of a long pole,
and a sail of four large goats'-skins dried, which they had sewed or
. laced to ether; and away they went merrily enou h; the S aniards

called trier them, Buen viage; and no man ever t ought o seeing
them any more. .

The S aniards were often saying to one another, and to the two
honest nglishmen who remained behind, how quietly and comfort-
ably they hved, now these three turbulent fellows were gone; as for
their co ' again, that was the remotest thing from their thoughts
that could e im ' ed; when, behold, after two-and-twenty days'
absence, one of the nglishmen, being abroad upon his plantin work,

sees three str e men coming towards him at a distance, wit guns
upon their sho ders.

Away runs the E lishman, as if he was bewitched, comes ' ht-
ened and amazed to t e governor Spaniard, and tells him that t ey
were all undone, for there were strangers landed upon the island, but
could not tell .who. The Spaniards, pausing a while, says to him,
" How do {gu mean, you cannot tell who? They are the savages,
be sure." " o, no," says the Englishman: "they are menin clothes,
With arms." "Nay, then," says the Spaniard, "why are you con-
cerned? If they are not savages, they must be friends; for there is
$0 Christian nation upon earth but what will do us good rather than

m3)

While the were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and
standing mt out the wood, which was new lanted, hallooed to them,
they resently knew their voices, and so all) the wonder of that kind
cease . But now the admiration was turned upon another question,
inn, VpVhat could be the matter, and what made them come back
again .

It was not long before they brought the men 111, and inquiring where
they had been, and what they had been domg, they gave them a full
account of their voyage in a few words, viz. That they reached the
land in two days, or something less; but finding the people alarmed
at their coming, and preparing with bows and arrows to fight them,
they durst not 0 on shore, but sailed on to the northward six or
seven hours, t' they came to a great o ening, by which they per-
ceived that the land they saw from our is and was not the mam, but
an island; upon entering that opening of the sea, they saw another
island on the right hand, north, and several more west; and havi
resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of the islands whic
lay west, and went boldly on shore : that the found the people very
courteous and friendl to them; and that t ey gave them several
roots and some drie fish, and appeared very sociable; and the
women as well as the men were very forward to supply them with
anything they could get for them to eat, and. brought it to them a
great way upon their heads.

. They continued here four (lays : and inquired, as well as they
could of them, by signs, what nations were this way, and that way ;
and were told of several fierce and terrible people that lived almost
every way, who, as they made known by signs to them, used to eat .
men; but as for themselves, they said, they never eat men or women,
except only such as they took in the wars; and then, they owned,
they made a great feast, and ate their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind;
and the told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and
to two haters; and that their great kin had two hundred prisoners
now, which he had taken in his war, an the were feeding them to
make them fat for the next feast. The Eng 'shmen seemed mighty
desirous of seeing those prisoners; but the others mistaking them,
thought they were desirous to have some of them to carry away for
their own eating; so they beckoned to them, pointing to the setting
sun, and then to the rising; which was to signify that the next
morning at sun-rising they would bring some for them; and accor-
dingly, the next morning, they brought down five women, and eleven
men, and gave them to the Englishmen, to carry with them on their
voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen down to a,
seaport town to vietual a ship.

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their
stomachs turned at this sight, and they did not know what to do.
To refuse the prisoners would have been the highest afi'ront to the
savage gentry that could be offered them, and what to do with them
they knew not. However, after some debate, they resolved to
accept of them; and, in return, they gave the savages that brought
them one of their hatchets, an old he , a knife, and six or seven of
their bullets; which, though they 'd not understand their use,
they seemed articularly pleased with ; and then tying the poor crea-
tures' hands Eehind them, they dragged the prisoners into the boat for

0111' men.murmurs or nonmson 0317503. 225

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they
had them, or else they that gave them this noble present would
certainly have expected that they should have gone to work with
them, have killed two or three of them the next morning, and er-
haps have invited the donors to dinner. But having taken t eir
leave, with all the respect and thanks that could well pass between
people, where on either side, they understood not one word they could
sa , they ut off with their boat, and came back tOWards the first
island; w ere, when they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at
liberty, there being too man of them for their occasion.

In their voyage, they en eavoured to have some communication
with their prisoners; but it was impossible to make them under-
stand anything; nothing they could say to them, or give them, or
do for them, but was looked upon as going to murder them. They
first of all unbound them; but the poor creatures screamed at that,
especially the women, as if they had just felt the knife at their
throats; for they immediately concluded they were unbound on
purpose to be killed. If they gave them anythm to eat it was the
same thing; they then concluded it was for fear t ey should sink in
flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill. If the looked at one of
them more particularly, the party presently cone uded it was to see
whether he or she was fattest, and fittest to kill first; nay, after
the had brought them quite over, and begun to use them kindly,
andy treat them well, still they expected every day to make a dinner
or su per for their new masters.

W en the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history
or journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their
new family was; and being told that they had brought them on
shore, and put them into one of their huts, and were come 11 to beg
some victuals for them, they (the Spaniards) and the ct er two
En lishmen, that is to say, the whole colon , resolved to go all down
to t e place and see them; and did so, and iday's father with them.

When they came into the hut, there they sat all bound; for when
they had brought them on shore, the bound their hands, that they
might not take the boat and make their escape; there, I say, they
sat, all of them stark naked. First, there were three men, lusty,
comely fellows, well-shaped, straight and fair limbs, about thirty to
thirty-five years of age; and five women, whereof two might be
from thirty to forty; two more, not above four or five-and-twenty;
and the fifth, a t , comely maiden, about sixteen or seventeen.
The women were well-favoured, agreeable persons, both in shape
and features, only tawny; and two of them, had they been erfect
White, Would have passed for very handsome women, even in ondon
itselfhhavmg pleasant agreeable countenances, and of a very modest
behavxour, especially when they came afterwards to be clothed and

dressed, as thev called it; though that dress was very indifferent,
it must he confessed.

Q
The sight, you may he sure, was something uncouth to our
Spaniards, who were, to give them a just character, men of the best
behaviour, of the most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good
humour, that ever I met with; and, in particular, of the most
modest, as will presently appear: I sa , the sight was very uncouth,
to see three naked men and five nake women, all together bound,
and in the most miserable circumstances that human nature could
be supposed to be, viz. to be expecting every moment to be dragged
out, and have their brains knocked out, and then to be eaten up hke
a calf that is killed for a dainty.

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's
father, to go in, and see, first, if he knew any of them, and then, if
he understood any of their speech. As soon as the old man came
in, he looked seriously at them, but knew none of them; neither
could any of them understand a word he said, or a sign he could
make, except one of the women. However, this was enough to
answer the end, which was to satisfy them that the men into whose
hands they were fallen were Christians; that they abhorred eating
men or women; and that they might be sure they would not be
killed. As soon as they were assured of this, they discovered such
a joy, and by such awkward gestures, several ways, as is hard to
describe; for, it seems they were of several nations.

The woman who was their interpreter was bid, in the next place,
to ask them if they were willing to be servants, and to work for the
men who had brought them away, to save their lives; at which they
all fell a dancing; and presently one fell to taking up this, and ano-

ther that, anything that lay next, to carry on their shoulders, to
intimate that they were with to work.

The governor, who found that the having women amon them
would presently be attended with some inconvenience, an mi ht
occasion some strife, and erhaps blood, asked the three men w at
the intended to do with t ese women, and whether they intended to
m e them servants or wives? One of the Englishmen answered
very boldly and readily, that they would make them both; to which
the governor said: "I am not going to restrain you from it; you
are your own masters as to that; but this I think is but just, for
avoiding disorders and quarrels among aflan, and I desire it of you
for that reason only, viz. that you will en . , that if any of you
take any of these women, that while you stay ere, the woman an
of you takes, should be maintained by the man that takes her, an
should be his wife." All this appeared so just, that every one agreed
to it without any difliculty.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if the designed to
take any of them? But every one of them answerc no: some of
them said they had wives in Spain, and the others did not like
women that were not Christians: and all together declared that they
would not have one of them. On the other hand, to be short, the
five Englishmen took every one of them a wife; and so they setup
a new form of living; for the Spaniards and Frida 's father lived in
my old habitation, which they had enlarged exceedingly within. The
three servants which were taken in the late battle of the savages

 

lived with them; and these carried on the main part of the colony,
supplied all the rest with food, and assisted them in anything as
the could, or as they found necessity required.

ut the wonder of the story was, how five such refractory, ill-
matched fellows should agree about these women, and that two of
them should not. pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two
or three of them were, without comparison more agreeable than the
others; but they took a good' way enough to prevent quan-elling
amo themselves, for they set the five women by themselves in
one 0 their huts, and the went all into the other hut, and drew
lots among them who sho 6. choose first.

He that drew to choose first went awa by himself to the hut
where the poor naked creatures were, and flatched out her he chose;
and it was worth observing, that he that chose first took her that
was reckoned the homeliest and oldest of the five, which made mirth
enough among the rest; and even the Spaniards laughed at it: but
the. fellow considered better than any of them, that it was appli-
cation and business they were to expect assistance in, as much
83 01:1. anything else; and she proved the best wife of all the
par .

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and
fetched out one b one, the terrors of their condition returned upon
them again, and t e firmly believed they were now going to be de-
voured. Accordin y, when the English sailor came in and fetched
out one of them, 1; e rest set up a most lamentable cry, and hung
about her, and took their leave of her with such agonies and aflec~
tron as would have grieved the hardest heart in the world; nor

9,2
was it ossible for the Englishmen to satisfy them that thev were
not to e immediately murdered, till they fetched the old man,
Frida 's father, who immediately let them know that the five men,
who ad fetched them out one by one, had chosen them for their
Wives.

When they had done, and the fright the women were in was a
little over, the men went to work, and the Spaniards came and
lielped them; and in a few hours they had built them every one a new
but or tent for their lodging apart ; for those the had already were
crowded with their tools, household stuff, andy provisions. The
three wicked ones had pitched farthest off, and the two honest ones
nearer, but both on the north shore of the island, so that they con-
tinued separated as before ; and thus my island was peopled in three
plalpes; and, as I might say, three towns were commenced to be

11' t.

And here it is very well worth observing, that, as it often happens
in the world (what the wise ends of God's providence are, in such a.
disposition of things, I cannot say),the two honest fellows had the two
worst wives; and the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hang-
ing, that were fit for nothing, and neither seemed born to do them-
: ves good, nor any one else, had three clever, diligent, careful, and
ingenious wives: not that the first two were bad wives, as to their
temper or humour, for all the five were most willing, quiet, assive,
and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives; ut my
meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, or industrious, or
alike cleanly and neat.

Another observation I must make, to the honour of a. diligent
application, on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothful, negli-
gent, idle temper, on the other, that when I came to the place, and
viewed the several improvements, plantings, and management of the
several little colonies, the two men had so far outgone the three,
that there was no comparison. They had, indeed, both of them as
much ground laid out for corn as they wanted, and the reason was,
because, according to my rule, nature dictated that it Was to no
purpose to sow more com than they wanted; but the difference of
the cultivation, of the planting, of the fences, and, indeed, of every-
thin"r else, was easy to be seen at first view.

The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their
huts, so that when you came to the place, nothing was to be seen
but wood; and though they had twice had their lantation demo-
lished, once by their own countrymen, and once the enemy, as
shall be shown in its place, yet they had restore all again, and
everything was thriving and flourishing. about them, they had
gra es planted in order, and managed like a vineyard, though they
ha themselves never seen anything of that kind; and by their ood
ordering their vines, their gra es were as good again as any 0 the
others. They had also foundt emselves out a retreat in the thickest .
art of the woods; where, though there was not a natural cave, as I
had found, yet they made one with incessant labour of their hands,
and where, when the mischief which followed happened, they
secured their wives and children, so as they could never be found;
they ha ' , by sticking innumerable stakes and poles of the wood
which, as said, grew so readily, made the grove un assable, except
in some places where they climbed up to get over t e out31de pait,
and then went on by ways of their own leavmg.

 

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they
were much civilized y their settlement, compared to what they
were before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the same
opportunity; yet one of the certain companions of a profligate mind
never left them, and that was their idleness. It is true, they planted
corn, and made fences, but Solomon's words were never better verified
than in them, "I went by the vine ard of the slothful, and it was
all overgrown with thorns ," for wlien the Spaniards came to view
their crop, they could not see it in some places for weeds, the hedge
had several ga s in it, where the wild ats had got in and eaten up
the corn; per aps here and there a ead bush was crammed in, to
stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the stable-
door after the steed was stolen: whereas, when they looked on the
colony of the other two, there was the very face of industry and
success upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all
their corn, or a gap in any of their hedges; and they, on the other
hand, verified Solomon's words in another place, "that the dili nt
hand maketh rich ;" for every th' grew and thrived, and they ad
plenty Within and without; thelyniad more tame cattle than the

others, more utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more
pleasure and diversion too.
It is true, the wives of the three were very hand and cleanly
within doors, and having learned the English ways 0 dressing and
cooking from one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a
cook's mate on board the ship, they dressed their husbands' victuals
very nicely and well; whereas the others could not be brought to
understand it: but then the husband, who, as I say, had been
cook's mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands of the three
wives, they loitered about, fetched turtles' eg , and caught fish and
birds; in a word, anything but labour, and fiiey fared accordingly.
The diligent lived well and comfortably; and the slothful lived hard
and beggar-1y; and so, I believe, generally speaking, it is all over
the world.

But I now come to a scene different from all that had happened
before, either to them or to me; and the original of the story was
this : Early one morning, there came on shore five or six canoes of
Indians or savages, call them which you lease, and there is no doubt
they came upon the old errand of fee ing upon their slaves; but
that part was now so familiar to the S aniards, and to our men too,
that they did not concern themselves at out it, as I did: but having
been made sensible, b their experience, that their onl business was
to lie concealed, an that if they were not seen y any of the
savages, they would go off ain quietly, when their business was
done, having, as yet, not the east notion of there being an inhabi-
tants in the island; I say, having been made sensible of t '3, they
had nothing to do but to give notice to all the three plantations to
keep within doors, and not show themselves, only placing a scout in
a proper place, to give notice when the boats went to sea again.

'l'lus was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster 5 oiled all
these measures, and made it known among the sayages t at there
were inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the desolation of
almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the sav es were
gone off, the Spaniards peeped abroad again; and some of t em had
the curiosity to o to the place where they had been, to see what
they had been oing. Here, to their great surprise, they found
three savages left behind, and lying fast aslee ) upon the ground.

The Spaniards were eatl surprised at this sight, and perfectly
at aloss what to do. Y=he Spanish governor, as it ha pened, was
with them, and his advice was asked, but he rol'essed he knew not

what to do. As for slaves, they had eno already; and as to
killing them, they were none of them incline to that: the S anish
governor told me, they could not think of shedding innocent lood:
for as to them, the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded
none of their property, and they thought the had no just quarrel
against them, to take away their lives. And here I must, in Justice
to these Spaniards, observe, that let the accounts of Spanish cruelty
in Mexico and Peru be what they will, I never met with seventeen
men of any nation whatsoever, in any foreign country, who were so.
universally modest, tergperate, virtuous, so very good-humoured, and
so courteous, as these paniards ; and as to cruelty, they had nothing
of it in their very nature: no inhumanity, no barbarity, no out-
rageous wsions; and yet all of them men of reat co and
s irit. heir temper and calmness had appeare in their eating
t e insufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and their justice
and humanity appeared now in the case of the savages, as above.
After some consultation, they resolved 11 on this: that they would
lie still a while lon er, till, if possible, t ese three men might be
gone. But then t e governor Spaniard recollected, that the three
savages had no boat; and if they were left to rove about the island,
they would certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it; and so
the should be undone that way. U on this they went back again,
andy there lay the fellows fast asleep st , and so they resolved to waken
them, and take them prisoners; and they did so. The poor fellows
were stran ely frightened when they were seized u on and bound;
and afraidflike the women, that they should be mur cred and eaten:
for it seems those people think all the world does as they do, eating
men's flesh; but they were soon made easy as to that, and away
the carried them.

I't was very happy for them that they did not carry them home to
their castle, I mean to my palace under the hill; but they carried
them first to the bower, where was the chief of their country work,
such as the keeping the goats, the planting the corn, &c. ; and after-
wards they carried them to the habitation of the two Englishmen.

Here they were set to work, though it was not much they had for
them to do; and whether it was b negligence in guarding them, or
that they thou ht the fellows co d not mend themselves, I know
not, but one 0 them ran away, and taking to the woods, they could
never hear of him any more.

They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after, in
some other boats or canoes of savages who came on shore three or
four weeks afterwards; and who, carrying on their revels as usual,
went ofi' in two days time. This thought terrified them exceedingly;
for the concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that if
this fe ow came home safe among his comrades, he would certainly
give them an account that there were people in the island, and also how
few and weak they were: for this sav e, as I observed before, had
never been told, and it was very happy e had not, how many there
were, or where they lived; nor had he ever seen or heard the fire of any
of their guns, much less had they shown him any of their other
retired laces; such as the cave in the valle , or the new retreat
which t e two Englishmen had made, and the ' e.

The first testimon they had that this fellow had given intelligence
of_ them was, that, a out two months after this, six canoes of savages,
vnth about. seven, eight, or ten men in a canoe, came ro ' along
the north srde of the island, where they never usedyto come efore,
and landed, about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about
a mile from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where this escaped
man had been kept. As the Spaniard governor said, had they been
all there, the damage would not have been so much, for not a man of
them would have escaped; but the case differed now very much, for
two men to fifty was too much odds. The two men had the happi-
ness to discover them about a league off, so that it was above an
hour before they landed ; and as they landed about a mile from their
huts, it was some time before they could come at them. Now,
having great reason to believe that they were betrayed, the first
thing they did was to bind the two slaves which were left, and
cause two of the three men who were brought with the women (who
it seems proved very faithful to them) to lead them, with their two
wives, and whatever they could carry away with them, to their re-
tired laces in the woods, which I have spoken of above, and there
to bind the two fellows hand and foot, till they heard further.

In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore, and
that they had bent their course directly that way, they opened the
fences where the milch goats were kept, and drove them all out;
leaving their goats to struggle in the woods, whither they pleased,
that the savages might think they were all bred wild ; but the rogue
who came with them was too cunning for that, and gave them an
account of it all, for they went directly to the place.

When the two poor trightened men had secured their wives and
goods, they sent the other slave they had of the three who came with
the women, and who was at the place by accident, away to the
Spaniards with all speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy
help ; and, in the mean time, they took their arms and what ammuni-
tion they had, and retreated towards the place in the wood where their
wives were sent; keeping at a distance, yet so that they might see,
if possible which way the savages took.

They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could
see the little army of their enemies come on directly to their
habitation, and, in a minute more, could see all their huts and house-
hold stufi' flaming up together, to their great grief and mortification;
for the had aver great loss, to them irretricvable, at least for some
time. hey kept t ieir station for a while, till they found the savages,
like wild beasts, spread themselves all over the place, rummaging
every way and every place they could think of, in search of prey;
and in articular for the people, of whom, now, it plainly appeared
they had intelligence, .

The two Englishmen seeing this, thinking themselves not secure e
where they stood, because it was likely some of the wild people
might come that way, and they might come too many together, thought
it proper to make another retreat about half a mile farther; believing,

as it afterwards happened, that the farther they strolled the fewer
would be together.
SEVERAL SAVAGES KILLED; THE REMINDER LEAVE THE ISLAND--
A FLEET OF THEM AFTERWARDS ARRIVE--A GENERAL BATTLE--
THE SAVAGES ARE OVERCOME, AND TRANQUHJTY "STORED.

Team next halt was at the entrance into a very thick-awn art of
the woods and where an old trunk of a tree stood, whic was ollow
and vastly large; and in this tree they both took their standing, re-
solvino to see there what might ofi'er. They had not stood there
lon , hefore two of the savages appeared runmng directly that way,
as ' they already had notice where they stood, and were coming up
to attack them; and a little way farther they espied three more com-
ing after them, and five more beyond them, all coming the same
way: besides which, they saw seven or eight more at a distance run-
ning another way; for, in a word, they ran every way, like sports-
men beating for their game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they should
stand and keep their posture, or fl ; but, after a very short debate
with themselves, they oonsidere , that if the savages d the
country thus before hel came, they mi ht erhaps find out t eir re-
treat in the woods, an then all would beIlost: so they resolved to
stand them there; and if the were too man to deal with, then they
would get 11;: to the top of e tree, from w ence they doubted not
to defend t emselves, fire excepted, as long as their ammunition-
lasted, though all the savages that were landed, which was near fifty,
were to attack them.

Having resolved upon this, they next considered whether they
should the at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take the
middle party, by which the two and the five that followed would be
separated : at length they resolved to let the first two pass by, un-
less they should spy them in the tree, and come to attack them.
The first two savages confirmed them also in this resolution, by
turning a little from them towards another part of the wood; but
the three, and the five after them, came forward directly to the tree,
as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing them
come so straight toward them, they resolved to take them in a line.
as they came; and as they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps
the first shot might hit them all three : for which purpose, t e man
who was to fire. at three or four small bullets into his piece; and
having a fair loop ole, as it were, from a broken hole in the tree, he
took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting till they were within
abour thirt yards of the tree, so that he could not miss.

While t ey were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they
plainly saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that had
escaped from them ; and they both knew him distinctly, and resolved
that, if possible, he should not escape, though they should both fire ;
so the other stood ready with his piece, that if he did not drop at the
first shot, he should be sure to have a second. But the first was too
good a marksman to miss his aim; for as the sav es kept near one
another, a little behind, in a line, he fired, an hit two of them
directly : the foremost was killed outright, being shot in the head; the
second, which was the runaway Indian, was shot throuoh the body,
and fell, but was not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch
in the shoulder, erha s by the same ball that went through the
body of the second; and being dreadqu frightened, though not so
much hurt, sat down upon the groun , screaming and yelling in a
hideous manner.

The five that were behind, more frightened with the noise than
sensible of the danger, stood still at first: for the woods made the
sound a thousand times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling
from one side to another, and the fowls rising from all parts, scream-
ing, and every sort making a different noise, according to their kind;
just as it was when I fire the first gun that perhaps was ever shot
off in the island.

However, all being silent again, and they not kno ' 0 what the
matter was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the p ace where
their companions lay, in a condition miserable enough; and here the
poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that the were within reach of
the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the wounded man, talk-
ing, and, as may be supposed, inquiring of him how he came to be
hurt: and who, it is very rational to believe, told them, that a flash
of fire first, and immediately after that thunder from their ods, had
killed those two and wounded him: this, I say, is ratio ; for no-
thing is more certain than that, as they saw no man near them, so they
had never heard a n in all their lives, nor so much as heard of a
gun ; neither knew t ey any thing of killing and woundin at a dis-
tance with fire and bullets: if they had, one might reasona 1y believe
they would not have stood so unconcerned in viewing the fate of
their fellows, without some apprehensions of their own.

Our two men, though, as t ey confessed to me, it grieved them
to be obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same time,
had no notion of their danger; yet, having them all thus in their

ower, and the first having loaded his piece again, resolved to let fl

oth together among them; and sing ' g out, by agreement, which
to aim at, they shot together, and tilled, or very much wounded,
four of them; the fifth, frightened even to death, though not hurt,
fell with the rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall together,
thought they had killed them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men
come boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns,
which was a wrong step; and they were under some surprise when
the came to the place, and found no less then four of them alive,
an of them two-ver little hurt, and one not at all: this obliged
them to fall upon t em with the stocks of their muskets; and first

they made sure of the runaway savage, that had been the cause of
all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in the knee, and put
them out of their pain: then the man that was hurt not at all came
and kneeled down to them, with his two hands held up, and made
piteous moans to them, by jestures and si , for his life, but could
not say one word to them that they cou d understand. However,
they made signs to him to sit down at the foot of a tree hard b ;
and one of the Englishmen, with apiece of rope twined, which e
had by great chance in his pocket, tied his two hands behind him,
and there they left him: and with what speed they could made after
the other two, which were gone before, fearing they, or any more of
them, should find the way to their covered place in the woods, where
their Wives, and the few goods they had left, lay. They came once
in Sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance; however,
they had the satisfaction to see them cross over a valley towards the
sea, qmte the contrary way from that which led to their retreat,
which they were afraid of; and being satisfied with that, they went
back to the tree where they left their risoner, who, as the suppos-
ed, was dehvered by his comrades, {Idr he was gone, an the two
pieces of rope-yam, with which they had bound lnm, lay just at the
foot of the tree.

They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what
course to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what numbers;

so they resolved to go away to the place were their wives were, to
see if all was well there, and to make them easy, who were in fright
enough, to be sure; for though the savages were their own country-
folk, yet they were most terribly afraid of them, and perhaps the
more for the knowled e they had of them.

Vthn they came t ere, they found the savages had been inthe
wood, and very near that place, but had not found it: for it was in-
deed inaccessible, by the trees standing so thick, as unless the
persons seeking it had been directed by those that knew it, which
these did not: they found, therefore, every thing very safe, only the
women in a terrible fright. While they were here, they had the
comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come to their assistance ; the
other ten, with their servants, and old Friday, I mean Friday's
father, were gone in a body r0 defend their bower, and the corn and
cattle that was kept there, in case the savages should have roved
over to that side of the country; but they did not Spread so far.
With the seven Spaniards came one of the three savages who, as I
said, were their prisoners formerl ; and with them also came the
savage whom the Englishmen ha left bound hand and foot at the
tree: for it seems, they came that way, saw the slaughter of the
seven men, and unbound the eighth, and brought him along with
them; where, however, they were obliged to bind> him again, as they
had the two others who were left when the third ran away.

The prisoners now began to be a burthen to them; and the were
so afraid of their escaping, that they were once resolving to " lthem
all, believing they were under an absolute necessity to do so, for
their own preservation. However, the Spaniard governor would not
consent to it; but ordered, for the present, that they should be sent
out of the way, to my old cave in the valley, and be kept there, with
two Spaniards to uard them, and give them food for their subsis-
tence, which was done; and they were bound there hand and foot
for that night.

When the S aniards came, the two Englishmen were so encouraged,
that they co d not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there ;
but taking five of the Spaniards and themselves, with four muskets
and a pistol among them, and two stout quarter-staves, away they
went in nest of the savages. And first they came to the tree where
the men ay that had been killed; but it was eas to see that some
more of the savages had been there, for they ha attempted to carry
their dead men away, and had dragged two of them a ood way, but
had given it over. From thence they advanced to t e first risin
ground, where they had stood and seen their cam destroyed, and
where they had the mortification still to see some 0 the smoke: but
neither could they here see any of the savages. They then resolved,
though with all possible caution, to go forward, towards their ruined
plantation; but a little before they came thither, comin in sight of
the seashore, they saw plainly the savages all embar ed again in
their canoes, in order to be gone. They seemed sorry, at first, that
there was no way to come at them, to give them a parting blow;
but, upon the whole, they were very well satisfied to be rid of
them. ,

The poor Englishmen being now twice mined, and all their im-
provements destroyed, the rest all agreed to come and be] them to
rebuild, and to assist them With needful sup lies. T eir three
countrymen, who were not yet noted for havinfgt e least inclination
to do any good, yet as soon as they heard 0 US$01? they living re-
mote eastward, knew nothing of the matter till was over), came
and offered their help and assistance, and did, very friendly, work for
several days, to restore their habitation, and make necessaries for
them. And thus, in a little time, they were set upon their legs

vain.
a"About two days after this, they had the further satisfaction of
seeing three of the savages' canoes come drivingb on shore, and, at
some distance from them, two drowned men: y which the had
reason to believe that they had met with a storm at sea, whic had
overset some of them; for it had blown very hard the night after
the went of}.

gowever, as some might miscarry, so, on the other hand, enough
of them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what they had done as
of what had happened to them, and to whet them on to another
enterprise of the same nature ; which they, it seems, resolved to at-
tempt, with suflicient force to carry all before them: for except what
the first man had told them of inhabitants, they could say little of it
of their own knowledge, for they never saw one man; and the fellow
being 1killed that had affirmed it, they had no other witness to confirm
it to t em.

It was five or six months after this before they heard an more
of the savages, in which time our men were in hopes they had either
forgot their former bad luck, or given over hopes of better; when,
on a sudden, they were invaded with a most formidable fleet of no
less than eight-and-twenty canoes, full of savaoes, armed with bows
and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords, and such-like en ines of
war; and they brought such numbers with them, that, in s iort, it
put all our people into the utmost consternation.

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side
of the island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to
do; and, in the first place, knowing that their being entirely concealed
was their only safety before, and would be much more so now, while
the number of their enemies was so great, they therefore resolved,
first .of all, to take down the huts which were built for the two
Englishmen, and drive awa their goats to the old cave ; because they
supposed the savages would go directly thither, as soon as it was day,
to play the old game over again, though they did not now land wit -
in two leagues of it. In the next lace, they drove away all the
flocks of goats they had at the old ower, as I called it, which be-
longed to the Spaniards; and, in short, left as little appearance of
inhabitants any where as was ossible: and the next morning early
they posted themselves, with a their force, at the plantation of the
two men, to wait for their coming. As they guessed, so it hap en-
ed: these new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end 0 the
island, came ranging alon the shore, directly towards the place, to
the number of two hun red and fifty, as near as our men could
judge. Our army was but small, indeed; but that which was worse,
they had not arms for all their number neither. The whole account,
it seems, stood thus: first, as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five En-
glishmen, old Friday, or Friday's father, the three slaves taken with
the women, who proved very faithful, and three other slaves, who
lived with the Spaniards. To arm these, the had eleven mnskets,
five pistols, three fowling-pieces, five mus ets or fowling- ieces
which were taken by me from the mutinous seamen whom I re need,
two swords, and three old halberds.

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fuse, but they
had every one a halberd, or a long staff, like a quarter-stalf, with a
great spike of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his side a
hatchet ; also every one of our men had a hatchet. Two of the women
could not be prevailed upon but they would come into the fight,
zuid they had bows and arrows, which the Spaniards had taken from
the sav es when the first action happened, which I have spoken of,
where he Indians fought with one another; and the women had
hatchets too.

The Spaniard governor, whom I described so often, commanded
the whole; and Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow for
wickedness, was a most darin , bold fellow, commanded under him.
The savages came forward h e lions; and our men, which was the
worst of their fate, had no advantage in their situation; only that
Will Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow, with six men,
was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes, as an advanced
guar , with orders to let the first of them pass by, and then fire into
the middle of them, and as soon as he had fired, to make his retreat
as nimble as he could round a part of the wood, and so come in be-
hind the Spaniards, where they stood, having a thicket of trees be-
fore them.

When the sav <<res came on, they ran 5 glin about every way
in heaps, out of a manner of order, and W' At ins let about fift
of them ass by him; then seeing the rest come in a ve thie
throng, e orders three of his men to fire, having loade their
muskets with six or seven bullets a piece, about as bi as large

istol bullets. How man they killed or wounded they inew not,
ut the consternation an sur rise was inexpressible among the
savages; they were frightenedJ to the last degree to hear such a
drea l'ul noise, and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see
nobody that did it; when, in the middle of their fright, Will Atkinsmvnnrnnns or 30131115011 onuson. 239

and his other three let 11 again among the thickest of them; and in
less than a minute the t three being loaded again, gave them a
third volley. .

Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as
the had fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of the
b0 y been at hand, to have poured in their shot continually, the
savages had been efi'eotually routed ; for the terror that was among
them came rineipally from this, viz. that they were killed by the
gods with thunder and lightning, and could see nobod that hurt
them; but Will Atkins, staying to load again, discovere the cheat;
some of the savages who were at a distance spying them, came
u on them behind; and though Atkins and his men fired at them

0, two or three times, and killed above twenty, retiring as fast as
they could, yet they wounded Atkins himself, and killed one of his
fellow-Englishmen, with their arrows, as they did afterwards one
S aniard, and one of the Indian slaves who came with the women.
This slave was a most allant fellow, and fought most desperately,
killing five of them wit his own hand, having no weapon but one
of the armed staves and a hatchet.

Our men being thus hard laid at, Atkins wounded, and two other
men killed, retreated to a ris' ground in the wood; and the
Spaniards, after firing three vo eys upon them, retreated also;
for their number was so great, and they were so desperate, that
though above fifty of them were killed, and more than as many
wounded, et they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of
danger, an shot their arrows like a crowd; and it was observed
that their wounded men, who were not quite disabled, were made
outrageous by their wounds, and fought like madmen.

When our men retreated, they left the Spaniard and the English-
man that were killed behind them; and the savages, when they
came .up to them, killed them over again in a. wretched manner,
breakm .their arms, legs, and heads, with their clubs and wooden
swords,- ke true savages; but finding our men were gone, they did
not. seem to pursue them, but drew themselves up in a ring, which
is, it seems, their custom, and shouted twice, in token of their
Victory; after which they had the mortification to see several of
their wounded men fall, dying with the mere loss of blood.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little bod up to ether
upon a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounde , woul have
had them march and charge again all together at once; but the
Spaniard re lied: "Senhor Atkins, you see how their wounded
menfi ht; et them alone till morning; all the wounded men will
be st and sore with their wounds, and faint with the loss of blood:
and so _we shall have the fewer to engage." This advice was good;
but Will Atkins replied merrily: " That is true, senhor, and so shall
I too; and that is the reason I would on while I am warm."
" Well, Senhor Atkins," says the Spaniar " you have behaved gal-
lantly, and done your part; we will fight for you, if you cannot
come on; but I think' it best to stay till morning." So they
waited. -

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages
in great disorder about their ead and wounde men, and a great
noise and hurry among them where they lav, they afterwards re-
solved to fall upon them in the night, especially if they could come
to <<rive them but one volle before they were discovered, which they
had> a fair opportunity to o; for one of the Englishmen, in whose
quarter it was where the fight began, led them round between the
woods and the seaside westward, and then turning short south, they
came so near where the thickest of them lay, that, before they were
seen or heard, eight of them fired in among them, and did dreadful
execution upon them; in half a minute more, eight others fired
after them, pourino in their small shot in such quantity, that
abundance were k' ed and wounded; and all this while they were
not able to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then
divided themselves in three bodies, and resolved to fall in among
them altogether. They had in each body eight persons, that is to
say, twenty-two and the two women, who, by the way fought des-
perately. They divided the fire-arms e ually in each party, and so
the halberds and staves. They would ave had the women he t
back, but they said they were resolved to die with their husband;
Having thus formed their little army, the marched out from among
the trees, and came up to the teeth 0 the enemy, shouting and
hallooing as loud as they could; the savages stood altogether, but
were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men shout' 0-
from three quarters together; they would have fought if they h
seen us; for as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some
arrows were shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not
dangerously; but our men gave them no time, but, runnino up to
them, fired among them three ways, and then fell in with the butt-
ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets, and
laid about them so well, that, in a word, they set up a dismal
screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which way soever
they could.

Our men were tired with the execution, and killed or mortally
wounded in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of them;
the rest being frightened out of their wits, scoured through the
woods and over the hills, with all the speed fear and nimble feet
could help them to; and as we did not trouble ourselves much to
pursue them, they got all together to the seaside where they landed,
and where their canoes lay. But their disasters were not at an end
yet ; for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the sea,
so that it was impossible for them to go 011'; nay, the storm con-
tinuing all night, when the tide came up, their canoes were most of
them driven by the surge of the sea so hi h upon the shore, that it
required infinite toil to get them off ; an some of them were even
dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.

Our men, thou h glad of their victory, yet got little rest that nirvht ;
but having refres red themselves as well as they could, they reso ved
to march to that part of the island where the savages were fled, and
see what posture they were in. This necessarily led them over the'
place where the fight had been, and where they found several of the

 

510m creatures not quite dead, and yet ast recovering life; a sight
'sagreeable enough to generous min 5; for a truly great man,
thou h obliged by the law of battle to destroy his enemy, takes no
deligit in his nnsery. However, there was no need to give any
orders in this case; for their own savages, who were their servants,
dispatched these poor creatures with their hatehets.

t length, they came in View of the place where the more miser-
able remains of the savages' army lay, where there appeared about
a. hundred still: their posture was generally sittm upon the

ound, with their knees up towards their mouth, and t e head put
etween the two hands, leaning down upon the knees.
When our men came within two musket-shots of them, the
S aniard governor ordered two muskets to be fired, without ball, to
arm them: this he did, that b their countenance he might know
' what to expect, viz. whether trey were still in heart to fight, or
were so heartily beaten as to be dispiritcd and discouraged, and so
he might manage accordingly. This stratagein took ; for as soon as
the savages heard the first gun and saw the flash of the second,
they started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation ima-
ginable; and as our men advanced swift] toward them, they all
ran screaming and yelling away, with a kin of howling noise, which
our men did not understand, and had never heard before : and thus
they ran up the hills into the country.

It
At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and
they had all gone away to sea; but they did not then consider that
this might robably have been the occasion of their coming again
in such m titudes as not to be resisted, or, at least, to come so
many, and so often, as would quite desolate the island, and starve
them. Will Atkins, therefore, who, notwithstandin his wound,
kept always with them, proved the best counsellor in t llS case: his
advice was, to take the advantage that offered, and clap in between
them and their boats, and so deprive them of the capacrty of ever
returning any more to plague the island.

They consulted long about this; and some were against it, for
few" of making the wretches fly to the woods and live there des-
perate, and so they should have them to hunt like wild beasts, be
afraid to stir out about their business, and have their plantation
continually rifled, all their tame goats destroyed, and, in short, he
reduced to a life of continual distress.

Will Atkins told them they had better have to do with a hun-
dred men than with a hundred nations; that as they must destroy
their boats, so they must destroy the men, or be all of them de-
stroyed themselves. In a word, he showed them the necessity of it
so plainly, that they all came into it; so they went to work imme-
diately with the boats, and getting some dry wood together from a
dead tree, they tried to set some of them on fire, but they were so
wet that they would not burn; however, the fire so burned the
upper part, that it soon made them unfit for swimming in the sea as
boats. When the Indians saw what they were about, some of then;
came running out of the woods, and coming as near as they could
to our men, kneclcd down and cried: "0a, 0a, Waramokoa," and
some other words of their language, which none of the others
understood anything of ; but as they made pitiful gestures and
strange noises, it was easy to understand they begged to have their
boats spared, and that they would be gone, and never come there
again. But our men were now satisfied that they had no way to
preserve themselves or to save their colony, but effectually to re-
vent any of these people from ever going home again; depenthng
upon this, that if even so much as one of them got back into their
country to tell the story, the colony was undone; so that, letting
them know that they should not have any mercy, the fell to work
with their canoes, and destroyed them every one that t e storm had
not destroyed before: at the si ht of which the savages raised a
hideous cry in the .woods, whic our people heard plain enough,
after which they ran about the island hke distracted men, so that,
in a word, our men did not really know at first what to do with
them. Nor did the S aniards, with all their prudence, consider
that while they made t ose eople thus desperate, they ought to
have kept a good guard at t e same time upon their plantations;
for though, it is true, they had driven away their cattle, and the
Indians did not find out their main retreat, I mean my old castle at
the hill, nor the cave in the valley, yet they found out my lantation
at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the ences and
planting about it; trod all the corn under foot, tore up the_vine_s
and gra es, being just then almost ripe, and did our men an inesti-
mablc amage, though to themselves not one farthing's worth of
servrce.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet
they were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and
down; for as they were too nimble of foot for our men, when they
found them single, so Our men durst not go abroad single, for fear
' of being surrounded with their numbers. The best was, they had
i no weapons; for though they had hows, they had no arrows left,

nor any materials to make any; nor had 1: ey any edge-tool or
wea on among them.

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great and
indeed deplorable; but, at the same time, our men were also brought
to very bad circumstances by them ; for thou h their retreats were
preserved, et their roviSion was destroye , and their harvest
spoiled; an what to 0, or which way to turn themselves they knew
not. The onl refuge they had now was, the stock of cattle they
had in the v ey by the cave, and some little corn that grew there,
and the plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkins and his
comrades, who were now reduced to two 5 one of them being killed
by an arrow, which struck him on the side of the head, just under the
temple, so that he never spoke more; and it was very remarkable,
that this was the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor savage slave
with his hatchet, and who afterwards intended to have murdered the
Spaniards.

_I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than
mine was at any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley and
rice, and got into the manner of planting and raising my corn and
my tame cattle; for now they had, as I may say, a hundred wolves
upon the island, which would devour everything they could come at,
yet could be hardly come at themselves.

a When they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing they
.fi concluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the
j farther part of the island, south-west, that if an more savages came

on. shore the might not find one another; t en that they would
daily hunt an harass them, and kill as many of them as they could
I' come at, till they had reduced their number; and if the could

.' at last tame them, and bring them to anything, they wo d fie
y

them corn, and teach them how to plant, and live upon their
labour.

In order to this, they so followed them, and so terrified them with
their uns, that in a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian,
if he d not hit him, yet he woul fall down for fear; and so dread-

It 2
fully frightened they were, that they ke t out of sight farther and
farther; till, at last, our men following t em, and almost every day
killing or wounding some of them, the kept u in the woods or
hollow places so much, that it reduced t em to t e utmost misery
for want of food; and many were afterwards found dead in the woods
Without any hurt, absolutely starved to death. '
\l hen our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and pity
moved them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was the most
efentleman-like, generous-minded man that I ever met with in my
fe; and he proposed, if possible, to take one of them alive, and
bring him to understand what they meant, so far as to be able to act
as interpreter, and go among them, and see if they might be brought
to some conditions that might be depended upon, to save their lives
and do us no harm.

 

It was some while before any of them could be taken; but being
weak and half-starved, one of them was at last surprised and made a
)risoner. He was sullen at first, and would neither eat nor drink;

ut finding himself kindly used, and vietuals given him, and no vio-
lence offered him, he at last grew tractable, and came to himself.
They brought old Friday to him, who talked often with him, and told
him how kind the others would be to them all; that they would not
only save their lives, but would give them part of the island to live
in, provided they would give satisfaction that they would kcep_m
their own bounds, and not come beyond it to in'ure or prejudice
others; and that they should have corn given t em to plant and
make it grow for their bread, and some bread given them for their
present subsistence; and old Friday bade the fe ow go and talk truth
the rest of his countrymen, and see what the said to it; assurm

them, that if they did not agree immediate y, they would be

destroyed., out

ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. - 24:5

The poor matches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number
to about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, and
begged to have some food given them; upon which, twelve Spaniards
an utwo Englishmen, well armed, With three Indian slaves and old
Friday, marched to the place where they were. The three Indian
slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, some rice boiled up to
cakes and dried in the sun, and three live goats; and they were
ordered to go to the Side of a hill, where they sat down, ate their
provisions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to
their words that could be thought of g for, except when they came
to be victuals and directions, they never came out of their bounds :
and t ere they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see
them.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tame
goats, and milk them: they wanted nothing but wives, and they
soon would have been a nation. They were confined to a neck of
land, surrounded with high rocks behind them, and lying lain
towards the sea before them, on the south-east corner of the is and.
They had land enough, and it was very good and fruitful; about
a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles in length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for
myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and three or four
knives; and there they hved, the most subjected, innocent creatures
that ever were heard of. '

After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tran uillity with respect
to the savages, till I came to revisit them, which was about two
years after; not but that, now and then, some canoes of savages
came on shore for their trinm hal, unnatural feasts; but as they
were of several nations, and per aps had never heard of those that
came before, or the reason of it, they did not make an search or
Inquiry after their countrymen ; and if they had, it won] have been
ve hard to have found them out.

hus,I think, 1 have given a full account of all that happened to
them till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indians
or savages were wonderfully civilized by them, and they frequently
went among them; but forbade, on pain of death, any one of the
Indians coming to them, because they would not have their settle-
ment betrayed again. One thin was very remarkable, viz. that they
tang-lit thesavages to make wic er-work, or baskets, but they soon

' (1 their masters; for the made abundance of most ingenious
tlungs m Wicker-work, particularly all sorts of baskets, sieves, bird-
cages, Cupboards, &c.; as also chairs to sit on, stools, beds, couches,

an abundance of other thingls' , being very ' enious at such work
when they were once pu in t e way of it. mg '
ROBINSON Ll-ZARNS FROM THE SPANIARDS THE DIFFICULTIES THEY
HAD TO ENCOUNTER--ll}: FURNISIIBS THE PEOPLE WITH TOOLS,
ETC--THE FRENCH ECCLESIASTIC.

Hausa thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty
much of my five runagate Englishmen, I must. say something of the
Spaniards, who were the main body of the family, and in whose
storythcre are some incidents also remarkable enough.

I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages. They told me readily that they
had no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that
country; that they were a poor, miserable, and dejected handful of
people; that if means had been put into their hands, yet they had so
abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk under the weight of
their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but starving. One
of them, a. grave sensible man, told me he was convinced they were
in the wrong; that it was not the part of wise men to give them-
selves up to their misery, but always to take hold of the helps which
reason ofi'ercd, as well for present support as for future deliverance:
he told me that nrrief was the most senseless insignificant passion in
the world, for that it rewarded only things past, which were gene-
rally impossible to be reczfiled, or to be remedied, but had no views
of things to come, and had no share in anything that looked like
deliverance, but rather added to the aflliction than proposed a
remedy; and upon this be repeated a Spanish proverb, which though
I cannot repeat in just the same words that he spoke it in, yet I
remember I made it into an English proverb of my own thus :

In trouble to be troubled,
Is to have your trouble doubled.

He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I had
made in mv solitude ; m unwearied application, as he called it; and
how I had made a con 'tion which in its circumstances was at first
much worse than theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs
was even now when they were all together. He told me it was
remarkable that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind, in their
distress, than any people he ever met With; that their unhappy
nation and the Portuguese were the worst men in the world to
struggle with misfortunes; for that their first ste in ers, after
the common efi'orts were over, was to despair, lie own un er it, and
die, without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for
esca e.

Iltold him their case and mine differed exceedingly; that the
were cast upon the shore without necessaries, without supply of foo ,
or resent sustenance till they could provide it; that, it was true, I
ha: this disadvantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the
supplies I had providentially thrown into my hands, by the unexpected
driving of the ship on shore, was such a help as would have
encouraged any creature in the world to have applied himself as I
had done. " Senhor," says the Spaniard, " had we poor Spaniards been
in your case, we should never have got half those things out of the
shi , as you did; nay," says he, "we should never have found means
to ave got a raft to carry them, or to have got the raft on shore
without boat or sail; and how much less should we have done if any
of us had been alone !" Well, I desired him to abate his complaint,
and go on with the history of their comina on shore, where they
landed. He told me they unhappily landed at a place where there
were people without provisions; whereas had they had the common
sense to have ut off to sea again, and gone to another island a little
farther, they ad found provisions, though without people; there
being an island that way, as they had been told, where there were
Epvrsions, though no eople; that is to say, that the Spaniards of

'nidad had frequent y been there, and had filled the island with
goats and ho at several times, where they had bred in such multi-
tudes, and w ere turtle and seafowls were in such plenty, that they
could have been in no want of flesh, thou h they had found no
bread; whereas here, they were only sustaine with a few roots and
herbs, which they understood not and which had no substance in
them, and which the inhabitants gave them sparin ly enough; and
who could treat them no better, unless they would turn cannibals,
and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty of their country. .

They gave me an account how many ways they strove to cmhae
the savages they were with, and to teach them rational customs in
the ordinary way of living, but in vain; and how they retorted it
upon them, as unjust, that they who came there for assistance and
support, should attempt to set up for instructors of those that gave
them food; intimating, it seems, that none should set up for the
instructors of others but those who could live without them. _

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven
130; how sometimes the were many days without food at all, the
island they were upon eing inhabited by a sort, of savages that
lived more indolent, and for that reason were less supplied with the
necessaries of life, than they had reason to believe others were in the
same part of the world ; and yet they found that these savages were
less ravenous and voracious than those who had better supplies of
food. Also they added, they could not but see with what demon-
strations of wisdom and goodness the Governing providence of God
directs the events of things in the world; which, they said, appeared
in their circumstances; for if, pressed by the hardships they were
under, and the barreuness of the country where they were, they had
searched after a better to In c in, they had been out of the way of the
relief that happened to them by my means.

They then gave an account how the savages whom they lived
among expected them to 0 out with them into their wars ; and, it.
was true, that as they hac fire-arms with them had they not had the
disaster to lose their ammunition, they should have been serviceable
not only to their friends, but have made themselves terrible both to
friends and enemies; but being without powder and shot, and yet in
a condition that they could not in reason deny to go out with their
landlords to their wars, so when they came into the field of battle,
they were in a worse condition than the savages themselves; for
they had neither bows nor arrows, nor could they use those the
savages gave them ; so they could do nothing but stand still, and be
wotmded with arrows, till they came up to the teeth of their enemy;
and then, indeed, the three halberds they had were of use to them:
and they would often drive a whole little army before them with
those halberds, and sharpened sticks put into the muzzles of their
muskets; but that, for all this, they were sometimes surrounded
with multitudes, and in great danger from their arrows, till at last
they found the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which
they covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they knew not,
and these covered them from the arrows of the savages; yet, not-
withstanding these, they were sometimes in great danger; and five
of them were once knocked down together with the clubs of the
savages, which was the time when one of them was taken risoner,
that is to sa , the Spaniard whom I had relieved: that at rst they
thought ha been killed; but when they afterwards heard he was
taken prisoner, they were under the greatest grief imaginable,
and would willingly have all ventured their lives to have rescued him.

They told me that when they were so knocked down, the rest of
their company rescued them, and stood over them fighting till they
were come to themselves, all but him who the thou ht had been
dead; and then they made their way with their lalber and pieces,
standing close together in a line, through a body of above a thousand
savages, beating down all that came in their way, got the victo
over their enemies, but to their great sorrow, because it was wit
the loss of their friend, whom the other party, finding him alive,
carried off, with some others, as I gave an account before.
They described most affectionately how they were surprised with
joy at the return of their friend and compamon in misery, who, they
thought, had been devoured by Wild beasts of the worst kind, viz.,
by wild men; and yet how much more they were surprised
with the account he gave them of 1115 errand, and that there was a
Christian in any place near, much more one that was able, and had
humanity enough, to contribute to their dehverancc.

They described how they were astomshed at the sight of the relief
I sent them, and at the appearance of loaves of bread, things they
had not seen since their coming to that miserable place ; how often
thev crossed it and blessed it as bread sent from Heaven; and what
a rEVivinrr cordial it was to their spirits to taste it, as also the other
things Iliad sent for their supply; and, after all, they would have
told me something of the joy they were in at the sight of a boat
and ilots, to cart them awa to the person and place from whence
all t ese new com orts came, )ut it was impossible to express it by
words, for their excessive joy naturally driving them to unbecoming
extravagances, they had no way to describe them, but by telling me
they bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their
passions suitable to the sense that was upon them ; that in some it
worked one way, and in some another; and that some of them
through a surprise of joy, would burst into tears, others be stark
mad, and others immediately faint. This discourse extremely affected
me, and called to my mind Friday's ecstasy when he met his father,
and the poor people 5 ecstasy when I took them up at sea after their
ship was on fire; the jo of the mate of the ship when he found
himself delivered in the place where he expected to perish; and my
own joy, when, after twenty-eight years' captivity, found a good
ship ready to carry me to my own country. All these things made
me more sensible of the relation of these poor men, and more
affected With it.

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them,
I must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the con-
dition in which I left them. It was their 0 inion, and mine too,
that they would be troubled no more with t e savages, or, if they
were, they would be able to cut them ofl', if they were twice as
many as before; so they had no concern about that. Then I entered
into aserious discourse with the Spaniard, whom I call governor,
about their stay in the island; for as I was not come to carry any of
them off, so it would not- be just to carry off some and leave others,
who, perhaps, would be unwilli to stay if their strength was
dumnished. 0n the other hand, told them I came to establish
them there, not to remove them: and then I let them know that I
had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them; that I had
been at a great charge to supply them with all things necessary, as
well for tieir convenience as their defence; and that I had such
and such particular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit
their number, as by the particular necessary employments which
they were bred to, being artificers, to assist them in those things
in which they were at present in want.

They were altogether when I talked thus to them; and before I
delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them, one by
one, if they had entirely forgot and buried the first animosities that
had been among them, and would shake hands with one another, and
engage in a strict friendship and union of interest, that so there
Inioht be no more misunderstandings and jealousies.

IVill Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humour, said,
they had met with affliction enou h to make them all sober, and
enemies enough to make them a1 friends; that, for his part, he
would live and die with them; and was so far from designing any-
thing ' rrainst the Spaniards, that he owned they had done nothing
to him ut what his own mad humour made necessary, and what he
would have done, and perha s worse, in their case; and that he
would ask them pardon, if I esired it, for the foolish and brutish
things he had done to them, and was very willing and desirous of
living in terms of entire friendship and union with them, and would
do anything that lay in his power to convince them of it: and as
for going to England, he cared not if he did not go thither these
twenty years.

The Spaniards said they had, indeed, at first disarmcd and exclu--
ded Will Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill conduct, as
they had let me know, and they ap ealed to me for the necessit
they were under to do so; but that Vill Atkins had behaved himsel'f
so bravely in the great fivht the had with the savages, and on
several occasions since, and: had 5 owed himself so faithful to, and
concerned for, the general interest of them all, that they had for-
gotten all that was past, and thought he merited as much to be
trusted with arms, and supplied with necessaries, as any of them:
and they had testified their satisfaction in him, by committing the
command to him, next to the vernor himself; and as they had
entire confidence in him, and afio his countrymen, so they acknow~
ledged they had merited that confidence by all the methods that
honest men could merit to be valued and trusted; and they most
heartily embraced the occasion of giving me this assurance, that
they would never have any interest separate from one another.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we ap-
pointed the next day to dine all together; and, indeed, we made a
s lendid feast. I caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on
s ore and dress our dinner, and the old cook's mate we had on shore
assisted. We brought on shore six pieces of good beef, and four
pieces of pork, out of the ship's provision, with our punchbowl and
materials to fill it; and, in particular, I gave them ten bottles of
. French claret, and ten bottles of English beer; things that neither
'he Spaniards nor the English had tasted for many years, and which
it may be su posed, they were very glad of. The S aniards added
to our feast five whole kids, which the cooks roaste : and three of
them were sent, covered up close, on board the ship to the seamen,
that they might feast on fresh meat from on shore, as we did with
their salt meat from on board. '

After this feast, at which we were very innocently merry, I
brought out my cargo of goods: wherein that there might be no dis-
pute about divi ' , I showed them that there was a sufiicienc for
them all, desiring t at they might all take an equal uantity o the
goods that were for wearing: that is to say equal w en made up.
As, first, I distributed linen sufficient to make every one of them
four shirts, and, at the Spaniards' request, afterwards made them up
six; these were exceedingly comfortable to them, having been what,
as I may say, they had longI since forgot the use of, or what it was
to wear them. I allotted t 6 thin English stuffs, which I mentioned
before, to make every one a light coat like a frock, which I jud
fittest for the heat of the season, cool and loose; and ordered t t
whenever they decayed they should make more, as they thought fit:
the like for pumps, shoes, stockings, hats, &c.

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the
countenances of all these our men, when they saw the care I had
taken of them, and how we I had furnished them. They told me I
was a father to them; and that havino such a corrrespondent as I
was in so remote a part of the worl , it would make them forget
that they were left in a desolate place; and they all voluntarily
en aged to me not to leave the place without my consent.

hen I presented to them t e people I had brought with me,
particularly the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of
them most necess people; but, above all, my general artificer,
than whom they co (1 not name anything that was more useful to
them: and the tailor, to show his concern for them, went to work
immediately, and, with my leave, made them every one a shirt, the
first thing he did; and, which was still more, he tau ht the women
notonly ow to sew and stitch, and use the needle, ut made them
asmst to make the shirts for their husbands and for all the rest.

As to the carpenters, I scarce need mention how useful the were;
for they took to pieces all my clumsy, unhandy things, an made
them clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards, lockers,
shelves, and everything they wanted of that kind. But, to let them
see how nature made artificers at first, I carried the cartplenters to see
W1]! Atkin's basket-house, as I called it: and they b0 owned they
never saw an instance of such natural ingenuity before, nor anything
so regular and so handily built, at least of its kind: and one of them,
when he saw it, after musing a good while, taming about to me,
"_I am sure," says he, " that man has no need of us; you need no-
hmg but 've him tools."

Then brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every
man a diggin -spade, a shovel, and a rake, for we had no harrows or
ploughs; an to every separate lacea pickaxe, a crow, a broad-axe,
and a saw ; always appointingt at as often as any were broken or
worn out, they should be supplied without rud ' , out of the
general stores that I left behind. Nails, stap es, ages, hammers,
chisels, knives, scissors, and all sorts of iron-work,t ey had with-
out tale, as they required: for no man would take more than he
wanted, and he must be a fool who would waste or 3 oil them on
any account whatever; and for the use of the smith, I eft two tons
of unwrought iron for a supply.

My magazine of owder and arms which I brought them was'such,
even to rofusion, t at they could not but re'oice at them; for now
the co (1 march as I used to do, with a mus et upon each shoulder,
if t ere was occasion; and were able to fight a thousand savages, if
the had but some little advantages of Situation, which also they
co (1 not miss, if they had occasion.

I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was
starved to death, and the maid also ; she was a sober, well educated,
religious young woman, and behaved so inoffensively, that every one .
gave her a good word; she had indeed an urha py life with us, there

eing no woman in the ship but herself, but she bore it with
Etience. After a. while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so

e a way of thriving upon my island, and considering that they had
neither business or acquaintance in the East Indies, or reason for
making so long a voyage; I say, considering all this, both of them
came to me, and desired I would give them leave to remain on the
island, and be entered amon the family, as they called it. I eed
to this readily; and theyh a little plot of ground allotted to t em,
where then had three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a
basket-work pallisadoed like Atkins's, ad'oining to his plantation.
Their tents were contrived so that they ad each of them a room
a art to 10 0e in, and a middle tent, like a great storehouse, to lay
t eir goods in, and to eat and drink in. And now the other two
Englishmen removed their habitation to the same place; and so the
island was divided into three colonies, and no more, viz. the
Spaniards, with old Friday, and the first servants, at my old habita-
tion under the hill, which was, in a word, the capital ci ; and
where they had so enlarged and extended their works, as we under
as on the outside of the hill, that the lived, though perfectly
concealed, yet full at large. Never was t ere such a little city in a
wood, and so hid, in any part of the world: for I verily beheve a
thousand men might have ranged the island a month, and, if they
had not known tnere was such a thing, and looked on purpose for it,
they would not have found it; for the trees stood so thick and so
close and grew so fast woven one into another, that nothing but
'cutting them down first could discover the place, except the onl
two narrow entranees where they went in and out coul be foun
which was not very easy: one of them was close down at the water's
edge, on the side of t e creek, and It was afterwards above two
hundred yards to the place; and the other was up a ladder at twice,
as I have already formerly described 1t; and they had also a large
wood thick-planted on the top of the hill, containing above, an acre,
whieh grew apace, and concealed the place from all discovery there,
with only one narrow place between two trees, not easily to be dis-
covered, to enter on that side.

The other colon was that of Will Atkins, where there were four
families of E lis en, I mean those I had left there, with their
wives and chil In; three savages that were slaves; the widow and
the children of the Englishmen that was killed; the onng man and
the maid; and, by the way, we made a wife of her fore we went
away. There was also the two carpenters and the tailor, whom I
brought with me for them; also the smith, who was a very necessary
man to them, especially as 1311 smith, to take care of their arms;
and my other man, whom I ed Jack-of-all-trades, who was in him-
self as good almost as twenty men; for he was not only a very
ingenious fellow, but a ve merr fellow; and before I went away
the French ecclesiastic that had rought with me married him to
the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship I men-
tioned before.

Having now done with the island, I left them all in good circum-
stances, and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship
again on the 6th of May, having been about twenty-five days amo
them; and as they were all resolved to stay upon the island tillnI
came to remove them, I promised to send them further relief from
the Brazils, if I could possibly find an opportunity; and, particu-
larly, I promised to send them some cattle, such as sheep, hogs, and
cows; as to the two cows and calves which I had brought from
England, we had been obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill
them at sea, for want of hay to feed them.
ENCOUNTER WITH SAYAGES AT SEA--FRIDAY'S DEATH--ROBINSON

FINDS HIS FORMER. PARTNER IN THE BRAZILS--SAILS FOR THE
EAST INDIES.

TEE next day, 'ving them a salute of five guns at parting, we set
sail, and arrive at the Bay of All Saints, in the Brazils,1n about
twenty-two days, meeting nothing remarkable in our passage but
this: that about three days after we had sailed, being becalmed, and
the current setting strong to the E.N.E., running, as it were, into a
bay or gulf on the land side, we were driven something out of our
course, and once or twice our men cried out: " Land to the east-
ward," but whether it was the continent or islands we could not
tell b any means. But the third day, towards evening, the sea
smooth, and the weather calm, we saw the sea, as it were, covered
towards the land with something very black. Our chief mate,
going up the main-shrouds a little way, and looking at them with a

erspective, cried out it was an army. I could not imagine what

e meant by an army, and thwarted him a little hastily. "Nay,
sir," says he, " don't be angry, for 'tis an army, and a fleet too; for
I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle
along, for they are comin towards us apace."

I was a little su rised, then, indeed, and so was my ne hew the
ca tain; for he had card such terrible stories of them in t e island,
an havino never been in those seas before, that ~he could not tell
what to think of it, but said, two or three times, we should all be
devoured. I must confess, considering we were beealmed, and the
current set strong towards the shore, I liked it the worse; however,
I bade them not e afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor as soon
as we came so near as to know that we must engage them.
The weather continued calm, and they came on space towards us;
so I gave order to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails: as for
the savages, I told them the had nothmg to fear but fire, and there-
fore the should get their oats out, and fasten them, one close by
the bee , and the other by the stern, and man them both well, and
wait the issue in that posture; this I did, that the men in the boats
might be ready with sheets and buckets to put out any fire these
savages would endeavour to fix to the outside of the ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came
up with us; but never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians:
though my mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their num-
ber, yet when they came up we reckoned about a hundred and
twenty-six; some of them had sixteen or seventeen men in them,
some more, and the least six or seven.

When they came nearer to us, the seemed to be struck with
wonder and astonishment, as at a sig t which doubtless they had
never seen before; nor could they, at first, as we afterwards under-
stood, know what to make of us; they came boldly up, however,
very near to us, and seemed to go about to row round us ; but we
called to our men in the boats not to let them come too near them.
This very order brought us to an engagement with them, without
our desi ' git: for five or six of the large canoes came so near
our 10 EUR33: that our men beckoned with their hands to keep them
back, w 'eh this? understood very well, and went back, but at their
retreat about ty arrows came on board us from those boats, and
one of our men in the 10 boat was very much wounded. However,
I called to them not to e by any means ; but we handed down
some deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a
kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover them from the arrows of
the savages, if they should shoot aglaln .

About half an hour afterwards t ey all came up in a body astern
of us, and so near, as that we could easily discern what they were,
though we could not tell their design; and I easily found they were
some of my old friends, the same sort of savages that I had been
used to engage with; and in a short time more they rowed a little
further out to sea, till they came so near that they could hear us
speak: upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they
s ould shoot any more arrows, and made all our guns ready; but
be so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out uplon
the eck, and call out aloud to them in his language, to know w at
121195 meant; which, accordingly he did. Immediately afterwards,
Fm ay cried out they were going to shoot, and, unhappily for him,
poor fellow, they let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and,
'0 my {nexprmsi 1e grief, killed poor Friday, no other man be In
their sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than t

arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky
marksmen they were!
I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and com-
panion, that I immediately ordered fivc guns to be loaded With small
shot, and four with great, and gave them such a broadside as they
had never heard in their lives before, to be sure. They were not
above half a cable length off when we fired; and our gunners took
their aim so well that three or four of their canoes were overset, as
we had reason to believe, by one shot only.

I had only resolved to have fired four or five guns at them with
powder only, which I knew would frighten them sufficiently; but
when they shot at us directly, with all the fury they were capable of,
and especially as they had killed mv poor Friday, whom I so entirely
loved and valued, and who, indeed, so well deserved it, I thought
myself not only justifiable before God and man, but would have been
very glad if 1 could have upset every canoe there, and drowned
every one of them.

I can neither tell how many we killed, nor how many we wounded,
at this broadside, but sure such a fright and hurry never was seen
among such a multitude; there were thirteen or fourteen of their
canoes split and overset in all, and the men all set a swimming ; the
rest, frightened out of their wits, scoured away as fast as they could,
taking but. little care to save those whose boats were 5 lit: or spoiled
with otu' shot ; so I suppose that many of them were ost; and our
men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour
after they were all gone.

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he
would neither eat nor speak, and we all fancied he would starve
himself to death; but I took a way to cure him; for I made them
take him and turn him into the longhoat, and make him believe they
would toss him into the sea again, and so leave him where they
found him, if he would not speak; nor would that do, but they
really did throw him into the sea, and came awayr from him, and
then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to them,
in his tongue, though they understood not one word of what he
said; however, at last thev took him in again, and then he began to
be more tractable; nor did I ever design they should drown him.

We were now under sail again; but I was the most disconsolate
creature alive for want of my man Friday.

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last
leave of him: )001' honest Friday! We buried him with all the
decency and solemnity possible, by putting him into a coffin, and
throwing him into the sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns
for him; and so ended the life of the most grateful, faithful, honest,
and most affectionate servant that. ever man had.

We went now away with a fair wind for Brazil; and in about
twelve days' time we made land, in the latitude of five degrees south
of the line, being the north-eastermost land on all that part of
America. We kept on S. by E. in sight of the shore four days,mwmmwgmm

mvexruans or nosmsox causon. 257

when we made Cape St. Augustine, and in three days came to an
anchor off the Bay of All Saints, the old place of my deliverance,
from whence came both my good and evil fate.

Never ship came to this port that had less business than I had,
and et it was with great difficulty that we were admitted to have
the east correspondence on shore; nor my partner himself, who
was alive, and made a great figure amo them, not my two mer-
chant trustees, not the fame of my won erful preservation in the
island, could obtain me that favour; but my partner remembering
that I had given five hundred moidores to the priory of the monas-
tery of the Augustines, and two hundred and seventy-two to the
poor, went to the monastery, and obhged the prior that then was, to
go to the governor, and get leave for me personally, with the cap-
tain and one more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore, and no
more; and this upon condition absolutely capitulated for, that we
should not ofl'er to land any goods out of the ship, or to carry any

erson away without licence. They were so strict with us as to
anding any goods, that it was with extreme difficulty that I got on
shore three bales of E lish goods, such as fine broadcloths, stufi's,
and some linen, which had brou lit for a present to my partner.

He was a very generous, 0 en- carted man; though, hke me, he
came from little at first; an though he knew not that I had the
least design of giving him anything, he sent me on board a present
of fresh rovismns, wine, and sweetmeats, worth about thirty moi-
dorcs, inc uding some tobacco, and three or four fine medals of gold;
but I was even with him in my present, which, as I have said, con-
sisted of fine broadcloth, Enalish stuffs, lace, and fine hollands ; also,
I delivered him about the value of one hundred pounds sterling, in
the same goods, for other uses; and I obliged him to set up the
sloop, which I had brought with me from England, as I have said,
for the use of my colony, in order to send the refreshments Iintended
to my plantation.

Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few
days, for she was already framed; and I are the master of her such
instructions as that he could not miss t e place; nor did he miss
them, as I had an account from m partner afterwards. I got him
soon loaded with the small cargo Iysent them; and one of our sea-
men, that had been on shore with me there, offered to go with the
sloop and settle there, upon my letter to the governor Spaniard to
afllot him a sufficient quantity of land for a plantation.

The cargo arrived safe, and, as on may easily su pose, was very
welcome to my old inhabitants, w 0 were now, with this addition,
between Sixty and seventy people, besides little children, of which
there were a rest many. I found letters at London from them all,
h way of Lis on, when I came back to England, of which I shall

take some notice immediately.

I have now done with the island, and all manner of discourse

S
about it ; and whoever reads the rest of my memorandums would do
well to turn his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read of the
follies of an old man, not warned by his own harms, much less by
those of other men, to beware of the like; not cooled by almost
forty years' miseries and disappointments; not satisfied wrth ros-
perity beyond expectation, nor made cautious by afilictions an dis
tress beyond imitation.

From the Brazils we made directly over the Atlantic Sea to the
Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerable good voyage, our course
generally south-east, now and then a storm, and some contrary winds,
but my disasters at sea were at an end; my future rubs and cross
events were to befall me on shore, that it might appear the land was
as well repared to be our scourge as the sea.

Our 5 rip was on a trading voyage, and had a supercargo on board
who was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only
being limited to a certain number of days for stay, by charter-party,
at the several ports she was to go to. This was none of my busi
ness, neither did I meddle with it: my nephew, the captain, and the

Eupercargo, adjusting all those things between them as they thought
t.
THE SAILORS REFUSE T0 SAIL WITH ROBINSON, WHO IS LEFT B!
HIS NEPHEW, THE CAPTAIN, I.\' BENGAL.

We stayed at the Cape no longer than was needful to take in fresh
water, but made the best of our way for the coast of Coroniandel.
We were indeed informed that a French man-of-war of fifty guns,
and two large merchant ships, were "one for the Indies; and as I
knew we were at war with France, 3'. had some apprehensions of
tfiem; but they went their own way. and we heard no more of
t em.

I shall not pester the reader with a tedious dcscri tion of places,
journals of our voyages, variations of the compass, atitudes, trade-
winds, &c.; it is enough to name the ports and places which we
touched at, and what occurred to us upon our passing from one to
another. We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where,
though the peo 1e are fierce and treacherous, and very well armed
witlflances and ows, which they used with inconceivable dexterity,
yet we fared very well with them a while ; they treated us very civilly ;
and, for some trifles which we ave them, such as knives, scissors,
Ste. they brought us eleven goog fat bullocks of a middling size,
which we took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present spending,
and the rest to salt for the ship's use.

We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to the
coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief of the
supercargo's design lay at the bay of Bengal; where if he missed his
business outward-bound, he was to go up to China, and return to
the coast as he came home.

The first disaster that befel us was in the ulf of Persia, where
five of our men venturing on shore on the Ara ian side of the gulf,
were surrounded by the Arabians, and either all killed or carried
away into slavery: the rest of the boat's crew were not able to rescue
them, and had but just time to get off their boat. I began togupbraid

s
them with the just retribution of Heaven in this case for cruelty
they had exercised on the natives of Madagascar.

But my fre ucnt preachinw to them on the sub'ect had worse
consequences t ran I cxpeetetf; and the boatswain w to had been the
head of that affair, came up boldly to me one time, and told me he
found that I brought that afl'air continually upon the stage; that I
made unjust reflections upon it, and had used the men very ill on
that account, and himself In articular; that as I was buta passenger,
and had no command in the s tip, or concern in the voy c, they were
not obliged to bear it; that the did not know but I ulig t have some
ill design in my head. and per ups to call them to an account for it.
when they ennn: to England; and that, therefore, unless I would
resolve to have donc with it, and also not. to concern myself any
farther with him, or any of his all'airs. he \vonld leave the ship; for
he did not. think it was safe to sail with me among them.

I heard him patiently enough till he had done, and then told him,
that. as to having no command in the ship, that. was true ; nor did l
exercise any authority, only took the liberty of speaking my mind in
things which publicly concerned us all; and what concern I had in
the voyage was none of his business ; that l was a considerable owner
in the ship; in that claim. I conceived I had a right to speak even
farther than I had done, and would not be accountable to him or any
one. else: and began to be a little warm with him. lle made but
little reply to me at that. time. and I thought the affair had been over.
We were. at this time in the road at Bengal: and being willing to see
the place, I went on shore with the supcreargo, in the ship's boat,
to divert myself; and towards evening was preparing to go on board,
when one of the men came to me. and told me he would not have
me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they had orders not
to carry me on board any more. Any one may guess what asnr rise
[ was in at so insolcnt a message; and I asked the man who udc
him deliver that message to me? He told me, the cockswain. I said
no more to the fellow, but bade him let them know he had delivered
his message, and that I had given him no answer to it.

I immediately went and found out the super-cargo, and told him
the story ; adding, which I presently foresaw, that there would be a
mutiny in the ship; and cntrcatcd him to 0 immediately on board
the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint tie captain of it. But I
might have spared this intelligence, for before I had spoken to him
on shore the matter was effected on board. The boatswain, the
gunner, t'ne carpenter, and all the inferior ofiicers, as soon as I was
gone off in the boat, came up, and desired to 5 eat: with the
captain; and there the boatswain making a long arungue, and
repeating all he had said to me, told the ca tain, ina few words,
that as I was now going peaceny on shore, trey were 10th to use
any violence with me, which, if I had not gone on shore, the would
otherwise have done, to oblige me to have gone; they 1: erefore
thought fit to tell him, that as they shipped themselves to serve
in the ship under his command, they would erform it well and
faithfully; but if I would not quit the ship, or tie captain oblige me
to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no farther with him;
and at that word all, he turned his face towards the mainmast,
which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them, at which
all the seamen, being got together there. cried out, One and all .'
one and all .'

My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit, and of great
presence of mind; and though he was sur rise , on may be sure,
at the thing, yet he told them calmly that no wou d consuder of the
matter; but that he could do nothing in it till he had spoken to me
about it. He used some arguments with them to show them the
unreasonablcness and injustice of the thing; but it was all in vain;
they swore and shook hands round before his face, that they would
all go on shore, unless he would engage to them not to suffer me to
come any more on board the ship.

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me,
and did not know how I might take it; so he began to talk smartly
to them; told them that I was a very considerable owner of the ship,
and that, in justice, he could not put me out of my own house; that
this was next door to servino him as the famous pirate Kidd had
done, who made a mutiny in the ship, set the captain on shore on an
uninhabited island, and ran away with the ship; that let them go
into what ship they would, if ever they came to England ain it
would cost t em very dear; that the ship was mine, and t at he
could not put me out of it; and that he would rather lose the ship
and the voyage too than disobli e me so much; so they might do as
they pleased; however, be we (1 0 on shore and talk with me, and
invrted the boatswain to wit him, and perhaps they might
accommodate the matter witEome. But they all rejected the proposal,
and said they would have nothing to do With me any more ; and if I
came on board they would go on shore. " Well," said the captain, "if
you are all of this mind, let me go on shore and talk with him." So
away he came to me with this account, a little after the message had
been brought to me from the cockswain.

.I was very lad to see my nephew, I must confess : for I was not
without appre lensions that they would confine him by violence, set
sail, and run away with the ship; and then I had been stri ped
naked in a remote country, having noth' to help myself: in 5 art,
I had been in a worse case than wheiilgl was alone in the island.
But they had not come to that length, it seems, to m satisfaction;
and when my nephew told me what they had said to him, and how
they hadsworn and shook hands that they would, one and all, leave
the ship if I was sufi'ered to come on board, I told him he should
not_ be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore: I only
desired he would take care and send me all my necessary things on
shore, and leave me a suflieient sum of money, and I would find my
\V3 to England as well as I could.

'fhis was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no
way to help. it. but to comply; so, in short, he went on board the
ship again, and sutisfied the men that. his uncle had yielded to their
importunity, and had sent. for his woods from on board the ship: so
that the matter was over in a. few iours, the men returned to their
duty, and I began to consider what course I should steer.
MEETS WITH AN ENGLISH MERCHANT WITH WHOM HE MAKES
SOME TRADING VOYAGES--TREY ARE MISTAKEN FOR PIRATES--
\'ANQUISH THEIR PURSUERS--VOYAGE TO CHINA--BENCONTRE
WITH THE COCHIN CHINESE--ISLAND OP FORMOSA--GULP OP
NANQUIN --'APPREHENSIONS 0F FALLING INTO THE BANDS OF
THE DUTCH.

I was now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I think I
may call it, for I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther of
from England than I was at my island; only, it is true, I might
travel here by land over the great Mogul's country to Surat, might
go from thence to Bassora by sea, up the gulf of Persia and take the
way of the caravans, over the Desert of Arabia, to Aleppo and
Scanderoon; from thence b sea again to Ital , and so overland into
France; and this put toget or might at least afull diameter of the
globe, or more.

I had another way before me, which was to wait for some English
Shlps, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the island of
Sumatra, and get passage on board them for England. But as I
came hither Without PS317 concern with the English East India Com-
pany, so it would be ' cult to go from hence without their license,
unless With great favour of the captains of the ships, or the Company's
factors, and to both I was an utter stranger.

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without me;
a treatment I think a man in my circumstances scarce ever met With,
except from pirates ' awa with the ship, and setting those
that would not agree with t eir vi any on shore. Indeed, this was
next door to it, both ways ;howcver, my nephew left me two servants,
or rather one companion and one servant ; the first was clerk to the
parser, whom he ennged to go with me, and the other was his own
servant. I took me so a d lodginv in the house of an Eu fish-
woman, where several merc ants lodged, some French, two It ians,
or rather Jews, and one Englishman; here I was handsomely enough
entertained : and that I nnght not be said to run rashly upon any-
thing, I stayed here above nine months considering what course to
take, and how to man n'e myself. I had some English goods with
me of value, and a considerable sum of money ; my nephew furnish-
ing me with a thousand pieces of eight, and a letter of credit for
more, if I had occasion, that I might not be straitened whatever
mi ht ha en.
uiclilv disposed of my goods to advantage, and, as I original]

inten ed, I bought here some very good diamonds, which, of l
other things, were the most proper lor me, in my present circum-
stances; because I could always carry my whole estate about me.

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my return to
England, but none falling out to my mind, the English merchant who
lod ed with me, and whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance
wit , came to me one moming. " Countryman," says he, " I have a.
project to communicate to you, which, as it suits with my thourrhts,
may, for aught 1 know, suit with yours also, when you shall lave
thoroughly considered it. Here we are posted, you by accident, and
I by my own choice, in a part of the world very remote from our own
country; but it is in a country where, by us who understand trade
and business, a great deal of money is to be got. If on will ut
one thousand pounds, to my one thousand pounds, we w' hire a s rip
here, the first we can get to our minds ; you shall be captain, I'll be
merchant, and we'll go a tradin voyage to China."

I liked this proposal very we , and the more because it seemed to
be expressed with so much good will, and in so friendly a manner.

It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our
minds, and when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get English
sailors; that is to say, so man as were necessary to govern the
voyage and manage the sailors w ich we should pick up there. After
some time we got a mate, a boatswain, and a gunner, English; a
Dutch carpenter, and three foremastmen. With these we found we
could do well enough, having Indian seamen, such as they were, to
make u .

We riiade this voyage to Achin, in the island of Sumatra, and from
thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opium
and some arrack; the first acommodily which bears a great price
among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was much wanted
there. In a word, we went u to Snsham, made a very great voyage
were eight months out, an returned to Bengal; an I was very

well satisfied with my adventure.
In short, we made a very good voyage, and I got so much money
by my first adventure, and such an insight into the method of getting
more, that had I been twenty vears ounger, I should have been
tempted to have stayed here, and song t no farther for making any
fortune: but what was all this to a man upwards of threescore, that
was rich enough, and came abroad more in obedience to a restless
desire of seeing the world than a covetous desire of gaining by it?

But this was not all: I had a kind of impatience upon me to be
nearer home, and yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable which
way to go. In the interval of these consultations, my friend, who
was always upon the search for business, roposed another voyage
to me amon the S ice Islands, and to bring home a loading of
cloves from t e Maniilas, or thereabouts ; places, indeed, where the
Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the S aniards; though
we went not so far, but to some other, where t ey have not t e
whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, &c.

We were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief diflienlty
was in brin ing me to come into it: however, at last, nothing else
offering, an finding that really stirring about and trading, the profit
he so great, an , as I may say certain, had more pleasure in it,
and ad more satisfaction to my mind, than sitting still, which, to
me especially, was the unhappiest part of in life, I resolved on this
voyage too, which we made very successfuli , touchi at Borneo,
and several islands whose names I do not remember, an came home
in about five months. We sold our spice, which was chiefly cloves
and some nutmegs, to the Persian merchants, who carried them
away to the gulf ; and making near five of one, we really got a great
deal of money.

But, to be short with m speculations, a little while after this
there came in a Dutch ship rom Batavia; she was a coaster, not an
European trader, of about two hundred tons burthen; the men, as
they pretended, having been so sickly, that the captain had not
hands enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and having, it
seems, got money enou h, or being willing, for other reasons, to go
to Europe, he gave pub '0 notice that he would sell his ship. This
came to. my ears before my new partner heard of it, and I had a
great mind to buy it; so I went to him, and told him of it. He
considered awhile, for he was no rash man; but mus' some time,
he replied, " She is a little too big; but, however, we have her."
Accordm ly, we bought the ship, and sing with the master, we
paid for er, and took possession. W en we' had done so, we
resolved to entertain the men, if we could, to join them with those
we had, for the pursuing our business; but on a sudden, they having
received not their wages, but their share of the money, as we after-
wards learned, not one of them was to he found; we inquired much
about them, and at length were told that they were all gone together
by land to Agra, the great city of the Mogul's residence, and from
thence to travel to Surat, and go by sea to the rrulf of Persia.

Nothing had so nmeh troubled me a ood while as that I should
miss the op ortunity of going with t em; for such a ramble, I
thought, and in such company as would both have guarded and
diverted me, would have suited mightily with my great design; and
I should have both seen the world and gone homewards too: but I
was much better satisfied a few days after, when I came to know
what sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history was,
that this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the com-
mander; that they had been a trading voyage, in which they had
been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who had killed the
captain and three of his men; and that after the captain was killed,
these men, eleven in number, had resolved to run away with the
shi ), which they did and brought. her to Bengal, leaving the mate
an five more men on shore; of whom hereafter.

Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by
her, as we thought, though we did not, I confess, examine into
things so exactly as we ought; for we never inquired anything of
the seamen, who would certainly have faltered in their account,
contradicted one another. and perhaps contradicted themselves; or
one how or at her we should have had reason to have suspected
them: but the man showed as a hill of sale for the ship, to one
Emanuel Clostershovcn. or some such name, for I suppose it was all
a forgery, and called himself by that name, and we could not con-
tradict him: and withal, having no suspicion of the thing, we went
through with our bargain.

We picked up some more English sailors here after this, and some
Dutch 2 and now we resolved for a second voya e to the south-east
for cloves, &e.; that is to sa , among the Ph' Ippine and Molucca
isles ; and, in short, not to fi up this art of my story with triflcs,
when what is to come is so remarkab e, I spent, from first to last,
six years in this country, trading from port to port, backward and
forward with Very great success, and was now the last year with my
new partner, going in the ship above-mentioned, on a voyage to
China, but designing first to go to Siam, to buy rice.

In this voyage, bein by contrary winds oblived to beat 11 and
down a great while in t e straits of Malacca, and among the is ands,
we were no sooner got clear of those difiicult seas than we found
our ship had 5 rung a leak, and we were not able, by all our
industry, to fin out where it was. This forced us to make some
port; and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,
directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia ; for I had
made the English mate, one Mr. Thompson, ca tain, not being
willing to take the charge of the ship upon m se . This river lies
on the north side of the great buy or gtdf w ich goes up to Siam.
While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment, there
comes to me one day an Englishman, and he was, it seems, a
gunner's-mate on board an English East India ship which rode in
the same river, at or near the city of Cambodia; what brou ht him
hither we knew not; but he comes to me, and speaking nglish,
" Sir," says he, "you are a stranger to me, and I to you, ut I have
something to tell on that very nearly concerns you."

I looked s astly at him a good while, and thought at first I
had known him, but I did not: "If it very nearly concerns me,"
said I, " and not yourself, what moves you to tell it to me P"---" I
am moved," says he, " by the imminent danger on are in, and, for
aught I see, on have no knowledge of i ."--" know no danger I
am in," says , " but that my ship is leaky, and I cannot find it out;
but I intend to lay her ound tomorrow, to see if I can find it."
" But, sir," sa 3 he, "le y or not leaky, find it or not find it, you
will be wiser an to lay your ship on shore to-morrow, when you
hear what I have to sari to you: do you know, sir," said he, "the
town of Cambodia lies a out fifteen leagues up this river? and there
are two large English ships about five leagues on this side, and
three Dutch."--"Well," said I, "and what is that to me ?"--
" Why, sir," said he, "is it for a man that is upon such adventures
as you are, to come into a port and not examine first what ships
there are there, and whether he is able to deal with them? I sup~
pose you do not think you are a match for them i'" I was amused
very much at his discourse, but not amazed at it, for I could not
conceive what he meant; and I turned short upon him, and said,
" Sir, I wish you would ex lain yourself; I cannot imagine what
reason I have to be afraid 0 any of the Company's ships, or Dutch
shi s; 1 am no interloper; what can they have to say to me? He
loo 'cd like a man half angry and half leased, and paus' awhile,
but smiling, "Well, sir,' sa 5 he, "' you think ursfi? secure,
you must take your chance; Iain sorry our fate s ould blind you
against good advrce: but assure yourse , if you do not ut to sea
immediately, you will the very next tide be attacked b ve long-
boats full of men, and perhaps, if you are taken, you will be h d
for a pirate, and the particulars be examined afterwards. I the t,
511'," added he, "1 should have met with a. better receptionlliian
this, for domg you a piece of service of such importance. '--" I can
never be ungrateful," said I, "for any service, or to any man that
offers me any kindness; but it is past my comprehension what they
should have. such a design upon me for: however, since you say
there is no time to be lost, an that there is some villanous design
on 1181151 Wt me, I will go on board this minute, and put to sea
immediate y, if m men can sto the leak, or if we can swim with-
out stopping it_ : ut, sir," said , "shall I go away ignorant of the
cause of all this? Can you ive me no further light into it P"--
" I can tell you but part of t e sto , sir," says he; " but I have a
Dutch seaman here Wltll me, and I lieve I could persuade him to
tell you the rest; but there is scarce time for it: but the short of
the story is this, the first part of wluch, I sup ose, you know well
enough, viz" that you was with this ship at bumatra; that there
your captain was murdered by the Malays, with three of his men;
and that you, or some of those that were on board with you, ran
away with the ship, and are since turned pirates. This is the sum
of the story, and on will all be seized as pirates, I can assure on,
and executed witi ver little ceremony; for you know merchant
ships show but little aw to iirates, if they get them into their
pim-er."----"Now you speak plain English," said I, "and 1 thank
you; and though l know nothing that we have done like what you
talk of, for l am sure we. came honestly and fairly by the ship; yet.
seeing such a work is doing, as you say, and that you seem to mean
honestly. I will be upon my guard." ---" Nay, sir," says he, "do not
talk about being upon your guard; the best defence is, to be out of
danger; if you have any regard for your life, and the lives of all
your men, put to sea without fail, at. high water; and as you have.
a whole tide before you, you will be gone too far out before they can
come down; for they will come away at high water, and as they
have twenty miles to come, you will get near two hours of them by
the ditl'erenee of the tide, not reckonin" the length of the way;
besides, as they are only boats, and not slii )s, they will not venture
to follow you far out to sea, especially if it lows."~----" Well, said I,
"you have been very kind In this; what shall I do to make
amends ?"--" Sir," says he, " you may not be willing to make an
mnends, because you may not be convinced of the truth of it:
will make an offer to you ; l have nineteen months' pay due to me
on board the ship "'3 which 1 came out of England in; and the
Dutchman that. is with me has seven month's my due to him; if
you will make good our pay to us, we will go iflong with 'ou: if
you lied nothing more in it, we. will desire no more; buti we do
convince you that. we have saved your lives, and the ship, and the
lives of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you.

1 consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and
the two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side, my
partner, who was on board, came out on the quarter-deck, and called
to me, with a great deal of joy, "0 ho! 0 ho! we have stop ed
the leak! we have sto ped the leak!"--"Sny you so?" sai I,
"thank God; but weigi anchor then immediate y."--"Weigh!"
says he: " what do you mean by that? What is the matter?"
"Ask no questions," said I, " but all hands to work, and wci h
without losing a minute." He was surprised, but, however, he
called the captain, and he immediately ordered the anchor to be got.
up; and though the tide was not quite down, ct a little land
breeze blowino, we stood out to sea. Then I c ed him into the
cabin, and told him the story; and we called in the men, and they
told us the rest of it: but as it took up a great deal of time, before
we had done a seaman comes to the cabin door, and called out to us
that the captain bade him tell us we were chased. " Chased !" says
I; " by what?"--" five sloops, or boats," says the fellow, " full
of men."--" Very wel ," said I; " then it is apparent there is some-
thing in it." In the next place I ordered all our men to be called
up, and told them there was a design to seize the ship, and to take
us for pirates, and asked them if they would stand by us, and by
one another: the men answered cheerfully, one and all, that they
womd live and die with us. Then I asked the captain what way he
thought best for us to manage a fight with them ; for resist them I
was resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said readily
that the way was to keep them of with our great shot as long as we
could, and then lire at them with our small arms, to keep them from
boarding us; but when neither of these would do any longer, we
should retire to our close quarters; perhaps they had not materials
to break open our bulk-heads, or get in u on us. '

'l'he gunner had, in the meantime, or ers to bring two guns to
hear fore and aft, out of the steera e, to clear the deck, and load
them with musket bullets and sma pieces of old iron, and what
came next to hand; and thus we made ready for fight: but all this
while we kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see the boats
at a distance. being live large long-boats, following us with all the
sail they could make.

Two of these boats (which by our glasses we could see were
English) outsailcd the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them,
and gained upon us considerably, so that we found they would come
up with us; upon which we fired a gun without ball, to intimate
that they should bring to; and we put out a flag of truce, as a
signal for parley; but they came crowding after us, till they came
within shot, when we took in our white , they having made no
answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and red at them with shot.
Notwithstandin this, they came on till they were near enou hto
call to them wit a s eaking trumpet which we had on boar ; so
we called-to them, an bade them keep off, at their peril.

It was all one: they crowded after us, and endeavoured to come
under our stem. so as to board us on our quarter; upon which,
seeing the were resolute for mischief, and depended upon the
strenwth t at followed them, I ordered to bring the shi to, so
that they lay upon our broadside; when immediately we red five
guns at them, one of which had been levelled so true as to .
away the stern of the hindermost boat, and bring them to the
necessrt of t ' down their sail, and running allto the head of the
boat to_ eep her rem sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it;
but seeing the foremost boat crowd on after us, we made read to
fire at herin particular. While this was doing, one of the t ee
boats that was behind, being forwarder than the other two, made up
.to the boat which we had disabled, to relieve her, and we could see
her take out the men: we called again to the foremost boat, and
otl'ered a truce, to parley again, and to know what her business was
with us; but had no answer, only she crowded close under our
stern. Upon this our gunner, who was a very dexterous fellow, run
out his two chase guns, and fired again at her, but the shot missing,
the men in the boat shouted, waved their caps, and came on; but.
the gunner, getting quickl ready again, fired among them a second
time, one shot of which, Mon 11 it missed the boat itself, yet fell in
among the men, and we could easily see had done a great deal of
mischief among them; but we took no notice of that, were the ship
again, and brought our quarter to bear it on them, and firing three
guns more, we found the boat was most split to pieecs ; in
particular, her rudder and a piece of her stern was shot quite away;
so they handed her sail immediately, and were in eat disorder.
But to complete their misfortune, our gunner let y two guns at
them again : where he hit them we could not tell, but we found the
boat was sinking, and some of the men already in the water: upon
this I immediately manned out our pinnace, which we had kept close
by our side, with orders to pick up some of the men, if they could,
and save them from drowning, and immediately come on board the
ship with them, because we saw the rest of the boats began to come
up. Our men in the pinnace followed their orders, and took up
three men, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good while
before we could recover him. As soon as they were on board, we
t'rowded all the sail we could make, and stood farther out to sea;
and we found that when the other three boats came up to the first,
they gave over their chase.

Being thus delivered from a danger, which, though I knew not
the reason of it, yet seemed to be much greater than 1 ap rehended,
I resolved that we should change our course, and not lit any one
know whither we were goinw: so we stood out to sea, eastward,
quite out of the course of ah European ships, whether they were
bound to China or any where else within the commerce of the
Euro eau nations.

W ten we were at sea, we began to consult with the two seamen,
and inquire what the meaning of all this could be; and the Dutch-
man let us into the secret at once, telling us that the fellow that
sold as the. ship, as we said, was no more than a thief that had run
away with her. Then he told us how the captain, whose name too
he told us, though I do not remember it now, was treacherously
murdered by the natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his
men; and that he, this Dutchman, and four more, got into the
woods, where they wandered about a great while, till at length he,
in particular, in a miraculous manner, made his escape, and swam
off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore in its way from
China, had sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst
not coine to that part of the shore where the boat was, but mademvanruass or aoamson URUSOB. 271

shift in the night to take the water farther off, and swimming a great
while, at last the shi 's boat took him up. _

He then told us t at he went to Batavm, where two of the sea-
men belo ' to the ship arrived, havinlg deserted the rest in their
travels, 1mg ve an account that the fe ow who had run away with
the ship solcia her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were one a
cruising in her; and that the had already taken an Englis ship
and two Dutch ships very rich y laden. .

This latter part was found to concern us directly, though we knew
it to be false; at as my partner said very Justly, if we had fallen
into their han , and they had such a pre ossession against us
beforehand, it had been in vain for us to have efended ourselves, or
to hope for any good quarter at their hands; and especially con-
sidering that our accusers had been our judges, and that we could
have expected nothing from them but what rage would have dictated,
and an ungoverned passion have executed; and therefore it was his
opinion we should go directly back to Bengal, from whence we
came, without putting in at any port whatever; because there we
could give a good account of ourselves, could prove where we were
when the ship put in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and
which was more than all the rest, if we were put upon the necessity
of bringing it before the proper 'udges, we shoul be sure to have
some justice, and not to be hange first and judged afterwards.

I was some time of my partner's opinion; but after a little more
serious thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great hazard for
us to attempt returnin to Bengal, for that we were on the wrong
side of the Straits of alacca, and that if the alarm was iven, we
should be sure to be waylaid on every side, as well b the utch of
Batavia as the English elsewhere; that if we should e taken, as it
were, running away, we should even condemn ourselves, and there
would want no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English
sailor's opinion, who said he was of my mind, and that we should
certainly e taken. This danger a little startled my partner, and all
the ship's company, and we immediately resolved to o away to the
coast of Tonquin, and so on to the coast of China; an pursuing the
first design as to trade, find some way or other to dispose oi the
ship, and come back in some of the vessels of the country, such as
we could get. This was approved of as the best method for our
security; and accordingly we steered away N.N.E., kee ing above
fifty leagues off from the usual course to the eastward. his, how-
ever, put us to some inconvenience; for, first, the winds, when we
came to that distance from the shore, seemed to be more steadil
against us, blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the E.
E.N:E., so that we were a 10 while upon our voyage, and we were
but 111 provided with victuals or so long a run ; and, which was still
worse, there was some r that those lish and Dutch shi s,
whose boats pursued us, w ereof some were ound that way, mig t
be ot in before us, and if not, some other ship bound to China
might have information of us from them, and pursue us with the
same vigour.

I must confess, I was now very uneasy, and thought myself, in-
cluding the late escape from the long-boats, to have been in the most
dangerous condition that ever I was in through my past life; for
whatever ill circumstances I had been in, I was never pursued for a
thief before; nor had I ever done anything that merited the name
of dishonest or fraudulent, much less thievish; I had chiefly been
my own enemy, or, as I might rightly say, I had been nobody's
enemy but my own; but now was embarrassed in the worst condi-
tion imaginable; for though I was perfectly innocent, I was in no
condition to make that innocence appear; and if I had been taken,
it had been under a supposed guilt of the worst kind. This made
me very anxious to make an escape, though which way to do it I
knew not, or what port or place we could go to. My partner seeing
me thus dejected, though he was the most concerned at first, be
to encourage me, and describing to me the several ports of hot
mast, told me he would put in on the coast of Cochin China, or the
Bay of Tonquin, intending to go afterwards to Macao, a town once
in possession of the Portuguese, and where still a. great many Euro-
pean families resided; and particular] the missionary priests usually
went thither, in order to their going lyorward to China.

Hither then we resolved to go; and accordingly, though after a
tedious and irregular course, and very much straitened for provi-
sions, we came Within sight of the coast very early in the morni ;
and upon reflection on fire ast circumstances we were in, and xthe
danger if we had not esca e , we resolved to ut into a small river,
which, however, had dept enough of water or us, and to see if we
could, either overland or by the ship's pinnace, come to know what
ships were in any port thercabouts. This happy step was, indeed,
our deliverance; for though we did not immediately see any Euro-
pean ships in the Bay of 'lonquin, yet the next morning there came
into the bay two Dutch ships; and a third, without any colours
spread out, but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at
3 out two leagues' distance, steering for the coast of China; and in
the afternoon went by two English ships steering the same course;
and thus we thought we saw ourselves beset with enemies both one
way and the other. The place we were in was wild and barbarous;
the people thieves, even by occupation or profession; and though, it
is true, we had not much to seek of them, and, except getting a few
provisions, cared not how little we had to do with them, yet it was
with much difficulty that we kept ourselves from being insulted by
them, several ways. We were in a small river of this country,
within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our
boat we coasted north-east, to the point of land which 0 ens the
great Bay of Tonquin; and it was in this beating up along t e shoreanvssruass or BOBLNSON caosoz. 273

t we discovered we were surrounded with enemies. The people
:vhgwere among were the most barbarous of all the inhabitants of the
coast, having no con-es ondence With any other nation, and dealing
only in fish and oil, and such gross _commodit1es ; and it may be par-
ticularly seen that they are, as I said, the most barbarous of any _of
the inhabitants. Among other customs, they have this one, viz.
that if any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their
coast, the presently make the men all prisoners or slaves; and it
was not ong before we found a spice of their kindness this way,
on the occasion following. _

I have observed above, that our ship sprang a leak at sea, and
that we could not find it out; and it happened that, as I have said,
it was stop ed unexpectedly in the happy minute of our being to be
seized by tiie Dutch and English ships in the Bay of Siam; yet as
we did not find the ship so perfectly sound and tight as we desired,

we resolved, while we were at this place, to lay er on shore, and

take out what heavy things we had on board, and clean her bottom;
and, if possible, to find out where the leaks were. Accordingly,
having lightened the ship, and brought all our guns and other move--
ables to one side, we tried to bring her down, that we might come
at her bottom; but, on second thoughts, we did not care to lay her
on dry ground, neither could we find a proper place for it.

The inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight,
came wondering down to the shore to look at us; and seeing the ship
lie down on one side in such a manner, and heeling in towards the
shore, and not seeing our men, who were at work on her bottom
with st es, and with their boats on the off-side, they presently
concludzfi that the ship was cast away, and lay so fast on the
ground On this supposition, they came all about us in two or
three hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of
them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have
come on board and lundered the ship; and if they had found us
there, to have carried us away for slaves to their king, or whatever
they call him, for we knew nothing of who was governor.

When they came 11 to the ship and began to row round her, they
discovered us all har at work on the outside of the ship's bottom
and side, washing, and graving, and stopping, as every seafaring
man knows how. They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who
were a little surprised, could not imagine what their design was;
but being willing to be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of
us into the ship, and others to hand down arms and ammunition to
those that were at work to defend themselves with, if there should
be occasion; and it was no more than need : for in less than a quar-
ter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that the ship
was really a wreck; and that we were all at work endeavouring to
save her, or to save our lives by the help of our boats ; and when we
handed our arms into the boats, they concluded, by that motion,

'1'
that. we were endeavouring to save some of our goods; upon this
they took it for granted we all belon ed to them, and away they
came directly upon our men, as if it had been in a line of battle.

()nr men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, for we
lay but in an ill pesture to fight, and cried ottt to us to know what
they should do. I immediately called to the men that worked upon
the stages, to slip theni down, and get u the side into the shi ) ; and
bade those in the boat to row round, am come on board: an those
few of us who were on board worked with all the strength and hands
we had. to bring the ship to rights ; but, however, neither the men
upon the stages nor those in the boats could do as they were ordered,
before the Cochin Chinese were upon them; and two of their boats
boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their
prisoners.

The first. man they laid hold of was an English seamen, a stout,
strong fellow, who. having a musket in his hand, never offered to
fire it, but laid it down in the. boat, like a fool, as I thought; but he
understood his lmsinessbettcr thanI could teach him, for he grappled
the pagan, and dravged him by main force out of their boat into
ours. where taking him by the ears, he beat his head so against the
boat's gunnel. that. the fellow died in his hands; and, in the mean
time, a Dutchman, who stood next, taking up the musket, with
the butt-end of it so laid about him, that he knocked down five of
them who attempted to enter the boat. But this was doing little
towards resisting thirty or forty men, who fearless, because ignorant
of their danger, began to throw themselves into the long-boat, where
we. had but live men in all to defend it: but the following accident,
which deserved our laughter, gave our men a complete victory.

Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outstde of the ship, as
well to pay the seams where he had caulked her, to stop the leaks,
had got two kettles just let down into the boat, one filled with
boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, and oil, and such stuff
as the shipwrights use for that work, and the man that attended
the car enter had a reat iron ladle in his hand, with which he
supplie the men who were at work with the hot stuff; two of
the enemy's men entered the boat 'ust where this fellow stood,
being in the fore-sheets; he immediately saluted them with a handful
of the stutt', boiling hot, which so burned and scalded them, being
half naked, that they roared out like bulls, and enraged with the fire,
1e ed both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out:
"well done, Jack ; give them some more of it; " and steppin for-
ward himself, takes one of the mo 5, and di ping it in the pitc -pot
he and his man threw it among Elem so piientitully, that, in short,
of all the men in the three boats there was not one who escaped
being scalded and burned with it, in a most: fri htful, pitiful manner,
and made such a howling and crying, that SS never heard a worse
noise; for it is worth observing, for that though pain naturally makes
all people cry out, yet every nation has a particular way of exclama-
tion, and makes noises as different from one another as their speech.
[ cannot give the noise these creatures made a better name than
howling, nora name more proper to the tone of it; for I never heard
anything more like the noise of the wolves, which, as I have said, I
heard howl in the forest on the frontiers of Languedoc.

I was never better pleased with a victory in my life; not only as
it was a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imminent
before, but as we got this victory without any bloodshed, cxce t of
that man the fellow killed with his naked hands, and which was
much concerned at, for I was sick of killing such poor savage wretches,
even thou h it was in my own defence, knowing they came on
errands w rich they thought just, and knew no etter; and that
though it may be a just thing, because necessary (for there is no
necessary wickedness in nature% yet I thought it was a sad life, when
we must be always obliged to e killing our fellow--creatures to pre-
serve ourselves ; and, indeed I think so still, and I would even now
suffer a great deal, rather than I would take away the life even of
the worst person injuring me; and I believe all considering people
who know the value of ife would be of my opinion, if they entered
seriously into the consideration of it.

But to rctum to my story :--All the while this was doing, m
partner and I, who managed the rest of the men on board, had wit
great dexterity brou ht the ship almost to ri hts, and having got
the guns into their places again, the wunner c ed to me to get our
boat out of the way, for he would Llet fly among them. I called
back again to him, and bid him not offer to fire, for the carpenter
would do the work without him; but bid him heat another pitch-
kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took care of ; but the
enem was so terrified with what they had met with in their first
attac , that they would not come on again : and some of them who
were farthest ofl', seeing the ship swim, as it were, u right, began,
as we suppose, to see their mistake, and give over the ente rise,
finding it was not as they expected. Thus we got clear 0 this
merry fight, and having got some rice, and some roots and bread,
wrth about sixteen hogs, on board, two days before, we resolved to
stay here no lon er, but forward, whatever came of it; for we
made no doubt gbut we 5 ould be surrounded the next day with
rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispose of
for us. We therefore got all our things on board the same evening,
and the next momiri were ready to sail ; in the mean time, 13 '
at anchor at some stance from the shore, we were not so mue
concerned, being now in a fighting posture, as well as in a sailirefi
posture, if an enemy had presented. The next day, havinglfinish
our work within board, and finding our ship was perfectly ealed of
all her'leaks, we set sail. We would have gone into the Bay of
Tonquin, for we wanted to inform ourselves of what was to has known

13
coneerning the Dutch ships that. had been there; but we durst not
stand in there, because we had seen several ships go in, as we
sup )OSCll, but a little before: so we kept on N.E. towards the island
of ls'ormosn, as much afraid of bein seen by a Dutch or En lish
merchant ship, as a Dutch or Eu "8] merchant ship in the It edi-
tcrranean is of an Algerine man-o -war.

When we Were thus got to sea, we kept on NB. as if we would go
to the Manillas or the Philippine islands, and this we did that we
might not fall into the way of the European ships; and then
we steered north, till we came to the latitude of 22 do . 30 min., by
which means we made the island Formosa directly, \v new we came
to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions, which the
people there, who were very courteous and civil in their manners.
supplied us with willingly, and dcidt very fairly and punctually with
us in all their agreements and bargains, which is what. we did not
find among other people, and ma be owing to the remains of Chris-
tianity which was once planter here by a Dutch missionary ol'
Protestants, and is a testimony of what 1 have often observed, viz.
that the Christian religion always civilizes the pectle and reforms
their manners, where it is received, whether it wor 's saving effects
upon them or no.

From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at
an equal distance, till we knew we were. beyond all the ports of
China where our European ships usually come; being resolved, it
possible, not to fall into any of their hands, especially in this country:
where], as our circumstances were, we could not fail of being entirely
runner .

Being now come. to the latitude of thirty degrees, we resolved to
put into the first trading port we should come at; and standing in
tor the shore, a boat came oll' two leagues to us, with an old l'ortn-
gucsc pilot on board, who knowin as to be an European ship,
came to offer his service, which, in eed, we were very glad of, and
took him on board; upon which, without asking us whither we.
would go, be dismissed the boat he came in, and sent it back.

I thought it was now so much ill our choice to make the. old man
carry us whither we would, that I began to talk to him about
carrying us to the rrulf of Nanquin, which is the most northern part
of the. coast of Crina. The old man said he knew the gull ol'
Nan uin very well, but smiling, asked as what we would do there?
I tod him we would sell our cargo and purchase China wares.
calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, &c., and so would return by
the same course we came. He told us our best port had been to
have put in at Macao, where we could not have failed of a market
for our opium to our satisfaction, and might for our money have

urchased all sorts of China goods as cheap as we could at
anquin.

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which he
was very opinionated or conceited, I told him we were gentlemen as
well as merchants, and that we had a mind to see the great cit of
l'ckin, and the famous Court of the monarch of Chm. "
then." says the old man, " you should go to Ningpo, where by the
river that runs into the sea there, you may go up Within five leagues
of the great canal. This canal is a navigable stream, which goes
through the heart of that vast empire of Clnna, crosses all the rivers
passes some considerable hills by the help of sluices and gates and
goes up to the city of Pekin, being in length near two hundred and
sevent leagues.

" ell," said I, " Senhor Portuguese, but that is not our business
now; the great question is, if you can carry us up to the city of
N anquin, from whence we can travel to Peking afterwards 1'" He said
he could do so very well, and that there was 9. eat Dutch shiggone
up that way just before. This ave me a litt o shock, for a utch
ship was now our terror; and we opended upon it that a Dutch ship
would be our destruction, for we were in no condition to fight them ;
all the ships they trade with into those parts being of great burden,
and of much greater force than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern,
when he named a Dutch shi ; and said to me, "Sir, you need be
under no apprehensions of tie Dutch ; I an pose they are not now
at war with your nationl'"--"No," said I, " t at's true; but I know
not what liberties men may take when they are out of the reach of the
laws of their own country.--" Why," says he, " on are no pirates;
\vhtat need you fear? They will not meddle with peaceable merch-
an 3, sure."

If I had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face at
that word, it was hindered by some stop in the vessels a'ppomted b
nature to circulate it, for it put me into the greatest isorder and
confusion imaginable; nor was it possible for me to conceal it so;
but that the 01 man easily perceived it.

" Sir," says he, "I find you are in some disorder in mi- thoughts
at my talk ; pra be pleased to go which way you t ' fit, and,
depend upon it, '11 do you all the service I can.' --" Wh , senhor,"
said I, " it is true, I am a little unsettled in my resolu ion at this
time, whither to go in particular; and I am something more so for
what you said about pirates. I hope there are no pirates in these
seas; we are but in an ill condition to meet with them, for you see
we are but a small force, and are but very weakly manned."---" 0,
air," says he, "don't be concerned, I do not know that there have
been any pirates in these seas for fifteen years, except one, which
was seen, as I hear in the bay of Siam, about a month since; but
you may be assured she is ac to the southward; nor was she a
Ship_ of any great force, or t for the work. She was not built for
a privateer, ut was run away with b a reprobate crew that was on
board, after the captain and some of ' men had been murdered by27S .1111'151'111'111'5 01' 110111.\'s1).\' c1111>111;.

1111' 1111111111115, 111 01' 111'11r thc i.>l 11111 111' 811111111111." What!" said
I. >'1'1'111'1111.: 11) know nothing 01'1111'11111111'1','di11 11111'111111'111'1' thc
1111111. '1111'.' " " N11, " 511111 1111, "I 111111' 1 1111111'1'51111111111111 111111'111111'1111'1111
111111. 1111'. .1.>' 1111'1'1111"1'1\1:11'1ls 11111 1111'111'1111111111' >'l1i11, it is 1.1'1'111111111'
111-111'1"11l 111111 11111' l)1111"'1111d 111111 111111 1111' 111111115 111 the 1\!.11111"
111111 11111 111111'111'1'111111'; 111111 111'1'1111115 1111'1' p1'11c111'11d 1111' 111 111 1111 ii

\\111111111,>111dI, "tl11'1'1'l1'>1'1'\'1' 111.1111 115 11111011 :15 11' 1111'1'1111d
1111111' 11 1111'11151"'l11>'. "----- " \ .11, >':1\'I>' 1111' 11111 111:111, "1111'1' 110 111-51"1'11'.
11 -. 111111 1111'1' 11111 1'1'1111i1111' 11111 11'1111'1'1114111 1111111 11111'1'11glish

111111011 >11111: 1'111'1111'1' 11:11'1':111'1'11.r1"11'd1111:1'111'11' 11111 if 1'111'v 1111'1'1
1":I111 1111.1111' 1"l111'11 1.:111' 111111 no 11111'"."11111 --" 11111" 511111 1111111111.

'11111 >111'1111' 1111:111' i>' f.'11111' 11111 111' 1111 >1' >'1':1>'; 111'111' c1111 1111'1'11111'1
111111111111 1111'11'.r'"-- -" \\ 111'. 111111 > 11'111' >111'>' 111' ' 1111'1' 1111 >'11\ >11;
11111 111' 11 .1>. :1.>' 1 11'11 1'1111 111 1111-1111111 *111111,1111111' 1'111"1 C111111111di:'.1
111111 11" 1.> 111>1'"'11\111'1l 1111' 1'-1 111' s1111u' 111111' 111111' 11 111111 1101111131111 11) 1111'
511111. 111111 111111 "111' 11'" 1111 >11111'1 11111' 11 11111'11111111'1111 111111 111'1': 111111
>111111' 12111.111>'11 111111 1)11I1'11 11:1111' '1'> 111' '111_1.v 111 11111 11101, 111111' 110111 111111111
11111111'11'1 111111111: [11111: 11111 >"1111 111', "11' 11111 1011-1111151 1111:11>' 111111
11:11l 1111-11 \11'11 >1"1'111111111 111 1111' 1'1'>l 1111'\' 111111 1'1'1'11111111'111111'11 111111:
11111 111' 1111111111.:111111' 111'11 1111-115 111111111 1'11"111 111' 111111, 1110111111 111111111.
111111 11ml 111 1111151' 11111, 111111 1115:11111'11 1111-111 111' '1'"1111 1|11' 111111'1'> 1'111111' 1111
111111 111111 >'1'11111111_1.'1111'111>'1'11,1111'111|11'1'> \1'1' 1'1' 11111 111111' to 1"11111111. 111111
>'1) 111-1.1111 :111111'. 11111 [111-1'11111' 1111 >11 1'\ \1101 11 111-501111111111 111' 1111
511111, 111111 1111'_\' 11111 111' >'1n1' 111 L111111'111'r'; 11111111'l1c1"'111'1'1111'1 111111
1"111 1111'1'11:111' 11111111 111 5.:11'1' 1111 1111:11'111' 1'11111'1' 111 1111' 1'1111111111111'51111.
1111' 11. 11111 111 1111111." 1111'111 1111 1111 :11 1111' '1'111'-d111'.111 --<<" \\ 1111'" 511111 1.

""11111 11111'1'\1'11111' 1111111 111-111 111' \11'11111.::11:1111" 1111'111 111'>'l, 111111
j111l1.*1' 1111' 111 11111' 111111115? ~ -"1) >'i1', " s:11'>' 1111111111 1111111, "' 1111:1'11' is 1111
111-1'11 111 111.1L1'11 1111'111. 11 1111>1n1'>>' 111 11. 111111 such 1'111vu1's as "1051': 101
1111-111 111' 1111111 11:11-11 10 1111011, 111111 >'1-1 1111111 11 111111115,11511111111111
1|11111 1111'1' 111'51'1'1'1'."

1 L111'11' 1 111111 1111' 11111 1111111 1:151 1111 1111:1111. 111111 111111 111'. 11011111 1111 1111
11:11'111. ~11 111111 1 1111111'11 slnn't 11111111111111: " "'1'11 111111', >'1-111101, " >'11111
1'11115 is 1111' 1'11'1'1'1'115111111'111'1 would 11111'1' 1'011 cm"'11 us up 111
N1111q111n.:1n1111111 11111 back 111 _\l:11':111 111'111 11111' 01111'1'1111r101' 1111'
c0111111'1' 11'111' "11' the 1'1 11g'lisl1 111' Dutch ships c:11111': 1111' 111: 11 111101111 111
1011, >1'11l1111', 1110>.1' 1111111111115 01' 1111' 1'.111_.;li>11 111111 Dutch >'l11115111'c 11

1.11011 01'1':1>11,111'1111d,111>01cnt 11"1111115, 111111 1101111111 L11011' 11:11:11
1111111111> 111 jn>"111'1',11111'111)11'10 110111'011 1111'111sclvcs as 111111'-'1\1s 01'
(311111 111111 1111111111 1111'1'1'1 11111 hcing 11101111 01 their ollicc> , 1111111101
11111101511111111111.' 1111' 11' 111111111, 11101 111111111 act the n1u1"'d1'11'ls to punish
robbers; 111111111 111111: 11111111 1111-111 111 11151111 111cni11lscl1'accused,11nd
111111'1'1111111'. 1111'111 guilty 1111110111 11u11' 1111111111: 111111 11111111115 I 111111'111'9,
to 11111111 5111110 01' 1111'111 11) account 1"111 '11, 1111011 1101' may be taught.
111111 j11>111'c is to 111: cwcutcd; 111111 111111 111) 1111111 ought to be treated
:15 :1 01111111111 1111501110 cvidcuce 111111'111' 111111 of the crime, and
111111; 111' IS the man."
With this I told him that this was the very ship they attacked,
and gave him a full account of the skirmish we had with their
boats, and how foolishly and cowardly they behaved. ] told him all
the story at our buying the shi ), and how the Dulelnnen served us.
I told him the reasons 1 had to believe the story of killing: the
master by the Malayzuts was true. as also the running.r away with the
ship; but it was all a fiction of their own to suggest that the men
ltad turned pirates, and they ought, to hare been sure. it was so
before they had ventured to attack us by surprise, amt oblige us to
resist them 2 adding, that they would have the blood of those men.
whom we killed there in just defence. to answer for.

The old man w: amazed at this relation. and told us we were
\'Crytnnell in the right to go away to the north : and that it he might
advise us, it. should he to sell the sltip in (Thina. \\'lll('ll we might
very well do, and buy or build another in the country : " and." said he.
" though you will not get so good a ship, yet you may get one ahle
enough to earryyon atul all your goods haek ain to Bengal. or
any where else." 1 told him l would take his adviee when I came
to atty port where i could find a ship for my turn. or get any
customer to buy this. He replied. I should meet with (-nstomers
enough forthe ship at Nautptin, and that a Chinese junk would
serve me very" well to {:0 hack attain; aml that he would proem-e me
people both to lmy one and sell the other. " \\'ell hut. senhor,"
said I, " as you say they know the ship so well, I may. pe *l aps. it" I
follow your measures. be instrumental to bring some honest innoeent
men into a terrible broil, and perhaps he murdered in cold blood;
for wherever they find the ship, they will prove the guilt, upon the
tuen. hy proving this was the ship, amt so innocent men may pro-
bahlv he overpowered and murdered."--" \l'hy." says the old man.
" I'll tiud out a way to prevent that also: for as I know all those
eomnunnlers you speak of very well, and shall see them all as they
pass by, I will be sure to set them to rights in the thing, amt let
them know that they had been so much in the wrong; that though
the people who were on hoard at first might run away with the ship,
yet it was not true that they had turned pirates: and that, in par-
ticular, these were not the men that. tirst \\t'ni otl' with the ship, but
innocently bought her for their trade ; and 1 am persuaded they will
so far believe me, as at least to act more cautiously for the time to
come."

While these things were pas ing between us, by way of discourse.
we went forward directly for Nan uin, and in about thirteen days'
sail came to an anchor at the sout t-west point of the great gulf of
Nanquin; where, by the Way, I came by accident. to understand
that two Dutch shi )s were gone that length before me, and that: I
should certainly fali into their hands. I consulted tny partner again
in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss as I was, and would.
very gladly have been safe on shore almost anywhere: however, I
was not in such perplexity neither, but I asked the old ilot if there
was no creek or harbour which I might ut into an pursue my
business with the Chinese private] , and e in no dun r of the
enem . He told me, if I would sa' to the southward 9. out forty-
two eagues, there was a little ort called Quinchan ,where the
fathers of the mission usually Ian ed from Macao, on t eir pro ess
to teach the Christian religion to the Chinese, and where no Euro-
pean ships ever ut in; and if I thought to put in there, I mi ht
consider what urther course to take when was on shore. e
confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, except that at
some certain times they had a kind of a fair there, when the
merchants from Japan came Over thither to buy the Chinese mer-
ehandises.

We all agreed to go back to this place ; the name of the port, as
he called it, I may perhaps spell wrong, for I do not particularly
remember it, having lost this, together with the names of many
or her laces set down in a little pocket-book, which was spoiled by the
water y an accident; but this I remember, that theChinese or J apanesc
merchants we (-orresponded with called it by a different name from
that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above,
Quinchang.

As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, we
weighed the next day, having only gone twice on shore where we
were to get fresh water; on both which occasions the people of the
country were very civil to us, and brought us abundance of things
to sell to us, I mean of provisions, plants, roots, tea, rice, and some
l'owls, but nothing without money.

We came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not till live
days, but it was very much to our satisfaction; and I was joyful,
and 1 may say thankful, when I set my foot on shore, resolving, and
my partner too, that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and
effects any other way, though not every way to our satisfaction, we
would never set one foot on board that unhappy vessel more; and,
indeed, I must acknowledge, that of all the circumstances of life
that ever I had any experience of, nothing makes mankind so com-

letely miserable as that of being in constant fear. Well does the

eri ture say, "The fear of man brings a snare ;" it is alife of
deat l, and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable
of no relief.

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was, to get us
acguainted with three missionary Romish priests who were in town,
an who had been, there some time converting the people to
Christianity ;. we thought they made but oor work of it, and
made them but sorry Christians when they ha done: however, that
was none of our business. One of these was a Frenchman, whom
they called Father Simon; another was a Portuguese, and the third,
at Genoese; Father Simon was courteous, easy in his manner,
and very reeahle company; the other two were more reserved,
seemed rigi and austere, and a phed seriously to the work they
came about, viz., to talk with, an insinuate themselves among the
inhabitants, wherever they had an o portunity. We often ate and
drank with those men; and though, must confess, the conversion,
as they call it, of the Chinese to Christianity is so far from the true
conversion required to bringl heathen people to the faith of Christ,
that it seems to amount to 'ttle more than letting them know the
name of Christ, and say some rayers to the Virgin Mary and her
Son, in a tongue which the un erstand not, and to cross themselves,
and the like; yet it must e confessed that the religionists, whom
we call missionaries, have a firm belief that these people will be
saved, and that they are the instruments of it; and, on this account,
they undergo not only the fati e of the voyage, and the hazards of
living in such places, but 0 tentimes death itself, with the most
violent tortures, for the sake of this work.

But to return to my story. This French priest, Father Simon,
was appointed, it seems, by order of the chic of the mission to go
up to Pekin, the royal seat of the Chinese emperor, and waited
only for another priest, who was ordered to come to him from
Macao, to go along with him; and we scarce ever met together but
he was invrting me to go that journey; telling me how he would
show me all the glorious things of that mighty empire, and, among
the rest, the greatest city in the world: a city, said he, that your
London and our Paris put together, cannot be equal to. This was
the city of Pekin, which, I confess, is very great, and infinitely
full of people; but as I looked upon those things with dill'erent
eyes from other men, so I shall ive my opinion of them in a few
words, when I come in course 0% my travels to speak more par-
ticularl of them.

We ad something else before us at first, for we had all this while
our ship and our merchandise to dispose of, and we began to be
ve doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a place of very
litt e business; and once I was about to venture to sail for the river
of Kilam, and the city of Nauquin: but Providence seemed now
more visibl , as I thought, than ever, to concern itself in our
all'airs; an I was encouraged, from this ver time, to think I should
one way or other get out of this entangle circumstance, and be
brought home to my own country again, though I had not the least
view of the manner. Providence, I say, began here to clear up our
way a little: and the first thing that offered was, that our old
Portuguese ilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who inquired what
goods we h ; and, in the first place, he bought all our opium, and
gave us a very good rice for it, paying us in gold by weight, some
in small pieces of t eir own com, and some in small we es, of
about ten or eleven ounces each. While we were dealing wit him
for our opium, it came into my head that he might perhaps deal for
the ship too, and I ordered the interpreter to propose it to him: he
shrugged up his shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him ;
but in a few days after he came to me, with one of the missionary
priests for his interpreter, and told me he had a proposal to make to
me, which was this: he had bought a great quantity of goods of us,
when he had no thoughts (or proposals made to him) of buying the
ship; and that, theretorc, he had not money enough to pay for the
ship : but if I would let the same men who were in the ship navi-
gate her, he would hire the ship to go to Japan; and would send
them from thence to the Philippine islands with another leading,
which he would pay the freight of before they went to Japan, and
that at their return he would buy the ship. I began to listen to his
pro osal, and so eager did my head st ill run upon rambling, that I
con (1 not but begin to entertain a notion of gomg myself with him,
and so to sail from the Philippine islands away to the South Seas ;
accordingly I asked the Japanese merchant if he would not hire us
to the Philippine islands, and discharge us there. He said, "No,
he could not do that, for then he could not have the return of his
cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan, at the ship's return."
Well, still 1 was for takingr him at that. proposal, and going myself;
but my partner, wiserthan myself, persuaded me from it, representing
the dangers, as well of the seas as of the Japanese, who are a false,
cruel, and treacherous icople; likewise those of the Spaniards at
the Philippines, more false, cruel, and treacherous than they.

But to bring this long turn of our alfairs to a conclusion: the
first thing we had to do was, to consult with the captain of the ship,
and with his men, and know if they were willing to go to Japan:
and while I was doing this, the young man whom my nephew had
left with me as my companion for my travels came to me, and told
me that he thought that voyage promised very fair, and that there
was a great prospect of advantage, and he would be very glad if I
undertook it ; but that if I would not, and would give him leave, he
would go as a merchant, or how 1 )lCflSCd to order him; that if he
ever came to England, and I was tlrere and alive, he would render
me a faithful account of his success, which should be as much mine
as I pleased. I was really loth to part with him ; but considering
the prospect of advantage, which was really considerable, and that
he was a young fellow as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I
inclined to let. him go; but I told him I would consult my partner,
and give him an answer the next day. My partner and I discoursed
about it, and my )artncr made a most generous ofl'er: " You know
it has been an unlucky ship," said he, "and we both resolve not to
go to sea in it again: if your steward (so he called my man) will
venture the voyage, I will leave my share of the vessel to him, and
let him make the best of it ; and if we live to meet in England, and
he meets with success abroad, he shall account: for one half of the
profits of the ship's freight to us; the other shall be his own."
If my partner, who was no way concerned with my young man,
made him such an ofi'er, I could do no less than ofi'er him the same:
and all the ship's com any being willing to go with him, we made
over half the ship to lnm in property, and took a writing from him,
obliging him to account for the other; and away he went to Japan.
The Japan merchant proved a ver punctual, honest man to him;
protected him at Japan, and got firm a licence to come on shore,
which the Europeans in general have not lately obtained; paid him
his freight very punctually; sent him to the Philippines, loaded
with Japan and C ina wares, and a sup'ercar o of their own, who,
traficking with the Spaniards, brought ack 'uropean oods again,
and a orreat quantity of cloves and other spices; and t ere he was
not only aid his freight very well, and at a very good price, but not
being wi ing to sell the ship then, the merchant furnished him goods
on his own account; and With some money, and some 5 ices of his
own which he brought with him, he went back to the Ianillas to
the Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well. Here, having
got a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made a free
ship; and the governor of Manilla hired him to go to Acapulco in
America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave him alicenee to land
there, and to travel to Mexico, and to pass in any Spanish ship to
Euro 0 with all his men. He made the voyage to Acapulco very
happ y; and there he sold his ship; and having there also obtained
allowance to travel by land to Porto Belle, he found means, some-
how or other, to get to Jamaica, with all his treasure; and about
eio'ht years after came to England exceeding rich, of which I shall
fire notice in its place: in the mean time, I return to our particular

airs.

Being now to part with the ship and the ship's company, it came
before us, of course, to consider what recompense we should give
to the two men that gave us such timely notice of the design agamst
us in the river Cambodia. The truth was, they had done us a very
considerable service, and deserved well at our hands; though, by
the way, they were a couple of rogues too: for as they believed the
story of our being pirates, and that we had really run away with
the ship, they came down to us not only to betray the design that was
formed inst us, but to go to sea with us as pirates ; and one of them
confesse afterwards that nothing else but the ho es of going a
rogumg brought him to do it: however, the service t ey did us was
not the less; and therefore, as I had promised to be grateful to
them, I first ordered the money to be paid them which they said
was due to them on board their respective ships; over and above
that, I ve each of them a small sum of money in gold, which con-
tented t em very well; then I made the Englishman gunner 1n the
Shlp, the gunner being now made second mate and purser; the
Dutchman I made boatswain; so they were both very well pleased,

and proved very serviceable, being both able seamen, and very stout
~fellows.
JOURNEY TO PBKIN -- ltOBlXSON JOLVS A CARAVAN PROCEEDING
T0 MOSCOW--RENCONTRES WITH THE TARTARS.

I WAS now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China, about
thirty degrees north of the line. I had, indeed, a mind to see the
city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon im-
portuned me daily to do it. At length his time of going away bein
set, and the other missionary who was to go with him being arrived
from Macao, it was necessary that we should resolve either to go or
not; so I referred him to m partner, and left it wholly to his
choice, who at length resolve it in the affirmative; and we pre-
pared for our journey. We set out with very good advantage, as
to findin the way, for we got leave to travel in the retinue of one
of their Elilandarins, a kind of Viceroy or principal magistrate in the
province where they reside, and who take great state upon them,
travelling with great attendance, and with much homa e from the
people, who are sometimes greatl impoverished by t em, being
obliged to furnish provisions for t em and all their attendants in
their journeys. That which I particularly observed, as to our tra.
velling with his baggage, was this, that though we received sufficient
provisrons both for ourselves and our horses from the country, as
elonging to the Mandarin, yet we were obliged to pay for every-
thing wc had, after the market rice of the country, and the Man-
darin's steward collected it duly groin us ; so that our travelling in
the retinue of the Mandarin, though it was a very great kindness to
us, was not such a mighty favour in him, but was a great advantage
to him, considering there were about thirty other people travelled in
the same manner besides us, under the protection of his retinue;
the country furnished all the provisions for nothing to him, and yet
he took our money for them.
We were twenty-five da 5 travelling to Pekin, through a country
infinitely populous, but I t ink badly cultivated; the husbandry, the
economy, and the way of living miserable, though the boast so
much of the industry of the people: I say miserable, ' compared
with our own, but not so to these oor wretches, who know no
other. The pride of the people is ' 'tely fieat, and exceeded by
nothing but their poverty, which adds to t t which I call their
misery; and I must needs think the naked savages of America live
much more happily, because, as they have nothing, so they desire
nothing: whereas these are rond and insolent, an in the main are
more beggars and drudges; t eir ostentation is inexpressible; and, if
they can, they love to keep multitudes of servants or slaves, and,
which is to the last degree ridiculous, have the greatest contempt
of all the world but themselves.

I must confess, I travelled more dpleasantly afterwards in the
deserts and vast wildemesses of Gran Tartary than here; and yet
the roads here are well paved and well kept, and very convenient
for travellers: but nothing was more awkward to me than to see
such a haughty, imperious, insolent people, in'the midst of the
grossest simplicity and ignorance, and my friend Father Simon and
1 used to be very merry upon these occasions, to see the beggarly
pride of these people. For example, coming by the house of a
country gentleman, as Father Simon called hun, about ten leagues
off the city of Nanquin, we had first of all the honour to ride with
the master of the house about two miles; the state he rode in was a

erfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty. His

abit was very roper for a scaramouch, or merry-andrew, being a
dirty calico, with) hanging sleeves, tasscls, and cuts and slashes on
almost every side; it covered a tafi'ety vest, as greasyas a butcher's,
and which testified that his honour must be a most exquisite sloven.
His horse was but a poor, starved, hobbling creature, and he had
two slaves who followed him on foot to drive the oor creature
along: he had a whip in his hand, and he belaboure the beast as
fast about the head as his slaves did about the tail; and thus he
rode by us, with about ten or twelve servants, goin from the city
to his count seat, about half a league before us. e travelled on
gently, but t is e of a gentleman rode away before us; and as
we stopped at a ' age about an hour to refresh us, when we came
by the country seat of this great man, we saw him in a little place
before his door, eating his repast. It was a kind of a garden, but
he was very easy to be seen; and we were given to understand that
the more we looked at him the better he would be pleased. He sat
under a tree, something like the palmetto, which elfectually shaded
him over the head, an on the south side; but under the tree was
also placed a large umbrella, which made that part look well enough.
He sat lollin'g back in a great elbow-chair, being a heavy, cor ulent
man, and 11 his meat brought him by two women slaves; e had
two more, one of whom fed the squire with as oon, and the other
held the dish with one hand, and scraped ofi' w t he let fall upon256 .1111 12511111115 111' 111111155115 1111151112.

1115 11"1115111 1.5 110.1111 and 1: 111'-111' 1051 with 1110 011101': 11'11110 1110. great
1:11 1111110 11111111511' 11 11111111 him 111 01111111_1' 1115 011'1111111d5 111.1111 01'
1111150 1':1111.11:11'11l11105 11'h'10l1 1111111501111 1110111110115 11'1111111 1':111111' do
111:111 110 1111111111 11 111111 1110 111111151' 111120125 111 111111' .501"1:1115.

.\1 10111.:111 \1'1' 31111011 :11 1'-111111.:1 111111111110111'1111111110 11111 1110.
\'011111 111111111 1111' 1101111011 1110 0:1111: 1111 11: 111 1.511011 1110 111 :11101111 1110 :15' :1
5'01'1' 21111. 211111 111111 111111011 10'11 11'1151_1' 111111 11111Lr1~1111 :11111 111_1' 11:11'11101'
11: '111 11111111111'111111 111111 11111 11110 51' 11:1111 111111 11:15 :1 141115111011. .1\.5' 101'
1110 1'111'111L'1105'0 111101.110 11111111r 11051111115 10 .500 1111' 0111111 11'0 111110
1115 01111'11'05 1111' 1115 01111111:1111'.:11111 111 1151' 111111 :15 :111 111I0"1111'1101', 1'111'
111' 1111110 15111011 1111'1:111L-'11:11.:1 01'1110 011111111'1, :1111151111110 L1'1111d 1 1'111011,
:11111 :1 111110 15111511511: :11111. 111110011 11115 11111 1111111 11:15 :1 1110s! 11511'111
111111101110111 111 11.5 11'11'1111111'0: 1111 110 11:111 11111 110011 :111111'0 :1 1100k :11
11'L'111. 1111011 1101:11110 1:111L1'l1111Lr: " .\11. 501111111 111;:1050."5 5:1111 110 " 1
11:11'0 51111101111111.1'11111"1 _1111111'111 111:1L1')11111'111':111 L1|:1(1. ' " " .\11' 110:11'1
_1.:1:1111" 5:115 1 z " 11'11:1l 01:11 111: 11 1102'1111111'1 1111011 :111111111195' 111 11115
1'11111111'1' 0:111 01'11111' .5110. 1111' 1111' 111' 'L1'1'11'1.111 :111_\' 5:11:11 (1".15'1""'('-
" 105. _1'1 '. 5:1111 111011111 111:111. 111 111'11L'111 1".11L111511, " 111:1L11 1'1111 L111:1d.
1110 5111'1'1. " "\\11\'. 5:1111 1 "11111 11 111:1L0 \'1111 5111': '12 'r'" "111'--
0:11151' " 5:1111 110. '_11111 11:110 111111115111 11101101'0 11101111- 1110. 11115 j11111'-
n0 _1. :11111 11'111 10: 110 1110 111211 11:10L :1111110, :1111111'11101111 1' 511:111 1 L101 111
1111 111111 .1.11111.11'11511111111111:1511111 11111111111 :11101'50 1111110111 1100141142"
5'111100:111011111111111'1111111: 111.5 1111111011 1.11111. 01' 11111011 110111111 111111114
11:11100 111 111:1L0 115 11111'1'1' 111111. 111 511111'1, 110 111111 115' 11101'0 11'115 :1
1:10:11 0:11':11':111111 .\11150111'110 :11111 1'1111511 1111'1'0:111111.5 111 1110 0111', 1111'-
1:11'111L1 111511 11111 1111 111111 j11111'n01 111' 1:11111 10 .\11150111'1, \1'1111111 10111'
111' 111'0 1110L5. 111111 110 11:15 5111'0 111 111111111 1:1L0. 1.110 0111111111111111'10 g0
11'1111 1110111, and 10:11'0 111111 1111111111 111 .'1" hack :.110110

1 00111055 1 11:15 L*1"1:11|_1' 5111'1111501111'1111 11115 good 110115, :11111 11:111
50:11'00 111111'01' 111 5111. :1L' 111 111111 101' 501110 111110-11111 :11 1:151 I 111111011 10
111111: "111111' 110 _11111 L111111'11115.1111 1." A10 1'0u su1'1' 11 is
11'110?' " "1'05." 5 _15 110.: " I 11101 11115 11101'11111L1'1111h1' 511'001 :111 0111
:101111:11111:11100111 1111110. :111 \1'1110111:111. 111111 15' :1111011g1h0111: he came
1:151 1'1'11111 .\5'11':10:111, :11111 11'115 dosiLrninLI' 111 go 111 '111111111111, 1111010 I
1111'1111'1'11 L11011' 111111. 11111 11:15 :11101'011 1115 11111111, :11111' 15 1111111 105011111 10
go 111111 1110 caravan 111 .\11150011'. :11111 .50 11111111 1110. 11101 11 012:1 to
Astrncun." " \\ 1'11 5011111113" 5:11'5 1. "110 1101 be un0:1s1' :1110111:
110111;:11'1'1 10 go 11:10L 11111110: 11' 11115 111: :1 method for my 1011111110
11111101111. 11 511.111 110 10111'1 1:11111 11'1011 go back in Macao :11, :111. " We
111011 11'0111 111001151111 1111401111 1' 1111:11 11 :15 to 110 110110; and I 0511011 my
11:11'1111'1' 1111.11 111 111111115111 01 1111: 1111111 5 110115, and 11'11011101' 11 11011111
51111 11'1111 his :111':111.5 '9 110 1111111110 110 111111111 110 ju.51 as I would for
110 11:111 50111011 :111 1115 :111':111'5' 511 11'011 :11 110111;: 11, and 1011. his cfl'001s' 111
such good hands, that :15 111-11:111 111:1dc :1 good 1'01'100 11010.11'110
0011111 1051 it 111 China 51111511111115.5111 :11111a1'a11', such as might be
11".0 '111 1110 0:111'11120 1: 0 would 110 0111110111 10 go to England, 31111 then
make his 1'oy agcdmck 111 110113.011 111' 1110 Company' 3 ships.
Having resolved upon this, we agreed that if our Portuguese ilot
would go with us we would hear his charges to Moscow, or to tug-
land, it? he pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over geno-
rous in that neither, if we had not rewarded him farther, the service
he had done us being really worth more. than that ; for he had not
only been a pilot to us at sea, but he had'bccn like a broker for us
on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan merchant was some
hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted together about
it, and being willing to gratify him, which was but doing him justice,
and very willing also to have him with us besides, for he was a most
necessary man on all occasions. we agreed to "l\'(', him a quantity of
coined gold, which, as I compute it, came to a out one hundred and
seventy-live pounds sterling, )etwecn us, and to bear all his charges,
hot h for himself and horse, except. only a horse to carry his goods.
llaving settled this between ourselves, we called him to let him
know what we had resolved. I told him he had com )lained of our
being to let him go back alone, and l was now to tell him we were
resolved he. should not, go back at all; that as we had resolved to go
to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also he should go with us:
and that we called him to know his mind. He shook lus head, and
said it was a long journey, and he had no pee-mm to carry him
thither, or to subsist himself when he came there. We told him we
believed it was so, and therefore we had resolved to do somethin
for him that should let him see how sensible we were of the service
he had done us, and also how agreeable he was to us: and then I
told him what we had resolved to give him here, which he might. lay
out as we would do our own; and that as for his charges, if he
would go with us we would set him safe on shore (life and casualties
excepted) either in Museovy or England, which he would, at our
own charge, except only the carriage of his goods. He received the
proposal like a man transported, and told us he would go with us
over the. whole world; and so we all prepared for our journey.
However, as it was with us, so it was with the other merchants:
they had many things to do; and instead of being ready in five
weeks, it was four months and some days before all things were got
together.

it was in the beginning of February, our style, when we set out
from l'ckin. My partner and the old pilot had gone express back
to the port where we had first. put in, to dispose of some goods
which we had left there: and I, with a Chinese merchant whom I
had some knowledge of at Nanquin, and who came to Pckin on his
own affairs, went to Nanquin, where I bourvht ninety pieces of fine
damasks, with about two hundred )icecs 0 other very fine silks of
several sorts, some mixed with go d, and had all these brought to
Pckin against my partner's return: besides this, we bought a very
largcguantity o raw silk, and some other goods, our cargo amount-
ing, in these goods only, to about three thousand five hundred
pounds sterlin ; which, together with tea, and some fine ealicoes,
and three came 3' leads of uutmegs and cloves, loaded in alleighteen
camels for our share, besides those we rode upon ; which, with two
or three spare horses, and two horses loaded with provisions, made
us, in short, twenty-six camels and horses in our retinue.

The company was ver great, and, as near as I can remember,
made between three an tour hundred horses, and upwards of one
hundred and twent men, very well armed, and provided for all
events: for as the astern caravans are subject to be attacked by
the Arabs, so are these by the 'l'artars ; but they are not altogether
so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so barbarous, when they prevail.

The company consisted of pco le of several nations; but there
were above sixty of them more [ants or inhabitants of Moscow,
though of them some were Livonians; and to our particular satis-
faction tive of them were Scots, who appeared also to be men of
great experience in business, and of very good substance.

When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who were
five in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that is to
say, all the passengers except the servants, to a reat council, as
they called it. At this council every one depositeda certain quan-
tity to a common stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage
on the way, where it was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying
the guides, getting horses, and the like: and here they constituted
the 'ourney, as they called it, viz. they named captains and officers
to raw us all up, and give the word of command, in case of an
attack, and give every one their turn of command; nor was this
forming us into order any more than what we found needful upon
the way, as shall be observed.

In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a for-
tification against the Tartars; and a very great work it is, going
over hills and mountains in a needless track, where the rocks are
impassihle, and the precipices such as no enemy could ossibly
enter, or indeed climb 11 ), or where, if they did, no wall could, hinder
them. They tell us its eugth is near a thousand English miles, but
that the country is live hundred in a straight measured line, which
the wall bounds, without measuring the windings and turnings it
takes: it is about four t'athonrs high, and as many thick in some
places.

I stood still an hour, or thereabout, without trespassing our
orders (for so long the caravan was in passing the gate), to look at
it on every side, near and far 011', I mean that was within in view;
and the guide of our caravan, who had been extolling it for t 10 won-
der of the world, was miehl y eager to hear my opinion of it. I told
him it was a most excellinit thing to keep out the Tartars; which
he happened not to understand as I meant it, and so took it for a
compliment; but the old pilot laughed; "0. Senhor Inglese," sa 5
he, "you speak in colours."--" [11 colours! " said I; " what 0
you mean by that F "--" Why, you speak what looks white this
way, and black that way: gay one way, and dull another. You tell
him it is a good wall to keep out Tartars; you tell me by that, it is

ood for nothin but to keep out Tartars.' I understand you,
Lenhor Inglese; understand you; but Senhor Chinese understood
you his own way."-----" Well," says I, "Senhor, do you think it
would stand out an army of our country people, with a ood train
of artillery, or our engineers, with two com anies o miners?
Would not they batter it down in ten days, t at an army m' ht
enter in battalia; or blow it up in the air, foundation and all, t at
there should be no sign of it left? "--"Ay, ay," says he, " I know
that." The Chinese wanted mightily to know what I said, andI
gave him leave to tell him a few ays after, for we were then almost
out of their countr , and he was to leave us in a little time after
this; but when he ' ew what I said, he was dumb all the rest of
the way, and we heard no more of his fine story of the Chinese
power and greatness while he stayed.

After we passed this mighty nothing, called a wall, something like
the Picts' wall, so famous in Northumberland, built by the Romans,
we began to find the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather
confined to live in fortified towns and cities, as being subject to the
inroads and deprcdations of the Tartars, who rob in reat armies,
and therefore are not to be resisted by the naked inha itants of an
open country. And here I began to find the necessity of keeping
together in a caravan as we travelled, for we saw several troops of
'l'artars roving about; but when I came to see them distinctly, I
wondered more that the Chinese empire could be con uered by such
contemptible fellows; for they are a more horde of wild fellows,
keeping no order, and understanding no discipline or manner of
fight. Their horses are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and fit
for nothing; and this we found the first day we saw them, which
was after we entered the wilder part of the country. Our leader for
the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a hunting, as they
call it, and what was this but hunting of sheep: however, it may be
called hunting too, for the creatures are the wildest and swiftest of
foot that ever I saw of their kind; only they will not run a great
way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase, for they
a pear generally thirty or forty in a flock, and, like true sheep,
ways keep together when they fly.

Vl e were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore
the Tartars were not so bold as afterwards; but in about five days
we entered a vast, great, wild desert, which held us three days and
nights' march; and we were obliged to carry our water with us in
great leathern bottles, and to encamp all night, just as I have heard
thtiy do in the desert of Arabia.

asked our guides whose dominion this was in: and they told me
this was a kind of border, and might be called No Man's Land, being

U
a art. of Great Karakathay, or Grand Tartary; but, however, it was
at reckoned as belonging to China, but that there was no care taken
here to reserve it from the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was
reckonet the worst desert in the whole march, though we were to
go over some much larger.

in passing this wilderness, which was at first very frightful to me,
we saw, two or three times, little parties of the 'l'artars. Once, a
party of them came so near as to stand and gaze at us ; whether it
was to consider if they should attack us or not, we knew not ; but
when we were passed at some distance by them, we made a rear
guard of forty men, and stood ready for them, letting the caravan
pass half a mile or thereabouts before us: but after a while they
mareliedotl' ;only we. found they saluted us with fire arrows at their
parting, one of which wounded a horse, so that it disabled him, and
we left him the next day, poor creature, in great need of agood
farrier; they might. shoot more arrows, which might fall short of us,
but. we saw no more arrows or 'l'artars that time.

We travelled near a month after this, the ways not beinrr so good
asat first. though still in the dominions of the emperor of China, but
lay for the most part in villages, some of which were fortified,
because of the incursions of the 'l'artars. When we were come to
one of these towns (it was about two days and a half journey before
we were to come to the city of Name), I wanted to buy a camel, of
which there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that road, and
horses also, sncli as they are, because, so many caravans coming that
way, they are often wanted. The person that 1 spoke to, to get me
a camel, would have gone and fetched one for me; but I, like a fool,
must be otfieious, and go myself along with him: the place was about

two miles out of the Village, where it seems they kept the camels and

horses feeding under a guard.

I walked it on foot, with my old pilot and a Chinese, being very
desirous of a little variety. When we came to the place, it was a
low marshy ground, walled round with a stone wall, piled u ,
without mortar or earth among it, like a ark, with a little uard of
Chinese soldiers at the door. Having ought a camel, an reed
for the price, 1 came away, and the Chinese-man that went wit me
led the camel, when on a sudden came 11 five Tartars on horseback;
two of them seized the fellow and too the camel from him, while
the other three ste ped up to me and my old ilot, seeing us, as it
were, unarmed, forIl had no weapon about me Eat my sword, which
could but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that came
up sto ped short upon my drawing my sword, for the are arrant
cewar s ; but a second coming upon my left, gave me a blow on the
head, which I never felt till atterwards, and wondered, when I came
to myself, what was the matter, and where I was, for he laid me flat
on tie ground; but my never-failing old pilot, the Portuguese (30
Providence, unlocked for,- direets deliveranees from dangers which to_..., .4

mu.-- .w.-. ' i .

ADVENTURES or ROBINSON canson. 291

as are unforeseen), had a pistol in his pocket, which I knew nothing
of, nor the Tartars neither: if they had, I suppose they would not
have attacked us -, but cowards are a ways boldest when there is no
dan or. The old man seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped up
to t 1e fellow that had struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one
hand, and pullin him down by main force a little towards him with
the other, shot Iirim in the head, and laid him dead upon the spot.
He then immediately stepped up to him who had sto ped us, as I
said, and before he could come forward again, made a Iblow at him
with a scimitar which he always were, but missing the man, cut his
horse in the side of his head, out one of the ears oil" by the root, and
a great slice down by the side of his face. The goor beast, enraged
with the wound, was no more to be governed y his rider, though
the fellow sat well enough too, but away he dew, and carried him
quite out of the pilot's reach; and at some distance, rising upon his
hind legs, threw down the Tartar, and fell upon him.

In this interval, the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel,
but he had no weapon: however, seeing the Tartar down, and his
horse fallen upon him, away he runs to him, and seizin upon an ugly
ill-favoured weapon he had by his side, something 'kc a pole-axe,
but not a pole-axe neither, he wrenched it from him, and made shift
to knock his Tartarian brains out with it. But m old man had the
third Tartar to deal with still, and seeing he 'd not fly, as he
expected, nor come on to fight him, as he apprehended, but stand
stock-still, the old man stood still too, and fell to work with his tackle,

'to charge his pistol a 'n; but as soon as the Tartar saw the pistol,

away he secured, and eft my pilot, my champion I called him after-
wards, a complete victory.

By this time I was a httle recovered; for I thought when I first
began to wake, that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as I said
above, I wondered where I was, how I came upon the ground, and
what was the matter. But a few moments after, as sense returned,
I felt pain, though I did not know where; so I clapped my hand to
my head, and took it away bloody: then I felt my head ache; and
then, in a-momcnt, memory returned, and every thing was resent
to me again. I jumped upon my feet instantly, and got holdP of my
sword, but no enemies in view: I found a Tartar lie dead, and his
horse stan ' very quietlyl by him ; and, lookin further, I saw my
champion an deliverer, w 0 had been to see w at the Chinese had
done, coming back with his hanger in his hand: the old man, seeing
me on my feet, came running to me, and embraced me with a great
deal of Joy, being afraid before that I had been killed ; and seeing me
bloody, would see how I was hurt: but it was not much, only what
we call _a broken head; neither did I afterwards find any t
mconvemence from the blow, for it was well again in two ort ee

da 3.
Tile made no great gain, however by this victory, for we lost a
camel and gained a horse ; but that which was remarkable, when we
came back to the village, the man demanded to be paid for the
camel; 1 disputed it, and it was brought to a hearing before the
Chinese judge of the place. To give him his due, he acted witha
great deal of prudence and impartiality; and, having heard both
sides, he ravcly asked the Chinese man that went With me to buy
the came , whose servant he was? "I am no servant," says be,
"but went with the stranger."--"At whose request?" says the
justice. "At the stranger's request," says be. "Why, then,"
says the justice, " you were the stranger's servant for the time; and
the camel being delivered to his servant, it was delivered to him,
and he must pay for it."

I confess the thing was so clear, that I had not a word to
say: but, admiring to see such just reasoninnP upon the conse-

uence, and an accurate stating of the casc,'i paid willingly for
ilie camel, and sent for another; but, you may observe, 1 did
not go to fetch it myself any more, for 1 had enough of that.

The eitv ot' Naum is a frontier of the Chinese empire: they call

it fortified, and so it. is, as fortifications go there; for this I will
venture to allirm, that all the Tartars in Karakathay, which I
believe, are some millions, could not batter down the walls with
their hows and arrows; but to call it strong, if it were attacked
with cannon. would be to make those who understand it laugh at
You.
I We wanted, as I have said, above two days' journey of this city,
when messengers were sent express to every part of the road to tell.
all travellers and caravans to halt till they had a guard sent for
them; for that an unusual body of Tartars, makin ten thousand
in all, had appeared in the way, about thirty m' es beyond the
city.

This was very bad news to travellers; however, it was carefully
done. of the governor, and we were very glad to hear we should have.
again-d. Accordingly, two da 5 after, we had two hundred soldiers
sent us from a garrison of t e Chinese, on our left, and three
hundred more from the city of Naum, and with these we advanced
boldly, the three hundred soldiers from Naum marched in our
front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men on each side of our
camels, with our ha gage, and the whole caravan in the centre: in
this order, and wel? prepared for battle, we thought ourselves a
match for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had
apppeared; but the next day, when they did appear, it was quite
another thine. .

It was candy in the morning, when, marching from a well situated
little town, called Changu, we had a river to pass, which we were
ohli ed to ferry; and had the 'l'artars had any intelligence, then
had een the time to have attacked us, when the caravan being over,
the near guard was behind; but they did not appear there. About
three hours after, when we were entered upon a desert of about
fifteen or sixteen miles over, behold, by a cloud of dust the raised,
we saw an enemy was at hand; and they were at hand, in eed, for
they came on upon the spur.

The Chinese, our guard on the front, who had talked so big the
(la before, be an to stagger; and the soldiers frequently looked
be rind them, w rich is a certain sign in a soldier that he is just ready
to run away. My old pilot was of my mind; and, being near me,
called out, "Senhor Inglesc," says he, "those fellows must be en-
couraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the Tartars come on, they
will never stand it."--"I am of your mind," said I; "but what
must be done P"--" Done !" says he, " let fifty of our men advance,
and flank them on each wing, and eneour e them; and they will
fight like brave fellows in brave com any: at, without this, they
wrll every man turn his back. Imme 'atcly I rode up to our leader,
and told him, who was exactly of our mind; and accordingly fifty
of us marched to the right wmg, and fifty to the left, and the rest
made a line of rescue; and so we marched, leaving the last two
hundred men to make a body by themselves, and to guard the
camels: only that, if need were, they should send a hundred men
to assist the last fift .

In a word, the artars came on, and an innumerable com any
they were: how many we could not tell, but ten thousan , we
thought, was the least: a. party of them came on first and viewed
our osturc, traversing the ground in the front of our line; and, as
we ound them within gunshot, our leader ordered the two wings to
advance swiftly, and give them a salvo on each wing with their shot,
which was done; but they went off, and I suppose back, to give an
account of the race tion they were likely to meet with; and, indeed,
that salute cloyed t eir stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood
awhile to consrder of it, and wheeling off to the left, they gave over
their design, and said no more to us for that time; which was very
agreeable to our circumstances, which were but very indifferent for
a battle with such a number.

Two days after we came to the city of Naun, or Namn; we
thanked the governor for his care of us, and collected to the value
of a hundred crowns, or thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers
sent to guard us; and here we rested one day. This is a garrison,
indeed, and there were nine hundred soldiers kept here; but the
reason of it was, that formerly the Muscovite frontiers lay nearer to
them than they now do, the Muscovites having abandoned that art
of the country, which lies from this city west for about two hun red
miles, as desolate and unfit for use; and more especially being so
very remote, and so difficult to send troops thither for its defence;
PS131 :vde had yet above two thousand miles to Muscovy, properly so

After this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful
deserts; one of which we were sixteen days passing over; and
which, as I said, was to be called No Man's Land; and, on the 13th
of April, we came to the frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. I
think the first. town, or fortress, whichever it may be called, that
belonged to the Czar of Museovy, was called Argon, being on the
west side of the river Argnu.

I could not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so soon
arrived in, as I called it, a Christian country, or at least, in a coun-
try govemed by Christians; for though the M'uscovites do, in my
opimon, but just deserve the name of Christians, vet such they pre-
tend to be, and are very devout in their way. It would certainly
occur to any man who travels the world as I have done, and who had
any power of reflection, what a blesshrr it is to be brought into the
world where the name. of God and a Redeemer is known, adored and
worship )ed; and not where. the people, given up b lleuven to
strong delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate t icmsclves to
stocks and stones; worship monsters, elements, horrid-shaped ani-
mals, and statues or images of monsters. Not a town or city we
passed through, but had their pagods, their idols, and their temples.
and ignorant people worshi \ping even the works of their own hands.
Now we. eame where, at lleast, a face of the Christian worship
appeared ; where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and whether ignor-
ant ly or not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and the name of
the true God was called umn and adored, and it made my soul
rejoice to see it. 1 saluted 1 1e brave. b'eots merchant I mentioned
above with my first aeknowlratgment of this; and taking him by the
hand. I said to him, "Blessed be God, we. are once again amongst
Christians." He smiled, and answered, " Do not rejoice. too soon,
countryman! these Mnseorites are but an odd sort of Christians;
and but for the. name of it, you may see very little of the substance
for some months farther of our journey." " Well," says 1, " but
still it is better than paganism and worshipping of devils." "Why,
I will tell you," says he, "except the Russian soldiers in the gar-
risons, and a few of the inhabitants of the cities upon the road, all
the rest ol' this countr , for above a thousand miles further, is inha-

bited by the worst an most ignorant of pagans; " and so indeed we
found it.
ROUTE THROUGH MUSCOVY--ROIHNSUN AND A SCOTS MERCHANT
DESTROY AN [l)()1.--Tlll-2 WHOLE CARAVAN IN GREAT PERU.
FROM THE PURSUIT OF THE I'MiANS--TOBOLSKI--DEPARTURE
FROM TOBOLSKl--ENCOUNTER WITH A TRUOl' 01" ROBBERS IN
THE DESERT--ROBINSON REACIIES ARCHANGEL, AND FINALLY
AltllIVES IN ENGLAND.

W n were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if i
understand anything of the surface of the globe, that is to be found
in any part of the world; we had, at least, twelve hundred miles to
the sea, eastward; two thousand to the bottom of the Baltic sea.
westward; and above three thousand, if we left that sea and went
on west, to the British and French channels; we had full five thou-
sand milcs to the Indian or Persian sea, south; and about ei ht
hundred to the Frozen sea, north. Nay, if some people may be c-
licved, there might be no son, north-east, till we came round the
pole, and consequently into the north-west, and so had a continent
of land into America; though I could give some reasons whyr I be-
lieve that to be a mistake.

As we entered into the Muscovitc dominions a good while before
we came to an considerable towns, we had nothing to observe
there but this: 'rst, that all the rivers run to the east : as I under-
stood by the charts, which some in our caravan had with them, it
was lain all those rivers ran into the great river Yamour, or Amour;
whic 1 river, by the natural course of it, must run into the East Sea,
or Chinese Ocean. The story they tell us, that the mouth of this
river is choked up with bulrushes of a monstrous wth, viz. three
feet about, and twenty or thirty feet high, I must e allowed to say,
I believe nothing of it; but, as its navxgation is of no use, because
there is no trade that way, the Tartars, to whom it alone belongs,
dealing in nothing but cattle, so nobody, that ever I heard of, has
been curious enough to go down to the mouth of it in boats, or come
up from the mouth of it in ships, as far as I can find: but this is
certain, that this river, running cast, in the latitude of about fifty
degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers along with it, and finds an
ocean to empty itself in that latitude : so we are sure of sea there.

Some leagues to the north of this river there are several consider-
able rivers, whose streams run as due north as the Yamour runs
east, and these are all found to join their waters with the great river
Tartarus, named so from the northcrmost nations of the Mogul T -
tars; who, as the Chinese say, were the first Tartars in the world;
and who, as our geographers allege, are the Gog and Ma 0}: men-
tioned in sacred story. These rivers running all northwar , as well
as all the other rivers I am yet to s eak of, make it evident that the
northern ocean bounds the land aso on that side; so that it does
not seem rational in the least to think that the land can extend itself
to join with America on that side, or that there is not a communica-
tion between the northern and eastern ocean : but of this I shall say
no more; it was my observation at that time, and therefore I take
notice of it in this place.

We now advanced from the river Argun by easy and moderate
journeys, and were very visibly obliged to the care the Czar of Mus-
cory has taken to have cities and towns built in as many places as
it is possible to place them, where his soldiers keep garrison, some-
thing like the stationary soldiers placed by the Romans in the
remotcst countries of their em ire ; some of which that I had read
of were placed in Britain, for t 0 security of commerce, and for the
lodging travellers; and thus it was here: for wherever we came,
though at these towns and stations the garrisons and governors were
Russians and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were more
pagans; sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun, moon, and
stars, or all the host of heaven; and not only so, but were, of all the
heathens and 1h fvans that ever I met with, the most barbarous,
esceritdonly that t ey did not eat men's flesh, as our savages of Ame
neat: .

Some instances of this we met within the country between
Argun, where we enter the Muscovite dominions, and a city of
'l'artars and Russians together, called Nertzinskoi, in which is a
continued desert or forest, which cost as twenty days to travel
over. In a rill 9, near the last of these places, I had the curiosity
to go and sec aIieir wa of living, which is most brutish and in-
sufferable; they had ha , I suppose, a great sacrifice that day; for
there stood out, n on an old stump of a tree, an idol made of
wood, frightful as t 1e devil ; at least, as any t ' we can think of
to represent the devil can be made: it had a he not so much as
resembling any creature that the world ever saw; ears as bighkas
goats' horns, and as high ; eyes as big as a crown piece; a nose ' e
a crooked ram's-horn, and a mouth extended four-corned, like that
of a lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's under bill: it
was dressed up in the filthiest manner that you could suppose: its
upper garment was of shee -skins, with the wool outward; a great
Tartar bonnet on the hea , with two horns growing through it:
it was about eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, nor any other
pro ortion of parts.

his scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village; and,
when I came near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures,
whether men or women I could not tell, for they made no distinc-
tion by their habits, all lying flat u on the ground round this
formidable block of shapeless wood: saw no motion among them
any more than if the had been all logs of wood, like the idol, and
at first I really thong t they had been so ; but, when I came a little
nearer, they started up upon their feet, and raised a howling cry,
as if it had been so many deep-mouthed bounds, and walked away,
as if they were displeased at our disturbing them. A little way
off from the idol, and at the door of a tent or but, made all of
sheep-skins and cow-skins dried, stood three butchers,--I thought
they were such: when I came nearer to them, I found they had
long knives in their hands; and in the middle of the tent appeared
three shee killed, and one young bullock or steer. These, it seems,
were sacri ces to that senseless og of an idol; the three men were
priests belon in to it, and the seventeen prostrated wretches were
the people w 0 brought the offering, and were making their prayers
to that stock.

I confess, I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish
worship of a hobgoblin than ever I was at anything in my life;
to see God's most glorious and best creature, to whom he had

anted so many advantages, even by creation above the rest of
t e works of lllS hands, vested with a reasonable soul, and that
soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted both to honour
his Maker, and be honoured by him, sunk and degenerated to a
degree so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful not ' , a
mere im ' ob'ect, dressed up by themselves, and made tern 1e
to themse ves y t eir own contrivance, adorned only with clouts
and rags; and that this should be the efi'ect of mere ignorance,
wrought up into hellish devotion by the devil himself; who, envyinrr
to his Maker the homage and adoration of his creatures, had deluded
them into such sordid and brutish things as one would think should
shock nature itself!

But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts:
thus it was, and I sawit before my eyes, and there was no room to
wonder at it, or think it impossrble: all my admiration turned to
rage, and I rode u to the image or monster, call it what you will,
an with my swo made a stroke at the bonnet that was on its
head, and cut it in two; and one of our men that was with me took
hold of the shee -skin that covered it, and pulled at it; when,
behold, a most ideons outc and howling ran throughout the
village, and two orthree hun d people came about my cars, so
that I was glad to scour for it, for we saw some had bows and
arrows ; but. I resolved from that moment to visit them again.

Our caravan rested three ni hts at the town, which was about
four miles ed, in order to provi 0 some horses which they wanted,
several of the horses having been lamed and jaded with the baduess
of the way, and long march over the last desert; so we had some
leisure here to put my design in execution. I communicated my
project to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of whOse courage Iliad
suthcient test imony : I told him what 1 had seen, and with what indig-
ation 1 had since thought that human nature could be so degenerate:
I told him it' I could gel but four or five men well armed to go
with me, I was resolved to go and destroy that vilc,abominable idol,
and let them see that it had no power to help itself; and conse-
quently could not be an ob'ect of worship, or to be prayed to, much
less help them that offered saerillees to it.

He laughed at me: says he, " Your zeal may be good, but what
do you propose to yourself by it?"---" Propose l" said I ; "to
vindicate the honour of God, which is insulted by this devil-worship."
---" llut how will it vindicate the honour of God," said he, " while
the people will not be able to know what you mean by it, unless
you could speak to them, and tell them so? And then they will
light you, and beat you too, I'll assure you ; for they are desperate
fellows, and that especially in defence of their idolatry."---" Can we
not," said I, "do it in the night, and then leave them the reasons
and the causes in writing in their own language ?"--"Writing!"
said he; " why there is not a man in live nations of them that knows
anything of a letter, or how to read a word any way."--" Wrctched
ignorance!" said 1 to him: "however, I have a wreat mind to do
it; perhaps nature may draw inferences from it to atom, to let them
see. now brutish they are to worship such horrid things,"--"Look
you, sir," said be, "if your zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you
must. do it; but. in the next place, I would have you consider, these
wild nations of poo le are subjected by force to the Czar of Mus-
eovy's dominion, an if you do this, it is ten to one but they will
come. by thousands to the governor of Nertzinskoi, and demand
satisfaction; and if he cannot <<rive them satisfaction, it is ten to
one but they revolt; and it will occasion a new war with all the
Tartars in the country.

This, I confess, put new thou-dds into my head for awhile, but I
harped upon the. same string still; and all that day I was uneasy to
put my project in execution. Towards the evening the Scots
merchant met me" by accident in our walk about the town, and
desired tospeak with me: " I believe," said he, " I have put you ofl'
your gooddesign; I have beena little' concerned about it since : for I
abhor idolatr. as much as you can do."--" 'l'ruly," said I," you have
put it 011' a little, as to the execution of it, but you have not put it
out of .my thoughts : and I believe I shall do it before I quit this place,
though I wereto be delivered up to them for satisfaction."--" No, no,"
said he, "God forbid they should deliver you up to such a crew of
monsters! They shall not do that neither; that would be murdering
you indeed."--" Why," said 1, "how would they use me P"--" Use
you!" said he, "I'll tell you how they served a. poor Russian, who
afi'ronted them in their worshi , just as you did, and whom they took
prisoner, after the had lamed im with an arrow, that he could not run
away : they took rim and stripped him stark-naked, and set him upon
the top of the idol-monster, and stood all round him, and shot as many
arrows into him as would stick over his whole body; and then the burnt
him, and all the arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice to the i cl."--
" And was this the same idol?" said I. " Yes," said he, "the ve
samc."--"Wcll," said I, " I will tell you a story." So I relate
the story of our men at Mad ascar, and how they burnt and sacked
the village there, and kille man, woman, and child, for their
murdering one of our men, just as it is related before; and I added,
that I thought we ought to do so to this village.

He listened vcr attentively to the story; but when I talked of
doing so to that vil ago, said he, " You mistake very much; it was
not this village, it was almost a hundred miles from this place; but
it was the same idol, for the carry him about in procession all over
the eountry."--" Well," sai I, " then that idol ought to be punished
for it; and it shall," said I, "if I live this night out."

In a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and
told me I should not go alone, but he would go with me,
and bring a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go along with
us: " and one," said he, " as famous for lns zeal as you can desire
any one to be against such devilish things as these." In a word, he
brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom he called Captain
Richardson; and gave him a full account of what I had seen, and
also what I intended; and he told me readily, he would go with me
if it cost him his life. So we agreed to go, only we three. I had,
indeed, roposed it to my partner, but he declined it. He said he
was rea y to assist me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for
my defence; but this was an adventure quite out of his way: so,
I say, we resolved upon our work, only we three and my man-
servant, and to put it in execution that mght about midnight, With
all the secrecy imaginable. . _

However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to delay'lt till
the next night, because, the caravan being to set forward in the
morning, we supposed the governor could not pretend to 've them
any satisfaction upon us when we were out of lns power. he Scots
merchant, as steady in his resolution for the cute rise, asbeldm
executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or wn of s cc -sk1ns, and
abonnet, with abow and arrows, and h provided t 6 same for
himself and his countryman, that the people, if they saw us, should
not be able to determine who we were.
All the first night we spent in mixing u some combustible matter
with aqua vitae, gunpowder, and such ot icr materials as we could
get; and, having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about an
lO\ll' after night we set out upon our expedition.

We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and found
that the people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their
idol. The ni ht was cloudy; yet the moon gave us light cnou h to
see that the idol stood just in the same posture and place that it did
before. The people seemed to be all at their rest ; only, that in the
great hut, or tent, us we called it, where we saw the three priests
whom we mistook for butchers, we saw a light; and going up close
to the door, we heard people talking as if there were five or six of
them ; we concluded, therefore, that if we set wild-lire to the idol,
these men would come out immediately. and run up to the place to
rescue it from the destruction that we intended for it; uud what to
do with them we knew not. Once we thought of earryiutr it away
and setting fire to it. at a distauiee, but when we came to handle it,
we found it too bulky for our carriage; so we were at a loss again.
The second Scotsman was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and
knocking the creatures that were there on the head, when they
came out; but i, could not join with that; I was against killing
them, if it were possible to avoid it. "Well then," said the Scots
merchant, I will tell you what we will do: " we will try to make them
prisoners, lic their hands, and make them stand uud see their idol

cstroycd."

As it happened. we had twine or packthrcad enough about us,
which was used to tie our firweorks together with: so we resolved
to attack these peo lc first, and with us little~noise as we could.
The lirst thing we did, we knocked at the door, when, one of the
priests coming to it, we immediately seized upon him, stopped his
mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and led him to the ido , where
we gagged him that he might not make a. noise, tied his feet also
together, and left him on the round.

I'wo of us then waited at he door, expecting that another would
come out, to see what the matter was; but we waited so long till
the third man came back -to us; and then nobody coming out, we
knocked again gently, and immediately out came two more, and we
served them just in the same manner, but were obliged to go all
with them, and lay them down by the idol some distance from one
another; when, gomg back, we found two more were come out to
the door. and a third stood behind them within the door. We seized
the two, and immediately tied them, when the third stepping back,
and crying out, my Scots- merchant went in after him, and, taking
out a composition we had made, that \vould only smoke and stink,
he set fire to it and threw it in among them: by that time the
other Scotsman and my man, taking charge of the two men all-cad
bound, and tied together also by the armfled them away to the idol
and left them there to see if their idol would relieve them, making
haste back to us.

When the fuze we had thrown in had filled the hut with so much
smoke that they were almost suffocated, we then threw in a small
leather bag of another kind, which flamed like a candle, and follo '
it in, we found there were but four people, who, as we supposed,
been about some of their diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in
short frightened to death, at least so as to sit trembling and stupid,
and not able to speak neither, for the smoke.

In a word, we took them, bound them as we had done the other,
and all without any noise. I should have said we brought them out
of the house, or hut, first; for indeed we were not able to bear the
smoke any more than they were. When we had done this, we
carried them altogether to the idol: when we came there we fell to
work with him; and first we daubed him all over, and his robes also,
with tar, and such other stufl' as we had, which was tallow mixed
with brimstone; then we stopped his eyes and ears and mouth full
of gunpowder; then we wrapped up a great piece of wild-fire in his
bonnet; and then stieki the eombustibles we had brou ht with
us upon him, we looked a out to see if we could find an ling else
to help to burn him; when my Scotsman remembered t at by the
tent, or hut, where the men were, there lay a bus of dry for e,
whether straw or rushes I do not remember; away e and the at or
Scotsman ran and fetched their arms full of that. When they had
done this, we took all our prisoners, and brou ht them, havin
untied their feet and mgafiged their mouths, an made them stan
up, and set them before t eir monstrous idol, and then set fire to

the whole.
We stayed by it a smarter of an hour, or thereabouts, till the

powder in the eyes an mouth and ears of the idol blew up, and as
we could perceive, had split and deformed the she e of it; and in a
word, till we saw it burned into a mere block or 0g of wood; and
settin dry forage to it, we found that it would be soon quite con-
sume ; so we began to think of going away; but the Scotsman said:
" No, we must not go, for these poor eluded wretches will all
throw themselves into the fire, and burn themselves with the idol."
So we resolved to stay till the forage was burnt down too, and then
came awe and left them.

After 1'. e feat was performed, we appeared in the morning among
our fellow travellers, exceeding busy in tting ready for our Journey;
nor could any man suggest that we ha been an where but in our
beds, as travellers might be supposed to be, to t themselves for the
fatigues of the day's Journey.

But the afi'air did not en so: the next day came a great number
of the country people to the town gates, and in a most outrageous
manner demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor for the in-

sulting their priests, and burning their Cham Chi-Thaungu. The
peo 1c of Nertzinskoi were at first in a great consternation, for they
sai the 'l'artars were already no less than thirty thousand strong.
The Russian governor sent out messengers to appease them, and gave
them all the good words imaginable; assuring them that he knew
nothing of it, and that there had not a soul in his garrison been
abroad, so that it could not be from an body there; but it' the

could let him know who did it, they shoul be cxemplarilv punishe .
They returned haughtil , that all the country reverenced the great
Cham Chi-Thaungu, w 10 dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would
have dared to otter violence to his im 0 but some Christian miscre-
ant; and they therefore resolved to (enounce war against him and
all the Russians, who, they said, were miscreants and Christians.

The governor, still patient, and unwilling to make a breach, or to
have any cause of war alleged to be given by him, the Czar having
strictly charged them to treat the conquered country with gentleness
and cirilit y, gave them still all the good words he could. At last
he told them there was a caravan gone towards Russia that mom-
iug, and perhaps it was some 01 them who had done them this
injury ; and that it they would be satisfied with that, he would send
after them to inquire into it. This seemed to appease them a little;
and accordingly the governor sent after us, and gave us a particular
account how the thing was; intimatin withal, that if any in our
caravan had done it, they should make their escape; but that, whe-
ther we had done it or no, we should make all the haste forward
that was possible; and that, in the mean time, he would keep them
in play as long as he could.

This was very friendly in the overnor: however, when it came
to the caravan, there was nobody 'new anythin of the matter; and
as for us that were guilty, we were least of suspected. How-
ever, the eaptain of the caravan for the time took the hint that the
governor ave us, and we travelled two days and two nights without
any consi erable stop, and then we lay at a vill e called Plothus:
nor did we make any long sto here, but hastene on towards Jara-
wena, another of the Czar o Museovy's colonies, and where we
expected we should be safe. But 11 on the second day's march
from Plothus, by the clouds of dust be rind us at a great distance,
some of our peo le began to be sensible we were pursued. We had
entered a great esert, and had passed byagreat lake called Schanks
Osier, when we perceived a very great body of horse appear on the
other side of the lake, to the north, we travellin west. We
observed the went away west, as we did, but h supposed we
would have t on that side of the lake, whereas we very happily took
the south side; and in two da s more they disa peered ' : for
they, believin we were still be ore them, push on till t ey came
to the river SSdda, a very great river when it asses farther north,
but when we came to it we found it narrow auditor-dame.

The third day, they had either found their mistake, or had intelli-
genee of us, and came pouring in upon us towards the dusk of the
evenin . We had, to our great satisfaction, just itehed upon a
place or our camp, which was very convenient for tie night ; for as
we were upon a desert, though but at the beginning of it, that was
above five hundred miles over, we had no towns to lodge at, and, in-

deed, expected none but the city Jarawcna, which we had yet two
days' march to: the desert, however, had some few woods in it on
this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda;
it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick woods, that

we pitched our camp for that night, expecting to be attacked before
morning.

Nobod knew but ourselves what we were pursued for: but as it
was usu for the Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that
desert, so the caravans always fortify themselves every night against
them, as against armies of robbers ; and it was therefore no new
thing to be pursued.

But we had this night, of all the nights of our travels, a most
advantageous camp; for we lay between two woods, with a little
rivulet running just before our front, so that we could not be sur-
rounded, or attacked in any way but in our front or rear. We took
care also to make our front as stron as we could, by placing our
packs, with our camels and horses, in a line on the inside of the
river, and felling some trees in our rear.

In this posture we eneam ed for the night; but the enemy was
upon us before we had finis ed our situation. They did not come
on us like thieves, as we ex ected, but sent three messengers to us,
to demand the men to be elivcred to them that had abused their
priests, and burned their god Cham Chi-Thaungu with fire, that they
might burn them with fire ; and upon this, the said, they would go
away, and do us no further harm, otherwise t ey would destroy us
all. Our men looked very blank at this message, and began to stare
at one another, to see who looked with the most guilt in their faces:
but nobod was the word; Mendy did it. The leader of the caravan
sent wordy he was well assured that it was not done by any of our
camp; that we were peaceable merchants, travelling on our busi-
ness 3 that we had done no harm to them or to any one else; and
that, therefore, they must look further for their enemies who had
injured them, for we were not the people ; so desired them not to
disturb us, for, if they did, we shoul defend ourselves.

They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer; and a
great crowd of them came runmng down in the morning by break
of day, to our camp; but seeing as in such~an unaccountable situa-
tion, they durst come no farther than the brook in our front, where
they stood and showed us such a number that indeed temfied us
very much: for those that s eke least of them spoke of ten thou-
sand. Here they stood and ooked at us awhile, and then setting up
a great howl, they let fly a cloud of arrows among us; but we were
well enough fortified for that, for we sheltered under our baggage,
and I do not remember that one of us was hurt.

Some time after this, we saw them move a little to our right, and
expected them on the rear; when a cunning fellow, a Cossack of
Jarawcna, in the pay of the Muscovitcs, callin to the leader of the
caravan, said to him, " I'll go send all these peo e away to Sibeilka : "
this was a city four or five days' journey at east to the right, and
rather behind us. So he takes his bow and arrows, and gettin on
horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, as it were bac ' to
Nertzinskoi; after this, he takes a great circuit about, and comes
directly on the army of the Tartars, as if he had been sent ex ress
to tell them a long story, that the )eople who had burned the ham
Chi-Thaungu were gone to Sibeil'a, with a caravan of miscreants,
as he called them, that is to say, Christians; and that they had
resolved to burn the god Schal~Isarg, belon ing to the Ten ucses.

Asthis fellow was himself amere Tartar, and perfectlys oket ieir lan-
guage, he counterfeited so well, that they all took it rom him, and
away they drove in a most violent hurry to Sibeilka, which, it seems,
was five days' journey to the north; and in less than three hours
they were entirely out of our sight, and we never heard any more
of them, nor whether they went to Sibeilka or no. So we passed
away safely on to Jarawena, where there was a garrison of Museo-
vites, and there we rested five da s, the caravan being exceedingly
fatigued with the last days' har march, and with want of rest in
tne night.

From this city we had a frightful desert, which held us twenty-
three days' march. We furnished ourselves with some tents here,
for the better accommodating ourselves in the night; and the leader
of the caravan procured sixteen carriages, or waggons of the country,
for carrying our water or revisions; and these carri "es were our
defence, eve night, roun our little camp; so that he the Tartars
appeared, u ess they had been very numerous indeed, they would
not have been able to hurt us.

We may well be supposed to want rest again after this long jour-
ney: for in this desert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce a
bush; though we saw abundance of the sable-hunters, who are all
Tartars of the Mogul Tartar-y, of which this country is a part; and
they frequently attack small caravans, but we saw no numbers of
them together.

After we had passed this desert, we came into a country pretty
well inhabited; that is to say, we found towns and castles, settled
by the Czar of Museovy, wrth garrisons of stationary soldiers, to
protect the caravans, and defend the country against the Tartars,
who would otherwise make it very dangerous travellin ; and his
czarish majesty has given such strict orders for the we ardin
the caravans and merchants, that, if there are any Tartars eard o
in the country, detachments of the garrisons are always sent to see
the travellers safe from station to station. And thus the governor
of Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit to, by
means of the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him, ofi'ered
us a guard of fifty men, if we thought there was any danger, to the
next station.

I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe we
should find the country better inhabited, and the people more civil-
ized; but I found myself mistaken in both: for we had yet the
nation of the Tongueses to ass thro b, where we saw the same
tokens of aganism and bar arity as efore; only, as the were
conquered y the Muscovites, they were not so dangerous; ut for
rudeness of manners, and idolat , no peo le in the world ever went
beyond them : they are clothe all in 3 'ns of beasts, and their
houses are built of the same; you know not a man from a woman,
either by the ruggedness of their countenances or their clothes;
and in the winter, when the ground is covered with snow, they live
underground in vaults, which have cavities oing from one to an-
other. If the Tartars had their Chain Chi-T aungu for a whole vil-
l we or country, these had idols in every but and every cave: be-
sides, they worship the stars, the sun, the water, the snow, and, in a
word, every thing they do not understand, and they understand but
very little; so that every element, every uncommon thing, sets them
a sacrificing. I met with nothing eculiar to myself in all this
country, which I reckon was, from t e desert I spoke of last, at
least four hundred miles, half of it being another desert, which took'
us up twelve days' severe travelling, without house or tree; and we
were obliged again to carry our own provisions, as well water as
bread. After we were out of this desert, and had travelled two
days, we came to J anezay, a Muscovite city or station on the great
river Janezay (Yenisny), which, they told us there, parted Europe
from Asia.

Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in
the Moscovite garrisons; all the country between the river Oby and
the river Janezay is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous,
as the remotest of the Tartars; nay, as any nation in Asia or
America. I also found, which I observed to the Muscovite govern-
ment; which they acknowledged was true enough; but that, as they
said, was none of their busmess; that if the Czar ex ected to
convert his Siberian, Tonguese, or Tartar subieets, it shoul be done
by sending clergymen among them, not so diers; and they added
with more sincerity than I expected, that they found it wasnot so
much the concern of their monarch to make the people Christians as
it was to make them subjects. _ _

From this river to the eat river Oby, we crossed a Wild unculti-
vated country, barren 0 people and good management; other-
me it is in itself a most pleasant, fruit- ii], and agreeable country.
What inhabitants we found in it are all pagans, except such as are

x

r
sent among;r them from Russia; for this is the country, I mean on
both sides the river 0b , whither the Muscovite criminals that are
not put to death are banis led, and from whence it is next to impossible
the should ever come away.

{have nothing material to so of my articular affairs till I came
to Tobolski, the capital city of giberia, \v rere I continued some time
on the following occasion.

We had now been almost seven months on our journe , and
winter began to come on apace; whereupon m partner and called
a council about our articular affairs, in which we found it re er,
as we were bound to 'ngland, and not for Moscow, to eousidIdr on
to dispose of ourselves. They told us of rein-deer to carry us over
the snow in the winter time; and, indeed, they have such things
that it would be incredible to relate the particulars of, by which
means the Russians travel more in the Winter than they can in
summer, as in these sledges they are able to run night and day; the
snow being frozen, is one universal covering to nature, by which the
hills, vales, rivers, and lakes are all smooth and hard as a stone, and
the run upon the surface, without any regard to what is underneath.

ut I had no occasion to push at a winter journey of this kind; I
was bound to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways;
either I must go on as the caravan went, till Ieame to Jarcslaw, and
than go off west for Narva and the Gulf of Finland, and so to
Dantmc. where I mirrht possibly sell my China cargo to good advantage;
or I must leave the caravan at a httle town on the Dwina, from
whence I had but six days b water to Archangel, and from thence
might be sure of shipping eit nor to England, Holland, or Hamburgh.

Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been
preposterous: for as to Dantzic, the Baltic would have been frozen
up, and I could not get passage ; and to go by land in these coun-
tries was far less safe than among the Mogul Tartars; likewise, to
go to Archangel in October, all the ships would be gone from thence,
and even the merchants who dwell there in summer retire south to
Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone; so that I could
have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a scarcit of
provisions, and must lie in an empty town all the winter; so t at,
upon the whole, I thought it much my better way to let the caravan

, and make revision to winter where I was, at Tobolski, in
giberia, in the idtitude of about sixty de recs, where I was sure of
three thin s to Wear out a cold winter wit , viz. lenty of provisions,
such as tie country afforded, a warm house wit fuel enough, and
excellent company:

I was now in uite a difi'erent climate from my beloved island,
where I never fe t cold, except when I had my ague; on the con-
trgrdy, I had much to do to hear an clothes on my back, and never
in e any fire but without doors, w ieh was necessary for dressing
my food,&c. New I made me three good vests, with large robes
or gowns over them, to hang down to the feet, and button close to
the wrists; and all these lined with furs, to make them sufficiently
warm.

As to a warm house, I must confess I greatly disliked our way in
England of makin fires in eve room in the housein open chimneys,
wlncb, when the e was out, ways kept the air in the room cold
as the climate; but taking an apartment in a good house in the
town, I ordered a chimney to be built like a furnace, in the centre
of six several rooms, like a stove; the funnel to carry the smoke
went up one way, the door to come at the fire went in another, and
all the rooms were kept canally warm, but no fire seen, just as they
beat the b nios in Englan . By this means, we had alwa s the same
climate in a l the rooms, and an equal heat was preservedy; and how
cold soever it was without, it was always warm within; and yet we
saw no fire, nor were ever incommoded with smoke.

I had been here eight months, and a dark, dreadful winter I
thought it; the cold so intense that I could not so much as look
abroad without bein wra pad in furs, and a mask of fur before my
face, or rather a hoo , wit only a hole for breath, and two for sight;
the little daylight we had was, as we reckoned, for three months,
not above five hours a day, and six at most; only that the snow lying
on the ound continuall , and the weather clear, it was never quite
dark. 53'" horses were opt, or rather starved, underground, and
as for our servants, whom we hired here to look after ourselves and
horses, we had, every new and then, their fingers and tees to thaw
and take care of, lest they should mortify and fall elf.

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being close, the
walls thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our food was
chiefly the flesh of deer, dried and cured in the season; bread good
enough, but baked as biscuits; dried fish of several sorts, and some
flesh of mutton and of the bufi'aloes, which is (pretty good meat. All
the stores of provisions for the winter are lai up in the summer, and
well cured: our drink was water, mixed with aqua-vitae instead of
brandy; and for a treat, mead instead of wine, which, however, they
have excellent good. The hunters, who venture abroad all weathers,
fre uently brought us in fine venison, and sometimes bear's flesh, but
we id not much care for the last. We had a good stock of tea, with
which we treated our friends, and we lived very cheerfully and well,
all things considered.

It was now March 15 ; the days grown considerably longer, and the
weather at least tolerable; so the other travellers began to repare
sledges to carry them over the snow, and to gett ' r to be
going: but my measures be' fixed, as I have said, or Are 1,
and not for Museo or the B tie, I made no motion; knowing very _
well that the ships rem the south do not set out for that part of the
world till Ma or June, and that if I was there by the beginning of
August, it we dbeas soon as any ships would be ready to go away;
and therefore I made no haste to be gone, as others did: in a word,
I saw a great many people, any, all the travellers, go away before me.
It seems, every year they go from thence to Musco for trade, viz.
to carry furs, and buy necessaries, which the bringvback with them
to furnish their shops : also others went on t e same errand to Arch-
angel ; but then they all being to come backugain, above eight hun-
dred miles, went all out before me.

In the month of Ma I began to make all ready to pack up; I
had bought a considera le quantity of sablcs, black fox-skins, fine
crmines, and such other furs as are very rich, in that city, in exchan e
for some of the goods 1 had brought from China: in particular fort e
cloves and nutmegs, of which I sold the greatest part here, and the
rest afterwards at Archangel, for a much better price than I could
have got in London; and my partner, who was sensible of the profit,
mid whose business more particularly than mine was merchandise,
{Ir-as mightily pleased with our stay, on account of the traffic we made

ere.

It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place, a city,
I believe, little heard of in the world: and, indeed, it is so far out of
the road of commerce, that I know not how it should be much talked
of. We were now reduced to a very small caravan, having only
thirty-two horses and camels in all. We had now the worst and the
largest desert to pass over that we met with in our whole journey ;
1 call it the worst, because the. way was very deep in some places,
and very uneven in others; the best we had to say for it was, that
we thought we had no troops of Tartars or robbers to fear, and that
theyr never came on this side the river Oby, or at least but very
seldom ; but we found it otherwise.

We had just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which
in these parts is the boundary between Europe and Asia, and the first
city on the European side was called Soloy Kamskoi, which is as
much as to say, the great city on the river Kama; and here we
thought to see some evident alteration in the people; but we were
mistaken: for as we had a vast desert to pass, which is near seven
hundred miles long in some places, but not above two hundred miles
over where we assed it, so, till we came past that horrible place, we
found very little difference between that country and the Mogul Tar-
tary : the people are mostly pawans, and little better than the savages
of America; their houses and towns full of idols, and their way of
living wholy barbarous, except in the cities, as above, and the villages
near them, where they are Christians, as they call themselves, of the
Greek church; but have their religion mingled with so many relics of
superstition, that it is scarce to be known in some places from mere
sorcery and witchcraft. '

In passing this forest, I thought, indeed, we must (after all our
dangers were to our imagination escaped, as before) have been plun-
dered and robbed, and perhaps murdered, by a troop of thieves : of
what count they were I am yet at a loss to know, but they were
all on horse ack, carried bows and arrows, and were at first about
fort -five in number: they came so near to us as to be within two
mus et shots, and asking no questions, surrounded us with their
horses, and looked very earnestly upon us twice: at length they

laced themselves just in our way; upon which we drew up malittle
ine, before our camels, being not above sixteen men inall; and being
drawn up thus, we halted, and sent out a Siberian servant, to see
who they were. The man came up near them with a of truce,
and called to them; but though he spoke several of their es,
or dialects of languages rather, he could not understand a word t ey
said: however, after some si s to him not to come nearer to them,
at his peril, the fellow came ack no wiser than he went : only that
by their dress, he said, he believed them to be some Tartars of Kal-
muck, or of the Circassian hordes, and that there must be more of
them upon the great desert, though he had never heard that any of
them were seen so far north before.

About an hour after, they again made a motion to attack us, and
rode round our little wood to see where they might break in; but
finding us always ready to face them, they went off again; and we
resolved not to stir for that night.

This was small comfort to us; however, we had no remedy: there
was on our left hand, at about a quarter of a mile distance, a little
grove, and very near the road: I immediately resolved we should
advance to those trees, and fortif ourselves as well as we could
there: for, first, I considered that t e trees would in a eat measure
cover us from their arrows; and, in the next place,t e could not
come to charge us in a body: it was, indeed, my old ortuguese
pilot who proposed it, and who had this excellency attending him,
that he was always readiest and most apt to direct and encourage us
in cases of the most danger. We advanced immediately, with what
speed we could, and gained that little wood; the Tartars, or thieves,
for we knew not what to call them, keeping their stand, and not
attempting to hinder us. When we came thither, we found, to our
great satisfaction, that it was a swampy piece of ground, and on the
one side a veg great spring of water, which running out in a little
brook was, a tt e fart er, joined by another of the like ,size ; and
was, in short, the source of a considerable river, called afterwards the
Wirtska: the trees which grew about this sp ' were not above two
hundred, but very large, and stood retty thic , so that as soon as
we got in we saw ourselves perfect y safe from the enemy,
they attacked us on foot.

hile we stayed here waiting the motion of the enemy some
hours, without perceiving they made any movement, our Portuguese,
with some help, cut several arms of trees half OE, and laid them
hangi across from one tree to another, and in a manner fenced us
in. A out two hours before night they came down directly upon
us; and though we had not perceived it, we found they had been
'oiucd by some more of the same, so that they were near fourscore

iorse; whereof, however, we fancied some were women. They
came on till they were within half shot of our little wood, when we
fired one musket without ball, and called to them in the Russian
tongue to know what they wanted, and bade them keep off: but
they came on with a double fury up to the wood side, not imagini
we were so barricaded that they could not easily break in. Our did

ilot was our captain, as well as our envineer, and desired us not to

re upon them till they came within pistol-shot, that we might be
sure to kill; and that when we did lire, we should be sure to take
"00d aim: we bade him give the word of command, which be
delayed so long, that they were some of them within two pikes'
length of us when we let it . We aimed so true that we killed four-
teen of them, and \vounde several others, as also several of their
horses; for we had all of us loaded our pieces with two or three
bullets at least.

They were terribly surprised with our lire, and retreated imme-
diately about one hundred rods from us, in which time we loaded our
pieces again, and seeing them keep that distance, we sallied out, and
catched four or live 01 their horses, whose riders we supposed were
killed; and coming u to the dead, we judged they were Tarters,
but knew not how t ey came to make an cxcursron of such a1-
unusual length.

We slept little, you may be sure, but 5 eat the most part of the
night in strengthening our situation, andpbarrieading the entrances
into the wood, and keeping a strict watch. We waited for daylight,
and when it came, it gave us a very unwelcome discovery, indeed;
for the enemy, who we thought were discouraged with the reception
they met with, were now greatly increased, and had set up eleven or
twelve huts or tents, as if the were resolved to basic e us; and
this little camp they had pitehe upon the 0 en plain, a out three
girarters of a mile from us. We were in eed surprised at 'his

'scovery; and now, I confess, I gave myself over for lost, and all
that I had; the loss of my efi'ects did not lie so near me, though
ver considerable, as the thoughts of falling into the hands of such
bar arians, at the latter end 0t my journey, after so many difiieulties
and hazards as I had gone throu h, and even in sight of our port,
where we expected safety and eliveranee. As to my partner, he
was raging; and declared that to lose his goods would be his ruin,
and that 8 would rather die than be starved; and he was for
fighting to the last drop.

We spent the da in debates of what we should do; but towards
eveni we found t at the number of our enemies still increased, and
we dill? not know but by the morni they mi ht be a still greater
number: so I began to enquire of xiiose peoifie we had brought
from Tobolski, if there were no private ways, by which we might

\
avoid them in the night, and perha s retreat to some town, or get
help to guard us over the desert. he Siberian servant, told us, if
we designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would eng to carry
us off in the night, to a way that went north, town-fig: the river
l'etrou, by which he made no question but we might et away, and
the Tartars never the wiser. I told him that if he thou ht it
possible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing else to 0 but
to attempt it, and we immediately prepared for putting it in
practice.

And, first, as soon as it be to be dark, we kindled a fire in our
little camp, which we kept urni , and rcpared so as to make it
burn all night, that the Tartars mig it conc ude we were still there ;
but as soon as it was dark, and we could see the stars (for our guide
would not stir before), having all our horses and camels ready
loaded, we followed our new guide, who I soon found steered
himself by the north star.

After we had travelled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter
still; not that it was quite dark all night, but the moon began to
rise, so that, in short, it was rather lighter than we wished it to be;
but by six o'clock the next mornim we were got above thirty miles,
havin almost spoiled our horses. ere we found a Russian villagp,
name Kermanzinskoy, where we rcsted, and heard nothing of t e
Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hoursbel'ore night we set
out again, and travelled till eight the next morning, tliough_not
quite so hard as before; and about seven o'clock we passed a little
river, called Kirtza, and came to a ood large town inhabited by
Russians, called Ozomys: there we fireard that several troops of
Kalmucks had been abroad upon the desert, but we were now com-

letely out of danger of them, which was to our great satisfaction.

ere we were obliged to get some fresh horses; and havmg need
enough of rest, we stayed five days; and my partner and I agreed to
give the honest Siberian who had brought us thither the value of
ten pistoles, .

In five days more we came to Veuslima, upon the river Witzogda,
and running into the Dwina; we were there, very happily, near the
end of our travels by land, that river being navigable, in seven days'
pass e, to Archangel, From hence we came to Lawrenskoy the 3d
of Ju ; and pronding ourselves with two lug boats,_ and a
barge or our own convenience, we embarked the th, and arrived all
safe at Archangel the 18th; having been a year, five months, and
three days on the journey, including our stay of eight months
at Tobolski. We were obliged to stay at this place at: weeks
for the arrival of the ships, and must have tamed longer, had
not an Hamburgher come in above a month sooner than any of the
English ships: when after some consideration that the art of
Hamburg hthapentobeasgoodamarket for onrgo as
London, we too freight with him.
We then set sail from Arehan cl the 20th of August, the same
year; and after no extraordinary ad voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe
the 18th of September. Here my partner and 1 found a very good
sale for our goods, as well those of China, as the sables, Sac. of
Siberia; and dividing the produce. my share amounted to three
thousand four hundred and seventy-live pounds seventeen shillings
and three )ence, including about six hundred pounds worth of
diamonds wlhich ] purchased at Bengal.

To conclude, having stayed near four months in Hamburgh,
I came from thence hy land to the. Hague, where I embarked in the

acket, and arrived in London the tenth of January, 1705, having
liven absent from l'lngland ten years and nine months. And here I
am, preparing for a longer journey than all these, having lived a
a life of inlinite variety seventy-two years, and learned snllicientl to
know the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending our ays
in peace.Beautifully lllustrated and Well Selected Books for
Young People,

OF A MOST INS'I'BUCTIVE AND ENTERTAINING CHARACTER.
WDLISIE'D BY

WARD &. LOCK, 158 FLEET STREET

1

LONDON.

 

WARD 8 LOOKS WELL-Twill SERIES

offloleetlllustrntod

THREE-AND-SIXPENNY

V0 LU M ES.
Suitable for Presents and School Prizes,

ondespocinllyndnptodtorYoungP ie.
Each volume beautifully illustrn. 1.

well printed, efficiently edited. and
handsomely bound in extra. cloth, gilt
sides, hook. and edges.

1. THE WONDERS of the WORLD,

in Earth, Son. and , es relstcd to
his Young Friends. yUncnn JOHN.

. FIFTY CELEBRATED MEN- their
Lives and Trials, and the Deals that
made them hmoue. Illustrated with
numerous Engmvlngs on Wood.

:1. FIFTY CELEBRATED WOMEN;
their Virtues and Fillings. and the
Lessons of their Lives. Illustrated
with numerous Wood Engmvinge.

-i. THE LIFE AND SURPRISING
ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON

IO

CBUSOE. of York, Horlner. By
DANIEL Duos. With 3310 hicnl
Sketch of the Author. Em shed

with n.
on We .
. THE HISTORY o! SANDNRD and
MER'I'ON. By Tnonns Dlir. Illus-
tmted with 100 Engraving: by the
Brothers Dunn.
G. A BOY'S LIFE ABOARD SHIP, as
it is Told by Himself. Full of Ad-
venture and During Deeds.

7. LIFE IN A WEALER; or, Perils
and Adventures in the Tropical Seas.
By Sam: (lunar.

a. GREAT mvnmens; the Sources
of their Usefulness ad the mm.
of their Eflorh. Embellished with

numerous Engravinge.

9. HOUSEHOLD STORIES. Collected
by the there Gull; to which is
sdded, " e Caravan" an Eastern
Tale. By Winn! hm". Pro-

number 01 Engravings

(.1

Wm m Loox, 158 Fmr 8mm, LONDON.

{us illustrated with Wood En-
nis" tom Designs by eminent

10. THE "VELS o! NATURE; or.
gntlilul $1 deg{Inge-"flan. By linens
ores. Engravincs th
Brothers Dunn. y o

EVENINGS AT HOME. or. the
J uvenilo Dudseto enod. donsisting
of n. Varietal collnneous Pieces
for the Inn etion and Amusement
of You Persons. By Dr. [inns
and Mrs. ARI/WM).

12. THE BOYS BOOK OF INDUS-
TRIAL INFORMATION. By ELIRIM
Norcn. With 865 Engmvings by the
Brothers Dmmn.

13. FERN LEAVES from FANNY'S
PORTFOLIO. First and Second
Series. complete. Beautiful] Illus-
trated with page and other 'ngnw-
xngs.

14. BUNYAN'S MEN'S PRO-
GRESS from this World to that
which is to come. A new Edition.
with o Memoir. Illustrated with 100
Ens'rovings by the Brothers Dunn.

ll.

 

Now ready, o Bountiful Gilt-Book for

All Sessons,

PEARLS FROM THE POETS;

A Collection of ens of the Works
of Celebrutedw , with Bbfimfilncfll
Notices. The Poems selected y . W.
Duncnx, Ph.D., ILL, with o Preface
by the Rev. 'I'loxu Dun, M.A..Cnnon
0 St. Paul's. Feop.4to, superbly Illus-
trated, and printed on toned t'Baper
Elegant? bound in extn cloth, 1 gilt
side on edges. 12-. ; ditto, morocco

ole t 1: 21s.

Jami; e: 33$":th those so>>
tionshubeenexsentedvithoonsidsr-
sbletutesndhnowlodsooithsbrieier

woman-www.--BEAUTll-'ULLY ILLUSTRATED Boons roa Youxo PEOPLE.

 

Just ready. price 5s.. plain; coloured
)icturcx, price 9.1., a New Sunday Book
tor Children,

HALF-HOURS WITH THE
BIBLE;

Or. Scri taro Scenes and Characters:
tltNCVilit'l in a simple and attractive
form. suitable for young; people; beau-
tifully and profusely illustrated with
lingrariugu. Post are. cloth wilt. A
iirstd'nto Bible History for children.
duly divided and carefully epitomised.
('uuuueuciug with a short narrative of
t he Creation, the book carries the reader
through the history of the Patriarchs.
and describes the career of Moses and
t he wanderings of the children of Ismol.
The story of the Judges, Kings, and
Prophets in Israel follow next, and the
hintory of the Life of our Saviour and
t he career of the Apostles concludes this
admiral-lo " Children's Bible Book." The
Illustrations exceed 150 in number. and
are in a high style of art. and the book
altogether bears conclusive evidence of
the rare bestowed upon every depart-
ment in its production.

" Parents owe a debt of gratitude to
the author of ' llumny Sundn 's' for the
most interesting: manner wit l which he
narrates the Bible :tory in this lovely
little volume. and to Messrs. Ward and
Lock for the slrle in which it has been
illustrated and printed. We most
heartily recommend this charming book
to all remens interested in the welfare
or ('llllt ren; and in the interest of little
he 's and girlx, bespeak for it alarge cir-
cu ution."--Nmrcasllc Daily Chronicle.

New Edition, just ready, price 125. 6d.,

SABBATH BELLS CHIMED BY

TH E POETS.
" Sundays observe: think when the
bells do chime.
"I'is angels' music." ,
---Gr.eaas Hanna-r.
Quarto, illustrated with Coloured En-

gravings. by Bxaxn'r FOSTER. Extra
cloth silt, and gilt edges.

An INTERESTING BOO'K for BOYS.
Post Svo, 424 pp., cloth gilt, price 55.,

THE BOY'S OWN SEA STORIES;

Being the Adventures of a Sailor in the
Navy. the Merchant Service, and in a
Whalin Cruise. Narrated by Himself.
Illustra ed with numerous Page En-

gravings.

 

 

 

THE BEST BOOK FOR BOYS.
37-1 m>>, cloth gilt, 53.,

THE BOYS' HANDY-BOOK

OF SPORTS. PASTIMES, GAMES,
AND AM USEMENTS.

A close- aeked oneyelopmdia' of into
resting t rings {or the Boysof Britain. It
comprises Out-door Games and Amuse-
mums--Gymnastic Exercises, Swim-
ming: and Archery--Pla'aoom Games
and Evening Sports, Ri (Des, Permits,
kc.--'i'he Sea Side, its Amusements and
pursuits--All about Horses and Horse-
iiuuislnp--Gardening--Criekot and other
Ball Games--h'anm'nrd Pets--House-
hold Pets. Rabbits, Squirrels, Gold Fish,
Silk Worms, Guinea Pigs, and Singing
Birds--Country Pleasures and Pursuits
--Chcss and Draughts--General Sub-
jects. down to the last invention, in-
cluding Croquet.

"A better hook oi' the kind we have
not seen for many a. (lay."--Alhcnannn,
May 23, 1863.

With 300 Engravings by the Brothers

Dulzicl, cloth, gilt edges, price 65.,

OUR FAVOURITE FAIRY TALES.

Edited by H. W. Dumas. With de-
mgnu by l'hiz. Harvely, Absolon. Dquiel.
Pasqnier, McConnel . and Weir. The

tales are fluently told, and beautifully
illustrated.

 

Just ready,

OUR NURSERY STORY BOOK.

Post Svo. 290 Illustrations by the leading
artists of the day. Engraved by Damn-2r.
Brothers. Extra cloth, gilt. 5s. ; ditto.
coloured pictures, gilt edges, 75. 6d.
The best book of its kind.

JOHNSON AND WALKER SUPER-

SEDED.
WEBSTER'S POCKET PRO-
N OUNCING DICTIONARY OF

THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.

Condensed from the Ori 'nal Dictionary
by Nora: Wnnsrsu, L .1). With Ac-
centuated Vocabularies of Classical.
Scriptural. and Modern Geographical
Names. Containing 10,000 more words
than WALKER-'8 Dictionary. Revised
Edition. by WILLIAM G. Wanner.
Royal lemo. cloth gilt, 23. 6d. : or
strongly bound in roan gilt, 85.; ditto,
$033 ls. 6d.; morocco lunp, gilt edges,
'.' Ditto, ditto, cloth boards, 1:.

 

Wane AND Locx, 158 FLEET STREET, LONDON.
Nrw sun Ussrur. BOOK ron Scuoons,
Fsmmss, sun Sunr-Lssassas.

Second Edition, just ready, price 5s.

THE DICTIONARY OF EVERY-
DAY DIFFICULTIES IN READ-
ING. WRITING AND SPEAKING
THE ENGLISH' LANGUAGE; or.
Hard Words Made Ens .

A complete E items of aluahle Ex-

)lunations am Definitions of Difllcult

'n lish and Forel Words, Phrases,
am Expressions. th the Correct Pro-
nunciation of each Word. B Eewsun

Slil-ZL'I'ON. Author of the " istorical

Finger-Pest ; " Assistant Editor of "The

Dictionary of Daily Wants," " Hints

and Helps for Every-Day Emergencies,"

kc, 364 pp. crown 8vo., half-bound.

" The value of this work is not to be
over-estimated. and we may safely re-
commend our readers to put themselves
in (Possession of a copy of it."--Uum-
ln-i ye Chronicle and University Journal.

Just ready, price 38. 6d.,

NOAH WEBSTER'S IMPROVED
PRONOUNCING DICTIONARY OF
THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.

Condensed and adapted to English Or-

thography and usage. with additions

from various accredited sources. By

Crunnss Bosses. To which are added

Accentuatcd Lists Of Scriptural, Classl-

cal, and Modern Goo iphical ropor

names. Feap.4to..l roan.lot red.
' ' This carefully revised edition of

Webster's great work was undertaken.

at considerable outlay, by the late David

Boguo. and embraces all the best points

of the English and American authorities.

It must supersede Johnson. Walker,

Smart, Worcester. and its other predo-

cessers. It is admirably adapted for

school use.

Tenth Thousand!

A NEW ILLUSTRATED BOOK FOR
THE YOUNG.

THE ILLUSTRATED WEBSTER
READER,

Containing Two Hundred Lessons on
general sub'ects, suited to the capacity
of Young arners, with Explanatory
Introduction, on the plan of Non!
annn. the Lexieogrs her. Embel-
lished with numerous rst-rate En-

vi' , from designs by eminent

nghs and Foreign Artists. Dem

8vo. 160 pp. cloth, gilt back and sides.
Price 1s. 6d.

THE MOST RECENT! Y COMPILED
ENGLISH DiC'l'sONARY,

New and Cheaper Edition.
WEBSTER'S UN VERSAL PRO-
NOUNCING AND DEFINING
DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH
LANGUAGE.

Condensed from Noah Webster's lame
Work, with numerous Synonyms, care-
fulLy disorimhiated. hy Cuwscxr A.
Common. D.D.. Professor in Yale
College. To which are added " Walker's
Ke ' to the I'mnuuehuion of Classical
am Scriptural Proper Names; l'hmsen
and Quotations from the Ancient and
Modern Inn ; Abbreviations used
in Writing, 3, &o. line. 614 pp. 1
s. ( .
Royal 8vo. half roan. 6Mpages...... 7 6
Strongly bound in russia, marbled

edges ......... ......... . ......... 15 6
Ditto, ditto, half-russia. ditto.. . ll 0
Ditto, ditto, ealf gilt. ditto .. . ll 4:
Ditto, ditto, half calf, ditto .. . 10 6

Sir This comprehensive work is beau-
tifull printed on good )aper, in a clear
and listinct type, in I euble columns,
and has had t e benefit of revision to
the resent time.

" I'his Dictionary is one which must
commend itself to every intelligent
reader. containing, as it does. all the
rocentl -ndo )ted words in common "no
up to t no on of last ear. Let us add,
it is carefully and we] tinted, and very
cheap; and having (1 so much, we
feel assured that further commendation
is unnecessary. It is ood, useful, and
cheap."--Liserpool Mai .

Ninetieth Thousand.

THE ILLUSTRATED WEBSTER
SPELLING-BOOK.

Demy 8m. embellished with upwards of
250 splendid Engraving, by Gilbert.
Harvey, Dalziol, and other eminent
artists. 128 pages. new and accented
ty )0. upon the rinciple of " Webster's
D ctionnry of t 0 English Language."
Price 13.; coloured, 1s. am; the same,
gilt edges, 2s.

Just ready, a New Child's Book of
Pictures.

THE CHILD'S OWN ALBUM.
In Pictures and Verse. of Favourite
Stories; which all may rehearse. Polio,
2B59ngravin .BytheBrothersDALzmn.
Printed on e paper. bonnie. splendid
wrapper in colours, 8s. 8d. ; ditto plates
beautifu coloured, t edges. 7s. 8d;
ditto. p ly ditto, re edges, 5s.

WARD m Locx, 158 FLEET Brass-r, LONDON.POPULAR WORKS BY ROBERT
SCOTT BURN. .

Just , new and revised edition,
emy Svo, cloth 23.,

THE ILLUSTRATED DRAWING
BOOK. By Ronsm' Econ Burm.
Illustmtcd with above 300 subjects
for study in every branch of tut.

Just reach, new edition. refined by the
Author. with 300 engravings, demy
8W, cloth, 33.,

THE ILLUSTRATED ARCHITEC-
TURAL. ENGINEERING. AND
MECHANICAL DBA'NG BOOK.
By Rom-2n!- Sccrr Bum.

Third and revised edition. with about

m Illustrations, doiuy 8vo, cloth, 23.,

MECHANICS AND MECHANISM.
By Ronnnr Scon- Buns.

Second edition, revised b the Author,
deiny 8vo, 200 119., 0th, 83.,

THE STEAM ENGINE; "8 318-
tory and Ncchnnism. Being De-
sciautioiis and Illustrations of the
Stationary. Locomotive, and Marine
Engine. By Roarin- Scon- Buns.

Now ready, price 2a., cloth gilt,

ORNAMENTAL AND ARCHITEO~
TURAL DESIGN. B RonEIrScorr
Buns. Author of " he Illustrated
Drawing Book." <<to. With neuly

300 Engravinga.

Now remb', price as. cloth. 2:. 6d. roan,

PRACTICAL DICTIONARY OF

ENGLISH SYNONY'MB. By D. L.
MACKENZIE. 216 pages, cloth gilt.

Complete in fiveuumbers, rice ls. each
new edition, just 33C/, I

THOMAS SYDNEY COOPER'S
DRAWING BOOK 0! ANIMALS

and RUSTIC GROUPS drawn from
Nature. Lithomphed by J. Sur-

currs. Oblong 4m.wmpB'er. Series
I. Animals. II. Farm 3 Imple-
III. Country Scenes.

 

 

meats. &c.
IV. Rustic Groups. V. Domestic

SONGS FOR THE LITTLE
ONES AT HOME.

Illustrated with 16 Coloured Pictureo,
by Bumm Poms andJonx Amount.

Bmuru'umr ILLUSTRATED Boone FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.

Small "0.. cloth gilt, and gilt eds".

Price 3:. ed.

Folio boards, in a hand-one
fin him 001 hall-boundrrm

"a. 6d; ditto, mama; coloured:

ms:

homo. portly eo-
THE CHILD'S F' .
<<rm . mous no

Plentytolo hotaud tolurn.
Upwards olu'm mafia many
pretty little Verne. M Storlel.

--.----.

Jult reach, 180 can 10-10
cloth gilt, plain, 611.; no cured, 53.3

A ROUND OF STORIES FOR
THE YOUNG AND GOOD.

Containi 136 spirited Engraving: b
eminent lXII-tints. y

Now 190 pages imperial IMO
extra 010 :plaln, 3a. 6a., coloured, 59.:

THE FAIRY ALBUM FOR GOOD
LI'l'l'LE FOLK,

Illustrated by 140 clever Engmvin b
the lending Artists of the day. 33 y

Now ready, 83. 6d. plain, 5i. coloured.

THE CHILD'S OWN BOOK OF
PICTURES, TALES, AND POETRY.

192 pages. numerous Pictures. En-
paved Title and Frontizpieco. Cloth
gilt and gilt edgel.

Just Published, prloe One Guinea,

THE BIBLE ALBUM:

03, SACRED TRUTH AS ILLUS-
TRATED BY THE POETB.

<<0.. numuou wings beautflully
tinted in mu. Evm. deg-m
Bound in cloth, mm, gilt side

'.' The above is one of the
handsome" Books ever pub-
lished. and in well united for
u. Gift-Book in School: And
Females.

CABINET PICTURES.
ByEminantModemArm.

Being 140 Ensuring- of .the
molt <<191:me b 1mm,
Kaolin. Webster. . I. . Turner,
Jim-is, Cope, Creswick Picker-will,
'nfimwmim Ewan, Johnotgflbgts.
co, . un u or
edBri Artist-Wrolloflmlf
olo , with illuctnted aides, h ,
published at 12m. ofi'ered at Van ;
cloth, ditto 1.58., ditto 9!.

 

 

 

Wm m L002, 168 FLEET anr, Lemmy.