ROBINSON CRUSOE

 

THE LIPPINCOTT CLASSICSCRUSOE

\

V V @ngfi

49-3310

INTRODUCTION BY ANGELO PATB!

ILLUSTRATIONS BY ROBERT BALLINTRODUCTION AND ILLUSTRATIONS COPYRIGHT, 1948,
BY J. B. LlPPINCOTT COMPANY. MANUFACTURED IN THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA BY H. WOLFF, NEW YORK.
DESIGNED BY HELEN GENTRY.
FIRST IMPRESSIONINTRODUCTION

 

ture's greatest record of the impossible
made possible and thediflioult made simple. It was written by Daniel
Defoe, "a middle-sized spare man . . . of a dark brown complexion
and dark'brown colored hair . . . ", an Englishman who lived be-
tween the years 1659 and 1731. For many years before he wrote
the book which was to make him famous, Defoe had a curious and
busy career as a reformer, soldier, politician and writer of innu-
merable pamphlets and articles on afiairs of the day. But always
his humor, imagination and extraordinary energy were aroused lay
a good story and as he listened his mind would color and en-
large upon it, making fact more vivid and fancy more believable.
One day a sailor, upon his return to his home in England, told
a tale that stirred Defoe's imagination as had no story he had ever
heard. The sailor, Alexander Selkirk, had been on a long voyage
that took him to the Pacific Ocean. He had had. serious troublc
udthhiseapMin,mdwasputqftheshipandkfldom on the
island of San Fernandez, which lies of the west coast of South
America, opposite Valparaiso. The ship sailed away and the
lonely sailor was left to work out his own salvation or die on the
tiny, isolated island. For four long years he sheltered, clothed and
fed himself, and succeeded in creating a way of life in a world
all his own.

The true story of Alexander Selkirk, the sailor, is exciting
enough and, thinking of it, Daniel Defoe began the first imme-
diately successful novel to be written in the English language. It
was published on April 25, I7Ig, ran into four editions between
April and August, was read and re-read, discussed and reviewed
in much the same way that a modern best--seller is treated.

Sometimes it is diflicult, and usually it is unwise, to attempt to
explain why a book lives on from one generation to another, treas-
ured by both young and old. Not so with Robinson Crusoe,
and, as you read, you will understand why. You will begin to
imagine what you would do if you were this man and then--before
you have thought of looking at the clock again--you will be Robin-
son Crusoe. 1" ou will feel the terror of the storm that leaves you
shipwrecked on a desolate island with no one there but yourself.
You will be horrified and in despair. You will have no clothes ~to
wear, no house to live in, no one to talk to or to help you, no way
to defend yourself from storm, earthquake and every kind of danger.
But on the other hand, you will know that you are alive and that
it is good to be alive. You will be glad for food that grows, and
a hot climate to live in. You will see none of the wild beasts you
feared to encounter, and you will be forever thankfitl to God for,/

 

INTRODUCTION ix
the miracle of the empy ship sent near enough for you to salvage
thingseithertosupplyyourwantsortoenableyou tosupplythem
fir yourself. '

You will have a dog, two cats and aparrot to live with. Ton
will store the supplies you have found, build yourself a home, tame
the wild goats that run wild about you, make clothes without cloth
or thread, a table and chair without hammer or nails, a fire with-
out matehes, a calendar without pen, paper or ink, eamfles without
wax, dishes without china or glass. And then one day, suddenly,
unexpectedl , you will come on a human fiohprint in the sand and
know that you are no longer alone!

Finally you will begin to understand what Daniel Defoe meant
when he said time and again in difl'erent ways: "The height of
human wisdom is to bring our tempers down to our circumstances
and to make a calm within before the weight ofthe greatest storm
without."

A N o n L o P A 'r n Iwas born in the year 1632, in the
>> city of York, of a good family, though
not of that country, my father being a foreigner, of Bremen,
who settled first at Hull: he got a good estate by merchan-
dise, and leaving off his trade, lived afterward at York; from
whence he had married my mother, whose relations were
named Robinson, a very good family in that country, and
from whom I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by the
usual corruption of words in England, we are now dulled--
nay, we call ourselves, and write our name--Crusoe; and so
my companions always called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-
colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly
commanded by the famous Colonel Lockhart, and was killed
at the battle near Dunkirk against the Spaniards. What be-
came of my second brother I never knew, any more than my
father and mother knew what was become of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any
trade, my head began to be filled very early with rambling
thoughts: my father, who was very ancient, had given me a
competent share of learning, as far as house-education and

3
a country free-school generally go, and designed me for the
law; but I would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea;
and my inclination to this led me so strongly against the will,
nay, the commands, of my father, and against all the en-
treaties and persuasions of my mother and friends, that there
seemed to be something fatal in that propension of nature,
tending directly to the life of misery which was to befall me.
My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious and ex-
cellent counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He
called me one morning into his chamber, where he was con-
fined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with me
upon this subject: he asked me what reasons, more than a
mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving my father's
house and my native country, where I might be well intro-
duced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune by ap-
plication and industry, with a life of ease and pleasure.
He told me it was men of desperate fortunes on one hand,
or of aspiring, superior fortunes on the other, who went
abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and make
themselVes famous in undertakings of a nature out of the
common road; and these things were all either too far above
me, or too far below me; that mine was the middle state, or
what might be called the upper station of low life, which he
had found, by long experience, was the best state in the
world, the most suited to human happiness, not exposed to
the miseries and hardships, the labor and sufferings of the
mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed with the
pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the upper part of man-
kind. He told me, I might judge of the happiness of this state
by this one thing, viz., that this was the state of life which all _My Father's Advice 5

other people envied; that kings have frequently lamented
the miserable consequence of being born to great things,
and wished they had been placed in the middle of the two
extremes, between the mean and the great; that the wise
man gave his testimony to this, as the standard of felicity,
when he prayed to have neither poverty nor riches.

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most af-
fectionate manner, not to play the young man, nor to precipi-
tate myself into miseries which nature, and the station of
life I was born in, seemed to have provided against; that I
was under no necessity of seeking my bread; that he would _
do well for me, and endeavor to enter me fairly into the sta-
tion of life which he had been recommending to me; and
that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it must be
my mere fate or fault that must hinder it; and that he should
have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty
in warning me against measures which he knew would be to
my hurt; and to close all, he told me I had my elder brother
for an example, to whom he had used the same persuasions
to keep him from going to the Low Country wars, but could
not prevail, his young desires prompting him to run into
the army, where he was killed; and though he said he would
not cease to pray for me, yet he would venture to say to me,
that if I did take this foolish step God would not bless me,
and I should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having
neglected his counsel, when there might be none to assist in
my recovery.

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was truly
prophetic, though I suppose my father did not know it to
be so himself; I say, I observed the tears run down his face
very plentifully, especially when he spoke of my brother who
was killed; and that when he spoke of my having leisure to
repent, and none to assist me, he was so moved that he broke
off the discourse, and told me his heart was so full he could
say no more to me.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, and, indeed,
who could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think of going
abroad any more, but to settle at home according to my
father's desire. But alas! a few days wore it all off; and, in
short, to prevent any of my father's further importunities,
in a few weeks after, I resolved to run quite away from him.
However, I did not act quite so hastily as the first heat of my
resolution prompted, but I took my mother at a time when
I thought her a little more pleasant than ordinary, and told
her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the
world, that I should never settle to anything with resolution
enough to go through with it, and my father had better give
me his consent than force me to go without it; that I was
now eighteen years old, which was too late to go apprentice
to a trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure if I did I
should never serve out my time, but I should certainly run
away from my master before my time was out, and go to sea;
and if she would speak to my father to let me go but one
voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did not like it, I
would go no more; and I would promise, by a double dili-
gence, to recover that time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion; she told me she
knew it would be to no purpose to speak to my father upon
any such subject; that if I would ruin myself, there wasno
help for me; but _I might depend I should never have their
consent to it; that for her part, she would not have so much
hand in my destruction; and'I should never have it to say
that my mother was willing when my father was not. Though
my mother refused to move it to my father, yet as I have
heard afterward, she reported all the discourse to him, and
that my father, after showing a great concern at it, said to
her, with a sigh:

"That boy might be happy if he would stay at home; but
if he goes abroad, he will be the miserablest wretch that ever
was born: I can give no cement to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose,
though, in the meantime, I continued obstinately deaf to
all proposals of settling to business, and frequently expostu-
lated with my father and mother about their being so posi-
tively determined against what they knew my inclinations
prompted me to. But being one day at Hull, where I went
casually, and without any purpose of making an elopement
at that time; but, I say, being there, and one of my com-
panions being about to sail to London in his father's ship,
and prompting meao go with them with the common allure-
ment of seafaring men, viz., that it should cost me nothing
for my passage, I consulted neither father nor mother any
more, nor so much as sent them word of it; but leaving
them to hear of it as they might without asking God's blessing
or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances
or consequences, and in an ill hour God knows, on the ist of
September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for London.

Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe, be-8 ROBINSON Causon

gan sooner, or continued longer, than mine. The ship was
no sooner gotten out of the Humber, but the wind began to
blow and the waves to rise in a most frightful manner; and,
as I had never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sick in body, and terrified in mind. I began now seriously
to reflect upon what I had done, and how justly I was over-
taken by the judgment of Heaven for my wicked leaving my
father's house, and abandoning my duty; all the good coun-
sels of my parents, my father's tears and my mother's en-
rreaties, came now fresh into my mind, and my conscience,
which was not yet come to the pitch of hardness to which it
has been since, reproached me with the breach of my duty
to God and my father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea, which I
had never been upon before, went very high, though nothing
like what I have seen many times since; no, nor what I saw
a few days after: but it was enough to affect me then, who
was but a young sailor, and had never known anything of
the matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed us
up, and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought, in
the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more;
in this agony of mind, I made many vows and resolutions,
that if it would please God to spare my life in this one voyage,
if ever I got once my foot upon dry land again, I would go
directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship again
while I lived; that I would take his advice, and never run
myself into such miseries as these any more. Now I saw
plainly the goodness of his observations about the middle
station of life, how easy, how comfortably he had lived allAfter the Storm 9

his days, and never had been exposed to tempests at sea, or
troubles on shore; and I resolved that I would, like a true
repenting prodigal, go home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while
the storm lasted, and indeed some time after; but the next
day the wind was abated, and the sea calmer, and I began
to be a little inured to it: however, I was very grave for all
that day, being also a little sea-sick still; but toward night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charm-
ing fine evening followed; the sun went down perfectly clear,
and rose so the next morning; and having little or no wind,
and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as
I thought, the most delightful that ever I saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea-
sick, but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea
that was so rough and terrible the day before, and could be
so calm and so pleasant in so little a time after. And now,
lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion,
who had enticed me away, comes to me.

"Well, Bob," says he, clapping me upon the shoulder,
"how do you do after it? I warrant you were frightened
wer'n't you, last night, when it blew but a mpful of wind?"

"A capful d'you (all it?" said I; " 'twas a terrible storm."

"A storm, you fool you," replies he; "do you (all that a
storm? why, it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship and
sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squall of wind as
that; but you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob: come, let us
make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that; d' e see what
charming weather 'tis now?"
To make short this sad part of my story, we went the old
way of all sailors; the punch was made, and I was made half-
drunk with it; and in that one night's wickedness I drowned
all my repentance, all my reflections upon my past conduct,
all my resolutions for the future. In a word, as the sea was
returned to its smoothness of surface and settled calmness by
the abatement of that storm, so the hurry of my thoughts
being over, my fears and apprehensions of being swallowed
up by the sea being forgotten, and the current of my former
desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises
that I made in my distress. I found, indeed, some intervals
of reflection; and the serious thoughts did, as it were, en-
deavor to return again sometimes; but I shook them off, and
roused myself from them, and applying myself to drink and
company, soon mastered the return of those fits--for so I
called them; and I had in five or six days got as complete a
victory over conscience as any yOung fellow that resolved not
to be troubled with it could desire. But I was to have another
trial for it still.

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth
Roads; the wind having been contrary, and the weather
calm, we had made but little way since the storm. Here we
were obliged to come to an anchor, and here we lay, the wind
continuing contrary for seven or eight days.

We had not, however, ridden here so long, but we should
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh,
and, after we had lain four or five days, blew very hard. How-
ever, the Roads being reckoned as good as a harbor, the
anchorage good, and our ground-tackle very strong, our men
were unconcerned and not in the least apprehensive of dan-Yarmouth Roads 11

get, but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner
of the sea; but the eighth day, in the morning, the wind in-
creased, and we had all hands at work to strike our topmasts,
and make everything snug and close, that the ship might ride
as easy as possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed,
and our ship rode iorecastle in, shipped several seas, and we
thought once or twice our anchor had come home; upon
which our master ordered out the sheet-anchor, so that we
rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered out to
the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I
began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of the
seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant in the busi-
ness of preserving the ship, yet as he went in and out of his
cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself say, several
times, "Lord, be merciful to usl we shall be all lost; we shall
be all undone!" and the like. During these first hurries I was
stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the steerage, and
cannot describe my temper. I could ill resume the first peni-
tence which I had so apparently trampled upon, and hard-
ened myself against. I thought the bitterness of death had
been past; and that this would be nothing like the first. But
when the master himself came by me, as I said just now, and
said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully frighted. I got up
out of my cabin, and looked out; but such a dismal sight
I never saw: the sea went mountains high, and broke upon
us every three or four minutes; when I could look about, I
could see nothing but distress round us; two ships that rode
near us, we found, had cut their masts by the board, being

deep laden; and our men cried out, that a ship which rode '
about a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two more ships,
being driven from their anchors, were run out of the Roads
to sea, at all adventures, and that with not a mast standing.
The light ships fared the best, as not so much laboring in the
sea; but two or three of them drove, and tame close by us,
running away with only their spritsail out before the wind.
Toward evening the mate and boatswain begged the master
of our ship to let them cut away the foremast, which he was
very unwilling to do; but the boatswain protesting to him,
that if he did not, the ship would founder, he consented, and
when they had cut away the foremast, the mainmast stood
so loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged to
cut her away also, and make a clear deck.
'll--'= _. "any ONE may judge what a condi-
A " ,. ' I T tion I must be in. at all this, who was
' ' , butayoungsailor, and who hadbeen
in such a fright before at but a little.
But if I can express at this distance
the thoughts I had about me at that
_' time, I was in tenfold more horror
. ' of mind upon account of my former
convictions, and the having returned from them to the reso-
lutions I had wickedly taken at first, than I was at death itself;
and these, added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a
condition, that I can by no words describe it. But the worst
was not come yet; the storm continued with such fury, that the
seamen themselves acknowledged they had never known a
worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep laden, and
wallowed in the sea, that the seamen every now and then
cried out she would founder. It was my advantage in one
respect that I did not know what they meant by founder,
till I inquired. However, the storm was so violent that I saw
what is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some
others more sensible than the rest, at their prayers, and ex-
pecting every moment when theship would go to the bottom.
In the middle of the night, and under all the rest of our dis-
tresses, one of the men that had been down on purpose to
see, cried out we had sprung a leak; another said there were
four feet of water in the hold. Then all hands were called to
the pump. At that word, my heart, as I thought, died within
me, and I fell backward upon the side of my bed where I sat,
into the cabin. However, the men roused me and told me
that I, that was able to do nothing before, was as well able
to pump as another: at which I stirred up and went to the
pump, and worked very heartily. While this was doing, the
master seeing some light colliers, who, not able to ride out
the storm, were obliged to slip, and run away to the sea, and
would come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal of dis-
tress. I, who knew nothing what that meant, thought the ship
had broke, or some dreadful thing happened. In a word, I
was so surprised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a
time when everybody had his own life to think of, nobody
minded me, or what was become of me; but another man
stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his
foot, let me lie, thinking I had been dead; and it was a great
while before I came to myself.

We worked on, but the water increasing in- the hold, it
was apparent that the ship would founder; and though the
storm began to abate a little, yet as it was not possible she
could swim till we might run into a port. so the master con-
tinned firing guns for help; and a light ship, who had ridden
it out just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was
with the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was
impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie near
the ship's side, till at last the men rowing very heartily, and
venturing their lives to save ours, our men cast them a rope
over the stem with a buoy to it, and then veered it out a great
length, which they, after great labor and hazard, took hold
of, and we hauled them close under our stern, and got all
into their boat. It was to no purpose for them or us, after
we were in the boat, to think of reaching their own ship, so
all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her in toward
shore as much as we could; and our master promised them,
that if the boat was staved upon shore, he would make it good
to their master; so partly rowing, and partly driving, our
boat went away to the northward, sloping toward the shore
almost as far as Winterton Ness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out
of our ship before we saw her sink, and then I understood
for the first time what was meant by a ship foundering in the
sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up when
the seamen told me she was sinking, for from that moment
they rather put me into the boat, than that I might be said
to go in, my heart was as it were dead within me, partly with
fright, partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts of what
was yet before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet laboring at
the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see (when,
our boat mounting the waves, we were able to see the shore)
a great many peOple running along the strand, to assist us'My Obstinacy 15

when we should come near, but we made but slow way toward
the shore, nor were we able to reach it, till, being past the
lighthouse at Winterton, the shore falls 0% to the westward
toward Cromer, and so the land broke off a little the violence
of the wind: here we got in, and, though not without much
difliculty, got all safe on shore, and walked afterward on foot
to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used with
great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants and
owners of ships, and had money given us sufficient to carry
us either to London or back to Hull, as we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone home, I had been
happy, and my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's
parable, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing
the ship I went away in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads,
it was a great while before he had any assurances that I was
not drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that
nothing could resist; and though I had several times loud
calls from my reason and my more composed judgment to go
home, yet I had no power to do it. I know not what to all
this, nor will I urge that it is a' secret overruling decree that
hurries us on to be the instruments of our own destruction,
even though it be before us, and that we rush upon it with
our eyes open. Certainly nothing but some such decreed
unavoidable misery attending, and which it was impossible
for me to esape, could have pushed me forward against the
calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts,
and against two such visible instructions as I had met with
in my first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and
who was the master's son, was now less forward than I; the
first time he spoke to me after we were at Yarmouth, which
was not till two or three days, for we were separated in the
town to several quarters; I say, the first time he saw me, it
appeared his tone was altered; and, looking very melancholy,
and shaking his head, he asked me how I did, and telling his
father who I was, and how I had come this voyage only for a
trial, in order to go further abroad; his father turning to me
with a very grave and concerned tone:

"Young man," says be, "you ought never to go to sea any
more; you ought to take this for a plain and visible token
that you are not to be a seafaring man."

"Why, sir," said I, "will you go to sea no more?"

"That is another case," said he; "it is my calling, and
therefore my duty; but as you made this voyage for a trial,
you see what a taste Heaven has given you of what you are
to expect if you persist; perhaps this has all befallen us on
your account, like Jonah in the ship of TaJshish. Pray,"
continued he, "what are you; and on what account did you
go to sea?"

Upon that I told him some of my story; at the end of which
he burst out with a strange kind of passion.

"What had I done," says he, "that such an unhappy wretch
should come into my ship! I would not set my foot in the
same ship with thee again for a thousand pounds."

This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits, which
were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was further
than he could have authority to go. However, he afterward
talked very gravely to me, exhorted me to go back to my
father, and not tempt Providence to my ruin; told me I
might see a visible hand of Heaven against me:

"And, young man," said he, "depend upon it if you do
not go back, wherever you go, you will meet with nothing
but disasters and disappointments, till your father's words
are fulfilled upon you."

We parted soon after; for I made him little answer, and
I saw him no more; which way he went I know not. Having
some money in my pocket, I travelled to London by land;
and there, as well as on the road, had many struggles with
myself, what course of life I should take, whether I should go
home or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best notions that
offered to my thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me
how I should he laughed at among the neighbors, and should
be ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even
everybody else; from whence I have since often observed,A Voyage to Guinea 19

how incongruous and irrational the common temper of man-
kind is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to
guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not ashamed to
sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not ashamed of the action
for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools, but are
ashamed of the returning, which only can make them be
esteemed wise men.

In this state of life, however, I remained some time, un-
certain what measures to take and what course of life to lead.
An irresistible reluctance continued to going home; and as
I stayed awhile, the remembrance of the distress I had been
in ware off; and as that abated, the little motion I had in my
desires to a return wore OE with it, till at last I quite laid
aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.

That evil influence which carried me first aWay from my
father's house, that hurried me into the wild and indigested
notion of raising my fortune; and that impressed those con-
ceits so forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf to all good
advice, and to the entreaties and even command of my father:
I say the same influence, whatever it was, presented the most
unfortunate of all enterprises to my view; and I went on
board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa; or, as our sailors
vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.

It was my great misfortune, that in all these adventures
I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might
indeed have worked a little harder than ordinary, yet at the
same time I had learned the duty and office of a' fore-mast
man, and in time might have qualified myself for a mate or
lieutenant, if not for a master: but as it was always my fate
to choose for the worst, so I did here; for having money in
my pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would always
go on board in the habit of a gentleman; and so I neither
had any business in the ship nor learned to do any.

I first fell acquainted with the master of the ship, who,
taking a fancy to my conversation, which was not at all dis-
agreeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind to see the
world, told me if I would go the voyage with him I should
be at no expense; I should be his messmate and his com-
panion, and if I could carry anything with me, I should have
all the advantage of it that the trade would admit; and per-
haps I might meet with some encouragement. I embraced
the offer, and, entering into a strict friendship with this ap-
tain, who was an honest, plain-dealing man, I went the voyage
with him, and carried a small adventure with me, which, by
the disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I in-
creased very considerably; for I carried about PS40 in such
toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy. This PS40
I had mustered together by the assistance of some of my
relations whom I corresponded with, and who, I believe, got
my father, or at least my mother, to contribute so much as
that to my first adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say was successful in
all my adventures; and which I owe to the integrity and hon-
esty of my friend the captain; under whom also I got a com-
petent knowledge of the mathematics and the rules of
navigation, learned how to keep an account of the ship's
course, take an observation, and, in short, to understand
some things that were needful to be understood by a sailor;
for, as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to learn;
and, in a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and a mer-
chant; for I brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold
dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London, at my
return, almost PS300; and this filled me with those aspiring
thoughts which have since so completed my ruin.

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my friend, to my
great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, [resolved to
go the same voyage again, and I embarked in the same vessel
with one who was his mate in the former voyage, and had
now got the command of the ship. This was the unhappiest
voyage that ever man made; for though I did not carry quite
PS 1 00 of my new-gained wealth, so that I had PS 200 left, which
I had lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just to
me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes; and the first was this
~our ship making her course toward the Canary Islands, or
rather between those Islands and the African shore, was sur-
prised in the gray of the morning by a Turkish rover of Sallee,
who gave chase to us with all the sail she could make. We
crowded also as much canvas as our yards would spread, or
our masts carry to have got clear; but finding the pirate
gained upon us, and would certainly come up with us in a
few hours, we prepared to fight; our ship having twelve guns,
and the rogue eighteen. About three in the afternoon he
came up with us, and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart
our quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we
brought eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured
in a broadside upon him, which made him sheer off again,
after returning our fire, and pouring in also his small shot
from near two hundred men which he had on board. How-
ever, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping close.
He prepared to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves;
 

but laying us on board the next time upon our other quarter,
he entered sixty men upon our decks, who immediately fell
to cutting and hacking the decks and rigging. We plied them
with small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests, and such like, and
cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut short this
melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled, and
three of our men killed, and eight wounded, we were obliged
'to yield, and were all carried prisoners into Sallee, a port
belonging to the Moors.
The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I ap-
prehended, nor was I carried up the country to the emperor'sPrisoner at Sallee 23

court, as the rest of our men were, but was kept by the mp-
tain of the rover as his proper prize, and made his slave,
being young and nimble, and fit for his business. At this
surprising change of my circumstances, from a merchant to
a miserable slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I
looked back upon my father's prophetic discourse to me, that
I should be miserable and have none to relieve me, which I
thought was now so effectually brought to pass, that I could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had overtaken
me, and I was undone without redemption. But, alas! this
was but a taste of the misery I was to go through, as will ap-
pear in the sequel of the story.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his
house, so I was in hopes that he would take me with him '
when he went to sea again, believing that it would some time
or other be his fate to be taken by a Spanish or Portuguese
man--of-war; and that then I should be set at liberty. But
this hope of mine was soon taken away; for when he went
to sea, he left me on shore to look after his little garden, and
do the common drudgery of slaves about his house; and when
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to lie
in the cabin to look after the ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method
I might take to efiect it, but found no way that had the least
probability in it; nothing presented to make the supposition
of it rational; for I had nobody to communicate it to that
would embark with me; no fellow-slave, no Englishman,
Irishman, or Scotchman, there but myself; so that for two
years, though I often pleased myself with the imagination,
yet I never had the least prospect of putting it in practice.
After about two years, an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thought of making some attempt
for my liberty again in my head: my patron lying at home
longer than usual, without fitting out his ship, which, as I
heard, was for want of money, he used, constantly, once or
twice a week, sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to
take the ship's pinnace, and go out into the road a-fishing;
and, as he always took me and a young Maresco with him to
row the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved very
dexterous in catching fish; insomuch that sometimes he would
send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth,
the Maresco, as they called him, to catch a dish of fish for
him.

It happened one time, that going a-fishing in a stark calm
morning, a fog rose so thick that, though we were not half
a league from the shore, we lost sight of it; and rowing we
knew not whither or which way, we labored all day, and all
the next night; and when the morning came, we found we
had pulled OE to sea instead of pulling in for the shore; and
that we were at least two leagues from the shore; however,
we got well in again, though with a great deal of labor and
some danger; for the wind began to blow pretty fresh in the
morning; but particularly we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take
more care of himself for the future; and having lying by
him the long-boat of our English ship he had taken, he re-
solved he would not go a-fishing any more without a compass
and some provisions; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship,
who also was..an English slave, to build a little state-room,
or mbin, in the middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge,
With a place to stand behind it to steer, and hale home the
mainsheet; and room before for a hand or two to stand and
work the sails she sailed with what we call a shoulder-of-
mutton sail; and the boom jibed over the top of the cabin,
which lay very snug and low, and hadlin it room for him to
lie, with a slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some small
lockers to put in some bottles of such liquor as he thought
fit to drink; particularly his bread, rice, and coffee.

We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing; and as
I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he never went
without me. It happened that he had appointed to go out
in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with two or three
Moors of some distinction in that place, and for whom he
had provided extraordinarily; and had therefore sent on '
board the boat over-night a larger store of provisions than
ordinary; and had ordered me to get ready three fiJsees with
powder and shot which were on board his ship; for that they
designed some sport of fowling as well as fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited the
next morning with the boat washed clean, her ensign and
pendants out, and everything to accommodate his guests;
when by and by my patron came on board alone, and told me
his guests had put off going, from some business that fell out,
and ordered me, with the man and boy, as usual, to go out
With the boat and catch them some fish, for that his friends
were to sup at his house; and commanded that as soon as I
got some fish I should bring it home to his house; all which
I prepared to do.

This moment, my former notions of deliverance darted
into my thoughts, for now I found I was like to have a little
ship at my command; and my master being gone, I prepared
to furnish myself, not for fishing business but for a voyage;
though I knew not, neither did I so much as consider, whither
I should steer; for anywhere to get out of that place was my
desire.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to
this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on board;
for I told him we must not presume to eat of our patron's
bread; he said that was true; so he brought a large basket of
rusks or biscuit of their kind, and three jars of fresh water
into the boat. I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood,
which it was evident by the make were taken out of some
English prize, and I conveyed them into the boat while the
Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before for our
master; I conveyed also a great lump of bees-wax into the
boat, which weighed about half a hundredweight, with a
parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all
of which were of great use to us afterward, especially the
wax to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him, which
he innocently came into also: his name was Ismael, whom
they called Muley, or Moely; so I called to him--"Moely,"
said 1, "our patron's guns are on board the boat; can you
not get a little powder and shot, it may be we may kill some
alcamies (a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, for I know
he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship."--"Yes," says he,
"I'll bring some"; and accordingly he brought a great leather
pouch, which held a pound and a half of powder, or rather
more; and another with shot, that had five or six pounds,
with some bullets, and put all into the boat; at the same time,
I had found some powder of my master's in the great cabin,My Escape 27

with which I filled one of the large bottles in the case, which
was almost empty; pouring what was in it into another: and
thus furnished with everything needful, we sailed out of the
port to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of the port,
knew who we were, and took no notice of us; and we were
not above a mile out of the port before we hauled in our sail
and set us down to fish; the wind blew from the N.N.E., which
was contrary to my desire; for had it blown southerly, I had
been sure to have made the coast of Spain, and at least reached
to Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which way it would,
I would be gone from that horrid place where I was, and
leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time and catched nothing, for
when I had fish on my hook, I would not pull them up, that '
he might not see them, I said to the Moor, "This will not do;
our master will not be thus served; we must stand further
off"; he, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being in the head
of the boat, set the sails; and, as I had the helm, I run the
boat out near a league further, and then brought her to,as
if I would fish, when, giving the boy the helm, I stepped for-
ward to where the Moor was, and making as if I stooped for
something behind him, I took him by surprise with my arm
under his waist, and tossed him clear overboard into the sea.
He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and calling to
me, begged to be taken in, told me he would go all over the
world with me. He Swam so strong after the boat, that he
would have reached me very quickly, there being but little
wind; upon Which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one
of the fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him I
had done him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do
him none: "But," said I, "you swim well enough to reach to
the shore, and the sea is calm; make the best of your way to
shore, and I will do you no harm; but if you come near the
boat, I'll shoot you through the head, for I am resolved to
have my liberty": so he turned himself about, and swam for
the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease,
for he was an excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with
me, and have drowned the boy, but there was no venturing
to trust him. When he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom
they called Xury, and said to him, "Xury, if you will be faith-
ful to me, I'll make you a great man; but if you will not
stroke your face to be true to me," that is, swear by Mahomet
and his father's heard, "I must throw you into the sea too."
The boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I
could not distrust him, and swore to be faithful to me, and
go all over the world with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming, I
stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather stretching to
windward, that they might think me gone toward the Straits'
mouth (as indeed any one that had been in their wits must
have been supposed to do): for who would have supposed we
would sail on to the southward, to the truly Barbarian coast,
where whole nations of Negroes were sure to surround us
with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could not go on
shore but we should be devoured by savage beasts, or more
merciless savages of humankind.

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my
course, and steered directly south-and-by-east, bending my
course a little toward the east, that I might keep in with
the shore: and having a fair, fresh gale of wind, and a smooth,
quiet sea, I made such sail that I believe by the next day at
three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made the land,
I could not be less than 150 miles south of Sallee: quite be-
yond the Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any
other king thereabout, for we saw no people.
'_ UCH was the fright I had taken of
" . the Moors, and the dreadful appre-
hensions I had of falling into their
hands, that I would not stop, or go
. '1' on shore, or come to an anchor; the
"21%.:- wind continuing fair till I had sailed
. ii] in that manner five days; and then
- :44}: the wind shifting to the southward, I
concluded also, that if any of our vessels were in chase of me,
they also would now give over; so I ventured to make to the
coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river, I
knew not what, nor where; neither what latitude, what coun-
try, what nation, nor what river. I neither saw, nor desired to
see, any people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water.
We came into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on
shore as soon as it was dark, and discover the country; but as
soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew
not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear,
and begged of me not to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury,"
said I, "then I won't; but it may be that we may see men by
day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."--"Then we give
them the shoot gun," says Xury, laughing, "make them run
wey." Such English Xury spoke by conversing among us
slaves. However, I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I
gave him a dram (out of our patron's case of bottles) to cheer
him up; after all, Xury's advice was good and I took it; we
dropped our little anchor and lay still all night; I say still, for
we slept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast great
creatures (we knew not what to call them) of many sorts,
come down to the sea-shore, and run into the water, wallow-
ing and washing themselves for the pleasure of cooling them-
selves; and they made such hideous howlings and yellings,
that I never indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too;
but we were both more frighted when we heard one of those
mighty creatures come swimming toward our boat; we could
not see him, but we might hear him by his blowing to be a
monstrous huge and furious beast. Xury said it was a lion,
and it might be so for aught I know; but poor Xury cried
to me to weigh the anchor and row away. "No," says I, "Xury;
we can slip our cable, with the buoy to it, and go off to sea;
they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner said so, but I
perceived the creature (whatever it was) within two oars'
length, which something surprised me; however, I immedi-
ately stepped to the cabin door, and taking up my gun, fired
at him, upon which he immediately turned about, and swam
toward the shore again.

But it is impossible to describe the horrid noises, and
hideous cries and howlings, that were raised, as well upon
the edge of the shore as higher within the country, upon the
noise or report of the gun; a thing, I have some reason to
believe, those creatures had never heard before. This con-'We Venture on Share 31

vinced me that there was no going on shore for us in the night
on that coast, and how to venture on shore in the day was
another question too; for to have fallen into the hands of any
of the savages had been as bad as to have fallen into the
hands of the lions and tigers; at least, we were equally appre-
hensive of the danger of it.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore some-
where or other for water, for we had not a pint left in the
boat; when and where to get it was the point. Xury said, if
I would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he would
find if there was any water, and bring some to me. I asked
him why he would go? why I should not go, and he stay in'
the boat? The boy answered with so much afiection, as made
me love him ever after. Says he, "If wild mans come, th'ey
eat me, you go wey." "Well, Xury," said I, "we will both go,
and if the wild mans come, we will kill them; they shall eat
neither of us." So I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat,
and a diam out of our patron's use of bottles which I men-
tioned before; and we hauled the boat in as near the shore as
we thought was proper, and waded on shore, carrying nothing
but our arms, and twojars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the
coming of canoes with savages down the river; but the boy,
seeing a "low place about a mile up the country, rambled to
it; and by and by I saw him come running toward me. I
thought he was pursued by some savage, or frightened with
some wild beast, and I ran forward toward him to help him;
but when I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging
over his shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot,
like a bare, but different in color, and longer legs: however,
we were very glad of it, and it was very good meat; but the
great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had
found good water, and seen no wild mans.

But we found afterward that we need not take such pains
for water, for a little higher up the creek where we were we
found the water fresh when the tide was out, which flowed
but a little way up; so we filled our jars, and feasted on the
bare we had killed, and prepared to go on our way, having
seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part of the
country.

As I had been one voyage this coast before, I knew very
well that the Islands of the Canaries and the Cape de Verd
Islands also, lay not far off from the coast. But as I had no
instruments to take an observation to know what latitude
we were in, and not exactly knowing, or at least remember-
ing, what latitude they were in, I knew not where to look
for them, or when to stand off to sea toward them; otherwise
I might now easily have found some of these islands. But my
hope was, that if I stood along this coast till I came to that
part where the English traded, I should find some of their
vessels upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve
and take us in.

By the best of my calwlation, that place where I now was
must be that country which, lying between the Emperor of
Morocco's dominions and the Negroes, lies waste and un-
inhabited; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone
further south, for fear of the Moors; and the Moors not think-
ing it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness; and,
indeed, both forsaking it because of the prodigious numbersThe Lion 33

of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious creatures which
harbor there; so that the Moors use it for their hunting only,
where they go like an army, two or three thousand men at a
time: and, indeed, for near a hundred miles together upon
this coast, we saw nothing but a waste uninhabited country
by day, and heard nothing but howlings and roarings of wild
beasts by night.
. N CE or twice in the daytime, I
'0 thought I saw the Pico of Teneriffe,
being the high top of the Mountain
2--: Teneriffe in the Canaries; and had a
great mind to venture out, in hopes
of reaching thither; but having tried
_ twice, I was forced in again by con-
6 _ ~" 3% trary winds, the sea also going too
high for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue my first
design, and keep along the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after
we had left this place; and once in particular, being early
in the morning, we came to an anchor under a little point of
land, which was pretty high; and the tide beginning to flow,
we lay still to go further in. Xury, whose eyes were more
about him than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and
tells me that we had best go further 03 the shore; "for," says
he, "look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that
hillock, fast asleep." I looked where he pointed, and saw a
dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible great lion that
lay on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of the
hill that hung as it were a little over him. "Xury," says I, "you
shall go on shore and kill him." Xury looked frighted, and
said, "Me killl he eat me at one month"; one mouthful he
meant. However, I said no more to the boy, but bade him
lie still, and took our biggest gun, which was almost musket
bore, and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with
two slugs, and laid it down; then I loaded another gun with
two bullets; and the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded
with five smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could with the
first piece to have shot him into the head, but he lay so with
his leg raised a little above his nose that the slugs hit his leg
about the knee, and broke the bone. He started up, growling
at first, but finding his leg broken, fell down again; and then
got up upon three legs, and gave the most hideous roar that
ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I had not hit him
on the head; however, I took up the second piece immedi-
ately, and though he began to move off, fired again, and shot
him into the head, and had the pleasure to see him drop and
make but little noise, but lay struggling for life. Then Xury
took heart, and would have me let him go on shore. "Well,
go," said I: so the boy jumped into the water, and taking a
little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the other hand,
and coming close to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece
to his ear, and shot him in the head again, which despatched
him quite.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food; and I
was very sorry to lose three charges of powder and shot upon
a creature that was good for nothing to us. However, Xury
said he would have some of him; so he comes on board, and
asked me to give him the hatchet. "For what, Xury?" said 1.
"Me cut off his head," said he. However, Xury could not cutSouthward 35

off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him,
and it was a monstrous great one.

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin of him
might be of some value to us; and I resolved to take off his
skin if I could. So Xury and I went to work with him; but
Xury was much the better workman at it, for I knew very ill
how to do it. Indeed, it took us both up the whole day, but
at last we got off the hide of him, and spreading it on the top
of our cabin, the sun efiectually dried it in two days' time,
and it afterward served me to lie upon.

After this stop, we made on to the southward continually
for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly on our provisions,
which began to abate very much, and going no oftener to the
shore than we were obliged to for fresh water. My design in"
this was, to make the River Gambia or Senegal, that is to
say, anywhere about the Cape de Verd, where I. was in hopes
to meet with some European ship; and if I did not, I knew
not what course I had to take, but to seek for the islands, or
perish there among the Negroes. I knew that all the ships
from Europe, which sailed either to the Coast of Guinea or
to Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this Cape, or those
Islands; and, in a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon
this single point, either that I must meet with some ship, or
must perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer,
as I have said, I began to see that the land was inhabited;
and in two or three places, as we sailed by, we saw people
stand upon the shore to look at us; we could also perceive
they were quite black, and stark naked. I was once inclined
to have gone on shore to them; but Xury was my better coun-
sellor, and said to me, "No go, no go." However, I hauled
in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them, and I found
they ran along the shore by me a good way. I observed they
had no weapons in their hands, except one, who had a long
slender stick, which Xury said was a lance, and that they
could throw them a great way with good aim. So I kept at a
distance, but talked with them by signs as well as I could; .
and particularly made signs for something to eat; they beck-
oned to me to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some
meat. Upon this, I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by,
and two of them ran up into the country, and in less than
half an hour came back and brought with them two pieces
of dried flesh and some corn, such as is the produce of their
country; but we neither knew what the one nor the other
was; however we were willing to accept it, but how to come
at it was our next dispute, for l was not for venturing on shore
to them, and they were as much afraid of us; but they took
a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore and laid
it down, and went and stood a great way off till we fetched it
on board, and then came close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to
make them amends; but an opportunity offered that very
instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we were lying
by the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the
other (as we took it) with great fury from the mountains
toward the sea; whether it was the male pursuing the female,
or whether they were in sport or in rage, we could not tell,
any more than we could tell whether it was usual or strange,
but I believe it was the latter; because, in the first place, thoseTraffic with Negroes 37

ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night, and, in
the second place, we found the people terribly frighted, espe-
cially the women. The man that had the lance or dart did
not fly from them, but the rest did; however, as the two crea-
tures ran directly into the water, they did not offer to fall
upon any of the Negroes, but plunged themselves into the
sea, and swam about, as if they had come for their diversion.
At last one of them began to come nearer our boat than at
first I expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded
my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury load
both the others. As soon as he came fairly within my reach,
I fired and shot him directly in the head: immediately be
sank down into the water, but rose instantly, and plunged
up and down, as if he were struggling for life, and so indeed
he was: he immediately made to the shore; but between the
wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the
water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor
creatures at the noise and fire of my gun; some of them were
even ready to die for fear, and fell down as dead with the
very terror. But when they saw the creature dead, and sunk
in the water, and that I made signs to them to come to the
shore, they took heart and came, and began to search for the
creature. I found him by his blood staining the water: and
by the help of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the
Negroes to haul, they dragged him on shore, and found that
it was a most curious leopard, spotted, and fine to an ad-
mirable degree; and the Negroes held up their hands with
admiration, to think what it was I had killed him with.

The other creature frighted with the flash of fire and the
noise of the gun, swam on shore, and ran up directly to the
mountains from whence they came; nor could I, at that
distance, know what it was. I found quickly the Negroes were
for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have
them take it as a favor from me; which, when I made signs
to them that they might take him, they were very thankful
for. Immediately they fell to work with him; and though
they had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of wood, they
took off his skin as readily, and much more readily, than we
could have done with a knife. They offered me some of the
flesh, which I declined, making as if I would give it them;
but made signs for the skin, which they gave me very freely,
and brought me a great deal more of their provisions, which,
though I did not understand, yet I accepted; then I made
signs to them for some water, and held out one of my jars to
them, turning it bottom upward, to show that it was empty,
and that I wanted to have it filled. They called immediately
to some of their friends, and there came two women, and
brought a great vessel made of earth, and burned, as I sup--
posed, in the sun; this they set down for me, as before, and
I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them all three.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was,
and water; and leaving my friendly Negroes, I made forward
for about eleven days more, without offering to go near the
shore, till I saw the land run out a great length into the sea,
at about a distance of about four or five leagues before me,
and the sea being very calm I kept a large offing to make this
point; at length, doubling the point, at about two leagues
from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side to seaward:
then I concluded, as it was most certain indeed, that this wasA Portuguese Ship 39

the Cape de Verd, and those the islands called, from thence,
Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were at a great distance,
and I could not well tell what I had best to do, for if I should
be taken with a fresh of wind, I might neither reach one or
other.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into the
cabin and sat down, Xury having the helm; when, on a sud-
den, the boy cried out, "Master, master, a ship with a sail!"
and the foolish boy was frighted out of his wits, thinking it
must needs be some of his master's ships sent to pursue us,
but I knew we were gotten far enough out of their reach. I
jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw, not only the
ship, but what she was, viz., a Portuguese ship, and, as I
thought,'was bound to the Coast of Guinea for Negroes. But,
when I'observed the course she steered, I was soon convinced
they were bound some other way, and did not design to come
any nearer to the shore, upon which I stretched out to sea
as much as I could, resolving to speak with them if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able
to come in their way, but that they would be gone before I
could make any signal to them. But after I had crowded to
the utmost, and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me by
the help of their perspective glasses, and that it was some
European boat, which, as they supposed, must belong to
some ship that was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come
up. I was encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's
ancient on board, I made a waft of it to them, for a signal of
distress, and fired a gun, both which they saw; for they told
me they saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun.
Upon these signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by
for me; and in about three hours' time I came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish,
and in French, but I understood none of them; but, at last,
a Scotch sailor, who was on board, called to me, and I an-
swered him, and told him I was an Englishman, that I had
made my escape out of slavery from the Moors at Sallee. Then
they bade me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and
all my goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me, as any one would believe
that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a mis--
erable and almost hopeless condition as I was in, and I im-
mediately olfered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a
return for my deliverance; but he generously told me he
would take nothing from me, but that all I had should be
delivered safe to me when I came to the Brazils. "For," said
he, "I have saved your life on no other terms than I would
be glad to be saved myself; and it may, one time or other,
be my lot to be taken up in the same condition. Besides,"
said he, "when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a way from
your own country, if I should take from you what you have,
you will be starved there, and then I only take away that life
I have given. No, no," said he, "Seignior Inglese" (Mr. Eng-
lishman), "I will carry you thither in charity, and those
things will help to buy your subsistence there, and your pas-
sage home again."

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the
performance to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen, that none
should touch anything that I had: then he took everything
into his own possession, and gave me back an exact inventoryIn the Brazils 41

of them, that I might have them, even so much as my three
earthen jars. .

As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he saw, and
told me he would buy it of me for his ship's use, and asked
me what I would have for it. I told him he had been so gen-
erous to me in everything, that I could not offer to make any
price of the boat, but left it entirely to him; upon which he
told me he would give me a note of hand to pay me 80 pieces
of eight for it at Brazil; and when it me there, if any one
offered to give more, he would make it up. He offered me
also 60 pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which I was
10th to take; not that I was unwilling to let the captain have
'him, but I was very 10th to sell the poor boy's liberty, who
had assisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. However,
when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just, and
offered me this medium, that he would give the boy an obli-
gation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Christian.
Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let
the captain have him. _

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and I arrived
in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints' Bay, in about
twenty-two days after. And now I was once more delivered
from the most miserable of all conditions of life; and what to
do next with myself I was to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never
enough remember: he would take nothing of me for my
passage, gave me twenty duets for the leopard's skin, and
forty for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat, and caused
everything I had in the ship to be punctually delivered to
me; and what I was willing to sell he bought of me, such as
the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump
of bees-wax--for I had made candles of the rest: in a word, I
made about 220 pieces of eight of all my cargo: and with this
stock, I went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here, before I was recommended to
the house of a good, honest man, like himself, who had an
ingenio, as they call it (that is, a plantation and a sugar-house).
I lived with him some time, and acquainted myself, by that
means, with the manner of planting and making of sugar;
and seeing how well the planters lived, and how they got
rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a license to settle
there, I would turn planter among them, resolving, in the
meantime, to find out some way to get my money, which I
had left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose, getting
a kind of letter of naturalization, I purchased as much land
that was uncured as my money would reach, and formed a
plan for my plantation and settlement; such a one as might
be suitable to the stock which I proposed to myself to receive
from England.

I had a neighbor, a Portuguese, of Lisbon, but born of
English parents, whose name was Wells, and in much such
circumstances as I was. I call him my neighbor, because his
plantation lay next to mine, and we went on very sociably
together. My stock was but low, as well as his; and we rather
planted for food than anything else, for about two years.
However, we began to increase, and our land began to come
into order; so that the third year we planted some tobacco,
and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting
canes in the year to come. But we both wanted help; and nowMy Plantation 43

I found more than before, I had done wrong in parting with
my boy Xury.

,-U'r ALAS! for me to do wrong

that never did right, was no great

wonder; I was gotten into an em-
ployment quite remote to my genius,
directly contrary to the life I de-

\ ;' m lighted in, for which I forsook my

I. . , A2: father's house; nay, I was coming

.. - I " , I' into the very middle station, or up-
per degree of low life, which my father advised me to be-
fore; and which, if I resolved to go on with, I might as
well have stayed at home, and never have fatigued myself
in the world as I had done; I had nobody to converse
with but now and then this neighbor; no work to be done
but by the labor of my hands; and I used to say I lived just
like a man cast away upon some desolate island, that had no-
body there but himself.

' I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying
on the plantation, before my kind friend, the captain of the
ship that took me up at'sea, went back; when, telling him
what little stock I had left behind me in London, he gave me
this friendly and sincere advice. "Seignior Inglese," says he
(for so he always called me), "if you will give me letters, and
a procuration here in form to me, with orders to the person
who has your money in London, to send your eflects to
Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct, and in such goods
as are proper for this country, I will bring you the produce
of them, God willing, at my return; but, since human aflairs
are all subject to changes and disasters, I would have you give
orders but for one hundred pounds sterling, which, you say,
is half your stock, and let the hazard be run for the first; so
that, if it come safe, you may order the rest the same way;
and, if it miscarry; you may have the other half to have re-
course to for your supply."

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly, that
I could not but be convinced it was the best course I could
take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the gentlewoman
with whom I had left my money, and a procuration to the
Portuguese captain, as he desired.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account of all
my adventures--my slavery, escape, and how I had met with
the Portuguese captain at sea, the humanity of his behavior,
and what condition I was now in, with all other necessary
directions for my supply; and when this honest captain came
to Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English merchants
there, to send over, not the order only, but a full account of
my story to a merchant at London, who represented it effec-
tually to her; whereupon, she not only delivered the money,
but, out of herown pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very
handsome present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London, vesting this hundred pounds in
English goods, such as the captain had written for, sent them
directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them all safe to me
to the Brazils; among which, without my direction (for I was
too young in my business to think of them), he had taken
care to have all sorts of tools, iron work, and utensils, neces-
sary for my plantation, and which were of great use to me.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made, for
I was surprised with the joy of it; and my good steward, the
mptain, had laid out the five pounds, which my friend had
sent him for a present for himself, to purchase and bring me
over a servant, under bond for six years' service, and would
not accept of any consideration, except a little tobacco, which
I would have him accept, being my own produce.

Neither was this all: for my goods being all English manu--
facture, such as cloths, stuffs, baize, and things particularly
valuable and desirable in the country, I found means to sell
them to a very great advantage; so that I might say, I had
more than four times the value of my first cargo, and was now
infinitely beyond my poor neighbor--I mean in the advance-
ment of my plantation; for the first thing I did, I bought me
a Negro slave, and a European servant also--I mean another
besides that which the captain brought me from Lisbon.

-- .:-; AVING lived almost four years in

_ ' " the Brazils, and beginning to thrive

' and prosper very well upon my
. plantation, I had not only learned
3' the language, but had contracted ac-
~"quaintance and friendship among
. >>. a ' \my fellow- planters, as well as among
5&2;- --' "fig the merchants at St. Salvador, which
was our port; and m my discourses among them, I had fre-
quently given them an account of my two voyages to the coast
of Guinea, the manner of trading with the Negroes there,
and how easy it was to purchase upon the coast for trifles, such
as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass, and the
like. not only gold dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, etc.,
but Negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.

They listened very attentively to my discourses on these
heads, but especially to that part which related to the buying
Negroes, which was a trade at that time, not far entered into.

It happened, being in company with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very
earnestly, three of them came to me next morning, and told
me they had been musing very much upon what I had dis-
coursed with them of the last night, and they came to make
a secret proposal to me; and, after enjoining me secrecy, they
told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea:
that they had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened
for nothing so much as servants; that as it was a trade that
could not be carried on, because they could not publicly sell
the Negroes when they came home, so they desired to make
but one voyage, to bring the Negroes on shore privately, and
divide them among their own plantations; and, in a word,
the question was, whether I would go their supercargo in the
ship, to manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea;
and they offered me that I should have my equal share. of
the Negroes, without providing any part of the stock.

This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had it been
made to any one that had not had a settlement and a planta-
tion of his own to look after, which was in a fair way of com-
ing to be very considerable, and with a good stock upon it;
but for me, that was thus entered and established, and had
nothing to do but to go on as I had begun for three or four
years more, and to have sent for the other hundred pounds
from England, and who in that time, and with that little
addition, could scarce have failed of being worth three or
four thousand pounds sterling, and that increasing too; for
me to think of such a voyage was the most preposterous thing
that ever man in such circumstances could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no
more resist the offer than I could restrain my first rambling
designs when my father's good counsel was lost upon me. In
a word, I told them I would go with all my heart, if they
would undertake to look after my plantation in my absence,
and would dispose of it to such as I should direct, if I mis-
carried. This they all engaged to do, and entered into writ-
ings or covenants to do so; and I made a formal will disposing
of my plantation and effects in use of my death, making the
captain of the ship that had saved my life, as before, my uni-
versal heir, but obliging him to dispose of my eEects as I had
directed in my will, one-half of the produce being to himself,
and the other to be shipped to England.

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my eEects,
and to keep up my plantation; had I used half as much pru-
dence to have looked into my own interest, and have made
a judgment of what I ought to have done and not to have
done, I had certainly never gone away from so prosperous
an undertaking, and gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with
all its hazards.

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of
my fancy rather than my reason; and, accordingly, the ship
being fitted out, and the urge furnished, and all things done
as by agreement, by my partners in the voyage, I went on
board in an evil hour, the lst of September, 1659, being the
same day eight years that I went from my parents at Hull.

Our ship was about 1 20 tons burden, carried six guns, and
fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself; we
had on board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as
were fit for our trade with the Negroes, such as beads, bits
of glass, shells, and other trifles, especially little looking-
glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away
to the northward upon our own coast, with design to stretch
over for the African coast when we came about ten or twelve
degrees of northern latitude, which, it seems, was the man-
ner of their course in those days. We had very good weather,
only excessively hot, all the way upon our own coast, till
we came to the height of Cape St. Augustino; from whence,
keeping further 01f at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered
as if we were bound for the isle Fernando de Noronha, hold-
ing our course N.E. by N., and leaving those isles on the east.
In this course we passed the line in about twelve days' time,
and were, by our last observation, in 7 deg 22' northern latitude,
when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us quite out of
our knowledge. It blew in such a terrible manner, that for
twelve days together we could do nothing but drive; and,
scudding away before it, let it carry us wherever fate and the
fury of the winds directed; and during these twelve days, I
need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up;
nor did any in the ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm, one
of our men die of the calenture, and a man and a boy washed
overboard. About the twelfth day, the weather abating a
little, the master made an observation as well as he could,
and found that he was in about eleven degrees of north lati-The Tornado 49

tude, but that he was twenty-two degrees of longitude dif-
ference west from Cape St. Augustino; so that he found he
was gotten upon the coast of Guiana, or the north part of
Brazil, beyond the river Amazonas, toward that of the river
Oronoque, commonly called the Great River; and now he
began to consult with me what course he should take; for
the ship was leaky, and very much disabled, and he was for
going directly back to the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that; and looking over the charts
of the sea-coast of America with him, we concluded there was
no inhabited country for us to have recourse to till we came
within the circle of the Caribbee Islands, and therefore re-
solved to stand away for Barbados; which, by keeping off at
sea, to avoid the indraft of the bay or gulf of Mexico, we
might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail ;
whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the coast
of Africa without assistance to our ship and to ourselves.

With this design we changed our course, and steered away
N. W. by W., in order to reach some of our English islands,
where I hoped for relief; but our voyage was otherwise de-
termined; for, being in the latitude of 12deg 18', a second
storm came upon us, which carried us away with the same
impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the'way of all
human commerce that, had all our lives been saved as to the
sea, we were rather in danger of being devoured by savages
than ever returning to our own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of
our men early one morning cried out, "Land!" and we had
no sooner run out of the cabin to look out, in hopes of seeing
whereabout in the world we were, than the ship struck upon
the sand, and in a moment, her motion being so stopped, the
sea broke over her in such a manner that we expected we
should all have perished immediately; and we were even
driven into our close quarters, to shelter us from the very
foam and spray of the sea. '

It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like condi-
tion to describe or conceive the consternation of men in such
circumstances. We knew nothing where we were, or upon
what land it was we were driven; whether an island or the
main, whether inhabited or not inhabited. As the rage of
the wind was still great, though rather less than at first, we
could not so much as hope to have the ship hold many min-
utes without breaking in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind
of miracle, should turn immediately about. In a word, we
sat looking one upon another, and expecting death every
moment, and every man acting accordingly, as preparing for
another world; for there was little or nothing more for us
to do in this; that which was our present comfort, and all
the comfort we had, was that, contrary to our expectation, the
ship did not break yet, and that the master said the wind be-
gan to abate.

Now, though we thought the wind did a little abate, yet
the ship having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too
fast for us to expect her getting off, we were in a dreadful
condition indeed, and had nothing to do but to think of
saving our lives as well as we could. We had a boat at our
stern just before the storm, but she was fast staved by dashing
against the ship's rudder, and in the next place she broke
away, and either sunk, or was driven off to sea; so there was
no hope from her. We had another boat on board; but how
to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing; however,
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would
break in pieces every minute, and some told us she was
actually broken already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the
boat, and with the help of the nest of the men, they got her
flung over the ship's side; and getting all into her, we let go,
and committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's
mercy and the wild sea: for though the storm was abated
considerably, yet the sea went dreadfully high upon the shore,
and might be well called den wild zee, as the Dutch (all the
sea in a storm.

And- now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all saw
plainly that the sea went so high that the boat could not
escape, and that we should be inevitably drowned. As to
making sail, we had none, nor, if we had, could we have done
anything with it; so we worked at the oar toward the land,
though with heavy hearts, like men going to execution; for
we all knew that when the boat tame near the shore, she
would be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the
sea. However, we committed our souls to God in the most
earnest manner; and the wind driving us toward the shore,
we hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling
as well as we could toward land.

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether step
or shoal, we knew not; the only hope that could rationally
give us the least shadow of expectation was, if we might hap-
pen into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where
.by great chance we might have run our boat in, or got under
the lee of the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But
there was nothing of this appeared; as we made nearer and
nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and
a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountainlike, tame
rolling astern of us, and plainly bade us expect the coup de
grace. Ir: a word, it took us with such a fury that it overset
the boat at once; and separating us as well from the boat as
from one another, gave us not time hardly to say, "0 God!"
for we were all swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I
felt, when I sank into the water; for though I swam very well,
yet I could not deliver myself from the waves so as to draw
breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather carried me,
a vast way on toward the shore, and having spent itself, went
back, and left me upon the land, almost dry, but half dead
with the water I took in. I had so much presence of mind, as
well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the mainland than
I expected, I got upon my feet, and endeavored to make on
toward the land as fast as I could, before another wave should
return and take me up again; but I soon found it was impos-
sible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as high as
a great hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I had no means
or strength to contend with: my business was to hold my
breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I could; and so by
swimming to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself toward
the shore if possible, my greatest concern now being, that
the wave, as it would carry me a great way toward the shore
when it came on, might not carry me back again with it when
it gave back toward the sea.Shipwrecked ' 53

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once
twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and I could feel
myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness toward the
shore a very great way; but I held my breath, and assisted
myself to swim still forward with all my might. I was ready
to burst with holding my breath, when as I feltmyself rising
up, so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and hands
shoot out above the surface of the water; and though it was
not two seconds of time that I could keep myself so, yet it
relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I was
covered again with water a good while, but not so long but
I held it out; and finding the water hadspent itself, and began
to return, I struck forward against the return of the waves,
and felt ground again with my feet. I stood still a few mo-
ments to recover breath, and till the waters went from me,
and then took to my heels, and ran with what strength I had,
farther toward the shore. But neither would this deliver me
from the fury of the sea, which tame pouring in after me
again; and twice more I was lifted up by the waves and an
ried forward as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well-nigh been fatal to me; I
for the sea having hurried me along, as before, landed me,
or rather dashed me, against a piece of a rock, and that with
such force, as it left me senseless, and, indeed, helpless, as to
my own deliverance; for the blow taking my side and breast,
beat the breath as it were quite out of my body; and had it
returned again immediately, I must have been strangled in
the water; but I recovered a little before the return of the
waves, and seeing I should be covered again with water, I
resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold my
breath, if possible, till the wave went back. Now, as the waves
were not so high as at first, being nearer land, I held my hold
till the wave abated, and then fetched another run, which
brought me so near the shore, that the next wave, though it
went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me

 

away; and the next run I took, I got to the mainland; where,
to my great comfort, I clambered up the elifts and sat upon
the grass, free from danger, and out of reach of the sea.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look
up and thank God that my life was saved, in a case whereinSafe on Share 55

there was, some minutes before, source any room to hope. I
believe it is impossible to express, to the life, what the
eatasies and transports of the soul are, when it is so saved,
as I may say, out of the very grave: and I do not wonder
now at that custom, when a malefactor, who has the
halter about his neck, is tied up, and just going to be turned
off, and has a reprieve brought to him--I say, I do not wonder
that they bring a surgeon with it, to let him bleed that very
moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive
the animal spirits from the heart, and overwhelm him,
For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and my
whole being, as I may say, wrapped up in a contemplation
of my deliverance; making a thousand gestures and motions,
which I cannot describe; reflecting upon all my comrades
that were drowned, and that there should not be one soul
saved but myself; for, as for them, I never saw them after-
ward, or any sign of them, except three of their hats, one mp,
and two shoes that were not fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the breach and
froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly see it, it lay so
far off; and considered, Lord! how was it possible I could
get on shore?

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of
my condition, I began to look round me, to see what kind
of place I was in, and what was next to be done: and I soon
found my comforts abate, and that, in a word, I had a dread-
ful deliverance: for I was wet, had no clothes to shift me,
nor anything either to eat or drink, to comfort me; neither
did I see any prospect before me but that of perishing with
hunger, or being devoured by wild beasts: and that which
was particularly afflicting to me was that I had no weapon,
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or to
defend myself against any other creature that might desire to
kill. me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a
knife, a tobacco--pipe, and a little tobacco in a box. This was
all my provision; and this threw me into terrible agonies of
mind, that for a while I ran about like a madman. Night
coming upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider
what would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in
that country, seeing at night they always come abroad for
their prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that time,
was to get up into a thick, bushy tree, like a fir, but thorny,
which grew near me, and where I resolved to sit all night,
and consider the next day what death I should die, for as yet
I saw no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong from the
shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to drink, which
I did, to my great joy; and having drunk, and put a little
tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the tree,
and getting up into it, endeavored to place myself so that if
I should sleep I might not fall. And having cut me a short
stick like a truncheon, for my defence, I took up my lodging;
and being excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as
comfortably as, I believe, few could have done in my condi-
tion, and found myself more refreshed with it than I think I
ever was on such an occasion. I

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the
storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell as before;
but that which surprised me most was, that the ship was liftedI Visit the Wreck 57

oil in the night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling
of the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the rock which
I at first mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the wave
dashing me against it. This being within about a mile from
the shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright
still. I wished myself on board. that at least I might save
some necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my apanment in the tree, I
looked about me again, and the first thing I found was the
boat, which lay, as the wind and sea had tossed her up, upon
the land, about two miles on my right hand. I walked as far
as I could upon the shore to have got to her; but found a neck
or inlet of water between me and the boat which was about
half a mile broad; so I came ba-tk for the present, being more
intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find some-
thing for my present subsistence.

A little after noon 1 found the sea very calm, and the tide
ebbed so far out, that I could come within a quarter of a
mile of the ship. And here I found a fresh renewing of my
grief; for I saw evidently that, if we had kept on board, we
had been all safe; that is to say, we had all got safe on shore,
and I had not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute
of all comfort and company, as I now was. This forced tears
to my eyes again; but as there was little relief in that, I re-
solved, if possible, to get to the ship ; so I pulled ofi my clothes,
for the weather was hot to extremity, and took to the water.
But when I came to the ship, my difficulty was still greater to
know how to get on board; for, as she lay aground, and high
out of the water, there was nothing within my reach to lay

hold of. I swam round her twice, and the second time I espied
a small piece of rope, which I wondered I did not see at first,
hanging down by the fore-chains so low, that with great diffi-
culty I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope got up into
the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the ship was
bulged, and had a great deal of water in her hold; but that
she lay so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth,
that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low,
almost to the water. By this means all her quarter was free
and all that was in that part was dry; for you may be sure my
first work was to search, and to see what was spoiled and what
was free. And, first, I found that all the ship's provisions were
dry and untouched by the water, and being very well disposed
to eat, I went to the breadroom, and filled my pockets with
biscuit, and ate it as I went about other things, for I had no
time to lose. I also found some rum in the great cabin, of
which I took a large dram, and which I had, indeed, need
enough of to spirit me for what was before me. Now I wanted
nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many things which
I foresaw would be very necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to be
had; and this extremity roused my application. We had sev-
eral spare yards, and two or three large spars of wood, and a
spare topmast or two in the ship: I resolved to fall to work
with them, and I flung as many of them overboard as I could
manage for their weight, tying every one with a rope, that
they might not drive away. When this was done, I went down
the ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them
together at both ends, as well as I could, in the form of a raft,
and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them,Loading the Raft 59

crosswise, I found I could walk upon it very well, but that it
was not able to bear any great weight, the pieces being too
light. So I went to work, and with the carpenter's saw I cut a
spare topmast into three lengths, and added them to my raft,
with a great deal of labor and pains. But the hope of furnish-
ing myself with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what
I should have been able to have done upon another ocmsion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable
weight. My next care was what to load it with, and how to
preserve what I laid upon it from the surf of the sea: but I
was not long in considering this. I first laid all the planks or
boards upon it that I could get, and having considered well
what I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's chests,
which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered them
down upon my raft; the first of these I filled with provisions--
viz., bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried
goat's flesh (which we lived much upon), and a little remain-
der of European corn, whichhad been laid by for some fowls
which we brought to sea with us, but the fowls were killed.
There had been some barley and wheat together; but, to my
great disappointment, I found afterward that the rats had
eaten or spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several cases of
bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were some cordial
waters; and in all, about five or six gallons of arrack. These
I stowed by themselves, there being no need to put them into
the chest, nor any room for them. While I was doing this, I
found the tide began to flow, though very calm; and I had
the mortifimtion to see my coat, shirt and waistcoat, which
I had left on shore upon the sand, swim away. As for my
60

breaches, which were only linen, and open-kneed, I swam on

board in them and my stockings. However, this put me upon
rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough, but took

no more than I wanted for present use,

for I had other things

' . .4.
'ii'fl/rfi ,

 

. /

' .5".

ill"?! .

8'1" J4! . .
which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work with
on shore; and it was after long searching that I found out
the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to
me, and much more valuable than a shiplading of gold would
have been at that time. I got it down to my raft, whole as it
was, without losing time to look into it, for I knew in gen-
eral what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There
were two very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and
two pistols. These I secured first, with some powder-hams,
a small bag of shot, and two old rusty swords. I knew there
were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where
our gunner had stowed them; but with much search I found
them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken water.
Those two I got to my raft, with the arms. And now I thought
myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should
get to shore with them, having neither sail, oar nor rudder;
and the least capful of wind would have overset all my
navigation.

I had three encouragements: first, a smooth, calm sea;
secondly, the tide rising, and setting in to the shore; thirdly,
what little wind there was blew me toward the land. And
thus, having found two or three broken oars belonging to the
boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest, two saws,
an axe and a hammer; with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile,
or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I found it
drive a little distant from the place where I had landed be--
fore; by which I perceived that there was some indraft of the
water, and consequently, I hoped to find some creek or river
there, which I might make use of as a port to get to land with
my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was. There appeared before me a little
opening of the land. I found a strong current of the tide set
into it; so I guided my raft as well as I could, to keep in the
middle of the stream.

But here I had like to have suffered a second shipwreck,
which, if I had, I think verily would have broken my heart;
for knowing nothing of the coast, my raft ran aground at one
end of it upon a shoal, and not being aground at the other
end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off
toward the end that was afloat, and so fallen into the water.
I did my utmost, by setting my back againet the chests, to keep
them in their places, but could not thrust off the raft with all
my strength; neither durst I stir from the posture I was in;
but holding up the chests with all my might, I stood in that
manner near half an hour, in which time the rising of the
water brought me a little more upon a level; and, a little
after, the water still rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust
her off with the oar I had into the channel, and then driving
up higher, I at length found myself in the mouth of a little
river, with land on both sides, and a strong current or tide
running up. I looked on both sides for a proper place to get
to shore, for I was not willing to be driven too high up the
river; hoping in time to see some ship at sea, and therefore
resolved to place myself as near the coast as I could.
At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek,
-to which, with great pain and difficulty, I guided my raft,
and at last got so near that, reaching ground with my oar, I
could thrust her directly in. But here I had like to have dipped
all my cargo into the sea again; for that shore lying pretty
steep--that is to say, sloping--there was no place to land, but
where one end of my float, if it ran on shore; would lie so
high, and the other sink lower, as-before, that it would en-
danger my cargo again. All that I could do was to wait till
the tide wasat the highest, keeping the raft with my'oar like
an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat
piece of ground, which I expected the water would flow over;
and so it did. As soon as I found water enough, for my raft
drew about a foot of water, I thrust her upon that flat piece of
ground, and there fastened or moored her, by sticking my
two broken oars into the ground--one on one side, near one
end, and one on the other side, near the other end; and thus
I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my
cargo safe on shore.
My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper
place for my habitation, and where to stow my goods, to
secure them from whatever might happen. Where I was, I
yetvknew not; whether on the continent or an island; whether
inhabited or not inhabited; whether in danger of wild beasts
or not. There was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose
up very steep and high, and which seemed to overtop some
other hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took
out one of the fowling~pieces, and one of the pistols, and a
horn of powder; and thus armed, I travelled for discovery
up to the top of that hill, where, after I had with great labor
and difiiculty got to the top, I saw my fate, to my great afflic-
tion--viz., that I was in an island environed every way with
the sea: no land to be seen except some rocks, which lay a
great way off, and two small islands, less than this, which lay
about three leagues to the west.

I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as I
saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild
beasts, of which, however, I saw none. Yet I saw abundance
of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither, when I killed
them, could I tell what was fit for food, and what not. At my
coming back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon
a tree, on the side of a great wood. I believe it was the first
gun that had been fired there since the creation of the world.
I had no sooner fired, but from all the parts of the wood there
arose an innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, mak-
ing a confused screaming and crying, every one according to
his usual note, but not one of them of any kind that I knew.
As for the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk,
its color and beak resembling it, but it had no talons or claws
more than common. Its flesh was carn'on, and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my raft, andA Second Cargo 65

fell to work to bring my ergo on shore, which took me up
the rest of the day; what to do with myself at night I knew
not, nor indeed where to rest, for I was afraid to lie down on
the ground, not knowing but some wild beast might devour
me; though, as I afterward found, there was really no need
for those fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricaded myself round
with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore, and
made a kind of but for that night's lodging. As for food, I
yet saw not which way to supply myself, except that I had seen
two or three creatures, like hares, run out of the wood where
I shot the fowl.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many
things out of the ship which would be useful to me, and
particularly some of the rigging and sails, and such other
things as might come to land, and I resolved to make another
voyage on board the vessel, if possible; and as I knew that the
first storm that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces,
I resolved to set all other things apart till I had got everything
out of the ship that I could get. Then I mlled a council--that
is to say, in my thoughts--whether I should take back the
raft; but this appeared impracticable: so I resolved to go as
before when the tide was down, and I did so, only that I
stripped before I went from my hut, having nothing on but
a checkered shirt, a pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps
on my feet. _

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second
raft; and, having had experience of the first, I neither made
this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard, but yet I brought
away several things very useful to me; as, first, in the w-pen-
ter's stores, I found two or three bags full of nails and spikes,
a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and, above all,
that most useful thing called a grindstone; all these I secured,
together with several things belonging to the gunner, particu-
larly two or three iron crows, and two barrels of musket-
bullets, seven muskets, another fowling-piece, with some
small quantity of powder more; a large bag full of small shot,
and a great roll of sheet-lead; but this last was so heavy, I
could not hoist it up to get it over the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes I could
find, and a spare fore--topsail, hammock, and some bedding;
and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought them all
safe on shore, to my very great comfort.

I was under some apprehensions during my absence from
the land, that at least my provisions might be devoured on
shore: but when I came back, I found no sign of any visitor,
only there sat a creature, like a wild out, upon one of the
chests, which, when I came toward it, ran away a little dis-
tance, and then stood still; she sat very composed and uncon-
cerned, and looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be
acquainted with me. I presented my gun at her, but, as she
did not understand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it,
nor did she ofier to stir away; upon which I tossed her a bit of
biscuit, though, by the way, I was not very free of it, for my
store was not great: however, I spared her a bit, I say, and
she went to it, smelled at it, and ate it, and looked. as if
pleased, for more; but I thanked her, and could spare no
more; so she marched off.

Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was fain
to open the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels (forRopes and Sails 67

they were too heavy, being large asks), I went to work to
make me a little tent, with the sail, and some poles which I
cut for that purpose; and into this tent I brought everything
that I knew would spoil either with rain or sun, and I piled
all the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent,
to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from man or
beast. ,

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent
with some boards within, and an empty chest set up on end
without; and spreading one of the beds upon the ground,
laying my two pistols just at my head, and my gun at length
by me, I went to bed for the first time, and slept very quietly
all night, for I was very weary and heavy; for the night before
I had slept little, and had labored very hard all day, as well
to fetch all those things bout the ship, as to get them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was
laid up, I believe, for one man: but I was not satisfied still,
for while the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I
ought to get everything out of her that I could: so every day
at low water I went on board, and brought away something
or other; but particularly the third time I went, I brought
away as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small
ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece of spare mn-
vas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel
of wet gunpowder: in a word, I brought away all the sails first
and last; only that I was bin to cut them in pieces, and bring
as much at a time as I could, for they were no more useful to
be sails, but as mere mnvas only.

But that which comforted me more still was that, last of all,
after I had made five or six such voyages as these, and thought
I had nothing more to expect from the ship that was worth
my meddling with; I say, after all this, I found a great hogs-
head of bread, three large runlets of rum, or spirits, and a
box of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour: this was surprising
to me, because I had given over expecting any more provi-
sions, except what was spoiled by the water. I soon emptied
the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped it up, parcel by
parcel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word,
I got all this safe on shore also.

The next day I made another voyage, and now, having
plundered the ship of what was portable and fit to hand out,
I began with the cables; and cutting the great table into
pieces, such as I could move, I got two cables and a hawser
on shore, with all the iron-work I could get; and having cut
down the spritsail yard, and the mizzen-yard, and everything
I could do, to make a large raft, I loaded it with all these
heavy goods, and came away; but my good luck began now
to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so overladen,
that, after I had entered the little cove where I had landed
the rest of my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as
I did the other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo into
the water. As for myself, it was no great harm, for I was near
the shore; but as to my cargo, it was a great part of it lost,
especially the iron, which I expected would have been of
great use to me: however, when the tide was out, I got most
of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though
with infinite labor; for I was fain to dip for it into the water,
a work which fatigued me very much. After this, I went every
day on board, and brought away what I could get.

I had been now 13 days on shore, and had been 1 1 timesWorthless Gold 69

on board the ship, in which time I had brought away all that
one pair of hands could well be supposed capable to bring;
though I believe verily, had the mlm weather held, I should
have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece; but pre-
paring the twelfth time to go on board, I found the wind
began to rise: however, at low water I went on board, and
though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectually,
as that nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a locker
with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three razors,
and one pair of large scissors, with some ten or dozen of good
knives and forks: in another I found about thirty-six pounds
value in money, some European coin, some Brazil, some
pieces of eight, some gold and some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money: "0 drug!"
said I, aloud, "what art than good for? Thou art not worth
to me, no, not the taking off the ground: one of those knives
is worth all this heap: I have no manner of use for thee--even
remain where thou art, and go to the bottom, as a creature
whose life is not worth saving." However, upon second
thought, I took it away, and wrapping all this in a piece of
canvas, I began to think of making another raft; but while
I was preparing this, I found the sky overcast, and the wind
began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blewa fresh gale
from the shore. It occurred to me, that it was in vain to pre-
tend to make a raft with the wind off shore; and that it was
my business'to be gone before the tide of flood began, other-
wise I might not be able to reach the shore at all; accordingly,
I let myself down into the water, and swam across the channel
which lay between the ship and the sands, and even that with
difficulty enough, partly with the weight of the things I had
about me, and partly the roughness of the water; for the wind
rose very hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew
a storm.

But I had got home to my little tent, where I lay, with all
my wealth about me, very secure. It blew very hard all that
night, and in the morning, when I looked out, behold no
more ship was to be seen! I was a little surprised, but recov-
ered myself with the satisfactory reflection, viz., that I had
lost no time, nor abated any diligence, to get everything out
of her that could be useful to me; and that, indeed, there was
little left in her that I was able to bring away, if I had had
more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of any-
thing out of her, except what might drive on shore from her
wreck; as, indeed, divers pieces of her afterward did; but
those things were of small use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing
myself against either savages (if any should appear), or wild
beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many thoughts of
the method how to do this, and what kind of dwelling to
make; whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or a
tent upon the earth; and, in short, I resolved upon both, of
the manner and description of which, it may not be improper
to give an account.

I soon found the place I was in was not for my settlement,
because it was upon a low moorish ground, near the sea, and
I believe would not be wholesome, and more particularly
because there was no fresh water near it; so I resolved to find
a more healthy and convenient spot of ground.My Fortress 71

I consulted several things in my situation, which I found
would be proper for me: ist, health and fresh water, I just
now mentioned; 2dly, shelter from the heat of the sun ; 3dly,
security from ravenous creatures, whether man or beast;
4thly, a view to the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight,
I might not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which
I was not willing to banish all my expectation yet.

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain
on the side of a rising hill, whose front toward this little plain
was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could come down
upon me from the top; on the side of the rock there was a
hollow place, worn a little way in, like the entrance of a cave;
but there was not really any awe, or way into the rock at all.
EN TH E flat of the green, just be-
"fore this hollow place, I resolved to

pitch my tent: this plain was not

'gzabove a hundred yards broad, and

   
  
   
   

down into the low grounds by the
sea-side. It was on the N.N.W. side of the hill, so that I was
sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a W. and by
S. sun, or thereabout, which, in those countries, is near the
setting.

Before I set up my tent I drew a half--circle before the hol-
low place, which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter
from the rock, and twenty yards in its diameter, from its
beginning and ending.
In this half--circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driv-
ing them into the ground till they stood very firm like piles,
the biggest end being out of the ground above five feet and a
half, and sharpened on the top; the two rows did not stand
above six inches from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship,
and laid them in rows, one upon another, within the circle,

between these two rows of stakes, up to the top, placing other

stakes in the inside, leaning against them, about two feet and
a half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence was so strong
that neither man nor beast could get into it or over it; this cost
me a great deal of time and labor, especially to cut the piles
in the woods, bring them to the place, and drive them into
the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a door,
but by a short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when
I was in, I lifted over after me; and so I was completely fenced
in and fortified, as I thought, from all the world, and conse-
quently slept secure in the night, which otherwise I could
not have done; though as it appeared afterward, there was no
need of all this caution from the enemies that l apprehended
danger from.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labor, I carried
all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition, and stores, of
which you have the account above; and I made a large tent
which, to preserve me from the rains, that in one part of the
year are very violent there, I made double, one smaller tent
within, and one larger tent above it; and covered the upper-
most with a large tarpaulin, which I had saved among the'
sails. And now I lay no more for a while in the bed which I
had brought on shore, but in a hammock, which was indeed
a very good one, and belonged to the mate of the ship.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything
that would spoil by the wet; and having thus indosed all my
goods, I made up the entrance, which till now I had left open,
and so passed and repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the
rock, and bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down
out through my tent, I laid them up within my fence, in the
nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground within about
a foot and a half; and thus I made me a dive, just behind my
tent, which served me like a cellar to my house.

It cost me much labor and many days before all these things
were brought to perfection; and, therefore, I must go back
to some other things which took up some of my thoughts. At
the same time it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the
setting up my tent, and making the cave, that a storm of rain
falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning
happened, and after that, a great clap of thunder, as is natu-
rally the efiect of it. I was not so much surprised with the
lightning, as I was with a thought which darted into my mind
as swift as the lightning itself--"O my powder!" My very
heart sank within me when I thought, that, at one blast, all
my powder might be destroyed; on which, not my defence
only, but the providing my food, as I thought, entirely de-
pended: I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger,
though had the powder took fire, I had never known who had
hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that after the
storm was over, I laid aside all my works, my building and
fortifying, and applied myself to make bags and boxes, to
separate the powder, and to keep it a little and a little in a
parcel, in the hope that whatever might come, it might not
all take fire at once; and to keep it so apart, that it should not
be possible to make one part fire another. I finished this work
in about a fortnight; and I think my powder, which in all was
about 240 pounds weight, was divided in not less than a hun-
dred parcels: as to the barrel that had been wet, I did not
apprehend any danger from that; so I placed it in my new
cave, which in my fancy, I called my kitchen; and the rest I
hid up and down in holes among the rocks, so that no wet
might come to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went out
once at least every day with my gun, as well to divert myself
as to see if I could kill anything fit for food; and, as near as I
could, to acquaint myself with what the island produced. The
first time I went out, I presently discovered that there were
goats in the island, which was a great satisfaction to me; but
then it was attended with this misfortune to me, viz., that
they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the
most difficult thing in the world to come at them; but I was
not discouraged at this, not doubting but I might now and
then shoot one, as it soon happened; for after I had found
their haunts a little, I laid wait in this manner for them: I
observed if they saw me in the valleys, though they were upon
the rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright; but
if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon the rocks,
they took no notice of me; from whence I concluded, that
by the position of their optics, their sight was so directed
downward, that they did not readily see objects that wereThe Wild Goats 75

above them; so afterward I took this method--I always
climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then had fre-
quently a fair mark. The first shot I made among these crea-
tures, I killed a she-goat, which had a little kid by her, which
she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily; for when the old
one fell, the kid stood stockstill by her, till I came and took
her up; and not only so, but when I carried the old one with
me, upon my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my
inclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the
kid in my arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have
bred it up tame, but it would not eat, so I was forced to kill
it, and eat it myself; these two supplied me with flesh a great
while, for I ate sparingly, and saved my provisions (my bread
especially) as much as possibly I could.

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely
necessary to provide a place to make a fire in, and fuel to burn;
and what I did for that, and how I enlarged my cave, and what
conveniences I made, I shall give a full account of in its place.

And now being to enter into a melancholy relation of a
scene of silent life such, perhaps, as was never heard of in
the world before, I shall take it from its beginning, and con-
tinue it in its order. It was, by my account, the 30th of Sep-
tember, when, in the manner as above said, I first set foot
upon this horrid island, when the sun, being to us in its
autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head: for I reck-
oned myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of 9deg 22' N.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it came
into my thoughts that I should be losing my reckoning of
time for want of books, and pen and ink, and should even
forget the Sabbath days; but to prevent this, I cut with my
knife upon a large post, in capital letters, and making it into
a great cross, I set up on the shore where I first landed, "I came
on shore here on the 30th of September, 1659." Upon the
sides of this square post I cut every day a notch with my knife,
and every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and
every first day of the month, as long again as that long one;
and thus I kept my calendar.

In the next place, we are to observe that among the many
things which I brought out of the ship, in the several voy-
ages which, as above mentioned, I made to it, I got severalMy.Companion 77

things of less value, but not at all less useful to me, which I
omitted setting down before; as, in particular, pens, ink, and
paper; several parcels in the captain's, mate's, gunner's. and
carpenter's keeping; three or four compasses, some mathe-
matical instruments, dials, perspectives, charts, and books of
navigation; all which I huddled together, whether I might
want them or no. Also I found three very good Bibles, which
dune to me in my cargo from England, and which I had
packed up among my things; some Portuguese books also;
and, among them, two or three Popish prayer-books, and
several other books, all which I carefully secured. And I must
not forget, that we had in the ship a dog, and two cuts, of
whose eminent history I may have occasion to say something
in its place; for I carried both the cats with me; and as for the
dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam on shore
to me the day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and
was a trusty servant to me many years; I wanted nothing that
he could fetch me, nor any company that he could make up
to me. I only wanted to have him talk to me, but that would
not do. As I observed before,'I found pens, ink, and paper,
and husbanded them to the utmost; and while my ink lasted,
I kept things exact, but after that was gone I could not, for
I could not make any ink by any means that I could devise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many things, not-
withstanding all that I had amassed together; and of these,
ink was one, as also a spade, pickaxe, and shovel, to dig or
remove the earth; and also needles, pins, and thread.

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily;
and it was near a whole year before I had entirely finished my
little pale, or surrounded my habitation; the piles or stakes,
which were as heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in
cutting and preparing in the woods, and more, by far, in
bringing home; so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting
and bringing home one of those posts, and a third day in driv-
ing it into the ground; for which purpose, I got a heavy piece
of wood at first, but at last bethought myself of one of the
iron crows; which however, though I found it, made driving
those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what
need I have been concerned at the tediousness of anything I
had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor had I any
other employment, if that had been over, at least that I could
foresee, except the ranging the island to seek for food.

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the
circumstances I was reduced to; and I drew up the state of
my affairs in writing, not so much to leave them to any that
were to come after me, for I was likely to have but few heirs,
as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon them, and
afflicting my mind: and as my reason began now to master
my despondency, I began to comfort myself as well as I could,
and to set the good against the evil, that I might have some-
thing to distinguish my case from worse; and I stated very
impartially, like debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed
against the miseries I suffered, thus:--

memam gal/mu "hawnot
",WWW (medicaid/(nay M'sComforting Reflections 79

JWWMW gutlmwaxea.
Mathemaflom Mal/dowkome'a
magmaem. WMM;WSSPS

Mm,m.wmm

W--awWy,~mla/n- Wmamfiewa,

gufjmenw'otm,

meW wfi'gufjmmlmmw
flaw, "WQW:MJMMWWQ

flat godme 4...:
pyemmwuleywmefo MeMmuoa/xo'wuffifo

"WWW
"WWW"?
WmamJ/emhm/yaee/

meeayw Jd'ua.
Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testimony that
there was scarce any condition in the world so miserable,
but there was something negative or something positive to
be thankful for in it.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my condi-
tion, and given over looking out to sea, to see if I could spy
a ship--I say, giving over these things, I began to apply myself
to make things as easy to me as I could.

--'_;IHAVE already described my habi-
' ' tation, which was a tent under the
' side of a rock, surrounded with a

  

raised a kind of wall up against it of
turfs, about two feet thick on the out-

was a year and a half) I raised rafters from' it, leaning to the
rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and such

things as I could get, to keep out the rain; which I found at
some times of the year very violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into
this pale, and into the cave which I had made behind me;
but I must observe, too, that at first this was a confused heap
of goods, which, as they lay in no order, so they took up all my
place, I had no room to turn myself: so I set myself to enlarge
my awe and work further into the earth; for it was a loose
sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labor I bestowed on it:
and so when I found I was pretty safe as to beasts of prey, I
worked sidewise, to the right hand, into the rock; and then,Contrioances 81

turning to the right again, worked quite out, and made me
a door to come out on the outside of my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were a back
way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to
store my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such neceSary
things as I found I most wanted, particularly a chair and a
table; for without these I was not able to enjoy the few com-
forts I had in the world; I could not write or eat, or do several
things. with so much pleasure without a table. So I went to
work; and here I must needs observe, that by making the
most rational judgment of things, every man may be, in time,
master of every mechanic art. I had never handled a tool in my
life; and yet, in time, by labor, application, and contrivance,
I found, at last, that I wanted nothing but I could have made
it, especially if I had had tools; however, I made abundance
of things, even without tools; and some with no more tools
than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were never made
that way before, and that with infinite labor; for example, if
I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree,
setit on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either side with
my axe, till I had brought it to be thin as a plank, and then
dub it smooth with my adze. It is true, by this method I could
make but one board out of a whole tree; but this I had no
remedy for but patience, any more than I had for the pro-
digious deal of time and labor which it took me up to make a
plank or board: but my time or labor was little worth, and
so it was as well employed one way as another.

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I observed
above, in the first place; and this I did out of the short pieces
of boards that I brought on my raft from the ship; but when
I had wrought out some boards as above, I made large shelves,
of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another all
along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron--
work on; and, in a word, to separate everything at large into
their places, that I might come easily at them, I knocked
pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my guns and all things
that would hang up: so that, had my cave been to be seen, it
looked like a general magazine of all necessary things; and I
had everything so ready at my hands, that it was a great pleas-
ure to me to see all my goods in such order, and especially to
find my stock of all necessaries so great.

And now it was that I began to keep a journal of every
day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was in too much
hurry, and not only hurry as to labor, but in too much dis-
composure of mind; and my journal would have been full
of many dull things.

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the
ship, and got all that I could out of her, yet I could not for-
bear getting up to the top of a little mountain, and looking
out to sea, in hopes of seeing a ship; then fancy at a vast dis-
tance I spied a sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and
then after looking steadily, till I was almost blind, lose it
quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus increase
my misery by my folly.

But having gotten over these things in some measure, and
having settled my household stuff and habitation, made me
a table and a chair, and all as handsome about me as I could,I Begin My Journal 83

I began to keep my journal; of which I shall here give you
the copy (though in it will be told all these particulars over
again) as long as it lasted; for having no more ink, l was forced
to leave it off.

;%W
"W

EPTEMBER 30, 1659.,---I poor,
W" miserable Robinson Crusoe, being
' '--_ shipwrecked, during a dreadful
' ' storm, in the offing, came on shore

" on this dismal, unfortunate island,
~ >~ which I called "The Island of
Despair"; all the rest of the ship' s company being drowned,
and myself almost dead.

All the rest of the day I spent in afflicting myself at the
dismal circumstances I was brought to; viz., I had neither
food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place to fly to; and, in
despair of any relief, saw nothing but death before me, either
that I should be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by sav-
ages, or starved to death for want of food. At the approach
of night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures; but slept
soundly, though it rained all night.

October 1.--In the morning I saw, to my great surprise,
the ship had floated with the high tide, and was driven on
shore again much nearer the island; which, as it was some
comfort, on one hand--for seeing her set upright, and not
broken to pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on
board, and get some food and necessaries out of her for my
relief--so, on the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss
of my comrades, who, I imagined, if we had all stayed on
board, might have saved the ship, or, at least, that they would
not have been all drowned, as they were; and that, had the
' men been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat out
of the ruins of the ship to have carried us to some other part of
the world. I spent great part of this day in perplexing myself
on these things; but, at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I
went upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam on
board. This day also it continued raining, though with no
wind at all.

From the 1 st of October to the 24th.-----All these days entirely
spent in many several voyages to get all I could out of the
ship, which I brought on shore every tide of flood upon rafts.
Much rain also in the days, though with some intervals of
fair weather; but it seems this was the rainy season.

Oct. 20.--I overset my raft, and all the goods I had got upon
it; but, being in shoal water, and the things being chiefly
heavy, I recovered many of them when the tide was out.

Oct. 2 5.--It rained all night and all day, with some gusts
of wind; during which time the ship broke in pieces, the
wind blowing a little harder than before, and was no more
to be seen, except the wreck of her, and that only at low
water. I spent this day in covering and securing the goods
which I had saved, that the rain might not spoil them.

Oct. 26.--I walked about the shore almost all day, to find
out a place to fix my habitation, greatly concerned to secure
myself from any attack in the night, either from wild beasts
or men. Toward night, I fixed upon a proper place, under a
rock, and marked out a semi-circle for my encampment; which
I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or fortification,
made of double piles, lined within with tables, and without
with turf.

From the 26th to 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all

my goods to my new habitation, though some part of the time
it rained exceedingly hard.

The 3 rst, in the morning, I went out into the island with
my gun, to seek for some food, and'discover the country;
when I killed a she-goat, and her kid followed me home,
which I afterward killed also; because it would not feed.

November 1.---I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there
for the first night; making it as large as I could. with stakes
driven in to swing my hammock upon.

Nov. 2.--I set up all my chests and boards, and the pieces
of timber which made my rafts, and with them formed a fence
round me, a little within the place I had marked out for
my fortification.

Nov. 3.--I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like
ducks, which were very good food. In the afternoon went to
work to make me a table.

Nov. 4.---This morning I began to order my times of work,
of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diver-
sion; viz., every morning I walked out with my gun for two
or three hours, if it did not rain; then employed myself to
work till about eleven o'clock; then ate what I had to live on;
and from twelve till two I lay down to sleep, the .weather
being excessively hot; and then, in the evening, to work again.
The working part of this day and of the next were wholly
employed in making my table, for I was yet but a very sorry
workman, though time and necessity made me a complete
natural mechanic soon after, as I believe they would do any
one else.

Nov. 5.--This day went abroad with my gun and my dog,
and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but her flesh good
for nothing; every creature that I killed I took off the skins
and preserved them. Coming back by the seashore, I saw
many sorts of sea-fowl, which I did not understand; but was
surprised, and almost frighted with two or three seals, which
while I was gazing at them, not well knowing what they were,
got into the sea, and escaped me for that time.

Nov. 6.----After my morning walk, I went to work with my
table again, and finished it, though not to my liking; nor was
it long before I learned to mend it.

Nov. 7.--Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7th,
8th, 9th, 10th and part of the 12th (for the 1 1th was Sunday),
I took wholly up to make me a chair, and with much ado
brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to please me; and
even in the making I pulled it in pieces several times.

Note, I soon neglected my keeping Sundays; for, omitting
my mark for them on my post, I forgot which was which.

Nov. 13.--This day it rained, which refreshed me exceed-
ingly, and cooled the earth; but it was accompanied with
terrible thunder and lightning, which frightened me dread-
fully, for fear of my powder. As soon as it was over, I resolved
to separate my stock of powder into as many little parcels as
possible, that it might not be in danger.

Nov. :4, 15, 16.--These three days I spent in making little
square chests, or boxes, which might hold about a pound, or
two pounds at most, of powder; and so, putting the powder
in, I stowed it in places as secure and remote from one an-
other as possible. On one of these three days, I killed a large
bird that was good to eat, but I knew not what to call it.

Nov. 17.--This day I began to dig behind my tent into the
rock, to make room for my further convenience. Note, Three
things I wanted exceedingly for this work, viz., a pickaxe, a
shovel, and a wheelbarrow, or basket; so I desisted from my
work, and began to consider how to supply that want, and
make me some tools; as for the pickaxe, I made use of the
iron crows, which were proper enough, though heavy: but
the next thing was a shovel, or spade; this was so absolutely
necessary, that, indeed, I could do nothing effectually with-
out it; but what kind of one to make I knew not.

Nov. 18.--The next day, in searching the woods, I found
a tree of that wood, or like it, which, in the Brazils, they (all
the iron-tree, for its exceeding hardness; of this, with great
labor, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a piece and brought
it home, too, with difliculty enough, for it was exceeding
heavy. The excessive hardness of the wood, and my having
no other way, made me a long while upon this machine, for
I worked it effectually by little and little into the form of a
shovel or spade; the handle exactly shaped like ours in Eng-
land, only that the board part having no iron shod upon it at
the bottom, it would not last me so long; however, it served
well enough for the uses which I had occasion to put it to;
but never was a shovel, I believe, made after that fashion,
or so long in making.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or wheelbarrow.
A basket I could not make by any means, having no such
things as twigs that would bend to make wicker-ware, at least,
none yet found out; and as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied I could
make all but the wheel; but that I had no notion of, neither
did I know how to go about it; besides I had no possible way
to make the iron gudgeons for the spindle or axis of the wheel
to run in; so I gave it over, and so, for carrying away the earth
which I dug out of the cave, I made me a thing like a bed
which the laborers carry mortar in when they serve the brick-
layers. This was not so difficult to me as the making the shovel;
and yet this and the shovel, and the attempt which I made in
vain to make a wheelbarrow, took me up no less than four
days--I mean always excepting my morning walk with my
gun, which I seldom failed, and very seldom failed, also,
bringing home something fit to eat.

. Nov. 2 3.---My other work having now stood still, because
of my making these tools, when they were finished, I went
on, and working every day, as my strength and time allowed,
I spent eighteen days entirely in widening and deepening my
curve, that it might hold my goods commodiously. Note. Dur.
ing all this time, I worked to make this room or ave spacious
enough to accommodate me as a warehouse, ormagazine, a
kitchen, a dining-room, and a cellar; as for my lodging I kept
to the tent; except that sometimes, in the wet season of the
year, it rained so hard that I could not keep myself dry; which
caused me afterward to cover all my place within my pale
with long poles, in the form of rafters, leaning against the
rock, and load them with flags and large leaves of trees, like
a thatch.

December io.--I began now to think my cave or vault fin-
ished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made it too large)
a great quantity of earth fell down from the top and one side;
so much that, in short, it frighted me, and not without rea-
son, too, for if I had been under it, I had never wanted a
grave-digger. I had now a great deal of work to do over again,
for I had the loose earth to carry out; and, which was of more
importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be
sure no more would come down.

Dec. 1 1,--This day I went to work with it, and got two
shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces
of board across over each post; this I finished the next day;
and setting more posts up with boards, in about a week more
I had the roof secured, and the posts, standing in rows, served
me for partitions to part off the house.

Dec. 17.--From this day to the 20th I placed shelves, and
knocked up nails on the posts, to hang everything up that
could be hung up; and now I began to be in some order
within doors.

Dec. 20.--Now I carried everything into the cave, and
began to furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards
like a dresser, to order my victuals upon; but boards began
to be very scarce with me; also, I made me another table.

Dec. 24.--Much rain all night and all day. No stirring out.

Dec. 2 5.--Rain all day.

Dec. 26.--No rain, and the earth much cooler than before
and pleasanter.

Dec. 27.-- Killed a young goat, and lamed another so that
I taught it and led it home on a string; when I had it home, I
bound and splintered up its leg, which was broke. N. B.--
I took such (are of it that it lived, and the leg grew well and
as strong as ever; but by my nursing it so long, it grew tame,
and fed upon the little green at my door, and would not go
away; this was the first time that I entertained a thought of
breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have food
when my powder and shot were all spent.

Dec. 28, 29, 30, 3 1.--Great beats and no breeze, so that there
was no stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food; this
time I spent in putting all my things in order within doors.

January 1.----Very hot still; but I went abroad early and late
with my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This
evening, going further into the valleys which lay toward the
centre of the island, I found there were plenty of goats,
though exceedingly shy, and hard to come at; however, I
resolved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down.

Jan. 2.--Accordingly, the next day I went out with my dog,
and set him upon the goats; but I was mistaken, for they all
faced about upon the dog, and he knew his danger too well,
for he would not come near them.

Jan. 3.~--I began my fence, or wall; which, being still jeal-
ous of my being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make
very thick and strong.

N. B.--This wall being described before, it is suflicient to
observe that I was no less time than from the 3d of January
to the 14th of April working, finishing, and perfecting this
wall, though it was no more than about twenty-four yards in
length, being a half-circle from one place in the rock to an-
other place, about eight yards f'rom it, the door of the cave
being in the centre behind it.

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me
many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but I thought I
should never be perfectly secure till this wall was finished;
and it is source credible what inexpressible labor everythingHousehold Affairs 91

was done with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods,
and driving them into the ground; for I made them much
bigger than I'need to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double-
fenced, with a turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded
myself that if any people were to come on shore there, they
would not perceive anything like a habitation; and it was very
well I did so, as may be observed hereafter, upon a very
remarkable occasion.

During this time I made my rounds in the woods for game
every day when the rain permitted me, and made frequent
discoveries in these walks of something or other to my advan-
tage; particularly, I found a kind of wild pigeons, which
build, not as wood-pigeons in a tree, but rather as house-
pigeons, in the holes of the rocks; and taking some young
ones, I endeavored to breed them up tame, and did so; but
when they grew older they flew away, which perhaps was at
first for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them.
However, I frequently found their nests, and got their young
ones, which were very good meat. And now, in the managing
my household affairs, I found myself wanting in many things,
which I thought at first it was impossible for me to make; as
indeed, with some of them it was: for instance, I could never
make a desk to be hooped; I had a small runlet or two, as I
observed before; but I could never arrive at the apacity of
making one by them, though I spent many weeks about it;
I could neither put in the heads, or join the staves so true to
one another as to make them hold water: so I gave that also
over. In the next place, I was at a great loss for candles; so
that as soon as ever it was dark, which was generally by seven
o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remembered the lump
of bees-wax with which I made candles in my African adven-
ture; but I had none of that now; the only remedy I had was,
that when I had killed a goat I saved the tallow, and with a
little dish made of clay, which I baked in the sun, to which
I added a wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp: and this
gave me light, though not a clear steady light like a candle.
In the middle of all my labors it happened that, rummaging
my things, I found a little bag, which had been filled with
corn for the feeding of poultry, not for this voyage, but be-
fore, as I suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon. The
little remainder of corn that had been in the bag was all
devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing in it but husks and
dust; and being willing to have the bag for some other use
(I think it was to put powder in, when I divided it for fear
of the lightning, or some such use), I shook the husks of corn
out of it on one side of my fortification under the rock.

It was a little before the great rains just now mentioned
that I threw this stuff away, taking no notice, and not so much
as remembering that I had thrown anything there, when,
about a month after, or thereabout, I saw some few stalks of
something green shooting out of the ground, which I fancied
might be some plant I had not seen; but I was perfectly aston-
ished, when, after a little longer time, I saw about ten or
twelve ears come out, which were perfect green barley, of the
same kind as our English barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion
of my thoughts on this occasion. I had hitherto acted upon
no religious foundation at all; indeed, I had very few notions
of religion in my head, nor had entertained any sense of any-An Unexpected Crop 93

thing that had befallen me, otherwise than as chance, or as we
lightly say, what pleases God, without so much as inquiring
into the end of Providence in these things, or His order in
governing events for the world; but after I saw barley grow
there, in a climate which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially that I knew not how it came there, it startled me
strangely, and I began to suggest that God had miraculously
mused His grain to grow without any help of seed sown, and
that it was so directed purely for my sustenance on that wild,
miserable place.
And this was the more strange to me, because I saw near it
still, all along by the side of the rock, some other straggling
stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice, and which I knew,
because I had seen it grow in Africa, when I was ashore there.
I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence
for my support, but, not doubting that there was more in the
place, I went all over that part of the island where I had been
before, peering in every corner, and under every rock, to seek
for more of it, but I could not find any; at last it occurred to
my thoughts, that I shook a bag of chicken's meal out in that
place; and then the wonder began to cease; and I must con-
fess, my religious thankfulness to God's providence began
to abate, too, upon the discovering that all this was nothing
but what was common; though I ought to have been as thank-
ful for so strange and unforeseen a providence, as if it had
been miraculous; for it was really the work of Providence to
me, that should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains
of corn should remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed
all the rest, as if it had been dropped from Heaven; as also,
that I should throw it out in that particular place, where, it
being in the shade of a high rock, it sprang up immediately;
whereas, if I had thrown it anywhere else, at that time, it had
been burned up and destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in
their season, which was about the end of June; and, laying
up every com, I resolved to sow them all again, hoping, in
time, to have some quantity, sufficient to supply me with
bread. But it was not till the fourth year that I could allow
myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but
sparingly, for I lost all that I sowed the first season, by notEarthquake and Storm 95

observing the proper time; for l sowed it just before the dry
season, so that it never mine up at all, at least not as it would
have done; of which in its place.

up", nslnns this barley, there were, as
' ' above, twenty or thirty stalks of rice,
'~ _ which I preserved with the same care
and for the same use, or to the same
.' purpose--to make me bread, or rath-
. er food; for I found ways to cook it
without baking, though I did that
_ also later. To return to my Journal.

I worked excessive hard these three or four months to get
my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed it up, contriving
to go into it, not by a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that
there might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.

April I 6.--I finished the ladder; so I went up the ladder to
the top, and then pulled it up after me, and let it down in the
inside. This was a complete inclosure to me; for within I had
room enough, and nothing could come at me from without,
unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost
all my labor overthrown at once, and myself killed. The case
was thus:--As I was busy in the inside, behind my tent, just
at the entrance into my cave, I was terribly frighted with a
most dreadful surprising thing indeed; for, all on a sudden,
I found the earth come crumbling down from the roof of my
cave, and from the edge of the hill over my head, and two of
the posts I had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful man-
ner: I was heartily seared, but thought nothing of what was
really the muse, only thinking that the top of my (ave was
fallen in, as some of it had done before: and for fear I should
be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder, and not thinking
myself safe there neither, I got over my wall for fear of the
pieces of the hill, which I expected might roll down upon
me; I was no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground,
but I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake, for the ground
I stood on shook three times at about eight minutes' distance,
with three such shocks as would have overturned the strong-
est building that could be supposed to have stood on the
earth; and a great piece of the top of a rock which stood about
half a mile from me next the sea fell down, with such a ter-
rible noise as I never heard in all my life. I perceived also
the very sea was put into violent motion by it; and I believe
the shocks were stronger under the water than on the island.

I was so much amazed with the thing itself, having never
felt the like, nor discoursed with any one that had, that I was
like one dead or stupefied; and the motion of the earth made
my stomach sick, like one that was tossed at sea; but the noise
of the falling of the rock awaked me, and rousing me from
the stupefied condition I was in, filled me with horror; and
I thought of nothing but the hill falling upon my tent and all
my household goods, and burying all at once; and this sunk
my very soul within me a second time.

After the third shock was over,_and I felt no more for some
time, I began to take courage; and yet I had not heart enough
to go over my wall again, for fear of being buried alive, but
sat still upon the ground greatly cast down and disconsolate,
not knowing what to do; all this while, I had not the least seri-
ous religious thought; nothing but the common "Lord have
mercy upon me!" and when it was over, that went away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow cloudy,
as if it would rain. Soon after that, the wind arose by little and-
little, so that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful
hurricane, the sea was all on a sudden covered over with foam
and froth; the shore was covered with the breach'of the water;
the trees were torn up by the roots; and a terrible storm it was.
This held about three hours, and then began to abate; in two
hours more it was quite calm, and began to rain very hard.

All this while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified
and dejected; when on a sudden it came into my thoughts,
that these winds and rain being the consequences of the earth-
quake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might
venture into my cave again. With this thought, my spirits
began to revive; and the rain also helping to persuade me,
I went in and sat down in my tent. But the rain was so violent,
that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it; and I was

forced to go into my (ave, though very much afraid lest it
should fall on my head. '

This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to cut a
hole through my newfortification, like a sink, to let the water
go out, which would else have flooded my ave. After I had
been in my cave for some time, and found still no more shocks
of the earthquake follow, I began to be more composed. And
now, to support my spirits, which indeed wanted it very
much, I went to my little store, and took a small sup of rum;
which, however, I did then and always very sparingly, know-
ing I could have no more when that was gone. It continued
raining all that night, and great part of the next day, so that
I could not stir abroad; but my mind being more composed, I
began to think of what I had best do; concluding, that if the
island was subject to these earthquakes, there would be no
living for me in a ave, but I must consider of building a little
hut in an open place, which I might surround with a wall,
as I had done here, and so make myself secure from wild beasts
or men; for I concluded if I stayed where I was," I should
certainly, one time or other, be buried alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my tent from
the place where it stood, which was just under the hanging
precipice of the hill; and which, if it should be shaken again,
would certainly fall upon my tent; and I spent the two next
days, being the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving where
and how to remove my habitation.

The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that I never
slept in quiet; and yet the apprehension of lying abroad with-
out any fence was almost equal to it; but still, when I looked
about, and saw how everything was put in order, how pleas-
antly concealed I was, and how safe from danger, it made me
very 10th to remove. In the meantime, it occurred to me that
it would require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that
I must be contented to venture where I was, till I had formed
a camp for myself, and had secured it so as to remove to it. So
with this resolution I composed myself for a time, and re-
solved that I would go to work with all speed to build me a
wall with piles and cables, etc., in a circle, as before, and set
my tent up in it, when it was finished; but that I would ven-
ture to stay where I was till it was finished, and fit to remove.
This was the aist.

April 22.--The next morning I began to consider of meansThe Wreck Again 99

to put this resolve into execution; but I was at a great loss
about my tools. I had three large axes, and abundance of
hatchets (for we carried the hatchets for traffic with the Indi~
ans); but with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood,
they were all full of notches, and dull; and though I had a
grindstone, I could not turn it and grind my tools too. This
cost me as much thought as a statesman would have bestowed
upon a grand point of polities, or a judge upon the life and
death of a man. At length, I contrived a wheel with a string,
to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my hands at
liberty.

April 28, 29.--These two whole days I took up in grinding
my tools, my machine for turning my grindstone performing
very well.

April 30.--Having perceived my bread had been low a
great while, now I took a survey of it, and reduced myself to
one biscuit-cake a day, which made my heart very heavy.

May 1.--In the morning, looking toward the sea--side, the
tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than
ordinary, and it looked like a cask; when I came to it, I found
a small barrel, and two or three pieces of the wreck of the
ship, which were driven on shore by the late hurricane; and
looking toward the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie
higher out of the water than it used to do. I examined the
barrel which was driven on shore, and soon found it was a bar-
rel of gunpowder; but" it had taken water, and the powder was
raked as hard as a stone: however, I rolled it further on shore
for the present, and went on upon the sands, as near as I could
to the wreck of the ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely re-
moved; the forecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was
heaved up at least six feet, and the stern, which was broke in
pieces and parted from the rest by the force of the sea, soon
after I had left rummaging her, was tossed, as it were, up, and
cast on one side, and the sand was thrown so high on that
side next her stern, that whereas there was a great place of
water before, so that I could not come within a quarter of a
mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now walk quite
up to her when the tide was out. I was surprised with this at '
first, but soon concluded it must be done by the earthquake;
and as by this violence the ship was more broke open than
formerly, so many things came daily on shore which the sea
had loosened, and which the winds and water rolled by de-
grees to the land.
>> , H IS wholly diverted my thoughts
5 . from the design of removing my
'1 habitation, and I busied myself
mightily, that day especially, in
searching whether I could make any
way into the ship; but I found noth--
' ing was to be expected of that kind,
F" for all the inside of the ship was
choked up with sand. However, as I had learned not to despair
of anything, I resolved to pull everything to pieces that I
could of the ship, concluding that everything I could get
from her would be of some use or other to me.
May 3.--I began with my saw, and cut a piece of a beam
through, which I thought held some of the upper part or
quarter-deck together, and when I had cut it through, I
cleared away the sand as well'as I could from the side which
lay highest; but the tide coming in I was obliged to give over
for that time.

May 4.--I went a-fishing, but caught not one fish that I durst
eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when, just going to leave
off, I caught a young dolphin. I had made me a long line of
some rope-ya , but I had no hooks; yet I frequently taught
fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all which 1 dried in the
sun, and ate them dry.

May 5.--Worked on the wreck, cut another beam asunder,
and brought three great fir planks OE from the decks, which
I tied together, and made to float on shore when the tide of
flood came on.

May 6.--Worked on the wreck, got several iron bolts out
of her, and other pieces of iron-work. Worked hard, and came
home very much tired, and had thoughts of giving it over.

May 7.----Went to the wreck again, but not with an intent
to work, but found the weight of the wreck had broke itself
down, the beams being cut; that several pieces of the ship
seemed to lie loose, and the inside of the hold lay so open that
I could see into it, but almost full of water and sand.

May 8.--Went to the wreck, and carried an iron cow to
wrench up the deck, which lay now quite clear of the water
or sand; I wrenched open two planks, and brought them on
shore also with the tide; I left the iron crow in the wreck for
next day. _ \

May 9.--Went to the wreck, and with the .crow made way
into the body of the wreck, and felt several asks, and loosened
them with the crow, but could not break them up; I felt also a
roll of English lead, and could stir it; but it was too heavy
to remove.

May 10-14.--Went every day to the wreck; and got a great
many pieces of timber, and boards, or plank, and two or
three hundredweight of iron.

May I 5.--I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a
piece off the roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet,
and driving it with the other; but as it lay about a foot and a
half in the water, I could not make any blow to drive the
hatchet.

May i6.--It had blown hard in the night, and the wreck
appeared more broken by the force of the water; but I stayed

so long in the woods to get pigeons for food, that the tide
prevented my going to the wreck that day.

May 17.--I saw some pieces of the wreck blown on shore,
at a great distance, near two miles off me, but resolved to see
what they were, and found it was a piece of the lead, but too
heavy for me to bring away.

May 24.--Every day, to this day, I worked on the wreck;
and with hard labor I loosened some things so much with
the crow, that the first blowing tide several casks floated out,
and two of the seamen's chests; but the wind blowing from
the shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces of timber,
and a hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it; but the salt
water and the sand had spoiled it. I continued this work every
day to the 15th of June, except the time necessary to get food,
which I always appointed, during this part of my employ-
ment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be ready when
it was ebbed out; and by this time I had got timber and plank
and iron-work enough to have built a good boat, if I hadMy First Tortoise 103

known how; and also I got, at several times and in several
pieces, near a hundredweight of the sheet-lead.

June 1 6.--Going down to the sea-side, I found a large tor-
toise, or turtle; this was the first I had seen, which, it seems,
was only my misfortune, not any defect of the place, or
scarcity; for had I happened to be on the other side of the

island, I might have had hundreds of them every day, as I
found afterward.

 

June 17.--I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in her
threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most
savory and pleasant that ever I tasted in my life, having had
no flesh, but of goats and fowls, since I landed in this horrid
place.

June 18.--Rained all day, and I stayed within. I thought,
at this time, the rain felt cold, and I was something chilly;
which I knew was not usual in that latitude.

june 19.--Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather had
been cold.

June 20.--No rest all night; violent pains in my head, and
feverish.

June 2 1 .--Very ill; frighted almost to death with the appre-
hensions of my sad condition--to be sick, and no help. Prayed
to God for the first time since the storm off Hull, but scarce
knew what I said, or why, my thoughts being all confused.

June 22.--A little better, but under dreadful apprehen-
sions of sickness.

June 23.--Very had again, cold and shivering, and then a
violent headache.

June 24.--Much better.

June 2 5.--An ague very violent: the fit held me seven
hours; cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats after it.

June 26.--Better; and having no victuals to eat, took my
gun, but found myself very weak. However, I killed a she-
goat, and with much difficulty got it home, and broiled some
of it, and ate. I would fain have stewed it, and made some
broth, but had no pot.

June 27.--The ague again so violent that I lay a-bed all day,
and neither ate nor drank. I was ready'to perish for thirst:
but so weak, I had not strength to stand up, or to get myself
any water to drink. Prayed to God again, but was light-Thoughts in Sickness 105

headed; and when I was not, I was so ignorant that I knew
not what to say; only I lay and cried, "Lord, look upon me!
Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me!" I suppose I did
nothing else for two or three hours; till, the fit wearing OR, I
fell asleep, and did not wake till far in the night. When I
awoke I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and exceed-
ing thirsty. However, as I had no water in my habitation, I
was forced to lie till morning, and went to sleep again. In this
second sleep, I had this terrible dream.

I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the outside
of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the earth-
quake, and that I saw a man descend from a great black cloud.
in a bright flame of fire, and light upon the ground. He was
all over as bright as a flame, so that I could but just beat to
look toward him; his countenance was most inexpressibly
dreadful, impossible for words to describe. When he stepped
upon the ground with his feet, I thought the earth trembled,
just as it had done before in the earthquake, and all the air
looked, to my apprehension, as if it had been filled with
flashes of fire. -

He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he moved
forward toward me, with along spear or weapon in his hand,
to kill me; and when he come to a rising ground, at some
distance, he spoke to me--or I heard a voice so terrible that
it is impossible to express the terror of it. All that I can
say I understood was this: "Seeing all these things have not
brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die"; at which
words, I thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand
to kill me. .

No one that shall ever read this account will expect that
I should be able to describe the horrors of my soul at this
terrible vision. Nor is it any more possible to describe the
impression that remained upon my mind when I awaked,
and found it was but a dream.

I had, alas! no divine knowledge. What I had received by
the good instruction of my father was then worn out by an
uninterrupted series, for eight years, of seafaring wickedness,
and a constant conversation with none but such as were, like
myself, wicked and profane to the last degree. In the relating
what is already part of my story, this will be the more easily
believed, when I shall add, that through all the variety of
miseries that had to this day befallen me, I never had so much
as one thought of it being the hand of God, or that it was a
just punishment for my sin; my rebellious behavior against
my father--or my present sins, which were great--or so much
as a punishment for the general course of my wicked life. I
only said to myself often, that I was an unfortunate dog, and
born to be always miserable. But now, when I began to be
sick, and a leisurely view of the miseries of death came to
place itself before me; when my spirits began to sink under
the burden of a strong distemper, and nature was exhausted
with the violence of the fever; conscience, that had slept so
long, began to awake, and I began to reproach myself with
my past life. "Now," said I aloud, "my dear father's words
are come to pass; God's justice has overtaken me, and I
have none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice of Provi-
dence, which had mercifully put me in a posture or station
of life wherein I might have been happy and easy; but I would
neither see it myself, nor learn to know the blessing of it from
my parents. I left them to mourn over my folly, and now I
am left to mourn under the consequences of it. I refused
their help and assistance, who would have lifted me in the
world, and would have made everything easy to me; and now
I have difficulties to struggle with too great for even nature
itself to support, and no assistance, no help, no comfort, no
advice. " Then I cried out, "Lord, be my help, for I am in
great distress."

This was the first prayer, if I may (211' it so, that I had made
for many years.
June 28.
' AV I N 6 been somewhat refreshed
with the sleep I had had, and the fit
being entirely off, I got up; and
I "' _ ' though the fright and terror of my
~. dream was very great, yet I consid'
: I a-Keg/ 3% ered that the fit of the ague would re-
' "Eturn again the next day, and now
was my time to get something to refresh and support myself
when I should be ill; and the first thing I did, I filled a large
square case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in
reach of my bed; and to take OR the chill or aguish disposition
of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it,
and mixed them together. Then I got me a piece of the goat's
flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very little. I
walked about, but was very weak, and withal very sad and
heavy-hearted under a sense of my miserable condition,
dreading the return of my distemper the next day; at night
I made my supper of three of the turtle' 5 eggs, which I
roasted m the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the shell, and
this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God' s blessing
to, even as I could remember, in my whole life. After I had
eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so weak that I could
hardly carry the gun (for I never went out without that);
so I went but a little way, and sat down upon the ground
looking out upon the sea, which was just before me and very
calm and smooth. As I sat here some such thoughts as these
occurred to mez--What is this earth and sea, of which I have
seen so much? Whence is it produced? And what am I, and
all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal?
Whence are we? Sure we are all made by some secret power,
who formed the earth and sea, the air and sky; and who
is that? Then it followed most naturally, it is God that
has made all. Well, but then, it came on strangely, if God has
made all these things, He guides and governs them all, and
all things that concern them; for the power that could
make all things must certainly have power to guide and direct
them. If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of His
works, either without His knowledge or appointment.

And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He knows
that I am here, and am in this dreadful condition; and if
nothing happens without His appointment, He has ap-
pointed all this to befall me. Immediately it followed--Why
has God done this to me? My conscience presently checked
me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed, and methought
it spoke to me like a voice--"Wretchl dost thou ask what thou
hast done? Look back upon a dreadful misspent life, and ask
thyself what thou hast not done? Ask, why is it that thou wert
not long ago destroyed? Why wert thou not drowned in Yar-
mouth Roads; killed in the fight when the ship was taken by
the Sallee man-of-war; devoured by the wild beasts on the
coast of Afrim; or drowned HERE, when all the crew perished
but thyself? Dost thou ask, 'What have I done?' " I wasstruck
dumb with these reflections, as one astonished, and had not
a word to say--no, not to answer to myself, but rose up pensive
and sad, walked back to my retreat, and went up over my
wall, as if I had been going to bed; but my thoughts were
sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep; so I sat
down in my chair and lighted my lamp, for it began to be
dark. Now, as the apprehension of the return of my distem-
per terrified me very much, it occurred to my thought that
the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco for almost all
distempers, and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the
chests, which was quite cured, and some also that was green,
and not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this chest I
found a cure both for soul and body. I opened the chest, and .
found what I looked for, viz., the tobacco; and, as the few
books I had saved lay there too, I took out one of the Bibles
which I mentioned before, and which to this time I had not
found leisure or inclination to look into; I say, I took it out,
and brought both that and the tobacco with me to the table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, in my distemper,
or whether it was good for it or no: but I tried several experi-
ments with it, as if I resolved it should hit one way or other:
I first took a piece of leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which,
indeed, at first almost stupefied my brain, the tobacco being
green and strong, and that I had not been much used to it;
then I took some and steeped it an hour or two in some rum,

. and resolved to take a dose of it when I lay down; and, lastly,
I burned some upon a pan of coals, and held my nose close
over the smoke of it as long as I could bear it, as well for the
heat as the virtue of it, and I held almost to suffocation. In
the interval of this operation, I took up the Bible, and began
to read; but my head was too much disturbed with the to.
bacco to bear reading, at least at that time; only, having
opened the book casually, the first words that occurred to
me were these, "Call on Me in the day of trouble, and I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me." The words were
very apt to my case, and made some impression upon my
thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so much as
they did afterward; for, as for being delivered, the word had
no sound, as I may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so
impossible in my apprehension of things, that I began to say,
as the children of Israel did when they were promised flesh
to eat, "Can God spread a table in the wilderness?" so I be-
gan to say, "Can God Himself deliver me from this place?"
And as it was not for many years that any hopes appeared,
this prevailed very often upon my thoughts; but however the
words made a very great impression upon me, and I mused
upon them very often. It grew now late, and the tobacco had,
as I said, dazed my head so much that I inclined to sleep; so
I left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should want any-
thing in the night, and went to bed; but, before I lay down,
I did what I never had done in all my life--I kneeled down,
and prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that if I called
upon Him in the day of trouble He would deliver me. After
my broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank the rum
in which I had steeped the tobacco, which was so strong and
rank of the tobacco that I could scarcely get it down. Imme-I

Gradual Recovery 111

diately upon this I went to bed, and I found presently it flew
up into my head violently; but I fell into a sound sleep. and
waked no more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near
three o'clock in the afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour
I am partly of opinion that I slept all the next day and night,
and till almost three the day after; for otherwise, I know not
how I should lose a day out of my reckoning in the days of
the week, as it appeared some years after I had done; for if
I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the Line, I should have
lost more than a day; but in my account it was lost, and I
never knew which way. Be that, however, one way or other,
when I awaked I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and
my spirits lively and cheerful. When I got up I was stronger
than I was the day before, and my stomach better, for I was
hungry; and, in short, I had no fit the next day, but continued
much altered for the better. This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went abroad
with my gun, but did not are to travel too far: I killed a sea-
fowl or two, something like a brand goose, and brought them
home, but was not very forward to eat them; so I ate some
more of the turtle's eggs, which were very good. This evening
I renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did me good
the day before, viz., the tobacco steeped in rum; only I did
not take so much as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or
hold my head over the smoke; however, I was not so well the
next day, which was the first of July, as I hoped I should have
been; for I had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was not much.

July 2.--I renewed the medicine all the three ways; and
closed myself with it as at first, and doubled the quantity

.which I drank.
July 3.--I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not
recover my full strength for some weeks after. While I was
thus gathering strength my thoughts ran exceedingly upon
this scripture, "I will deliver thee"; and the impossibility of
my deliverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my ever
expecting it: but as I was discouraging myself with such
thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I pored so much upon
my deliverance from the main affliction, that l disregarded
the deliverance I had received, and I was as it were made to
ask myself such questions as these; viz.: Have I not been
delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness--from the most
distressed condition that could be, and that was so frightful
to me? and what notice had I taken of it? Had I done my part?
God had delivered me, but I had not glorified Him--that is
to say, I had not owned and been thankful for that as a
deliverance; and how could I expect greater deliverance?
This touched my heart very much; and immediately I knelt
down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from my
sickness.

july 4. --In the morning, I took the Bible; and, beginning
at the New Testament, I began seriously to read' 1t, and 1m-
posed upon myself to read a while every morning and every
night; not tying myself to the number of chapters, but long
as my thoughts should engage me; it was not long after I set
seriously to this work but I found my heart more deeply and
sincerely affected with the wickedness of my past life; the
impression of my dream revived; and the words, "All these
things have not brought thee to repentance," ran seriously
in my thoughts I was earnestly begging of God to give me
repentance, when it happened, providentially, the very day
that, reading the Scripture, I came to these words: "He is
exalted a Prince and a Saviour, to give repentance and to
give remission." I threw down the book; and with my heart
as well as my hands lifted up to Heaven, in a kind of ecstasy
of joy, I cried out aloud, "Jesus, thou son of David! Jesus,
thou exalted Prince and Saviour! give me repentance!" This
was the first time I could say, in the true sense of the words,
that I prayed in all my life; for now I prayed with a sense of
my condition and a true Scripture view of hope, founded on
the encouragement of the Word of God; from this time, I
may say, I began to have hope that God would hear me.

From the 4th of July to the 14th I was chiefly employed in
walking about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little
at a time, as a man that was gathering up his strength after
a fit of sickness; for it is hardly to be imagined how low I
was, and to what weakness I was reduced. The application
which I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps which
had never cured an ague before; neither (an I recommend
it to any one to practice, by this experiment: and though it
did carry all the fit, yet it rather contributed to weakening
me; for I had frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs
for some time. I learned from it also this, in particular, that
being abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious
thing to my health that could be.

I had been now in this unhappy island above ten months;
all possibility of deliverance from this condition seemed to
be entirely taken from me; and I firmly believed that no
human shape had ever set foot upon that place. Having now114 ROBINSON Cnuson

secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had
a great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island

and to see what other productions I might find, which I yet
knew nothing of.

T WAS on the 15th of July that I
. began to take a more particular sur-
' vey of the island itself. I went up
the creek first, where, as I hinted, I

     

'..--..>

if. .3 - 33 that it was no more than a little brook
of running water, very fresh and good; but this being the dry
season, there was hardly any water in some parts of it--at least,
not enough to run in any stream, so as it could be perceived.
On the banks of this brook, I found many pleasant savannas
or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and on
the rising parts of them, next to the higher grounds, where
the water, as might be supposed, never overflowed, I found
a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a great and very
strong stalk. There were divers other plants, which I had no
notion of or understanding about, that might, perhaps, have
virtues of their own, which I could not find out. I searched for
the cassava root, which the Indians, in all that climate, make
their bread of, but I could find none. I saw large plants of
aloes, but did not understand them. I saw several sugar-canes,
but wild, and for want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented
myself with these discoveries for this time, and came back,
musing with myself what course I might take to know the
virtue and goodness of any of the fruits or plants which IThe Fertile Land 115

should discover, but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in
short, I had made so little observation while I was in the
Brazils, that I knew little of the plants in the field; at least,
very little that might serve me to any purpose now in my
distress.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way again; and,
after going something further than I had gone the day before,
I found the brook and savannas began to cease, and the
country become more woody than before. In this part I found
difierent fruits, and particularly I found melons upon the
ground in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees; the
vines had spread, indeed, over the trees, and the clusters of
grapes were just now in their prime, very ripe and rich. This
was a surprising discovery, and I was exceedingly glad of
them; but I was warned by my experience to eat sparingly
of them, remembering that when I was ashore in Barbary,
the eating of grapes killed several of our Englishmen, who
were slaves there, by throwing them into fevers; but I found
an excellent use for these grapes; that was, to cure or dry them
in- the sun, and keep them as-dried grapes or raisins are kept,
which I thought would be, as indeed they were, wholesome
and agreeable to eat when no grapes could be had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my
habitation. which, by the way, was the first night, as I might
say, I had lain from home. In the night I took my first con-
trivance, and got up in a tree, where I slept well; and the
next morning proceeded upon my discovery, travelling nearly
four miles, as I might judge by the length of the valley, keep-
ing still due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and north
side of me.
At the end of this march I came to an opening, where the
country seemed to descend to the west; and a little spring of
fresh water, which issued out of the side of the bill by me,
ran the other way, that is, due east; and the country appeared
so fresh, so green, so flourishing, everything being in a con-
stant verdure or flourish of spring, that it looked like a planted
garden.

I descended a little on the side of that delicious vale, sur-
veying it with a secret kind of pleasure (though mixed with
my other afflicting thoughts) to think that this was all my
own: that Iwas King and Lord of all this country indefeasibly,
and had a right of possession; and, if I could convey it, I
might have it in inheritance as completely as any Lord of a
Manor in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa-trees,
orange, and lemon, and Citron-trees; but all wild, and very
few bearing any fruit, at least not then. However, the green
limes that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very
wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterward with water,
which made it very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.
I found now I had business enough to gather and carry home;
and I resolved to lay up a store as well of grapes as limes and
lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which I knew
was approaching. In order to do this, I gathered a great heap
of grapes in one place, a lesser heap in another place, and a
great parcel of limes and lemons in another place; and taking
a few of each with me, I travelled homeward; resolving to
come again, and bring a bag or sack, or what I could make,
to carry the rest home. Accordingly, having spent three days
in this journey, I came home (so I must now all my tent and
my cave); but before I got thither the grapes were spoiled;Fresh Discoveries 117

the richness of the fruit and the weight of the juice having
broken them and bruised them, they were good for little or
nothing: as to the limes, they were good, but I could bring
but a few.

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having made
me two small bags to bring home my harvest. But I was sur-
prised, when coming to my heap of grapes, which were so
rich and fine when I gathered them, to find them all spread
about, trodden to pieces, and dragged about, some here, some
there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By this I con-
cluded there were some wild creatures thereabout, which had
done this; but what they were I knew not. However, as I
found there was no laying them up on heaps, and no carrying
them away in a sack, but that one way they would be de-
stroyed, and the other way they would be crushed with their
own weight, I took another course; for I gathered a large
quantity of the grapes, and hung them upon the out branches
of thetrees, that they might cure and dry in the sun; and
as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many back as I could
well stand under.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated
with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the
pleasantness of the situation; the security from stems on
that side, the water, and the wood: and concluded that I had
fixed upon a place to fix my abode, which was by far the worst
part of the country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of
removing my habitation, and looking out for a place equally
safe as where now I was situated, if possible, in that pleasant.
fruitful part of the island.

, This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceeding
fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the place tempting
me; but when I came to a nearer View of it, I considered that
I was now by the sea-side, where it was at least possible that
something might happen to my advantage, and, that the same
ill-fate that brought me hither, might bring some other un-
happy wretches to the same place; and though it was scarce
probable that any such thing should ever happen, yet to in-
close myself among the hills and woods in the centre of the
island was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such an
affair not only improbable, but impossible; and that there-
fore I ought not by any means to remove. However, I was
so enamored of this place, that I spent much of my time there
for the whole of the remaining part of the month of July;
and though, upon second thoughts, I resolved not to re-
move, yet I built me a little kind of a bower, and surrounded
it at a distance with a strong fence, being a double hedge, as
high as I could reach, well staked, and filled between with
brushwood; and here I lay very secure, sometimes two or
three nights together; always going over it with a ladder as
before; so that I fancied now I had my country house and my
sea-coast house; and this work took me up to the beginning of
August.

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my
labor, but the rains came on, and made me stick close to my
first habitation; for though I made me a tent like the other
with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not
the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind
me, to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished
my bower, and began to enjoy myself. The 3rd of August,
I found the grapes I had hung up perfectly dried, and indeed
excellent raisins of the sun; so I began to take them down
from the trees, and it was very happy that I did so, for the
rains which followed would have spoiled them, and I had
lost the best part of my winter food; for I had above two
hundred large bunches of them. No sooner had I taken them
all down, and carried most of them home to my (ave, but it
began to rain; and from hence, which was the 1 4th of August,
it rained, more or less, every day till the middle of October;
and sometimes so violently, that I could not stir out of my
cave for several days.

In this season, I was much surprised with the increase of
my family; I had been concerned for the loss of one of my
cats, who ran away from me, or, as I thought, had been dead,
and I heard no more tidings of her, till, to my astonishment,
she came home about the end of August, with three kittens.
This was the more strange to me, because, though I had killed
a wild at, as I called it, with my gun, yet I thought it was
quite a diflerent kind from our European cats; yet the young
cats were the same kind of house-breed as the old one; from
these three cats, I afterward came to be so pestered with cats,
that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and
to drive them from my house as much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain, so
that I could not stir, and was now very careful not to be
much wet. In this confinement, I began to be straitened for
food: but venturing out twice, I one day killed a goat; and
the last day, which was the 26th, found a very large tortoise,
which was a treat to me, and my food was regulated thus:--
_I ate a bunch of raisins for my breakfast; a piece of the goat's
flesh, or of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled (for, to my great
misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew anything), and two
or three of the turtle's eggs for my'supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I worked
daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave, and by degrees
worked it on toward one side, till I came to the outside of
the hill, and made a door or way out, which came beyond
my fence or wall; and so I came in and out this way. But I
was not perfectly easy at lying so open; for, as I had managed
myself before, I was in a perfect inclosure; whereas now, I
thought I lay exposed; and yet I could not perceive that there
was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature that I had
yet seen upon the island being a goat.

_ _ a PT. 3 o.--I was now come to the
, " unhappy anniversary of my landing.

. dred and sixty-five days. I kept this
-' day as a solemn fast, setting it apart
. for religious exercise, prostrating my-
, self on the ground with the most seri-
ous humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging
His righteous judgments upon me, and praying to Him to
have mercy on me through Jesus Christ; and not having tasted
the least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the going
down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit-cake and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it. I had
all this time observed no Sabbath-day; for, as at first I had
no sense of religion upon my mind, I had, after some time,
omitted to distinguish the weeks by making a longer notchAn Anniversary 121

than ordinary for the Sabbath-day; and so did not really
know what any of the days were; but now, having east up the
days as above, I found I had been there a year; so I divided
it into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a Sabbath;
though I found at the end of my account I had lost a'day or
two in my reckoning. A little after this, my ink began to fail
me, and so I contented myself to use it more sparingly.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to appear
regular to me, and I learned to divide them so as to provide
for them accordingly: but I bought all my experience before
I had it. one of the most discouraging experiments.

I have mentioned. that I had saved the few ears of barley
and rice, which I had so surprisingly found spring up, as I
thought. of themselves, and I believe there were about thirty
stalks of rice, and about twenty of barley; and now I thought
it a proper time to sow it. after the rains, the sun being in its
southern position, going from me. Accordingly, I dug up a
piece of ground as well as I could with my wooden spade,
and dividing it into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was
sowing, it casually occurred to my thoughts that I would not
sow it all at first, because I did not know when was the proper
time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed, leaving
about a handful of each. It was a great comfort to me after-
ward that I did so, for not one grain of what I sowed this time
came to anything: for the dry months following, the earth
having had no rain after the seed was sown, it had no moisture
to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the wet sea-
son had come again, and then it grew as if it had been but
newly sown. Finding my first seed did not grow, which I
easily imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister
piece of ground to make another trial in, and I dug up a piece
of ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed
in February, a little before the vernal equinox; and this, hav-
ing the rainy months of March and April to water it, sprung
up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but having
part of the seed left only, and not daring to sow all that I had,
I had but a small quantity after all. But by this experiment
I was made master of my business, and knew exactly when
the proper season was to sow, and that I might expect two seed
times, and two harvests every year.

While this corn was growing I made a little discovery.
As soon as the rains were over, which was about the
month of November, I made a visit up the country to my
bower, where, though I had not been some months, yet I
found all things just as I left them. The double hedge that I
had made was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which
I had cut out of some trees that grew thereabout, were all
shot out and grown with long branches, as much as a willow-
tree usually shoots the first year after lopping its head. I could
not tell what tree to all it that these stakes were cut from. I
was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the young
trees grow: and I pruned them, and led them up to grow as
much alike as I could. It is scarce credible how beautiful a
figure they grew into in three years; so that though the hedge
made a circle of about twenty-five yards in diameter, yet the

' trees, for such I might now call them, soon covered it, and
it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under all the dry
season. This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and
make me a hedge like this, in a semi-circle round my wall (I
mean that of my first dwelling), which I did; and placing the
trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards distance.
from my first fence, they grew presently, and were at first
a fine cover to my habitation, and afterward a defence.

I found now that the seasons of the year might generally .
be divided, not into summer and winter, as in Europe, but
into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons, generally thus:

M Whammy;

,deum ' Mone
flu" fimymwew.
2%

WW
yW fl: WM

2 gaydomlafinydmb
The rainy season sometimes held longer or shorter as the
winds happened to blow, but this was the general observation
I made. After I had found, by experience, the ill consequences
of being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish myself with
provisions beforehand, that I might not be obliged to go out,
and I sat within doors as much as possible during the wet
months.

In this time I found much employment, and very suitable
also to the time, for I found great occasion for many things
which I had no way to furnish myself with but by hard labor
and constant application; particularly I tried many ways to
make myself a basket, but all the twigs I could get for the
purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when I was
a boy, I used to take great delight in standing at a basket-
maker's, in the town where my father lived, to see them make
their wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually are, very of-
ficious to help, and a great observer of the manner in which
they worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand, I
had by these means so full knowledge of the methods of it,
that I wanted nothing but the materials, when it came into
my mind that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my
stakes that grew, might possibly be as tough as the sallows,
willows, and osiers in England, and I resolved to try.

Accordingly, the next day I went to my country house,
as I called it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found
them to my purpose as much as I could desire; whereupon
I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down
a quantity, which I soon found, for there was great plenty of
them; these I set up to dry within my circle or hedge, andBasket-making 125

when they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave; and
here, during the next season, I employed myself in making,
as well as I could, a great many baskets, both to carry earth
or to carry or lay up anything, as I had occasion; and though
I did not finish them very handsomely, yet I made them suf-
ficiently serviceable for my purpose; and thus, afterward, I
took (are never to be without them; and as my wicker-ware
decayed, I made more, especially strong deep baskets to place
my corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any
quantity of it.

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of
time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how to
supply two wants. I had no vessels to hold anything that was
liquid, except two runlets, which were almost full of rum,
and some glass bottles, some of the common size, and others
which were ease-bottles, square, for the holding of water,
spirits, etc. I had not so much as a pot to boil anything, except
a great kettle, which Issaved out of the ship, and which was
too big for such uses as I desired it for, viz., to make broth,
and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second thing I fain
would have had was a tobacco-pipe, but it was impossible to
me to make one; however, I found a contrivance for that,
too, at last. I employed myself in planting my second rows
of stakes or piles and in this wicker-working all the summer
or dry season, when another business took me up more time
than it could be imagined I could spare.

I mentioned before that Lhad a great mind to see the
whole island, and that I had travelled up the brook, and so
on to where I built my bower, and where I had an opening
quite to the sea, on the other side of the island. I now resolved
to travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side; so, taking
my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of
powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit-cakes, and a
great bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store, I began
my journey. When I had passed the vale where my bower
stood, as above, I came within view of the sea to the west,
and it being a very clear day, I fairly descried land, whether
an island or continent I could not tell; but it lay very high,
extending from the W. to the W.S.W. at a very great distance;
by my guess, it could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues
off.

I could not tell what part of the world this might be, other-
wise than that I knew it must be part of America, and, as I
concluded by all my observations must be near the Spanish
dominions. After some thought, I considered that if this land
was the Spanish coast, I should certainly, one time or other,
see some vessel pass or repass one way or other; but if not,
then it was the savage coast between the Spanish country and
Brazil, where are found the worst of savages; for they are
cannibals, or man-eaters, and fail not to murder and devour
all the human bodies that fall into their hands.

With these considerations, I walked very leisurely forward.
I found that side of the island where I now was, much pleas-
anter than mine, the open or savanna fields sweet, adorned
with flowers and grass, and full of very fine woods. I saw
abundance of parrots, and fain I would have caught one, if
possible, to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak
to me. I did, after some painstaking, catch a young parrot,
for I knocked it down with a stick, and having recovered it,
I brought it home; but it was some years before I could makeTable in the Wilderness 127

him speak. However, at last, I taught him to all me by my
name very familiarly; but the accident that followed, though
it be a trifle. will be very diverting in its place.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in
the low grounds hares (as I thought them to be) and foxes;
but they diflered greatly from all the other kinds 1 had met
with, nor could I satisfy myself to eat them, though I killed
several; but I had no need to be venturous; for I had no want
of food, and of that which was very good, too, especially these
three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons and turtle, or tortoise, which,
added to my grapes, Leadenhall market could not have fur-
nished a table better than I, in proportion to the company;
and though my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great
cause for thankfulness that I was not driven to any extremities
for food; but had rather plenty, even to dainties.

I never travelled in this journey above two miles outright
in a day, or thereabout; but I took so many turns and returns
to see what discoveries I could make, that I came weary
enough to the place where I resolved to sit down all night;
and then either reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded my-
self with a row of stakes set upright in the ground, either
from one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could come
at me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised to see
that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island;
for here, indeed, the shore was covered with innumerable
turtles, whereas on the other side I had found but three in
a year and a half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls
of many kinds, some which I had not seen before, and
many of them very good meat, but such as I knew not the
names of, except those called penguins. I could have shot as
many as I pleased, but was very sparing of my powder and
shot, and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I
could, which I could better feed on; and though there were
many goats here, more than on my side the island, yet it was
with much more difficulty that I could come near them, the
country being flat and even, and they saw me much sooner
than when I was on the hills.

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than
mine; but yet I had not the least inclination to remove, for
as I was fixed in my habitation it became natural to me, andExploration 129

I seemed all the while I was here to be as it were upon a jour-
ney, and from home. However, I travelled along the shore
of the sea toward the east, I suppose about twelve miles, and
then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark, I con-
cluded I would go home again; and the next journey I took
should be on the other side of the island east from my dwell-
ing, and so round till I dame to my post again; of which in its
place.
I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking
I could easily keep all the island so much in my view, that
I could not miss finding my first dwelling by viewing the
country; but I found myself mistaken, for, being come about
two or three miles, I found myself descended into a very large
valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered
with wood, that I could not see which was my way by any
direction but that of the sun, nor even then, unless I knew
very well the position of the sun at that time of the day.
.7". HAPPENED, to my further mis-
' =' ._'- _ fortune, that the weather proved
' hazy for three or four days while I

  
   
 
   
  

.: _ uncomfortably, and at last was 0-

..._ Lbliged to find the sea-side, look for

" 2" '- - my post, and come back the same way

as I went: and then, by easy journeys, I turned homeward, the

weather being-exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition,
hatchet and other things very heavy.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized
upon it; and I, running in to take hold of it, caught it, and
saved it alive from the dog. I had a great mind to bring it
home if I could, for I had often been musing whether it might
not be possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of
tame goats, which might supply me when my powder and
shot should be all spent. I made a collar for this little creature,
and with a string, which I made of some rope-yam, which
I always carried about me, I led her along, though with some
difficulty, till I came to my bower, and there I inclosed her
and left her, for I was very impatient to be at home, from
whence I had been absent above a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come
into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-bed; this
little wandering journey, without a settled place of abode,
had been so unpleasant to me, that my own house, as I called
it to myself, was a perfect settlement to me compared to that;
and it rendered everything about me so comfortable, that I
resolved I would never go a great way from it again, while
it should be my lot to stay on the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale myself
after my long journey: during which, most of the time was
taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my Poll,
who began now to be a mere domestic, and to be well ac-
quainted with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid
which I had penned in within my little circle, and resolved
to go and fetch it home, or give it some food; accordingly I
went, and found it where I left it, for indeed it could not get
out, but was almost starved for want of food. I went and cut
boughs of trees, and branches of such shrubs as I could find,
and threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did before,My New Life 131

to lead it away; but it was so tame with being hungry, that
I had no need to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog;
and, as I continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so
gentle, and so fond, that it would never leave me afterward.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come,
and I kept the 30th of September in the same solemn manner _
as before, being the anniversary of my landing on the island,
having now been there two years, and no more prospect of
being delivered than the first day I came there.

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more
happy this life I now led was, with all its miserable circum-
stances, than the wicked life I led all the past part of my
days; my very desires altered, my afiections changed their
gusts, and my delights were perfectly new, from what they
were at my first coming, or, indeed, for the two years past.

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or for
viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my condition
would break out upon me on a sudden, and my very heart
would die within me, to think of the woods, the mountains,
the deserts I was in, and how I' was a prisoner, locked up with
the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited
wilderness, without redemption. In the midst of the greatest
composure of my mind, this would break out upon me like
a storm, and make me wring my hands and weep like a child.
Sometir'nes it would take me in the middle of my work, and
I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the
ground for an hour or two together; and this was still worse
to me, for if I could burst out into tears, or vent myself by
words, it would go 0E, and the grief, having exhausted itself.
.would abate.
But now I began to exercise myself with new thoughts:
I daily read the Word of God, and applied all the comforts
of it to my present state; and began to conclude in my mind,
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this forsaken,
solitary condition, than it was probable I should ever have
been in any other state in the world; and with this thought
I was going to give thanks to God for bringing me to this
place. I know not what it was, but something shocked my
mind at that thought, and I durst not speak the words. "How
canst thou become such a hypocrite," said I, even audibly,
"to pretend to be thankful for a condition, which, however
thou mayst endeavor to be contented with, thou wouldst
rather pray heartily to be delivered from?" So I stopped
there, but though I could not say I thanked God for being
there, yet I sincerely gave thanks to God for opening my
eyes, by whatever afllicting providences, to see the former
condition of my life, and to mourn for my wickedness, and
repent. I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul
within me blessed God for directing my friend in England,
without any 'order of mine, to pack it up among my goods,
and for assisting me afterward to save it out of the wreck of
the ship.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third
year; and though I have not given the reader the trouble of
so particular an account of my works this year as the first;
yet in general it may be observed that I was very seldom idle,
but having regularly divided my time according to the several
daily employments that were before me, such as, first, my
duty to God, and the reading the Scriptures, which I con-
stantly set apart some time for, thrice every day; secondly.
the going abroad with my gun for food, which generally took
me up three hours in every morning, when it did not rain;
thirdly, the ordering, cutting, preserving, and cooking, what
I had killed or taught for my supply: these took up a great
part of the day. Also, it is to be considered, that in the middle
of the day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence of
the heat was too great to stir out; so that about four hours
in the evening was all the time I could be supposed to work
in, with this exception, that sometimes I changed my hours
of hunting and working, and went to work in the morning,
and abroad with my gun in the afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labor, I desire may be added
the exCeeding laboriousness of my work; the many hours
which for want of tools, want of help, and want of skill, every-
thing I did took up out of my time. For example, I was full
two and forty days in making a board for a long shelf, which
I wanted in my mve; whereas, two sawyers, with their tools
and a saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of the same
treeinhalfaday. Myt'asewasthis: itwastobealargetree
which was to be cut down, because my board was to be a
broad one. This tree I was three days in cutting down, and
two more cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a log,
or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking and hewing,
I reduced both the sides of it into chips till it began to be
light enough to move; then I turned it, and made one side
of it smooth and flat as a board from end to end; then turning
that side downward, cut the other side till I brought the
plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on both
sides. Any one may judge the labor of my hands in such a
piece of work; but labor and patience carried me through
that, and many other things. I only observe this in particular,
to show the reason why so much of my time went away with
so little work, viz., that what might be a little to be done
with help and tools, was a vast labor and required a prodigious
time to do alone, and by hand. But notwithstanding this,
with patience and labor I got through everything that my
circumstances made necessary to me to do.

I was now, in the months of November and December,
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground that I had
manured and dug up for them was not great; for, as I ob-
served, my seed of each was not above the quantity of half
a peck, for I had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry
season; but now my crop promised very well, when on a
sudden I found I was in danger of losing it all again by ene-
mies of several sorts, which it was scarcely possible to keep
from it; as, first, the goats, and wild creatures which I called
hares, which, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night
and day, as soon as it came up, and ate it so close, that it
could get no time to shoot up into stalk.

This I saw no remedy for but by making an inclosure
about it with a hedge; which I did with a great deal of toil,
and the more, because it required a great deal of speed. as
the creatures daily spoiled my corn. However, as my arable
land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it totally well
fenced in about three weeks' time; and shooting some of the
creatures in the day time, I set my dog to guard it in the night,
tying him up to a stake at the gate, where he would stand
and bark all night long; so in a little time, the enemies forsoolt
the place. and the corn grew very strong and well, and began
to ripen apaoe.Marauders 135

or as the beasts ruined me be-
,, _ fore, while my corn was in the blade,
' sothebirdswereaslikelytoruinme
. V now, when it was in the ear; for, go-
' - (if mg along by the place to see how it
1 throve, I saw my little crop sur-
. , rounded with fowls, of I know not
. ' ._- -:' 'how many sorts, which stood, as it
were, watching till I should be gone. I immediately let fly
among them, for I always had my gun with me. I had no
sooner shot, but there rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I
had not seen at all, from among the com itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days
they would devour all my hopes; that I should never be able
to raise a crop at all; and what to do I could not tell: how-
ever, I resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I
should watch it night and day. In the first place, I went among
it, to see what damage was already done, and found they
had spoiled a good deal of it; but that as it was yet too green
for them, the loss was not so,great but that the remainder
was likely to be a good crop, if it could be saved.

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I
could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees about
me, as if they only waited till I was gone away, and the event
proved it to be so; for as I walked 0E, as if I was gone, I was
no sooner out of their sight, than they dropped down one
by one into the corn again. I was so provoked, that I could
not have patience to stay till more came on, knowing that
every grain that they ate now was, as it might be said, a peck-
lan to me in the consequence; but coming up to the hedge,
I fired again, and killed three of them. This was what I wished
for; so I took them up, and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England, viz., hanged them in chains for a terror
to others. It is impossible to imagine that this should have
such an eEect as it had; for the fowls would not only not
come at the corn, but forsook all that part of the island, and
I could never see a bird near the place as long as my soare-
crows hung there. This I was very glad of, you may be sure,
and about the latter end of December, which was our second
harvest of the year, I reaped my com.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut it down,
and all I could do was to make one, as well as I could, out
of one of the broadswords, or cutlasses, which I saved among
the arms out of the ship. However, as my crop was but small,
I had no great difficulty to cut it down; in short I reaped it
my way, for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it away
in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed it out
with my hands; and at the end of all my harvesting, I found
that out of my half-peck of seed I had near two bushels of
rice, and above two bushels and a half of barley; that is to say,
by my guess, for I had no measure at that time.

However, this was a great encouragement to me, and I
foresaw that, in time, it would please God to supply me with
bread; and yet here I was perplexed again, for I neither
knew how to grind, or make meal of my corn, or indeed,
how to clean it and part it; nor, if made into meal, how to
make bread of it; and if how to make it, yet I knew not how
to bake it. These things being added to my desire of having
a good quantity for store, and to secure a constant supply IFarming Operations 137

resolved not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve it all
for seed against the next season, and, in the meantime, to
employ all my study and hours of working to accomplish this
great work of providing myself with corn and bread.

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread.
It is a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have
thought much upon; viz., the strange multitude of little
things necessary in the providing, producing, curing, dress-
ing, making and finishing this one article of bread. I, that
was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to my daily
discouragement, and was made more sensible of it every hour,
even after I had got the first handful of seed-com, which, as
I have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a surprise.

First, I had no plow to turn up the earth--no spade or
shovel to dig it. Well, this I conquered by making me a
wooden spade, as I observed before, but this did my work
but in a wooden manner; and though it cost me a great many
days to make it, yet for want of iron, it not only wore out
soon, but made my work the harder, and made it be per-
formed much worse. However, this I bore with, and was
content to work it out with patience, and bear with the bad-
ness of the performance. When the corn was sowed, I had
no barrow, but was forced to go over it myself, and drag a
great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch the earth, as
it may be called, rather than rake or harrow it. When it was
growing, and grown, I have observed already how many
things I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure and
carry it home, thresh it, part it from the chaff, and save it.

Then I wanted a-mill to grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and
salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it; but all
these things I did without; and yet the corn was an inestima-
ble comfort and advantage to me too; but this made every-
thing laborious and tedious to me; but that there was no
help for; neither was my time so much loss to me, because, as
I had divided it, a certain part of it was every day appointed
to these works; and as I resolved to use none of the com for
bread till I had a greater quantity by me, I had the next six
months to apply myself wholly, by labor and invention, to
furnish myself with utensils proper for the performing all
the operations necessary for the making the corn, when I
had it, fit for my use.

But first I was to prepare more land, for I had now seed
enough to sow above an acre of ground. Before I did this, I
had a week's work at least to make me a spade, which, when
it was done, was but a sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and
required double labor to work with it; however, I went
through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of
ground, as near to my house as I could find them to my mind,
and fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which
were all cut off that wood which I'had set before, which I
knew it would grow; so that, in a year's time, I knew I should
have a quick or living hedge, that would want but little
repair. This work was not so little as to take me up less than
three months, because a great part of that time was the wet
season, when I could not go abroad. Withindoors, that is,
when it rained, and I could not go out, I found employment
on the following occasions--always observing, that all the
while I was at work, I diverted myself with talking to my
parrot, and teaching him to speak; and I quickly taught himEarthenware 139

to know his own name, and at last to speak it out pretty loud,
"Poll," which was the first word I ever heard spoken in the
island by any mouth but my own. This, therefore, was not
my work, but as an assistant to my work.

.<<W' vficva

 

For now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my
hands. I had long studied, by some means or other, to make
myself some earthen vessels, which, indeed, I wanted sorely,
but knew not where to come at them; however, considering
the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but, if I could find
out any such clay, I might botch up some such pot as might,
being dried in the sun, be hard enough and strong enough
to bear handling, and to hold anything that was dry, and re-
quired to be kept so; and as this was necessary in the pre-
paring corn, meal, etc., which was the thing I was upon, I
resolved to make some as large as I could, and fit only to
stand like jars, to hold what should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me,
to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise this paste,
what odd, misshapen ugly things I made, how many of them
fell in, and how many fell out, the day not being stiff enough
to bear its own weight; how many cracked by the over-violent
heat of the sun, being set out too hastily; and how many fell
to pieces with only removing, as well before as after they
were dried; and, in a word, how, after having labored hard
to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home and
work it, I could not make above two large earthen ugly things,
I cannot call them jars, in about two months' labor.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard,
I lifted them very gently up, and set them down again in two
great wicker baskets, which I had made on purpose for them,
that they might not break; and as between the pot and the
basket there was a little room to spare, I stuffed it full of the
rice and barley straw; and these two pots being to stand al-
ways dry, I thought would hold my dry com, and perhaps the
meal, when the corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots,
yet I made several smaller things with better success; such
as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and
anything my hand turned to; and the heat of the sun baked
them strangely hard. But all this would not answer my end,
which was to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid. and
bear the fire--which none of these could do. It happened after
some time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my meat,
when I went to put it out after I had done with it, I found
a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in' the fire,
burned as hard as a stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably
surprised to see it, and said to myself, that certainly they
might be made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.
This set me to study how to order my fire. so as to make
it burn some pots. I had no notion of a kiln, such as the potters
bum in, or of glazing them with lead, though I had some lead
to do it with; but I placed three large pipkins, and two or
three pots, in a pile, one upon another, and placed my fire-
wood all round it with a great heap of embers under them.
I plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and upon
the top, till I saw the pots in the inside red hot quite through,
and observed that they did not crack at all: when I saw them
clear red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six hours,
till I found one of them, though it did not crack, did melt or
run; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted by
the violence of the heat, and would have run into glass if I
had gone on; so I slacked my fire gradually till the pots began
to abate of the redcolor; and, watching them all night, that
I might not let the fire abate too fast, in the morning I had
three very good, I will not say handsome, pipkins, and two
other earthen pots, as hard burned as could be desired, and
one of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort of
earthenware for my use; but as to the shapes of them, they
were very indifferent, as any one may suppose, when I had
no way of making them but as children make dirt pies, or as
a woman would make pics that never learned to raise paste.

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to
mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that would
bear the fire; and I had hardly patience to stay till they were
cold, before I set one on the fire again, with some water in it
to boil me some meat, which it did admirably well; and with
a piece of a kid, I made some very good broth, though I
wanted oatmeal, and several other ingredients requisite to
make it so good as I would have had it.

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp
or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there was no thought
of arriving at that perfection of art with one pair of hands.
To supply this want, I was at a great loss; for, of all the trades
in the world, I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter,
as for any whatever; neither had I any tools to go about it
with. I spent many a day to find out a great stone big enough
to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, and could find none
at all, except what was in the solid rock, and which I had
no way to dig or cut out; not indeed were the rocks in the
island of hardness sufficient, but were all of a sandy crumbling
stone, which neither would hear the weight of a heavy pestle,
nor would break the corn without filling it with sand; so,
after a great deal of time lost in searching for a stone, I gave
it over, and resolved to look out for a great block of hard
wood, which I found indeed much easier; and getting one
as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it, and formed it
on the outside with my axe and hatchet, and then, with the
help of fire and infinite labor, made a hollow place in it, asCorn Meal 143

the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made
a great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called the iron
wood; and this I prepared and laid by, against I had my next
crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to grind, or rather
pound, my corn or meal, to make my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or searce, to dress
my meal, and part it from the bran and the husk, without
which I did not see it possible I could have any bread. This
was a most difiicult thing to think on, for to be sure I had
nothing like the necessary thing to make it with; I mean no
fine thin canvas or stufi to scarce the meal through. And
here I was at a full stop for many months; nor did I really
know what to do; linen I had none left, but what was mere
rags; I had goat's-hair, but neither knew how to weave it or
spin it; and had I known how, here were no tools to work
it with. All the remedy that I found for this was, that at last
I did remember I had, among these men's clothes which were
saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin; and
with some pieces of these I made three small sieves proper
enough for the work; and thus I made shift for some years;
how I did afterward, I shall show in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and
how I should make bread when I came to have corn; for,
first, I had no yeast. 'As to that part, there was no supplying
'the want, so I did not concern myself much about it. But
for an oven, I was indeed in great pain. At length I found out
an experiment for that also, which was this: I made some
earthen vessels very broad, but not deep, that is to say, about
two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep; these I
burned in the fire, as I had done the others, and laid them
by: and when I wanted to bake, I made a great fire upon the
hearth, which I had paved with some square tiles, of my own
baking and burning also: but I should not all them square.

When the fire-wood was burned pretty much into embers,
or live coals, I drew them forward upon this hearth, so as
to cover it all over, and there I let them lie till the hearth
was very hot; then, sweeping away all the embers, I set down
my loaf or loaves, and whelming down the earthen pot upon
them, drew the embers all round the outside of the pot, to
keep in and add to the heat; and thus, as well as in the best
oven in the world, I baked my barley-loaves, and became,
in little time, a good pastry-cook into the bargain ; for I made
myself several cakes and puddings of the rice; indeed I made
no pies, neither had I anything to put into them, supposing
I had, except the flesh either of fowls or goats.

It need not be wondered at if all these things took me up
most part of the third year of my abode here; for, it is to be
observed, that in the intervals of these things I had my new
harvest and husbandry to manage; for I reaped my corn in
its season, and carried it home, as well as I could, and laid it
up in the ear, in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it
out, for I had no floor to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash
it with.

And now, indeed, my stock of com inaeasing, I really
wanted to build my barns bigger; I wanted a place to lay it
up in, for the increase of the com' now yielded me so much,
that I had of the barley about twenty bushels, and of the rice
as much or more; insomuch that I now resolved to begin to
use it freely; for my bread had been quite gone a great while;
also I resolved to see what quantity would be sufficient forThoughts of Escape 145

me a whole year, and to sow but once a year. Upon the whole,
I found that the forty bushels of barley and rice were much
more than I could consume in a year; so I resolved to sow
just the same quantity every year that I sowed the last, in
hopes that such a quantity would fully provide me with
bread, etc.

All the while these things were doing, you may be sure
my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect of land which
I had seen from the other side of the island; and I was not
without secret wishes that I was on shore there, fancying
that, seeing the mainland, and an inhabited country, I might
find some way or other to convey myself further, and per-
haps find some means of escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of
such a condition, and how I might [all into the hands of
savages, and perhaps such as I might have reason to think far
worse than the lions and tigers of Africa. That if I once came
into their power, I should run a hazard more than a thousand
to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had
heard that the people of the Caribbean coasts were amni-
bals, or man-eaters; and I knew by the latitude that I could
not be far oif from that shore. Or supposing they were not
mnibals, yet that they might kill me, as many Europeans
who had fallen into their hands had been served, even when
they had been ten or twenty together; much more I that was
but one, and could make little or no defence. All these things,
I say, which I ought to have considered well of, and did east
up in my thoughts afterward, yet took up none of my appre-
hensions at first; but my head ran mightily upon the thought
of getting over to the shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat with
the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed over a thou-
sand miles on the coast of Africa; but this was in vain. Then
I thought I would go and look at our ship's boat, which, as
I have said, was bIOWn up upon the shore a great way in the
storm, when we were first cast away. She lay almost where
she did at first, but not quite; and was turned, by the force
of the waves and the winds, almost bottom upward against
the high ridge of a beachy, rough sand, but no water about
her as before. If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to
have launched her into the water, the boat would have done
well enough, and I might have gone back into the Brazils
with her easy enough; but I might have easily foreseen that
I could no more turn her and set her upright upon her bot-
tom, than I could remove the island; however I went to the
woods, and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to the
boat, resolving to try what I could do; suggesting to myself,
that if I could but turn her down, I might easily repair the
damage she had received, and she would be a very good boat,
and I might go to sea in her very easily.

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil, and
spent, I think, three or four weeks about it; at last, finding
it impossible to heave it up with my little strength, I fell to
digging away the sand, to undermine it, and so to make it fall
down, setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right in
the fall. But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up
again, or to get under it, much less to move it forward toward
the water; so I was forced to give it over; and yet my desire
to venture over for the main increased, rather than decreased,
as the means for it seemed impossible.

\I Make a Canoe 147

This at length set me upon thinking whether it was pos-
sible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such as the natives
of those climates make, even without tools, or, as I might say.
without hands, of the trunk of a great tree. This I not only
thought possible, but easy, and pleased myself extremely
with my thoughts of making it, and with my having much
more convenience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians;
but not at all considering the particular inconveniences
which I lay under more than the Indians did, viz., want of
hands to move it, when it was made, into the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever
man did, who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself
with the design, without determining whether I was ever able
to undertake it; not but that the difficulty of launching my
boat came often into my head; but I put a stop to my in-
quiries into it, by this foolish answer which I gave myself:
"Let me first make it; I warrant I will find some way or other
to get it along when it is done."

This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness
of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went and felled a cedar
tree; I question much whether Solomon ever had such a one
for the building of the Temple of Jerusalem; it was five feet
ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump, and
four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two
feet; after which it lessened for a while, and then parted into
branches. It was not without infinite labor that I felled this
tree; I was twenty days hacking and hewing it at the bottom;
I was fourteen more getting the branches and limbs, and the
vast spreading head of it cut off, which I hacked and hewed
through with my axe and hatchet, with inexpressible labor;
after this it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a pro-
portion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that it
might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three
months more to clear the inside, and work it out so as to make
an exact boat of it; this I did, indeed, without fire, by mere
mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labor, till I had
brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and big enough
to have carried six and twenty men, and consequently big
enough to have carried me and all my cargo.

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
delighted with it; the boat was really much bigger than ever
I saw a canoe or periagua that was made of one tree, in my
life; many a weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure, and
had I gotten it into the water, I make no question but I should
have begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be
performed, that ever was undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me; though
they cost me infinite labor too. It lay about one hundred
yards from the water, and not more; but the first inconven-
ience was, it was up hill toward the creek. Well, to take away
this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of the
earth, and so make a declivity: this I began, and it cost me
a prodigious deal of pains, but who grudge pains that have
their deliverance in view? But when this was worked through,
and this difficulty managed, it was still much at one, for I
could no more stir the canoe than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut
a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I
could not bring the canoe down to the water. Well, I began
this work, and when I began to enter into it, and calculate
how deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was to
be thrown out, I found that, by the number of hands I had,
being none but my own, it must have been ten or twelve
years before I should have gone through with it; for the shore
lay high; so that at the upper end it must have been at least
twenty feet deep; so at length, though with great reluctance,
I gave this attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily; and now I saw, though too late,
the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost, and
before we judge of our own strength to go through with it.

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in this
place, and kept my anniversary with the same devotion, and
with as much comfort as ever before; for, by a constant study
and serious application to the Word of God, and by the
assistance of His grace, I gained a difierent knowledge from
what I had before; I entertained different notions of things.
The nature and experience of things dictated to me upon
just reflection, that all the good things of this world are noThankfulness 151

furthergoodtousthantheyareforouruse; andthatwhat--
ever we may heap up indeed to give others, we enjoy just as
much as we can use, and no more. The most covetous griping
miser in the world would have been cured of the vice of
covetousness, if he had been in my case; for I possessed in-
finitely more than I knew what to do with. I had no room
for desire, except it was of things which I had not, and they
were but trifles, though indeed of great use to me. I had a
parcel of money, as well gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds
sterling. Alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stuE lay; I had
no manner of business for it; and I often thought within my-
self, that I would have given a handful of it for a gross of
tobacco-pipes, or for a hand-mill to grind my com; nay, I
would have given it all for sixpenny-worth of turnip and
carrot seed out of England, or for a handful of peas and
beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had not the least advan-
tage by it, or benefit from it; but there it lay in a drawer, and
grew mouldy with the damp of the awe, in the wet season;
and if I had had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the
same case; and they had been of no manner of value to me,
because of no use.

At the same time, I learned to look more upon the bright
side of my condition. and less upon the dark side, and to
consider what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted; and this
gave me sometimes such secret comforts, that I cannot express
them; and which I take notice of here to put those discon-
tented people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably
what God has given them, because they see and covet some-
thing that He has not given them. All our discontents about
what we want appeared to me to spring from the want of
thankfulness for what we have.

I had now been here so long, that many things which I had
brought on shore for my help were either quite gone, or very
much wasted and near spent. My ink, as I observed, had been
gone some time, all but a very little, which I eked out with
water, a little and a little, till it was so pale, it scarce left any
appearance of black upon the paper; as long as it lasted I
made use of it, to minute down the days of the month on
which any remarkable thing happened to me; and first, by
casting up times past, I remembered that there was a strange
concurrence of days in the various providences which befell
me, and which, if I had been superstitiously inclined to
observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason
to have looked upon with a great deal of curiosity.

First, I had observed, that the same day that I broke away
from my father and friends, and ran away to Hull, in order
to go to sea, the same day afterward I was taken by the Sallee
man-of-war, and made a slave. The same day of the year that
I escaped out of the wreck of the ship in Yarmouth Roads,
that same day a year afterward, I made my escape from Sallee.
The same day of the year I was born on, viz., the 30th of
September, that same day I had my life so miraculously saved
twenty-six years after, when I was cast on shore in this island,
so that my wicked life and my solitary life began both on a day.

The next thing to my ink's being wasted was that of my
bread--I mean the biscuit which I had brought out of the
ship; this I had husbanded to the last degree, allowing myself
but one cake of bread a day for above a year; and yet I wasMy Suit of Clothes :53

quite without bread for near a year before I got any com
of my own.

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily; as to linen I had
none a good while except some checkered shirts which I
found in the chests of the other seamen, and which I care-
fully preserved, because many times I could bear no other
clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very great help to me that
I had, among all the men's clothes of the ship, almost three
dozen of shirts. There were also several thick watch-coats
of the seamen which were left indeed, but they were too hot
to wear; and though it is true that the weather was so vio-
lently hot that there was no need of clothes, yet I could not
go quite naked--no, though I had been inclined to it, which
I was not;--nor could I abide the thought of it, though I was
all alone. The reason why I could not go naked was, I could
not bear the heat of the sun so well when quite naked as with
some clothes on; nay, the very heat frequently blistered my
skin; whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some motion,
and whistling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than with-
out it; no more could I ever bring myself to go out in the
heat of the sun without a cap or a hat; the heat of the sun,
heating with such violence as it does in that place, would give
me the headache prsently, by darting so directly on my head,
without a mp or a hat on, so that I could not bear it; whereas,
if I put on my hat, it would presently go away.

Upon these views, I began to consider about putting the
few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some order; I had
worn out all the waistcoats I had, and my business was now

' to try if I could not make jackets out of the great watchman
which I had by me, and with such other materials as I had;
so I set to work, a-tailoring, or rather, indeed, a-botching,
for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made shift
to make two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped would
serve me a great while; as for breeches or drawers, I made but
a very sorry shift indeed till afterward.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures
that I had killed, I mean four-footed ones, and I had them
hung up, stretched out, with sticks in the sun; by which means
some of them were so dry and hard that they were fit for
little, but others, it seems, were very useful. The first thing
I made of these was a great cap for my head, with the hair on
the outside, to shoot off the rain; and this I performed so
well, that after this I made me a suit of clothes wholly of these
skins; that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at the
knees, and both loose, for they were rather wanted to keep
me cool, than to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowl-
edge that they were wretchedly made; for if I was a bad car-
penter, I was a worse tailor; however, they were such as I
made good shift with, and, if it happened to rain, the hair
of my waistcoat and cap being outermost, I was kept very dry.

After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to make
an umbrella; I was indeed in great want of one, and had a
great mind to make one. I had seen them made in the Brazils,
where they are very useful in the great heats, and I felt the
heats every jot as great here, and greater too, being nearer
the equinox; besides, as I was obliged to be much abroad, it
was a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains as the
heats. I took a world of pains at it, and was a great while before
I could make anything likely to hold: nay, after I thought IMy Umbrella 155'

had hit the way. I spoiled two or three before I made one. to
my mind; but at last I made one that answered indilferently
well; the main difficulty I found was to make it let down. I
could make it to spread; but if it did not let down too, and
draw in, it would not be portable for me any way but just
over my head, which would not do. However, at last, as I
said, I made one to answer; I covered it with skins, the hair
upward, so that it inst off the rain like a penthouse, and kept
off the sun so effectually, that I could walk out in the hottest
of the weather with greater advantage than I could before in
the coolest; and when I had no need of it, could close it, and
carry it under my arm.

I cannot say that, after this, for five years, any extraordi-
nary thing happened to me. I lived on in the same course
as before; the chief things I was employed in, besides my
yearly labor of planting my barley and rice, and curing my
raisins, of both which I always kept up just enough to have
sufficient stock of one year's provisions beforehand; I say,
besides this yearly labor, and my daily labor of going out
with my gun, I had to make a canoe, which at last I finished:
so, that, by digging a canal to it of six feet wide and four-feet
deep, I brought it into the creek, almost half a mile. As for
the first, which was so vastly big, as I made it without con-
sidering beforehand; as I ought to have done, how I should
be able to launch it, so, never being able to bring it into the
water, or bring the water to it, I was obliged to let it lie where
it was as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser next time.
Indeed, the next time, though I could not get a tree proper
for it, and was in a place where I could not get the water to

.it at anyless distance than," I havesaid, nearhalfamile,
yet, as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over;
and though I was near two years about it, yet I never grudged
my labor, in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at lafl.

' However, though my little periagua was finished, yet the
size of it was not at all answerable to the design which I had
in view when I made the first; I mean of venturing over to
the term firma, where it was above forty miles broad; ac-
cordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to
that design, and now I thought no more of it: but as I had a
boat, my next design was to make a cruise round the island;
for as I had been on the other side in one place. crossing, as
l have already described it, over the land, so the discoveries I
made in that little journey made me very eager to see other
parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing
but sailing round the island.

For this purpose, that I might do everything with discre-
tion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast in my boat,
and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces of the ship's
sail which lay in store, and of which I had a great stock by
me. Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found
she would sail very well. Then I made little lockers, or boxes,
at either end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries, and
ammunition, etc., into, to be kept dry, either from rain or
the spray of the sea; and a little, long, hollow place I cut in the
inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap
to hang down over it, to keep it dry.

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like a mast,
to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the sun off me,
like an awning; and thus I every now and then took a little
voyage upon the sea, but never went far out nor far from theI Venture in My Boat :57

little creek; but, at last, being eager to view the circumfer-
ence of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my tour, and
accordingly I victualled my ship for the voyage, putting in
two dozen of loaves (takes I should rather (all them) of barley
bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice (a food I ate a great
deal ot), a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder and
shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats, of those
which, as I mentioned before, I had saved out of the seamen's
chests; these I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover
me in the night.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign,
or my captivity, that I set out on this voyage, and I found it
much longer than I expected; for though the island itself
was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it, I
found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two leagues into the

- sea, some above water, some under it; and beyond, a shoal of
sand, lying dry half a league more, so that I was obliged to
go a great way out to sea to double the point.

When first I discovered them, I was going to give over my
enterprise, and come back again, not knowing how far it
might oblige me to go out- to sea: and, above all, doubting
how I should get back again: so I <<me to an anchor; for I
had made a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken grap-
pling which I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore,
climbing up a hill, which seemed to overlook that point,
where I saw the full extent of it, and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill, I perceived a strong
and most furious current, which ran to the east, and even

g came close to the point; I took the more notice of it, because
I saw there might be some danger, that when I came into it,
I might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and not
be able to make the island again: and, indeed, had I not got
first up upon this bill, I believe it would have been so; for
there was the same current on the other side the island, only
that it set oil at a further distance, and I saw there was a
strong eddy under the shore; so I had nothing to do but to
get out of the first current, and I should presently be in
an eddy.

I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowing
pretty fresh, at E.S.E., and that being just contrary to the
said current, made a great breach of the sea upon the point:
so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to the shore
for the breach, nor to go too far 0E, because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated
overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured: but I am a warn-
ing to all rash and ignorant pilots; for no sooner was I come
to the point, when I was not even my boat's length from the
shore, but I found myself in a great depth of water, and a
current like the sluice of a mill: it carried my boat along
with it with such violence that all I could do could not keep
her so much as on the edge of it; but I found it hurried me
further and further out from the eddy, which was on my
left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and all I
could do with my paddles signified nothing: and now I began
to give myself over for lost; for as the current was on both
sides of the island, I knew in a few leagues' distance they
must join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone; nor did
I see any possibility of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect
before me but of perishing, not by the sea, for that was (aim
enough, but of starving from hunger. I had, indeed, found
a tortoise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had
tossed it into the boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water,
that is to say, one of my earthen pots; but what was all this
to being driven into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there
was no shore, no mainland or island, for a thousand leagues
at least?

ND now I saw how easy it was for
w the providence of God to make even
the most miserable condition of man-
kind worse. Now I looked back upon
my desolate, solitary island, as the
most pleasant place in the world, and
all the happiness my heart could wish
_ , ' for was to be there again. I stretched
out my hands to it, with eager wishes: "0 happy desert!"
said I, "I shall never see thee more. 0 miserable creature!
whither am I going!" Then I reproached myself with my
unthankful temper, and that I had repined at my solitary con-
dition; and now what would I give to be on shore there again!
Thus, we never see the true state of our condition till' it is
illustrated to us by its contraries, nor know how to value
what we enjoy, but by the want of it. It is scarcely possible
to imagine the consternation I was now in, being driven from
my beloved island (for so it appeared to me now to be) into
the wide ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost despair
of ever recovering it again. However I worked hard till indeed
my strength was almost exhausted and kept my boat as much
to the northward, that is, toward the side of the current which
the eddy lay on, as possibly I could; when about noon as the
sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of
wind in my face. springing up from S.S.E. This cheered my
heart a little, and especially when, in about half an hour
more. it blew a pretty small gentle gale. By this time, I had
got at a frightful distance from the island, and had the least
cloudy or hazy weather intervened, I had been undone an-
other way too; for I had no compass on board, and should
never have known how to have steered toward the island, if
I had but once lost sight of it; but the weather continuing
clear, I applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread
my sail, standing away to the north as much as possible, to get
out of the current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to
stretch away, I saw even by the cleamess of the water some
alteration of the current was near; for where the current was
so strong the water was foul; but perceiving the water clear,
I found the current abate, and presently I found to the east,
at about half a mile, a breach of the sea upon some rocks:
these rocks I found caused the current to part again, and
as the main stress of it ran away more southerly, leaving the
rocks to the northeast, so the other returned by the repulse
of the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back again
to the northwest, with a very sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to
them upon the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just
going to murder them, or who have been in such like extrem-
ities, may guess what my present surprise of joy was, and how
gladly I put my boat into the stream of this eddy, and the
wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, run-
ning cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong tide or
eddy under foot. This eddy carried me about a league in my
way back again directly toward the island, but about two
leagues more to the northward than the current which atr-
ried me away at first; so that when I came near the island I
found myself open to the northern shore of it, that is to say,
the other end of the island, opposite to that which I went
out from.

When I had made something more than a league of way
by the help of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and
served me no further. However I found that being between
two great currents. viz., that on the south side, which had
hurried me away, and that on the north, which lay about a
league on the other side; I say, between these two, in the wake
of the island, I found the water at least still, and running no
way; and having still a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on
steering directly for the island, though not making such fresh
way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within a
league of the island, I found the point of the rocks which
occasioned this disaster, stretching out as is described before,
to the southward, and tasting all the current more southerly,
had of course made another eddy to the north, and this I
found very strong, but not directly setting the way my course
lay, which was due west, but' almost full north. However,
having a fresh gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting north-
west; and in about an hour tame within about a mile of the
shore, where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God
thanks for my deliverance; and refreshing myself with such

' things as I had, I brought my boat close to the shore, in a
little cove that I had spied under some trees, and laid me
down to sleep, being quite spent with the labor and fatigue
of the voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my
boat: I had run so much hazard, and knew too much of the
case, to think of attempting it by the way I went out; and'
what might be at the other side (I mean the west side) I knew
not, nor had I any mind to run any more ventures: so I only
resolved in the morning to make my way westward along the
shore, and to see if there was no creek where I might lay up
my frigate in safety, so as to have her again, if I wanted her.
In about three miles, or thereabout, coasting the shore, I
tame to a very good inlet or bay about a mile over, which
narrowed till it 'came to a very little rivulet or brook, where
I found a very convenient harbor for my boat, and where she
lay as if she had been in a little dock made on purpose for her.
Here I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went
on shore to look about me, and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I
had been before, when I travelled on foot to that shore; so
taking nothing out of my boat but my gun and umbrella,
for it was exceedingly hot, I began my march. The way was
comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had been upon,
and I reached my old bower in the evening, where I found
everything standing as I left it; for I always kept it in good
order, it being, as I said before, my country house. I got over
the fence, and laid me down in the shade to rest my limbs,
for I was very weary, and fell asleep; but judge you, if you
can that read my story, what a surprise I must be in when I
was awaked out of my sleep by a voice, calling me by myHonest Poll 163

name several times, "Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe: poor.
Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Where are
you? Where have you been?" I was so dead asleep at first,
being fatigued with rowing, or paddling as it is called, the
first part of the day, and with walking the latter part, that I
did not wake thoroughly; but dozing between sleeping and
waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoke 'to me; but
as the voice continued to repeat, "Robin Crusoe, Robin
Crusoe," at last I began to wake more perfectly, and was at
first dreadfully frightened, and started up in the utmost con-
sternation; but no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my
Poll sitting on the top of the hedge; and immediately knew
that it was he that spoke to me; for just in such bemoaning
language I had used to talk to him, and teach him; and he
had learned it so perfectly that he would sit upon my finger,
and lay his bill close to my face, and cry, "Poor Robin Crusoe!
Where are you? Where haveyou been? How came you here?"
and such things as I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that
indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while before I
could compose myself. First, I was amazed how the creature
got thither; and then, how he should just keep about the
place, and nowhere else; but as I was well satisfied it could
be nobody but honest Poll, I got over it; and holding out
my hand, and calling him by his name, "Poll," the sociable
creature came to me, and sat upon my thumb, as he used to
do, and continued talking to me. "Poor Robin Crusoe! and
how did I come here? and where had I been?" just as if he -
had been overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried him
home along with me.
I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time,
and had enough to do for many days to sit still, and reflect
upon the danger I had been in. I would have been very glad
to have had my boat again on my side of the island; but I
knew not how it was practicable to get it about; so I contented
myself to be without any boat, though it had been the product
of so many months' labor to make it, and of so many more
to get it into the sea. In this government of my temper, I
remained near a year, and lived a very sedate, retired life, as
you may well suppose; and my thoughts being very much
composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted in resign~
ing myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I
lived really very happily in all things, except that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanin ex-
ercises which my necessities put me upon applying myself to;
and I believe I should, upon ocmsion>>, have made a very good
carpenter, especially considering how few tools I had.

- nsmes this, I arrived at an unex-
' pected perfection in my earthen-
ware, and contrived well enough to
- make them with a wheel, which I
" . . '_ found infinitely easier and better; be-
muse I made things round and shap-
able which before were filthy things
_ indeed to look on. But I think I was
never more vain of my own performance, or more joyful for
anything I found out, than for my being able to make a to-
bacco-pipe. And though it was a very ugly, clumsy thing when
it was done, and only burned red, like other earthenware, yet
as it was hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was ex-My Pots and Wicker-ware 165

ceedingly comforted with it; for I had been always used to
smoke; and there were pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at
first, not knowing that there was tobacco in the island; and
afterward, when I searched the ship again, I could not come at
any pipes at all.

In my wicker- , also, I improved much, and made abun-
dance of necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed
me; though not very handsome, yet they were such as were
very handy and convenient for laying things up in, or fetching
things home in. For example, if I killed a goat abroad, I could
hang it up in a tree, flay it, dress it, and cut it in pieces, and
bring it home in a basket; and the like by a turtle, I could
cut it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh,
which was enough for me, and bring them home in a basket,
and leave the rest behind me. Also, large deep baskets were
the receivers for my corn, which I always rubbed out as soon
as it was dry, and cured, and kept it in great baskets.

I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably,
and this was a want which it was impossible for me to supply,
and I began seriously to consider what I must do when I
should have no more powder; that is to say, how I should
kill any goats. I had, as is observed in the third year of my
being here, kept a young kid, and bred her up tame, and I
was in hopes of getting a he-goat; but I could not by any
means bring it to pass, till my kid grew an old goat; and I
could never find in my heart to kill her, till she died at last
of mere age.

But being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and,
as I have said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to
study some art to trap and snare the goats, to see whether
I could not catch some of them alive; and particularly, I
wanted a she-goat and her young. To this purpose I made
snares to hamper them; and I do believe they were more than
once taken in them, but my tackle was not good, for I had
no wire, and I always found them broken, and my bait de-
voured. At length, I resolved to try a pitfall, so I dug several
large pits in the earth, in places where I had observed the
goats used to feed, and over those pits I placed hurdles of
my own making too, with a great weight upon them; and
several times I put ears of barley and dry rice, without setting
the trap, and I could easily perceive that the goats had gone
in and eaten up the corn, for I could see the marks of their
feet. At length I set three traps in one night, and going the
next morning, I found them all standing, and yet the bait
eaten and gone. This was very discouraging; however, I al-
tered my traps, and, not to trouble you with particulars,
going one morning to see my traps, I found in one of them
a large old_he-goat, and in one of the others, three kids, a
male and two females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was
so fierce, I durst not go into the pit to him; that it is say, to
bring him away alive, which was what I wanted. I could have
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would it answer
my end. So I even let him out, and he ran away as if he had
been frighted out of his wits: but I had forgot then what I
learned afterward, that hunger will tame a lion. If I had let
him stay there three or four days without food, and then have
carried him some water to drink, and then a little com, he
would have been as tame as one of the kids, for they are mighty
sagacious, tractable creatures, where they are well used. How-A Paddock for the Goats 167

ever, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that
time: then I went to the three kids, and, taking them one by
one, I tied them with strings together, and with some difliculty
brought them all home.

It was a good while before they would feed, but throwing
them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to
be tame: and now I found that if I expected to supply myself
with goats' flesh, when I had no powder or shot left, breeding
some up tame was my only way, when perhaps, I mighthave
them about my house like a flock of sheep. But then it oc-
curred to me that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else
they would always run wild when they grew up; and the only
way for this was to have some inclosed piece of ground, well
fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so effec-
tually, that those within might not break out, or those with-
out break in. This was a great undertaking for one pair of
hands; yet, as I saw there was a necessity for doing it, my first
work was to find out a proper piece of ground, viz., where
there was likely to be herbage for them to eat, water for them
to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.

'-. H as E who understand such inclo<<

. sures will think I had very little con-
H] trivance, when I pitched upon a place
' -. very proper for all these, being a
plain open piece of meadow land, or
savanna(asourpeoplecallitinthe
; p western colonies) which had two or

' >> ' ' -' threerills of freshwatermit, and at

one end was very woody: I say, they will smile at my forecast,
when I shall tell them I began by inclosing this piece of
ground in such a manner, that my hedge or pale must have
been at least two miles about. Nor was the madness of it so
great as to the compass, for was it ten miles about, I was like to
have time enough to do it in; but I did not consider that my
goats would be as wild in so much compass as if they had had
the whole island, and then I should have so much room to
chase them in that I should never catch them. '

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about fifty
yards when this thought occurred to me; so I presently
stopped short, and for the first beginning, I resolved to in-
close a piece of about 150 yards in length, and 100 yards in
breadth, which, as it would maintain as many as I should
have in any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I could
add more ground to my inclosure.

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work
with courage. I was about three months hedging in the first
piece, and, till I had done it, I tethered the three kids in the
best part of it, and used them to feed as near me as possible
to make them familiar; and very often I would go and carry
them some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them
out of my hand; so that, after my inclosure was finished, and
I let them loose, they would follow me up and down, bleating
after me for a handful of com.

This answered my end, and in about a year and a half I
had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two
years more I had three-and-forty, besides several that I took
and killed for my food. After that, I inclosed five several
pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pens to drive
them into, to take them as I wanted, and gates out of one
piece of ground into another.My Majesty 169

But this was not all: for now I not only had goats' flesh
to feed on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing which, in-
deed, in the beginning, I did not so much as think of, and
which, when it tame into my thoughts, was really an agree-
able surprise. For now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes
a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as nature, who gives
supplies of food to every creature, dictates even naturally
how to make use of it; so I, that had never milked a cow,
much less a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, very readily
and handily, though after a great many essays and miscar-
riages, made both butter and cheese at last, and never wanted
it afterward. How mercifully can our Creator treat His dea-
tures, even in those conditions in which they seemed to be
overwhelmed in destruction! How can He sweeten the bit-
terest providences, and give us muse to praise Him for
dungeons and prisons! What a table was here spread for me
in the wilderness, where I saw nothing at first but to perish
for hunger!

It would have made a Stoic smile to have seen me and my
little family sit down to dinner; there was my majesty, the
prince and lord of the whole island; I had the lives of all my
subjects at my absolute command. I could hang, draw, give
liberty, and take it away, and no rebels among all my sub-
jects. Then, to see how like a king I dined too, all alone,
attended by my servants; Poll, as if he had been my iavorite,
was the only person permitted to talk to me. My dog, who
was now grown old and crazy, sat always at my right hand;
and two eats, one on one side of the table, and one on the
other, expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark

A of eSpecial favor.
But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore
at first, for they were both of them dead, and had been in-
terred near my habitation by my own hand; but these were
two which I had preserved tame; whereas the rest ran wild

.' t
..
l.'|

A! ill

 

in the woods, and became indeed troublesome to me at last,
for they would often come into my house, and plunder me
too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great
many; at length they left me. With this attendance and in
this plentiful manner I lived; neither could I be said' to wantNew Clothes 171

anything but society; and of that, some time after this, I was
like to have too much.

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have
the use of my boat, though very loth to run any more hazards;
and therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her about
the island, and at other times I sat myself down contented
enough without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my
mind to go down to the point of the island, where, as I have
said, in my last ramble, I went up the hill to see how the
shore lay, and how the current set, that I might see what I had
to do: this inclination increased upon me every day, and at
length I resolved to travel thither by land, following the
edge of the shore. I did so; but had any one in England met
such a man as I was, it must either have frightened him, or
raised a great deal of laughter; and as I frequently stood still
to look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my
travelling through Yorkshire with such an equipage, and in
such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my figure, as
follows:--

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin, with
a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun from
me as to shoot the rain oil from running into my neck, noth-
ing being so hurtful in these climates as the rain upon the
flesh under the clothes. I had a short jacket of goat's skin,
and skirts coming dowu to about the middle of my thighs,
and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same; the breeches
were made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung
down such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it
reached to the middle of my legs; stockings and shoes I had
none, but had made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know
what to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs, and lace
on either side like spatter--dashes; but of a most barbarous
shape, as indeed were all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew
together with two thongs of the same, instead of buckles;
and in a kind of a frog on either side of this, instead of a
sword and dagger, hung a little saw and a hatchet, one on
one side, one on the other. I had another belt not so broad,
and fastened in the same manner, which hung over my shoul-
der, and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches,
both made of goat's skin too, in one of which hung my
powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried my bas-
ket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my head a great clumsy,
ugly, goat's-skin umbrella, but which, after all, was the most
necessary thing I had about me next to my gun; as for my
face, the color of it was really not so mulatto--like as one might
expect from a man not at all careful of it, and living within
nineteen degrees of the equinox. My beard I had once suf-
fered to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long; but
as I had both scissors and razors suflicient, I had cut it pretty
short, except what grew on my upper lip, which I had
trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as
I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee, for the Moors did
not wear such, though the Turks did; of these mustaches,
or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough to hang
my hat upon them, but they were of a length and shape mon-
strous enough, and such as in England would have passed
for frightful.

But all this is by the bye; for, as to my figure, I had so few
to observe me, that it was no manner of consequence. In thisObservations on the Tide 173

kind of figure I went my new journey, and was out five or
six days. I travelled first along the sea-shore, directly to the
place where I first brought my boat to an anchor to get upon
the rocks; and having no boat now to take care of, I went
over the land a nearer way to the same height that I was upon
before; when, looking forward to the points of the rocks
which lay out, and which I was obliged to double with my
boat, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet, no
rippling, no motion, no current, any more there than in any
other places. I was at a strange loss to understand this, and
resolved to spend some time in the observing it, to see if
nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was
presently convinced how it was, viz., that the tide of ebb
setting from the west, and joining with the current of waters
from some great river on the shore, must be the occasion of
this current, and that, according as the wind blew more
forcibly from the west or from the north, this current came
near or went further from the shore; for, waiting thereabout
till evening. I went up to the rock again, and then the tide
of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current again as before,
only that it ran further 03, being near half a league from the
shore; whereas in my ase'it set close upon the shore, and
hurried me and my canoe along with it, which at another
time it would not have done.

This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do
but to observe the ebbing and flowing of the tide, and I might
very easily bring my boat about the island again; but when
I began to think of putting it in practice, I had such terror
upon my spirits at'the remembrance of the danger I had
been in, that I could not think of it again with any patience,
but, on the contrary, I took up another resolution, which
was more safe, though more laborious-and this was, that I
would build, or rather make, me another periagua or canoe,
and so have one for one side of the island, and one for the
other.

You are to understand, that now I had, as I may call it, two
plantations in the island; one my little fortification or tent,
with the wall about it, under the rock, with the cave behind
me, which by this time I had enlarged into several apart-
ments, or caves, one within another. One of these, which was
the driest and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall joined to
the rock, was all filled up with the large earthen pots, of which
I have given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great
baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each, where I
laid up my stores of provision, especially my corn, some in
the ear, cut off short from the straw, and the other rubbed
out with my hand. As for my wall, made as before, with long
stakes or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by
this time grown so big, and spread so very much, that there
was not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any habi-
tation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little further within the
land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn
land, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed, and which duly
yielded me their harvest in its season; and whenever I had
occasion for more com, I had more land adjoining as fit as
that.

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now a tol-
erable plantation there also; for, first, I had my little bower,My Country Seat 175

as I called it, which I kept in repair; that is to say, I kept the
hedge, which encircled it in, constantly fitted up to its usual
height, the ladder standing always in the inside; I kept the
trees, which at first were no more than stakes, but were now
grown very firm and tall, always cut. so that they might spread
and grow thick and wild, and make the more agreeable shade,
which they did effectually to my mind. In the middle of this
I had my tent always standing, being a piece of a sail spread
over poles, set up for that purpose, and which never wanted
any repair or renewing; and under this I had made a squab
or couch, with the skins of the creatures I had killed, and
with other soft things, and a blanket laid on them, such as be-
longed to our sea-bedding, which I had saved; and a'great
watch-coat to cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion
to be absent from my seat, I took up my country habitation.
Adjoining to this, I had my inclosures for my cattle, that
is to say, my goats; and as I had taken an inconceivable deal
of pains to fence and inclose this ground, so I was so uneasy
to see it kept entire, lest the goats should break through, that
I never left off till, with infinite labor, I had stuck the out-
side of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one
another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was
scarce room to put a hand through between them, which
afterward, when those stakes grew, as they all did in the next
rainy season, made the indosune strong, like a wall; indeed
stronger than any wall. This will testify for me that I was
not idle, and that I spared no pains to bring to pass what-
ever appeared necessary for my comfortable support.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I prin-
. cipally depended on fOr my winter store of raisins, and which
176

and indeed they were not
wholesome, nourishing, and

I never failed to preserve very carefully, as the best and most

agreeable dainty of my whole diet-

!

agreeable only, but medicinal

refreshing to the last degree.' In the Sand . 177

As this was also about half-way between my other habita-
tion and the place where I had laid up my boat, I generally
stayed and lay here in my way thither; for I used frequently
to visit my boat, and I kept all things about, or belonging to
her in very good order; sometimes I went out in her to divert
myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, scarcely
ever above a stone's east or two from the shore, I was so ap--
prehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by
the currents or winds, or any other accident. But now I come
to a new scene of my life.

It happened one day, about noon, going toward my boat,
I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a man's naked
foot on the shore, which was very plain to be seen on the sand.
I stood like one thunderstruck, or, as if I had seen an appari-
tion. I listened, I looked round me, I could hear nothing, nor
see anything; I went up to a rising ground, to look further;
I went up the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one,
I could see no other impression but that one. I went to it
again to see if there were any more, and to observe if it might
not be my fancy; but there was no room for that, for there was
exactly the print of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot;
how it came thither I knew not, nor could I in the least
imagine. But after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a
man perfectly confused and out of myself,'I came home to my
fortification, not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but
terrified to the last degree, looking behind me at every two or
three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying every
stump at a distance to be a man; nor is it possible to describe
how many various shapes affrighted imagination represented
things to me in; how many wild ideas were found every mo-
ment in my fancy, and what strange, unaccountable whimseys
came into my thoughts by the way.

When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever
after this), I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went
over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went in at the hole
in the rock, which I had called a door, I cannot remember;
no, nor could I remember the next morning; for never fright-
ened hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of
mind than I to this retreat.

I slept none that night; the further I was from the occasion
of my fright, the greater my apprehensions were; which is
something contrary to the nature of such things, and espe-
cially to the usual practice of all creatures in fear; but I was
so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing, thatTerror :79

I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even
though I was now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it
must be the devil; and reason joined in with me in this sup-
position; for how should any other thing in human shape
come into the place? Where was the vessel that brought them?
What marks were there of any other footstep? And how was
it possible a man should come there? But then, to think that
Satan should take human shape upon him in such a place,
where there could be no manner of occasion for it, but to
leave the print of his foot behind him, and that even for no
purpose too, for he could not be sure I should see it; this was
an amusement the other way; I considered that the devil
might have found out abundance of other ways to have terri-
fied me than this of the single print of a foot. That as I lived
quite on the other side of the island, he would never have
been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten
thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not, and in
the sand, too, which the first surge of the sea, upon a high
wind, would have defaced entirely: all this seemed incon-
sistent with the thing itself, and with all the notions we
usually entertain of the subtilty of the devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me
out of all apprehensions of its being the devil; and I presently
concluded then, that it must be some more dangerous crea-
ture; that it must be some of the savages of the mainland
over against me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes,
and either driven by the currents, or by contrary winds, had
made the island; and had been on shore, but were gone away
again to sea, being as 10th, perhaps, to have stayed in this
desolate island, as I would have been to have had them.
While these reflections were rolling in my mind, I was
very thankful in my thoughts, that I was so happy as not to
be thereabout at that time, or that they did not see my boat,
by which they would have concluded that some inhabitants
had been in the place, and perhaps have searched further for
me. Then terrible thoughts racked my imagination about
their having found out my boat, and that there were people
here; and that, if so, I should certainly have them come again
in greater numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen
that they should not find me, yet they would find my in-
closure, destroy all my corn, and tarry away all my flock of
tame goats, and I should perish at last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all that
former confidence in God, which was founded upon such
wonderful experience as I had had of His goodness; as if He
that had fed me by miracle hitherto could not preserve, by
His power, the provision which He had made for me by His
goodness. I reproached myself with my laziness, that would
not sow any more com one year than would just serve me
till the next season, as if no accident could intervene to pre-
vent my enjoying the cmp that was upon the ground; and
this I thought so just a reproof, that I resolved for the future
to have two or three years' corn beforehand; so that, what-
ever might come, I might not perish for want of bread.

One morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with
thoughts about my danger from the appearances of savages,
I found it discomposed me very much; upon which these
words of the Scripture came into my thoughts: "Call upon
Me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou
shalt glorify Me." Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my bed,I Feel Encouraged 181

my heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and en-
couraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance: when I
had done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to
read, the first words presented to me were, "Wait on the
Lord, and be of good cheer, and He shall strengthen thy
heart; wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impossible to express
the comfort this gave me. In answer, I thankfully laid down
the book, and was no more sad.

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and re-
flections, it came into my thoughts one day, that all this
might be a mere chimera of my own, and that this foot might
be the print of my own foot, when I came on shore from my
boat: this cheered me up a little, too, and I began to persuade
myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing else but my
own foot; and why might I not come that way from the boat,
as well as I was going that way to the boat?

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again;
for I had not stirred out of my mstle for three days and nights;
so that I began to starve for provision; for I had little or noth-
ing within doors but some barley-mkes and water. Then I
knew that my goats wanted to be milked too, which usually
was my evening diversion; and the poor creatures Were in
great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and, indeed, it
almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their milk.
Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this was
nothing but the print of one of my own feet, and that I might
be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began to go abroad
again, and went to my country house to milk my flock; but
to see with what fear I went forward, how often I looked be-
hind me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down
my basket, and run for my life, it would have made any one
have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or that
I had been lately most terribly frightened; and so, indeed,
I had.

However, I went down thus two or three days, and hav-
ing seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to think
there was really nothing in it but my own imagination; but
I could not persuade myself fully of this till I should go down
to the shore again, and see this print of a foot. and measure
it by my own, and see if there was any similitude or fitness,
that I might be assured it was my own foot: but when I came
to the place, first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I
laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere
thereabout. Secondly, when I came to measure the mark with
my own foot, I found my foot not so large by a great deal;
both these things filled my head with new imaginations, and
gave me the vapors again to the highest degree, so that I shook
with cold like one in an ague; and I went home again, filled
with the belief that some man or men had been on shore
there; or, in short, that the island was inhabited, and I might
be surprised before I was aware; and what course to take for
my security I knew not.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake all night;
but in the morning I fell asleep; and having, by the amuse-
ment of my mind, been, as it were, tired, and my spirits ex-
hausted, I slept very soundly, and waked much better com~
posed than I had ever been before; and now I began to think
sedately; and, upon the utmost debate with myself, I con-
cluded that this island (which was so exceedingly pleasant,
fruitful, and no further from the mainland than as I hadNew Defences 183

seen) was not so entirely abandoned as I might imagine; that
although there were no stated inhabitants who lived on the
spot, yet that there might sometimes come boats of! from the
shore, who, either with design, or perhaps never but when
they were driven by cross winds, might come to this place.
That I had lived here fifteen years now, and had not met
with the least shadow or figure of any people yet; and that,
if at any time they should be driven here, it was probable
they went away again as soon as ever they could, seeing they
had never thought fit to fix here upon any occasion to this
time. That the most I could suggest any danger from was,
from any casual accidental landing of straggling people from
the main, who, as it was likely, if they were driven hither,
were here against their wills; so they made no stay here, but
went 01f again with all possible speed, seldom staying one
night on shore, lest they should not have the help of the tides
and daylight back again; and that, therefore, I had nothing
to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in use I should see
any savages land upon the spot.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so
large as to bring a door through again, which door, as I said,
me out beyond where my.fortification joined to the rock.
Upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved to
draw me a second fortification, in the manner of a semi-circle,
at a distance from my wall, just where I had planted a double
row of trees about twelve years before, of which I made men-
tion. These trees having been planted so thick before, they
wanted but few piles to be driven between them, that they
might be thicker and stronger. and my wall would be soon
finished. So that I had now a double wall; and my outer wall
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and every-
thing I could think of, to make it strong; having in it seven
little holes, about as big as I might put my arm out at. In
the inside of this, I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick,
with continually bringing earth out of my cave, and laying
it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon it; and through
the seven holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I
took notice that I had got seven on shore out of the ship;
these I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into frames,
that held them like a carriage, so that I could fire all the seven
guns in two minutes' time; this wall I was many a month in
finishing, and never thought myself safe till it was done.
When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my
wall, for a great length every way, as full with stakes or sticks
of the osier-like wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they
could well stand; insomuch, that I believe I might set in near
twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space be-
tween them and my wall, that I might have room to see an
enemy, and they might have no shelter from the young trees,
if they attempted to approach my outer wall.
1.2%}: Two years' time, I had a thick
' ' ' l grove, and in five or six years' time
i ' I had a wood before my dwelling,
2 growing so monstrously thick and
' ' strong that it was indeed perfectly
, impassable; and no men, of what
I ,. i-'nd soever, could ever imagine that
.' x i there was anything beyond it, much
itation. As or the way which I proposed to myself to
go in and out (for I left no avenue), it was by setting two lad-Further Precautions 185

ders, one to a part of the rock, which was low, and then broke
in, and left room to place another ladder upon that; so when
the two ladders were taken down, no man living could come
down to me without doing himself mischief, and if they had
come down. they were still on the outside of my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest
for my own preservation, and it will be seen, at length, that
they were not altogether without just reason; though I fore-
saw nothing at that time more than my mere fear suggested to
me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my
other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for my little
herd of goats: they were not only a ready supply to me on
every occasion, and began to be sufficient for me, without
the expense of powder and shot, but also without the fatigue
of hunting after the wild ones; and I was 10th to lose the
advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up over
again.

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired
parts of the island; and I pitched upon one, which was as
private, indeed, as my heart could wish for. It was a little
damp piece of ground, in the middle of the hollow and thick
woods, where I almost lost myself once before, endeavoring
to come back that way from the eastern part of the island.
Here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres, so sur-
rounded with woods that it was almost an indosure by na-
ture; at least, it did not want near so much labor to make it
so, as the other piece of ground I had worked so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground; and,
in less than a month's time, I had so fenced it round, that my
flock, or herd, call it which you please, which were not so
wild now as at first they might be supposed to be, were well
enough secured in it. So, without any further delay, I removed
ten young she-goats, and two he-goats, to this piece; and, when
they were there, I continued to perfect the fence, till I had
made it as secure as the other, which, however, I did at more
leisure, and it took me up more time by a great deal.

All this labor I was at the expense of, purely from my ap-
prehension on account of the print of a man's foot which I
had seen; for, as yet, I never saw any human creature come
near the island, and I had now lived two years under these
uneasinesses, which, indeed, made my life much less com-
fortable than it was before; as may be well imagined by any
who may know what it is to live in the constant snare of the
fear of man.

After I had thus secured one part of my little living stock,
I went about the whole island, searching for another private
place to make such another deposit; when, wandering more
to the west point of the island than I had ever done yet, and
looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a
great distance; I had found a perspective-glass or two in one
of the seamen's chests, which I saved out of our ship, but I
had it not about me; and this was so remote that I could not
tell what to make of it,. though I looked at it till my eyes were
not able to hold to look any longer: whether it was a boat or
not, I do not know, but as I descended from the hill I could
see no more of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to go no
more out without a perspective-glass in my pocket. When I
was come down the hill to the end of the island, where, in-A Cannibal-'Orgy . 187

deed, I had never been before, I was presently convinced
that the seeing the print of a man's foot was not such a strange
thing in the island as I imagined; and, but that it was a special
providence that I was cast upon the side of the island where
the savages never came, I should easily have known that noth-
ing was more frequent than for the canoes from the main,
when they happened to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot
over to that side of the island for harbor: likewise, as they
often met and fought in their canoes, the victors, having
taken any prisoners, would bring them over to this shore,
where, according to their dreadful customs, being all can-
nibals, they would kill and eat them; of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above,
being the S.W. point of the island, I was perfectly confounded
and amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the horror
of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands,
feet, and other bones of human bodies; and particularly, I
observed a place where there had been a fire made, and a
circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I supposed the
savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon
the bodies of their fellow-creatures.

I was so astonished with'the sight of these things, that I
entertained no notions of any danger to myself from it for
a long while: all my apprehensions were buried in the
thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish brutality, and
the horror of the degeneracy of human nature, which, though
I had heard of it often, yet I never had so near a view of before.
In short, I turned away my face from the horrid spectacle;
my stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of faint-
ing, when nature discharged the disorder from my stomach;
and having vomited with uncommon violence, I was a little
relieved, but could not bear to stay in the place a moment;
so I got me up the hill again with all the speed I could, and
walked on toward my own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood
still awhile, as amazed, and then, recovering myself, I looked
up with the utmost affection of my soul, and, with a flood of
tears in my eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot
in a part of the world where I was distinguished from such
dreadful creatures as these.

In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my castle,
and began to be much easier now, as to the safety of my cir-
cumstances, than ever I was before: for I observed that these
wretches never came to this island in search of what they
could get; perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not expect-
ing, anything here; and having often, no doubt, been up to
the covered, woody part of it, without finding anything to
their purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen
years, and never saw the least footsteps of human creature
there before; and I might be eighteen years more as entirely
concealed as I was now, if I did not discover myself to them,
which I had no manner of occasion to do; it being my only
business to keep myself entirely concealed where I was, un-
less I found a better sort of creatures than cannibals to make
myself known to. Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of
the savage wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one
another up, that I continued pensive and sad, and kept close
within my own circle, for almost two years after this. When
I say my own circle, I mean by it my three plantations, viz.,
my mule, my country seat, which I called my bower, and

 

my inclosure in the woods: nor did I look after this for any
other use than as an inclosure for my goats; for the aversion
which nature gave me to these hellish wretches was-such,

that I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil him--
self. I did not so much as go to look after my boat all this
time, but began rather to think of making another; for I
could not think of ever making any more attempts to bring
the other boat round the island to me, lest I should meet
with some of these creatures at sea; in which case, if I had
happened to have fallen into their hands I knew what would
have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in
no danger of being discovered by these people, began to wear
off my uneasiness about them; and I began to live just in
the same composed manner as before, only with this differ-
ence, that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more about
me than I did before lest I should happen to be seen by any
of them; and I was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any
of them, being on the island, should happen to hear it; it
was, therefore, a good providence to me that I had furnished
myself with a tame breed of goats, and that I needed not to
hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at them; and if I
did catch any of them after this, it was by traps and snares,
as I had done before; so that for two years after this, I believe
I never fired my gun oif once, though I never went out with-
out it; and as I had saved three pistols out of the ship, I al-
ways carried them out with me, or at least two of them,
sticking them in my goat-skin belt; I also furbished up one
of the great cutlasses that I had out of the ship, and made me
a belt to hang it on also; so that I was now a most formidable
fellow to look at when I went abroad, if you add to the former
description of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great

broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but without a
scabbard.Against the Savages 191

As in my present condition there were not really many
things which I wanted, so, indeed, I thought that the frights
I had been in about these savage wretches, and the concern
I had been in for my own preservation, had taken off the
edge of my invention for my own conveniences; and I had
dropped a good design, which I had once bent my thoughts
upon, and that was to try if I could not make some of my
barley into malt, and then to try and brew myself some beer.
This was really a whimsical thought, and I reproved myself
often for the simplicity of it: for I presently saw there would
be the want of several things necessary to the making my
beer, that it would be impossible for me to supply; as, first,
casks to preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have ob-
served already, I could never compass: no, though I spent not
only many days, but weeks, my months, in attempting it,
but to no purpose. In the next place, I had no hops to make
it keep, no yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make
it boil; and yet with all these things wanting, I verily believe,
had not the frights and terrors I was in about the savages
intervened, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to
pass too; for I seldom gave anything over without accomplish-
ing it, when once I had it in my head to begin it. But my
invention now ran quite another way; for, night and day, I
could think of nothing but how I might destroy some of these
monsters in their cruel, bloody entertainment;_and, if pos-
sible, save the victim they should bring hither to destroy.

Sometimes I contrived in my thoughts to dig a hole under
the place where they made their fire, and put in five or six
pounds of gunpowder, which, when they kindled their fire,
would consequently take fire, and blow up all that was near
it; but as in the first place I should be very loth to waste so
much powder upon them, my store being now within the
quantity of one barrel; so neither could I be sure of its going
off, at any certain time, when it might surprise them, and at
best, that it would do little more than just blow the fire about
their ears and fright them, but not sufficient to make them
forsake the place; so I laid it aside, and then proposed, that
I would place myself in ambush, in some convenient place,
with my three guns, all double loaded; and in the middle of
their bloody ceremony, let fly at them, when I should be sure
to kill or wound perhaps two or three at every shot; and
then falling in upon them with my three pistols, and my
sword, I made no doubt but that if there were twenty I should
kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks,
and I was so full of it, that I often dreamed of it; and some-
times, that I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep.

At length I found a place in the side of the hill, where I
was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any of their boats
coming; and might then, even before they would be ready to
come on shore, convey myself unseen into some thickets of
trees, in one of which there was a hollow large enough to
conceal me entirely; and there I might sit and observe all
their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together as that it would be next to
impossible that I should miss my shot, or that I could fail
wounding three or four of them at the first shot.

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and in my
imagination put it into practice, I continually made my tour
every morning to the top of the bill, which was from myShbuld They be Killed? 193

castle, as I called it, about three miles, or more, to see if I
could observe any boats upon the sea, coming near the island,
or standing over toward it; but I began to tire of this hard
duty. '
SS SLONGasIkept my daily tour to
I, x _ g the hill to look out, so long also I kept
up the vigor of my design, and my
spirits seemed to be all the while in a
suitable frame for so outrageous an
, execution as the killing twenty or
, " ->> thirty naked savages, for an offence
. "'4' which 1 had not at all entered into
any discussion of in my thoughts. But when I began to be
weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made so long and
so far every morning in vain, so my opinion of the action itself
began to alter; and I began, with cooler and calmer thoughts,
to consider what I was going to engage in; what authority or
call I had to pretend to be judge and executioner upon these
men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit for so many
ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it were,
the executioners of His judgments one upon another; how
far these people were offenders against me, and what right
I had to engage in the quarrel of that blood which they shed
promiscuously one upon another.
When I considered this a little, it followed necessarily that
I was certainly in the wrong; that these people were not mur-
derers, in the sense that I had before condemned them in my
thoughts, any more than those Christians were murderers
who often put to death the prisoners taken in battle; or more
frequently, upon many Occasions, put whole troops of men
to the sword, without giving quarter, though they threw
down their arms, and submitted.

These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a
kind of full stop; and I began, by little and little, to be OE
my design, and to conclude I had taken wrong measures in
my resolution to attack the savages; and that it was not my
business to meddle with them, unless they first attacked me;
and this it was my business, if possible, to prevent; but that,
if I were discovered and attacked by them, I knew my duty.

In this disposition I continued for near a year after this;
and so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon
these wretches, that in all that time I never once went up
the hill to see whether there were any of them in sight, or
to know whether any of them had been on shore there or
not, that I might not be tempted to renew any of my con-
trivances against them, or be provoked by any advantage
that might present itself, to fall upon them. Only this I did:
I went and removed my boat, which I had on the other side
of the island, and carried it down to the east end of the whole
island, where I ran it into a little cove, which I found under
some high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the currents,
the savages durst not, at least would not, come with their
boats upon any account whatever. With my boat I carried
away everything that I had left there belonging to her, though
not necessary for the bare going thither, viz., a mast and sail
which I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but
which indeed could not be called either anchor or grapnel;
however, it was the best I could make of its kind; all these I
removed, that there might not be the least shadow of dis-The Gave 195

covery, or appearance of any boat, or of any human habita-
tion upon the island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I said,
more retired than ever, and seldom went from my cell ex-
cept upon my constant employment, to milk my she-goats,
and manage my little flock in the wood, which, as it was quite
on the other part of the island, was out of danger; for certain
it is that these savage people, who sometimes haunted this'is-
land, never came with any thoughts of finding anything here,
and consequently never wandered off from the coast, and
I doubt not but they might have been several times on shore
after my apprehensions of them had made me mutious, as
well as before. Indeed, I looked back with some horror upon
the thoughts of what my condition would have been, if I had
chopped upon them and been discovered before that, when
naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and "that loaded
often only with small shot, I walked everywhere, peeping
and peering about the island to see what I could get; what a
surprise should I have been in, if, when I discovered the
print of a man's foot, I had, instead of that, seen fifteen or
twenty savages, and found them pursuing me, and, by the
swiftness of their running, no possibility of my escaping
them.

I had the (are of my safety more now upon my hands than
that of my food. I dared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick
of wood now, for fear the noise I might make should be heard:
much less would I fire a' gun for the same reason: and, above
all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest the smoke,
which is visible at a great distance in the day, should betray
me. For this reason, I removed that part of my business which
required fire, such as burning of pots and pipes, etc., into

I
my new apartment in the woods; where, after I had been some
time, I found to my unspeakable consolation a mere natural
cave in the earth, which went in a vast way, and where, I dare
say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of it, would be so
hardy as to venture in.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great
rock, where, by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see
abundant reason to ascribe all such things now to Provi-
dence), I was cutting down some thick branches of trees to
make charcoal; and before I go on I must observe the reason
of my making this charcoal, which was thus: I was afraid of
making a smoke about my habitation, as I said before; and
yet I could not live there without baking my bread, cooking
my meat, etc.; so I contrived to burn some wood here, as I
had seen done in England, under turf, till it became chark or
dry coal; and then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal
to carry home, and perform the other services for which fire
was wanting, without danger of smoke.

While I was cutting down some wood here, I perceived
that, behind a very thick branch of low brushwood or under-
wood, there was a kind of hollow place: I was curious to look
into it; and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I
found it was pretty large, that is to say, suflicient for me to
stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me; but I must
confess to you that I made more haste out than I did in, when
looking further into the place, which was perfectly dark, I
saw two broad shining eyes of some creature, whether devil
or man I knew not, which twinkled like two stars; the dim
light from the cave's mouth shining directly in, and making
the reflection.
.. o w a v 1-: a, after some pause, I recov-
' ered myself, and began to all myself
' ' a thousand fools, and tell myself that
he that was afraid to see the devil was
- not fit to live twenty years on an island
all alone; and that I durst to believe
~, there was nothing in this cave that
__ - -_, was more frightful than myself; upon
this, plucking up my courage, I took up a firebrand, and in
I rushed again, with the stick flaming 1n my hand: I had not
gone three steps in, before I was almost as much frighted as
I was before; for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man
in some pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as of
words half expressed, and then a deep sigh again. I stepped
back, and was indeed struck with such a surprise that it put
me into a cold sweat, and if I had had a hat on my head, I
will not answer for it that my hair might not have lifted it
off. But still plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and
encouraging myself a little with considering that the power
and presence of God was everywhere, and was able to pro-
tect me, I stepped forward again, and by the light of the fire-
brand, holding it up a little over my head, I saw lying on the
ground a monstrous, frightful, old he--goat, just making his
will, as we say, and gasping for life, and dying of old age.
I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he
essayed to get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I
thought with myself he might even lie there; for if he had
frighted me, so he would certainly fright any of the savages,
if any of them should be so hardy as to come in there while he
had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look
round me, when I found the cave was but very small, that
is to say, it might be about twelve feet over, but in no manner
of shape, neither round nor square, no hands having ever
been employed in making it but those of mere Nature. I
observed also that there was a place at the further side of it
that went in further, but was so low that it required me to
creep upon my hands and knees to go into it, and whither
it went I knew not; so, having no candle, I gave it over for
that time, but resolved to go again the next day provided
with candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock
of one of the muskets, with some wildfire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large
candles of my own making; for I made very good candles
now of goat's tallow; and going into this low place I was
obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have said, almost ten
yards; which I thought was a venture bold enough, consider-
ing that I knew not how far it might go, nor what was be-
yond it. When I was got through the strait, I found the roof
rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but never was
such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was
to look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave; the
walls reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from my
two candles; what it was in the rock--whether diamonds or
any other precious stones, or gold--which I rather supposed
it to be--I knew not.

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity, or grotto,
of its kind, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level,
and had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that there
was no nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither
was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof. The only
difficulty in it was the entrance--which, however, as it was
a place of security, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought
was a convenience; so that I was really rejoiced at the dis-
covery, and resolved, without any delay, to bring some of
those things which I was most anxious about to this place;
particularly, I resolved to bring hither my magazine of
powder, and all my spare arms, viz., two fowling-pieces, for
I had three in all; and three muskets, for of them I had eight
in all; so I kept in my castle only five, which stood ready
mounted like pieces of cannon on my outmost fence, and
were ready also to take out upon any expedition.

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition I hap
pened to open the barrel of powder which I took up out of
the sea, and which had been wet, and I found that the water
had penetrated about three or four inches into the powder
on every side, which, caking and growing hard, had pre-
served the inside like a kernel in the shell, so that I had near
sixty pounds of very good powder in the centre of the cask.
This was a very agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I
carried all away thither, never keeping above two or three
pounds of powder in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any
kind; I also carried thither all the lead I had left for bullets.

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who
were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none
could come at them; for I persuaded myself, while I was here,
that if five hundred savages were to hunt me, they could never
find me out; or if they did, they would not venture to attack
me here. The old goat whom I found expiring died in the
mouth of the cave the next day after I made this discovery;
and I found it much easier to dig a great hole there, and
throw him in and cover him with earth, than to drag him out;
so I interred him there, to prevent offence to my nose.

w AS now in the twenty-third year of
my residence in this island, and was
so naturalized to the place and the
" manner of living, that, could I but

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

the rest of my time there, even to the last moment, till I had
laid me down and died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also
arrived to some little diversions and amusements,which made
the time pass a great deal more pleasantly with me than it did
before; as first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so articulately
and plain, that it was very pleasant to me; and he lived with
me no less than six-and-twenty years. How long he might have
lived afterward I know not, though I know they have a notion
in the Brazils that they live a hundred years. My dog was a
very pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than
sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old age; as
for my cats, they multiplied, as 1 have observed, to that degree,
that I was obliged to shoot several of them at first, to keep
them from devouring me and all I had; but, at length, when
the two old ones I brought with me were gone, and after some
time continually driving them from me, and letting themA State of Siege 20:

have no provision with me, they all ran wild into the woods,
except two or three favorites, which I kept tame, and whose
young, when they had any, I always drowned; and these were
part of my family. Besides these I always kept two or three
household kids about me, whom I taught to feed out of my
hand; and I had two more parrots, which talked pretty well,
and would all call "Robin Crusoe," but none like my first;
nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any of them that I had
done with him. I had also several tame sea-fowls, whose names
I knew not, that I caught upon the shore, and cut their wings;
and the little stakes which I had planted before my castle-
wall being now grown up to a good thick grove, these iowls
all lived among these low trees, and bred there, which was
very agreeable to me; so that, as I said above, I began to be
very well contented with the life I led, if I could have been
secured from the dread of savages. But it was otherwise di-
rected.

It was now the month of December, as I said before, in my
twenty-third year; and this being the southern solstice, for
winter I cannot call it, was the particular time of my harvest,
and required my being pretty much abroad in the fields;
when, going out early in the morning, even before it was
thorough daylight, I was surprised with seeing a light of some
fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about two miles,
toward that part of the island where I had observed some
savages had been; and not, as before, on the other side, but,
to my great affliction, it was on my side of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped
short within my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be
surprised; and yet I had no more peace within, from the
apprehensions 1 had that if these savages, in rambling
through the island, should find my corn standing or cut, or
any of my improvements, they would immediately conclude
that there were people in the place, and would then never
give over till they had found me out.

In this extremity I went back directly to my castle, pulled
up the ladder after me, and made all things without look as
wild and natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture
of defence; I loaded all my cannon, as I called them; that is
to say my muskets, which were mounted upon my new fortifi-
cation, and all my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to
the last gasp, not forgetting seriously to commend myself to
the Divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to deliver
me out of the hands of the barbarians. In this posture I con-
tinued about two hours, and began to be impatient for intelli--
gence abroad, for I had no spies to send out. After sitting
awhile longer, and musing what I should do in this case, I
was not able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer; so setting
up my ladder to the side of the hill, where there was a flat
place, as I observed before, and then pulling the ladder up
after me, I set it up again and mounted the top of the hill;
and pulling cut my perspective-glass, which I had taken on
purpose, I laid me down flat on the ground, and began to
look for the place.

I presently found there were no less than nine naked
savages, sitting round a small fire they had made, not to warm
them, for they had no need of that, the weather being ex-
tremely hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of their bar-
barous diet of human flesh which they had brought withSavages on Shore ' 203

 

them, whether alive or dead I could not tell. '

They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled
up upon the shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed
to wait for the return of the flood to go away again. It is not
easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, espe-
cially seeing them come on my side of the island, and so near
me too; but when I observed their coming must be always
with the current of the ebb, I began afterward to be more
sedate in my mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad with
safety all the time of the tide of flood, if they were not on
shore before: and having made this observation, I went
abroad about my harvest work with the more composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for, as soon as the tide made
to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or pad-
dle, as we call it) all away. I should have observed, that for
an hour or more before they went off they were dancing, and
I could easily discern their postures and gestures by my glass ;
I could not perceive, by my nicest observation, but that they
were stark naked, and had not the least covering upon them;
but whether they were men or women I could not distinguish.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns
upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, and my
great sword by my side without a scabbard, and with all the
speed I was able to make, I went away to the hill where I had
discovered the first appearance of all; and as soon as I got
thither, which was not in less than two hours (for I could
not go quickly, being so loaded with arms as I was), I per-
ceived there had been three canoes more of the savages at
that place; and looking out further, I saw they were all at
sea together, making over for the main. This was a dreadful
sight to me, 'especially as, going down to the shore, I could
see the marks of horror which the dismal work they had been
about had left behind it, viz., the blood, the bones, and part
of the flesh of human bodies eaten and devoured by those
wretches with merriment and sport: I was so filled with in-
dignation at the sight, that I now began to premeditate the
destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be who or
how many soever. It seemed evident to me that the visits
which they made thus to this island were not very frequent;
for it was above fifteen months before any more of them came
on shore there again; that is to say, I neither saw them, nor
any footsteps or signals of them in all that time; for as to the
rainy seasons, then they are sure not to come abroad, at leastInterim 205

not so far; yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason
of the constant apprehensions I was in of their coming upon
me by surprise: from whence I observe, that the expectation
of evil is more bitter than the suffering.

I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of
mind, expecting that I should one day or other fall into the
hands of these merciless creatures; and if I did at any time
venture abroad, it was not without looking around me with
the greatest are and caution imaginable. And now I found,
to my great comfort, how happy it was that I had provided
a tame flock or herd of goats; for I durst not upon any account
fire my gun, especially neai that side of the island where they
usually came, lest I should alarm the savages; and if they had
fled from me now, I was sure to have them come again with
perhaps two or three hundred canoes with them in a few days,
and then I knew what to expect. However. I wore out a year
and three months more before I ever saw any more of the
savages, and then I found them again, as I shall soon observe.
It is true they might have been there once or twice; but either
they made no stay, or at least I did not see them; but in the
month of May, as near as I could calculate, and in my four-
and-twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter with them;
of which in its place. .

It was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think,
as well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, for I
marked all upon the post still; I say, it was on the sixteenth
of May that it blew a very great storm of wind all day, with
a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night
it was after it. I know not what was the particular occasion
of it; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with very
serious thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised
with the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea. This was,
to be sure, a surprise quite of a different nature from any I
had met with before; for the notions this put into my thoughts
were quite of another kind. I started up in the greatest haste
imaginable; and, in a trice, clapped my ladder to the middle
place of the rock, and pulled it after me, and mounting it
the second time, got to the top of the hill the very moment
that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, which, ac-
cordingly, in about half a minute, I heard, and by the sound,
knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was driven
down the current in my boat. I immediately considered that
this must be some ship in distress, and that they had some
comrade, or some other ship in company, and fired these for
signals of distress, and to obtain help; I had the presence of
mind, at that minute, to think, that though I could not help
them, it might be that they might help me; so I brought to--
gether all the dry wood I could get at hand, and, making a
good, handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the hill. The wood
was dry, and blazed freely; and, though the wind blew very
hard, yet it burned fairly out; that I was certain, if there was
any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt
they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up, I heard another
gun, and after that several others, all from the same quarter.
I plied my fire all night long, till day broke; and when it was
broad day, and the air cleared up, I saw something at a great
distance at sea, full east of the island, whether a sail or a hull
I could not distinguish, no, not with my glasses, the distance
was so great, and the weather still something hazy also; at least
it was so out at sea.A Ship in Distress 207

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived
that it did not move; so I presently concluded that it was a
ship at anchor; and being eager, you may be sure, to be satis-
fied, I took my gun in my hand, and ran toward the south side
of the island, to the rocks where I had formerly been mrried
away by the current, and getting up there, the weather by
this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my great
sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in the night upon those
concealed rocks which I found when I was out in my boat;
and which rocks, as they checked the violence of the stream,
and made a kind of counter-stream, or eddy, were the occasion
of my recovering from the most desperately hopeless condi-
tion that ever I had been in in all my life.

Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's destruc-
tion; for it seems these men, whoever they were, being out
of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under water,
had been driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing
hard at E.N.E. Had they seen the island, as I must necessarily
suppose they did not, they must, as I thought, have endeav-
ored to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their
boat; but their firing off guns for help, especially when they
saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts.

In the condition I was in, I could do no more than look
on upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them, which
had still this good effect upon my side, that it gave me more
and more cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily and
comfortably provided for me in my desolate condition;
and that of two ships' companies who were now cast away
upon this part of the world, not one life should be spared
but mine. Such were my earnest wishings, that but one man
had been saved--"0 that it had been but one!" that I believe
I repeated the words, "0 that it had been but one!" a thou-
sand times: and the desires were so moved by it, that when I
spoke the words, my hands would clinch together, and my
fingers press the palms of my hands, that if I had had any soft
thing in my hand, it would have crushed it involuntarily;
and my teeth would strike together, and set against one an-
other so strong, that for some time I could not part them again.

But it was not to be; either their fate, or mine, or both,
forbade it; for till the last year of my being on this island, I
never knew whether any were saved out of that ship or no;
and had only the afiliction some days after to see the corpse
of a drowned boy come on shore, at the end of the island which
was next the shipwreck. He had on no clothes but a seaman's
waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt; but nothing to direct me so much as to guess what
nation he was of. He had nothing in his pocket but two pieces
of eight and a tobacco-pipe; the last was to me of ten times
more value than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in
my boat to this wreck; not doubting but I might find some-
thing on board that might be useful to me; but that did not
altogether press me so much as the possibility that there might
be yet some living creature on board, whose life I might not
only save, but might, by saving that life, comfort my own.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to
my castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took a quantity
of bread, a great pot of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a
bottle of rum (for I had still a great deal of that left), and a
basket full of raisins; and thus, loading myself with every-Fear and Desire 209

thing necessary, I went down to my boat, got the water out
of her and got her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then
went home again for more. My second cargo was a great bag-
ful of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for shade,
another large pot full of fresh water, and about two dozen
of my small loaves, or barley cakes, more than before, with
a bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese: all which with great
labor and sweat I brought to my boat; and praying to God
to direct my voyage, I put out, and rowing or paddling the
mnoe along the shore, I came at last to the utmost point of
the island on that side N.E. And now I was to launch out
into the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture. I
looked on the rapid currents which ran constantly on both
sides of the island at a distance, and which were very terrible
to me, from the remembrance of the hazard I had been in
before, and my heart began to fail me; for I foresaw that if
1 was driven into either of those currents, I should be denied
a great way out to sea, and perhaps out of sight of the island
again; and that then, as my boat was but small, if any little
gale of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost.

1?}! 1-: s E thoughts so oppressed my

-5-

-' "a: , mind, that I began to give over my
Menterprise; and having hauled my

". boat into a creek on the shore, I
stepped out, and sat down upon a
rising bit of ground, pensive and

   
  
  

  

.__ up ' __: _
8 . :-- ------.,.._ .aabout my voyage, when, as I was

musing, I~ could perceive that the tide was turned, and the
flood come on; upon which, my going was for so many hours
impracticable. Upon this, presently it occurred to me, that I
should go up to the highest piece of ground I could find, and
observe, if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay
when the flood came in, that I might judge whether if I was
driven one way out, I might not expect to be driven another
way home, with the same rapidness of the currents; this
thought was no sooner in my head than I cast my eye upon a
little hill, which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways, and
from whence I had a clear view of the currents or sets of the
tides, and which way I was to guide myself in my return ; here
I found that as the current of the ebb set out close by the
south point of the island, so the current of the flood set in
close by the shore of the north side, and that I had
nothing to do but to keep to the north side of the island in
my return, and I should do well enough.

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the next
morning, to set out with the first of the tide; and reposing
myself for the night in the canoe, under the great watch-coat
I mentioned, I launched out; I made first a little out to sea,
full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the current, which
set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate, and yet
did not so hurry me as the current on the south side had done
before, so as to take from me all government of the boat; but
having a strong steerage with my paddle, I went, at a great
rate, directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours I came
up to it. It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which, by
its building, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in between two
rocks; all the stem and quarter of her was beaten to pieces
with the sea; and as her forecastle which stuck in the rocksThe Spanish Wreck 211

had run on with great violence, her mainmast and foremast
were brought by the board; that is to say, broken short oil;
but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared
firm; when I came close to her, a dog appeared upon her, who,
seeing me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as I called
him, jumped into the sea to come to me, and I took him into
the boat, but found him almost dead with hunger and thirst:
I gave him a cake of my bread, and he ate it like a ravenous
wolf, that had been starving a fortnight in the snow; I then
gave the poor creature some fresh water, with which, if I
would have let him, he would have burst himself.

After this I went on board; but the first sight I met with
was two men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of the
ship, with their arms last about one another: I concluded, as
is indeed probable, that when the ship struck, it being in a
storm, the sea broke so high and so continually over her, that
the men were not able to bear it, and were strangled with
the constant rushing in of the water, as much as if they had
been under water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left in
the ship that had life; nor any goods, that I could see, but
what were spoiled by the water. There were some casks of
liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower
in the hold, and which, the Water being ebbed out, I could
see ; but they were too big to meddle with: I saw several chests,
which, I believe, belonged to some of the seamen; and I got
two of them into the boat, without examining what was in
them. Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the forepart
broken OK, I am persuaded I might have made a good voyage;
for, by what I found in these two chests, I had room to sup-
pose the ship had a great deal of wealth on board; and if I
may guess from the course she steered, she must have been
bound from Buenos Aires, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south
part of America, beyond the Brazils to the Havana. in the
Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain; she had, no doubt,
a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that time, to anybody;
and what became of her people, I then knew not.

I found, beside these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of
about twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much
difficulty; there were several muskets in the cabin, and a great
powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder in it: as for
the muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them, but
took the powder-horn; I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which
I wanted extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a copper
pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with this cargo and
the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make home again:
and the same evening, about an hour within night, I reached
the island again, weary and fatigued to the last degree. I
reposed that night in the boat; and in the morning I resolved
to harbor what I had gotten in my new cave, not carry it
home to my castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo
on shore, and began to examine the particulars: the task
of liquor I found to be a kind of rum, but not such as we had
at the Brazils; and, in a word, not at all good; but when I
came to Open the chests, I found several things of great use
to me; for example, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an
extraordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine and
very good; the bottles held about three pints each. and were
tipped with silver; I found two pots of very good sucmdes,
or sweetmeats, so fastened also on the top that the salt-water
had not hurt them; and two more of the same, which the
water had spoiled; I found some very good shirts, which were
very welcome to me, and about a dozen and a half of linen
white handkerchiefs and colored neckcloths; the former were
also very welcome, being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my
face in a hot day; beside this, when I came to the till in the
chest, I found there three great bags of pieces of eight, which
held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of them,
wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some small
bars or wedges of gold; I suppose they might all weigh near
a pound. The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but
of little value; but, by the circumstances, it must have be-
longed to a gunner's mate, though there was no powder in
it, except two pounds of fine glazed powder, in three flasks,
kept, I suppose, for charging their fowling-pieces on occasion;
upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of
any use to me; for, as to the money, I had no manner of 0c>>
casion for it; it was to me as the dirt under my feet, and I
would have given it all for three or four pair of English shoes
and stockings, which were things I greatly wanted, but had
not had on my feet for many years; I had, indeed, gotten two
pairs of shoes now, which I took OR the feet of the two
drowned men whom I saw in the wreck, and I found two pairs
more in one of the chests, which were very welcome to me;
but they were not like our English shoes, either for ease or
service, being rather what we all pumps than shoes; I found
in this seaman's chest about fifty pieces of eight, in reals, but
no gold: I suppose this belonged to a poorer man than the
other, which seemed to belong to some officer.

Well, however, I lugged the money home to my cave, and
laid it up, as I had done that before which I brought from
our own ship; but it was great pity, as I said, that the other
part of this ship had not come to my share, for I am satisfied
I might have loaded my canoe several times over with money,
which if I had ever escaped to England would have lain here
safe enough till I might have come again and fetched it.

. ' " =1: AVING now brought all my things

  
     
  

r

=

     
  

dled her along the shore to her old
"1 harbor, where I laid her up, and
made the best of my way to my old
' " \ habitation, where I found everything
safe and quiet; so I began to repose
myself, live after my old fashion, and take care of my family
aflairs; and for a while I lived easy enough; only that I was
more vigilant than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did
not go abroad so much; and if at any time I did stir with any
freedom, it was always to the east part of the island, where I
was pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where
I could go without so many precautions, and such a load of
arms and ammunition as I always carried with me if I went
the other way.

I am now to be supposed retired in my castle, after my late
voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up and secured under
water, and my condition restored to what it was before; I had
more wealth than I had before, but was not at all the richer;
for I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru had
before the Spaniards came there.

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, theNew Projects 215

four-and--twentieth'year of my first setting foot in this island
of solitariness; I was lying in my bed or hammock awake,
very well in health, had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness
of body, nor any uneasiness of mind more than ordinary, but
could by no means close my eyes; that is, so as to sleep; no,
not a wink all night long. It is impossible to set down the
innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through that
great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in this night's
time: I ran over the whole history of my life in miniature,
or by abridgment, as I may call it, to my coming to this island,
and also of that part of my life since I tame to this island.

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some
time taken up in considering the nature of those wretched
creatures, the savages, and how it came to paSs in the world
that the wise Governor of all things should give up any of
his creatures to such inhumanity--nay, to something so much
below even brutality itself--as to devour its own kind: but,
as this ended in some (at that time) fruitless speculations, it
occurred to me to inquire, what part of the world these
wretches lived in? how far off the coast was from whence they
came? what they ventured over so far from home for? what
kind of boats they had? and why I might not order myself
and my business so, that I might be able to go over thither,
as they were to come to me?

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I
should do with myself when I went thither; what would be-
come of me if I fell into the hands of these savages; or how
I should escape them if they attacked me; but my mind was
wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat
to the mainland. I looked upon my present condition as the
most miserable that could possibly be; that I was not able
to throw myself into anything but death, that could be called
worse; and if I reached the shore of the main, I might per-
haps meet with relief, or I might coast along, as I did on the
African shore, till I came to some inhabited country, and
where I might find some relief; and, after all, perhaps I might
fall in with some Christian ship that might take me in; and
if the worst came to the worst, I could but die, which would
put an end to all these miseries at once. All this was the fruit
of a disturbed mind, an impatient temper, made desperate,
as it were, by the long continuance of my troubles, and the
disappointments I had met in the wreck I had been on board
of, and where I had been so near obtaining what I so ear-
nestly longed for-somebody to speak to, and to learn some
knowledge from them of the place where I was, and of the
probable means of my deliverance. I was agitated wholly by
these thoughts; all my calm of mind in my resignation to
Providence, and waiting the issue of the dispositions of
Heaven, seemed to be suspended; and I had, as it were, no
power to turn my thoughts to anything but to the project
of a voyage to the main, which came upon me with such force,
and such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be
resisted.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more,
with such violence that it set my very blood into a ferment,
.and my pulse beat as if I had been in a fever, merely with
the extraordinary fervor of my mind about it, Nature, as if
I had been fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts
of it, threw me into a sound sleep. One would have thought
I should have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of anythingTerror of the Savages 217

relating to it; but I dreamed that as I was going out in the
morning as usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore two
canoes and eleven savages, coming to land, and that they
brought with them another savage, whom they were going
to kill, in order to eat him; when, on a sudden, the savage
that they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for his life;
and I thought, in my sleep, that he came running into my
little thick grove before my fortification, to hide himself; and
that I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the others
sought him that way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon
him, encouraged him: that he kneeled down to me, seeming
to pray me to assist him; upon which I showed him my ladder,
made him go up. and carried him into my cave, and he be-
came my servant; and that as soon as I had gotten this man,
I said to myself, "Now I may certainly venture to the main-
land, for this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will tell me
what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and whither not
to go for fear of being devoured; what places to venture into,
and what to escape." I waked with this thought; and was
under such inexpressible impressions of joy at the prospect
of my escape in my dream, that the disappointments which
I felt upon coming to myself, and finding that it was no more
than a dream, were equally extravagant the other way, and
threw me into a very great dejection of spirit.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion: that my only
way to go about to attempt an escape was to endeavor to get
a savage into my possession; and, if possible, it should be one
of their prisoners, whom they had condemned to be eaten,
and should bring hither to kill. But these thoughts still were
attended with this difficulty: that it was impossible to effect
this without attacking a whole caravan of them, and killing
them all; and this was not only a very desperate attempt, and
might miscarry; but, on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled
the lawfulness of it to me; and my heart trembled at the
thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was for my
deliverance.

However, at last, after many secret disputes with myself,
and after great perplexities about it, the eager prevailing
desire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest; and I
resolved, if possible, to get one of these savages into my hands,
cost what it would. My next thing was to contrive how to do
it, and this indeed was very difficult to resolve on; but as I
could pitch upon no probable means for it, so I resolved to
put myself upon the watch, to see them when they came on
shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking such measures
as the opportunity should present, let what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon
the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often, that I was
heartily tired of it; for it was above a year and a half that I
waited, and for great part of that time went out to the west
end, and to the southwest comer of the island almost every
day, to look for canoes, but none appeared. This was very
discouraging, and began to trouble me much, though I can-
not say that it did in this case wear off the edge of my desire
to the thing; but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more
eager I was for it: in a word, I was not at first so careful to
shun the sight of these savages, and avoid being seen by them,
as I was now eager to be upon them.

About a year and a half after I had entertained these no-Through the Spy-glass 219

' tions, and by long musing had, as it were, resolved them all
into nothing, for want of an occasion to put them into execu-
tion, I was surprised one morning by seeing no less than five
mnoes all on shore together on my side the island, and the
people who belonged to them all landed and out of my sight.
The number of them broke all my measures; for seeing so
many, and knowing that they always came four or six, or some-
times more in a boat, I could not tell what to think of it, or
how to take my measures to attack twenty or thirty men
single-handed; so lay still in my castle, perplexed and discom-
forted; however, I put myself into all the same postures for
an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just as ready
for action if anything had presented. Having waited a good
while, listening to hear if they made any noise, at length,
being very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder,
and clambered up to the top of the hill, by my two stages, as
usual; standing so, however, that my head did not appear
above the hill, so that they could not perceive me by any
means. Here I observed, by the help of my penpectiveglass,
that they were no less than thirty in number; that they had a
fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed; how they had
cooked it. I knew not, or what it was; but they were all danc-
ing, in I know not how many barbarous gestures and figures,
their own way, round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my
perspective, two miserable wretches dragged from the boats,
where, it seems, they were laid by, and were now brought
out for the slaughter. I perceived one of them immediately
fall; being-knocked down, I suppose, with a club, or wooden

 

. so."
sword, for that was their way, and two or three others were '
at work immediately, cutting him open for their cookery,
while the other victim was left standing by himself, till they
should be ready for him. In that very moment, this poor
wretch seeing himself a little at liberty, Nature inspired him
with hopes of life, and he started away from them, and ran
with incredible swiftness along the sands, directly toward
me, I mean, toward that part of the coast where my habita-
tion was. I was dreadfully frighted, I must acknowledge, when
I perceived him run my way; and especially when, as I
thought, I saw him pursued by the whole body; and now I
expected that part of my dream was coming to pass, and that
he would certainly take shelter in my grove: but I could not
depend, by any means, upon my dream for the rest, that
the other savages would not pursue him thither, and find
him there. However, I kept my station, and my spirits began
to recover when I found that there were not above three men
that followed him, and still more was I encouraged, when
I found that he outstripped them exceedingly in running,
and gained ground on them, so that, if he could but hold out
for half an hour, I saw easily he would fairly get away from
them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek, which I
mentioned often at the first part of my story, where I landed
my cargoes out of the ship; and this I saw plainly he must
necessarily swim over, or the poor wretch would be taken
there; but when the savage escaping came thither, he made
nothing of it, though the tide was then up; but, plunging in,
swam through in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed,
and ran with exceeding strength and swiftness; when the
three pursuers came to the creek, I found that two of them
could swim, but the third could not, and that, standing on
the other side, he looked at the others, but went no further,
and soon after went softly back; which, as it happened, was
very well for him in the end. I observed that the two who
swam were yet more than twice as long swimming over the
creek as the fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now
was the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion
or assistant; and that I was plainly called by Providence to
save this poor creature's life. I immediately ran down the
ladders with all possible expedition, fetched my two guns,
for they were both at the foot of the ladders, as I observed
before, and getting up again with the same haste to the top of
the hill, I crossed toward the sea; and having a very short
cut, and all down hill, clapped myself in the way between the
pursuets and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that fled,A Rescue 223

who, looking back, was at first perhaps as much frighted at
me as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come
back; and, in the meantime, I slowly advanced toward the
two that followed; then rushing at once upon the foremost,
I knocked him down with the stock of my piece; I was 10th
to fire because I would not have the rest hear; though, at
that distance, it would not have been easily heard, and being
out of sight of the smoke, too, they would not have known
what to make of it. Having knocked this fellow down, the
other who pursued him stopped, as if he had been frighted,
and I advanced toward him: but as I came nearer, I perceived
presently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to shoot
at me: so I was then necessitated to shoot at him first, which
I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor savage who
fled, but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies fallen
and killed, as he thought, yet was so frighted with the fire
and noise of my piece, that he stood stockstill, and neither
came forward nor went backward, though he seemed rather
inclined still to fly than to come on. I hallooed again to him,
and made signs to come forward, which he easily under-
stood, and came a little way, and then stopped again, then
a little further, and stopped again, and I could then perceive
that he stood trembling, as if he had been taken prisoner,
and had been about to be killed, as his two enemies were. I
beckoned to him again to come to me, and gave him all the
signs of encouragement that I could think of, and he came
nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps,
in token of acknowledgment for my saving his life. I smiled
at him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come
still nearer; at length, he came close to me, and then he
kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head
upon the ground, and, taking me by the foot, set my foot upon
his head; this, it seems, was in token of swearing to be my
slave forever. I took him up and made much of him, and
encouraged him all I could. But there was more work to do
yet; for I perceived the savage whom I had knocked down
was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come
to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the savage,
that he was not dead; upon this he spoke some words to me,
and though I could not understand them, yet I thought they
were pleasant to hear; for they were the first sound of a man's
voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for above twenty-
five years.

But there was no time for such reflections now; the savage
who was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up
upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage began to
be afraid; but when I saw that, I presented my other piece
at the man, as if I would shoot him: upon this, my savage,
for so I called him now, made a motion to me to lend him
my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side; so I did.
He no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and at one
blow cut off his head so cleverly that no executioner in Ger-
many could have done it sooner or better; which I thought
very strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never saw
a sword in his life before, except their own wooden swords:
however, it seems, as I learned afterward, they make their
wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard,
that they will even cut 01? heads with them, ay, and arms,
and that at one blow too. When he had done this, he comes
laughing to me in sign of triumph, and brought me the sword
again, and with abundance of gestures which I did not under-
stand, laid it down, with the head of the savage that he had
killed, just before me. But that which astonished him most
was to know how I killed the other Indian so far oif; so, point-
ing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him; and I
bade him go, as well as I could; when he came to him, he
stood like one amazed, looking at him, turned him first on
one side, then on the other, looked at the wound the bullet
had made, which it seems was just in his breast, where it had
made a hole, and no great quantity of blood had followed;
but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took up
his bow and arrows, and came back, so I turned to go away,
and beckoned him to follow me, making signs to him that
more might come after them. Upon this he made signs to me
that he should bury them with sand, that they might not be
seen by the rest, if they followed;' and so I made signs to him
again to do so. He fell to work; and in an instant he had
scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough to
bury the first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered
him; and did so by the other also; I believe he had buried
them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him away,
I carried him, not to my castle, but quite away to my cave,
on- the further part of the island: so I did not let my dream
come to pass in that part, that he ame into my grove for
shelter. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat,
and a draught of water, which I found he was indeed in great
distress for, from his running: and having refreshed him, I
made signs for him to go and lie down to sleep, showing him
a place where I had laid some rice-straw, and a blanket
upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself sometimes; so the
poor creature lay down, and went to sleep.

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made,
with straight, strong limbs, not too large, tall and well
shaped; and, as I reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He
had a very good countenance, not a fierce and surly aspect,
but seemed to have something very manly in his face; and
yet he had all the sweetness and softness of a European in
his countenance too, especially when he smiled. His hair was
long and black, not curled like wool; his forehead very high
and large; and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his
eyes. The color of the skin was not quite black, but very
tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the
Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives of America are,
but of a bright kind of dun-olive color, that had in it some-
thing very agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His
face was round and plump; his nose small, not flat like the
Negroes, a very good mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth well
set, and as white as ivory. After he had slumbered rather
than slept, about half an hour, he awoke again, and came
out of the cave to me ; for I had been milking my goats, which
I had in the inclosure just by: when he espied me, he came
running to me, laying himself down again upon the ground,
with all the possible signs of an humble, thankful disposi-
tion, making a great many antic gestures to show it; at last
he lays his head flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and
sets my other foot upon his head, as he had done before; and
after this, made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude,
and submission imaginable, to let me know how he would
serve me so long as he lived. I understood him in many things,
My Man, Friday 227

and let him know I was very well pleased with him. In a little
time I began to speak to him, and teach him to speak to me;
and, first, I let him know his name should be Friday, which
was the day I saved his life: I called him so for the memory
of the time: I likewise taught him to say Master; and then
let him know that was to be my name: I likewise taught him
to say Yes and No, and to know the meaning of them; I gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink
it before him, and sop my bread in it; and I gave him a cake
of bread to do the like, which he quickly complied with, and
made signs that it was very good for him. I kept there with
him all night; but, as soon as it was day, I beckoned to him
to come with me, and let him know I would give him some
clothes; at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked.
As we went by the place where he had buried the two men,
he pointed exactly to the place, and showed me the marks
that he had made to find them again, making signs to me that
we should dig them up again and eat them. At this, I ap-
peared very angry, expressed my abhorrence of it, made as
if I would vomit at the thoughts of it, and beckoned with
my hand to him to come away, which he did immediately,
with great submission. I then led him up to the top of the
hill, to see if his enemies were gone; and pulling out my glass,
I looked, and saw plainly the place where they had been, but
no appearance of them or their canoes; so that it was plain
they were gone, and had left their two comrades behind them,
without any search after them.

But I was not content with this discovery; but having
now more courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took
my man Friday with me, giving him the sword in his hand,
with the bow and arrows at his back, which I found he could
use very dexterously, making him carry one gun for me, and
1 two for myself; and away we marched to the place where
these creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get some
fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the place, my
very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sunk within
me, at the horror of the spectacle; indeed, it was a dreadful
sight, at least it was so to me, though Friday made nothing
of it. The place was covered with human bones, the ground
dyed with their blood, and great pieces of flesh left here and
there, half-eaten, mangled, and scorched; and, in short, all the
tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making there,
after a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five
hands, and the bones_of three or {our legs and feet, and
abundance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his
signs, made me understand that they brought over four pris-
oners to feast upon; that three of them were eaten up, and
that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth; that there had
been a great battle between them and their next king, of
whose subjects, it seems, he had been one; and that they had
taken a great number of prisoners, all of which were carried
to several places, by those who had taken them in the fight,
in order to feast upon them, as was done here by these
wretches upon those they brought hither.

V I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and
whatever remained, and lay them together in a heap, and
make a great fire upon it, and burn them all to ashes. I found
Friday had still a hankering stomach after some of the flesh,
and was still a cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so
much abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the least
appearance of it, that he durst not discover it; for I had, by
some means, let him know that I would kill him if he
offered it. .1

When he had done this, we came back to our mstle;-and
there I fell to work for my man Friday; and first of all, I gave
him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor
gunner's chest I mentioned, which I found in the wreck, and
which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well; then I
made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my skill would
allow, and I was now grown a tolerably good tailor; and I gave
him a mp which I had made of a hare's skin, very convenient,
and fashionable enough; and thus he was clothed, for the
present, tolerably well; and was mighty well pleased to see
himself almost as well clothed as his master. It is true, he
went awkwardly in these clothes at first: wearing the drawers
was very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat
galled his shoulders and the inside of his arms; but a little
easing them where he complained they hurt him, and using
himself to them, at length he took to them very well.

The next day, after I came home to my hutch with him,
I began to consider where I should lodge him; and that I
might do well for him and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made
a little tent for him in the vacant place between my two for-
tifimtions, in the inside of the last, and in the outside of the
first; and as there was a door or entrance there into my ave,
I made a formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards,
and set it up in, the passage, a little within the entrance; and,

\
causing the door to open in the inside, I barred it up in the
night, taking in my ladders, too; so that Friday could no way
come at me in the inside of my innermost wall, without mak-
ing so much noise in getting over that it must needs awaken
me; for my first wall had now a complete roof over it of long
poles, covering all my tent, and leaning up to the side of the
hill; which was again laid across with smaller sticks, instead
of laths, and then thatched over a great thickness with the
rice--straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or
place which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed
a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been attempted on the
outside, would not have opened at all, but would have fallen
down and made a great noise; and as to weapons, I took them
all into my side every night. But I needed none of all this
precaution: for never man had a more faithful, loving, sin-
cere servant than Friday was to me; without passions, sullen-
ness, or designs, perfectly obliging and engaging; his very
affections were tied to me like those of a child to a father; and
I dare say he would have sacrificed his life to save mine, upon
any occasion whatsoever; the many testimonies he gave me
of this put it out of doubt, and soon convinced me that I
needed to use no precautions for my safety on his account.

I was greatly delighted with him, and made it my business
to teach him everything that was proper to make him useful,
handy, and helpful; but especially to make him speak, and
understand me when I spoke; and he was the aptest scholar
that ever was; and particularly was so merry, so constantly
diligent, and so pleased when he could but understand me,
or make me understand him, that it was very pleasant to meFriday's Training 231

to talk to him. Now my life began to be so easy that I began to
say to myself, that could I but have been safe from more
savages, I cared not if I was never to be removed from the
place where I lived.

w; FTER I had been two or three days
returned to my castle, I thought that,
. in order to bring Friday oil from his
a horrid way of feeding, and from the
' relish of a cannibal's stomach, -- I

  

ing to kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it home and
dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the
shade, and two young kids sitting by her. I caught hold of F ri-
day. "Hold," said I, "stand still"; and made signs to him not to
stir. Immediately, I presented my piece, shot, and killed one
of the kids. The poor creature, who had, at a distance, indeed,
seen me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not know, nor
could not imagine how it was done, was sensibly surprised;
trembled, and shook, and looked so amazed that I thought
he would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I had shot
at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to
feel whether he was not wounded, and, as I found presently,
thought I was resolved to kill him: for he came and kneeled
down to me, and embracing my knees, said a great many
things I did not understand; but I could easily see the mean-
ing was, to pray me not to kill him.

- I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him252 Ronlnsorz Cnusor:

no harm, and taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and
pointing to the kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to
run and fetch it, which he did: and while he was wonder-
ing, and looking to see how the creature was killed, I loaded
my gun again, and by and by, I saw a great fowl, like a hawk,
sitting upon a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand
a little what I would do, I called him to me again, pointing at
the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had
been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun,
and to the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would
make it fall, I made him understand that I would shoot and
kill that bird; accordingly, I fired, and bade him look, and im-
mediately he saw the parrot fall. He stood like one frighted
again, notwithstanding all I had said to him; and I found
he was the more amazed, because he did not see me put any-
thing into the gun; but thought that there must be some
wonderful fund of death and destruction in that thing, able
to kill man, beast, bird, or anything near or far off; and the
astonishment this created in him was such as could not wear
off for a long time; and, I believe, if I would have let him,
he would have worshipped me and my gun; as for the gun
itself, he would not so much as touch it for several days after;
but would speak to it and talk to it, as if it had answered him,
when he was by himself; which, as I afterward learned of
him, was to desire it not to kill him. Well; after his astonish-
ment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to run and
fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed some
time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered away
a good distance from the place where she fell: however, he
found her, took her up, and brought her to me; and as I had.
perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took this
advantage to charge the gun again, and not to let him see me
do it, that I might be ready for any other mark that might
present; but nothing more 'olfered at that time; so I brought
home the kid, and the same evening I took the skin OE, and
cut it out as well as I could; and having a pot for that pur-
pose, I boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and made some
very good broth; and after I had begun to eat some, I gave
some to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very
well, but that which was strangest to him was to see me at
salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt was not good
to eat; and putting a little into his own month, he seemed to
nauseate it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing his
mouth with fresh water after it: on the other hand, I took
some meat into my mouth without salt, and I pretended to
spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the
salt; but it would not do; he would never are for salt with
meat or in his broth; at least, not for a great while, and then
but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was
resolved to feast him the next day by roasting a piece of the
kid: this I did by hanging it before the fire on a string, as I
had seen many people do in England, setting two poles up,
one on each side of the fire, and one across the top, and tying
the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn continu-
ally. This Friday admired very much; but when he came to
'taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he
liked it, that I could not but understand him: and at last
he told me, as well as he could, he would never eat man's
flesh any more, which I was very glad to hear.
The next day, I set him to work beating some corn out,
and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed be-
fore; and he soon understood how to do it as well as I, espe-
cially after he had seen what the meaning of it was, and that
it was to make bread of; for after that, I let him see me make
my bread, and bake it too; and in a little time, Friday was
able to do all the work for me, as well as I could do it myself.

I began now to consider, that having two mouths to feed
instead of one, I must provide more ground for my harvest,
and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used to do; so I
marked out a larger piece of land, and began the fence in
the same manner as before, in which Friday worked not only
very willingly and very hard, but did it very cheerfully. And
I told him what it was for; that it was for corn to make more
bread, because he was now with me, and that I might have
enough for him and myself too. He appeared very sensible of
that part, and let me know that he thought I had much more
labor upon me on his account than I had for myself; and that
he would work the harder for me, if I would tell him what
to do.

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this
place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the
names of almost everything I had occasion to call for, and
of every place I had to send him to, and talk a great deal to
me: so that, in short, I began now to have some use for my
tongue again, which, indeed, I had very little occasion for
before, that is to say about speech. Besides the pleasure of
talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow
himself: his simple, unfeigned honesty appeared to me more
and more every day, and I began really to love the creature;A Conversation 235

and on his side I believe he loved me more than it was pos-
sible for him ever to love anything before.
I had a mind once to try if he had any inclination for his
' own country again; and having taught him English so well
that he could answer me almost any questions, I asked him
whether the nation that he belonged to never conquered in
battle? At which he smiled, and said, "Yes, yes, we always
fight the better"; that is, he meant, always get the better
in fight; and so we began the following discourse. "You
always fight the better," said 1; "how come you to be taken
prisoner, then, Friday "
FRIDAY.--My nation beat much for all that.
M ASTER.--HOW beat? If your nation beat them, how tame
you to be taken? V
FRIDAY.--They more many than my nation, in the place
where me was: they take one, two, three, and me: my nation
over-beat them in the yonder place, where me no was; there
my nation take one, two, great thousand.
MASTER.--But why did not your side recover you from
the hands of your'enemies then?
Fatima--They run, one, two, three, and me, and make
go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.
M A 5 'rr. R.--Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with
the men they take; do they carry them away and eat them,
as these did?
. shunt--Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.
M Anita--Where do they tarry them?
Panama--Go to other place, where they think.
MASTER.--D0 they come hither?
Fauna--Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else-place.
MASTER--Have you been here with them?

Putnam--Yes, I been here (points to the N. W. side of

the island, which it seems was their side).

: v THIS, I understood that my man

Friday had formerly been among the
savages who used to come on shore

   

3' he was now brought for: and, some
I ,time after, when I took the courage
_ 7 _ . ' _' to carry him to that side, being the
same I formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place,
and told me he was there once, when they ate up twenty
men, two women, and one child. He could not tell twenty
in English, but he numbered them, by laying so many stones
in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows;
that after this discourse I had with him, I asked him how far
it was from our island to the shore, and whether the canoes
were not often lost; he told me there was no danger, no
canoes ever lost; but that after a little way out to sea, there
was a current and wind, always one way in the morning, the
other in the afternoon. This I understood to be no more
than the sets of the tide, as going out or coming in; but I after-
ward understood it was occasioned by the great draft and
reflux of the mighty river Orinoco; in the mouth or gulf of
which river, as I found afterward, our island lay; and this
land which I perceived to be W. and NW. was the great
island Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the
river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about the coun~Humanssmmmgunmm.- .mtnwgiawannaassmed mam

"Two Canoe" 237

try, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what nations were
near: he told me all he knew, with the greatest openness
imaginable. I asked him the names of the several nations of
his sort of people, but could get no other name than Caribs:
from whence I easily understood that these were the Carib-
bees, which our maps place on the part of America which
reaches from the mouth of the river Orinoco to Guinea, and
onward to St. Martha. He told me, that up a grcat way be-
yond the moon, that was, beyond the setting of the moon,
which must be west from their country, there dwelt white
bearded men, like me, and pointed to my great whiskers,
which I mentioned before; and that they had killed much
mans, that was his word: by all which I understood he meant
the Spaniards, whose cruelties in America had been spread
over the whole country, and were remembered by all the
nations from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might go from this
island, and get among those white men. He told me, "Yes,
yes, you may go in two canoe." I could not understand what
he meant, or make him describe to me what he meant by
"two canoe," till at last with great difficulty, I found he meant
it must be in a large boat, as big as two canoes. This part of
Friday's discourse I began to relish very well, and from this
time I entertained some hopes that, one time or other, I
might find an opportunity to make my escape from this place,
and that this poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.

' During the long time that Friday had now been with me,
and that he began to speak to me, and understand me, I was
not wanting in the wish to lay a foundation of religious
knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him one time
who made him. The poor creature did not understand me
at all, but thought I had asked who was his father: but I took
it by another handle, and asked him, who made the sea. the
ground we walked on, and the hills and woods. He told me,

 

"It was old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all." He could
describe nothing of this great person, but that he was very
old, "much older," he said, "than the sea or the land, than
the moon or the stars." I asked him then, if this old person
had made all things, why did not all things worship him? He
looked very grave, and, with a perfect look of innocence,Rudiments of Religion 239

said, "All things say 0 to him." I asked him, if the people who
die in his country went away anywhere? He said, "Yes, they
all went to Benamuckee." Then I asked him whether those
they ate up went thither too. He said, "Yes."

From these things, I began to instruct him in the knowl-
edge of the true God. I told him that the great Maker of all
things lived up there, pointing up toward Heaven: that He
governs the world by the same power and providence by
which He made it; that He was omnipotent, and could do
everything for us, give everything to us, take everything from
us; and thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with
great attention, and received with pleasure the notion of
Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of
making our prayers to God, and His being able to hear us,
even in Heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could
hear us, up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God
than their Benamuckee, who lived but a little way off, and
yet could not hear till they went up to the great mountains
where he dwelt to speak to him. I asked him if ever he went
thither to speak to him. He said, "No; they never went that
were young men; none went thither but the old men," whom
he called their Oowokakee, that is, as I made him explain it
to me, their religious, or clergy; and that they went to say 0
(so he called saying prayers) and then came back and told
them what Benamuckee said.

I endeavored to clear up this fraud to my man Friday; and
told him that the pretence of their old men going up to the
mountains to say 0 to their god Benamuckee was a cheat;
and their bringing word from thence what he said was much
more so; that if they met with any answe , or spake with any
one there, it must be with an evil spirit: and then I entered
into a long discourse with him about the devil, the origin of
him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the reason
of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to
be worshipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to their ruin;
how he had a secret access to our passions and to our affec-
tions, and to adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as to cause
us even to be our own tempters, and run upon our own
destruction by our own choice.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all
the methods I took for this poor creature's instruction, and
must acknowledge, what I believe all that act upon the same
principle will find, that in laying things open to him, I really
informed and instructed myself in many things that either I
did not know, or had not fully considered before, so that,
whether this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no,
I had great reason to be thankful that ever he came to me.
My grief sat lighter upon me; my habitation grew comfort-
able to me beyond measure: and when Irefiected that in this
solitary life which I had been confined to, I had not only
been moved myself to look up to Heaven, and to seek the
hand that had brought me there, but was now made to be
an instrument, under Providence, to save the life, and, for
aught I knew, the soul of a poor savage.

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my
time; and the conversation which employed the hours be-
tween Friday and me was such as made the three years which
we lived there together completely happy. The savage was
now a good Christian, a much better than I.
After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted,
and that he could understand almost all I said to him, and
speak pretty fluently, though in broken English, to me, I
vauainted him with my own history, or at least so much of
it as related to my coming to this place; how I had lived there,
and how long. I let him into the mystery, for such it was to
him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to shoot.
I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted with;
and I made him a belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in
England we wear hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon in some cases, but much more useful upon other
occasions.

    
 
 

"Afie--E Europe, particularly England,which

"e: -.1 came from; how we lived, how we

' ' worshipped God, how we behaved

"2: to one another, and how we traded

in ships to all parts of the world. I

gave him an account of the wreck

Wt; which I had been on board of, and

showed himm could, the place where she lay; but
she was all beaten in pieces before, and gone.

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when
we emped, and which I could not stir with my whole strength
then; but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing
this boat, Friday stood musing a great while, and said noth-
ing. I asked him what it was he studied upon. At last, says he,
"Me see such boat like come to place at my nation." I did
not understand him for a good while; but, at last, when I had
examined further into it, I understood by him, that a boat,

such as that had been, came on shore upon the country where
t he lived: that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by
stress of weather. I presently imagined that some European
ship must have been cast away upon their coast, and the boat
might get loose and drive ashore; but was so dull that I never
once thought of men making their escape from a wreck
thither, much less whence they might come: so I only in-
quired after a description of the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought
me better to understand him when he added with some
warmth, "We save the white mans from drown." Then I
presently asked if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat. "Yes," he said; "the boat full of white
mans." I asked him how many. He told upon his fingers
seventeen. I asked him then what became of them. He told
me, "They live, they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imag-
ined that these might be the men belonging to the ship that
was cast away in the sight of my island, as I now called it;
and who, after the ship was struck on the rock and they saw
her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat, and
were landed upon that wild shore among the savages. Upon
this I inquired of him more critically what was become of
them. He assured me they lived still there; that they had been
there about four years; that the savages left them alone and
gave them victuals to live on. I asked him how it came to
pass they did not kill them and eat them. He said, "No, they
make brother with them"; that is, as I understood him, aFrom the High Hill 243

truce; and then he added, "They no eat mans but when make
the war light"; that is to say, they never eat any men but such
as come to fight with them, and are taken in battle.

It was after this some considerable time, that being upon
the top of the hill. at the east side of the island, whence, as
I have said, I had, in a clear day, discovered the main or
continent of America, Friday, the weather being very serene,
looks very earnestly toward the mainland, and, in a kind of
surprise, falls a-jumping and dancing, and calls out to me,
for I was at some distance from him. I asked him what was
the matter. "0 joy," says he; "0 glad! there see my country,
there my nation!" I observed an extraordinary sense of pleas-
ure appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his coun-
tenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to
be in his own country again; and this observation of mine put
a great many droughts into me, which made me, at first, not
so easy about my new man Friday as I was before; and I
made no doubt but that, if Friday could get back to his own
nation again, he would not only forget all his religion, but
all his obligations to me, and would be forward enough to
give his countrymen an account of me, and come back, per-
haps, with a hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon
me, at which he might be as merry as he used to be with those
of his enemies, when they were taken in war.

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much, for
which I Was very sorry afterward; however, as my jealousy
increased, and held me some weeks, I was a little more cir-
cumspect, and not so familiar and kind to him as before: in
which I was certainly wrong too; the honest, grateful creature
having no thought about it, but what consisted with the best
principles, both as a religious Christian, and as a grateful
friend.

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was
every day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of
the new thoughts which I suspected were in him ;' but I found
everything he said was so honest and so innocent, that I could
find nothing to nourish my suspicion; and, in spite of all my
uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his own again, nor
did he in the least perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore
I could not suspect him of deceit.

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being
hazy at sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called
to him, and said: "Friday, do you not wish yourself in your
own country, your own nation?"--"Yes," he said, "I be much
0 glad to be at my own nation."--"What would you do
there?" said I. "Would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh
again, and be a savage, as you were before?" He looked full
of concern, and shaking his head. said, "No, no, Friday tell
them to live good; tell them to pray 'God; tell them to eat
corn-bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man again."--"Why
then," said I to him, "they will kill you." He looked grave
at that, and then said, "No, they no kill me, they willing love
learn." He meant by this, they would be willing to learn. He
added, they learned much of the bearded mans that came in
the boat. Then I asked him if he would go back to them. He
smiled at that, and told me that he could not swim so far. I told
him, I would make a canoe for him. He told me he would go,

if I would go with him. "I go?" says I. "Why, they will eatPlans for Escape 245

me if I come there. " --"No, no," says he,' 'me make they no
eat you; me make they much love you.' 'I-Ie meant, he would
tell them how I had killed his enemies, and saved his life,
and so he would make them love me. Then he told me, as
well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen white men,

or bearded men, as he mlled them, who came on shore there
in distress.

ROM this time, I confess, I had a
I .. mind to venture over, and see if I

, could possibly join with those beard-
' ed men, who I made no doubt were
. ' SpaniardsandPortuguese;notdoubt-
ing but, if I could, we might find
some method to escape from thence,
- being upon the continent, and a
good company together, better than I could from an island
forty miles OK the shore. alone, and without help. So, after
some days, I took Friday to work again, by way of discourse,
and told him I would givehim a boat to go back to his own
nation; and, accordingly, I carried him to my frigate, which
lay on the other side of the island, and having cleared it of
water (for I always kept it sunk in water), I brought it out,
showed it him, and we both went into it. I found he was a
most dexterous fellow at managing it, and would make it go
almost as swift again as I could. So when he was in, I said to
him, "Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He
looked very dull at my saying so;\ which it seems was because
he thought the boat was too small to go so far. I then told
him I had a bigger; so the next day I went to the place where
the first boat lay which I had made, and which I could not
get into the water; he said that was big enough; but then, as
I had taken no care of it, and it had lain two- or three-and-
twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it, that it was
rotten. Friday told me such a boat would do very well, and
would carry "much enough vittle, drink, bread"--this was
his way of talking. .

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design
of going over with him to the continent, that I told him we
would go and make one as big as that, and he should go home
in it. He answered not one word, but looked very grave and
sad. I asked him what was the matter with him. He asked me
again, "Why you angry mad with FridayP--what me done?"
I asked him what he meant. I told him I was not angry with
him at all. "No angry!" says he, repeating the words several
times; "why send Friday home away to my nation?"--"Why,"
says I, "Friday, did not you say you wished you were there?"--
"Yes, yes," says he, "wish we both there ; no wish Friday there,
no Master there." In a word, he would not think of going
there without me. "I go there, Friday!" says I. "What shall
I do there?" He turned very quick upon me at this. "You
do great deal much good," says he; "you teach wild mans be
good, sober, tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God,
and live new life."--"Alas, Friday!" says I, "thou knowest
not what thou sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself."--
"Yes, yes," says he, "you teachee me good, you teachee them
good."--"No, no, Friday," says I, "you shall go without me;
leave me here to live by myself, as I did before." He looked
confused again at that word; and running to one of the
hatchets he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and gives itA New Canoe 247

to me. "What must I do with this?" says I to him. "You take
kill Friday," says he. "What must I kill you for " said I again.
He returns very quick--"What you send Friday away for?
Take kill Friday, no send Friday away." This he spoke so
earnestly that I saw tears stand in his eyes. In a word, I so
plainly discovered the utmost affection in him to me, and a
firm resolution in him, that I told him then, and often after,
that I would never send him away from me, if he was willing
to stay with me.

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a settled
aEection to me, and that nothing could part him from me, so
I found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own coun-
try was laid in his ardent affection to the people, and his hopes
of my doing them good; a thing which, as I had no notion of
myself, so I had not the least thought or intention, or desire
of undertaking it; but still I found a strong inclination to
attempting my escape as above. founded on the supposition
gathered from the former discourse, that there were seven-
teen bearded men there; and therefore, without any more
delay, I went to work with Friday to find out a great tree
proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe, to under-
take the voyage. There were trees enough in the island to
have built a little fleet, not of periaguas or canoes, but even
of good large vessels; but the main thing I looked at was, to
get one so near the water that we might launch it when it was
made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At last, Friday
pitched upon a tree; for I found he knew much better than
I what kind of wood was fittest for it. Friday was for burning
the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it into a boat;
but I showed him how to cut it with tools, which, after I had
showed him how to use, he did very handily; and in about
a month's hard labor, we finished it and made it very hand-
some; especially, when, with our axes. which I showed him
how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true
shape of a boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fort-
night's time to get her along, as it were inch by inch, upon
great rollers into the water; but when she was in, she would
have carried twenty men with great ease.

When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it
amazed me to see with what dexterity and how swift my man
Friday could manage her, turn her, and paddle her along;
so I asked him if he would go, and if we might venture over
in her. "Yes," he said, "we venture over in her very well,
though great blow wind." However, I had a further design
that he knew nothing of, and that was, to make a mast and a
sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that
was easy enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young
cedar~tree, which I found near the place, and which there
were plenty of in the island; and I set Friday to work to cut
it down, and gave him directions how to shape and order it;
but as to the sail, that was my particular care; I knew I had
old sails, or rather pieces of old sails enough; but as I had had
them now six-and--twenty years by me, and had not been very
careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should ever
have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt but that they
were all rotten; and, indeed, most of them were so; however,
I found two pieces, which appeared pretty good, and with
these I went to work; and with a great deal of pains, and awk--
ward stitching (you may be sure), for want of needles, I at
length made a three-cornered ugly thing. like what we all
in England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom at
bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually our
ships' long-boats sail with, and such as I best knew how to
manage; because it was such a one as I had to the boat in which
I made my empe from Barbary.

 

I was near two months performing this last work, viz., rig-
ging and fitting my mast and sails; for I finished them very
complete, making a small any, and a sail, or foresail to it, to
assist if we should turn to windward; and, which was more
than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with; and
though I was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the
usefulness, and even necessity of such a thing, I applied my-
self with so much pains to do it, that at last I brought it to
pass; though, considering the many dull contrivances I had
for it that failed, I think it cost me as much labor as making
the boat.

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to
what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for, though he
knew very well how to paddle a canoe, he knew nothing of
what belonged to a sail and a rudder, and was the more
amazed when he saw me work the boat to and again in the
sea by the rudder, and how the sail jibed, and filled this way
or that way, as the course we sailed changed. However, with
a little use, I made all these things familiar to him, and he
became an expert sailor, except that as to the compass I could
make him understand very little of that; on the other hand,
as there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never
any fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for a com-
pass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by night, and
the shore by day, except in the rainy season, and then nobody
cared to stir abroad either by land or sea.

I was now entered on the eight~and-twentieth year of my
captivity in this place; though the three last years that I had
this creature with me ought rather to be left out of the ac-
count, my habitation being quite of another kind than in all
the rest of my time. I kept the anniversary of my landing here
with the same thankfulness to God for His mercies as at first:
and if I had such muse for acknowledgment at first, I had
much more so now, having such additional testimonies of the
are of Providence over me, and the great hopes I had of being
elfectually and speedily delivered; for I had an invincible
impression upon my thoughts that my.deliverance was at
hand, and that I should not be another year in this place. I
went on, however, with my husbandry; digging, planting,
and fencing, as usual. I gathered and cured my grapes, and
did every necessary thing as before.

HE rainy season was, in the mean-

: _ time, upon me, when I kept more
' within doors than at other times.
' ' We had stowed our new vessel as
secure as we could, bringing her up

' beginning, I landed my rafts from
- the ship; and hauling her up to the
shore at high-water mark, I made my man Friday dig a little
dock, just big enough to hold her, and just deep enough to
give her water enough to float in; and then, when the tide
was out, we made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep
the water out; and so she lay dry as to the tide from the sea;
and to keep the rain 0E, we laid a great many boughs of trees,
so thick that she was as well thatched as a house; and thus
we waited for the months of November and December, in
which I designed to make my adventure.
When the settled season began to come in, as the thought
- of my design returned with the fair weather, I was prepar-
ing daily for the voyage; and the tint thing I did was to lay
by a certain quantity of provisions, being the store for our
voyage; and intended in a week or a fortnight's time, to open
the dock, and launch out our boat. I waslbusy one morning
upon something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and
bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a turtle
or tortoise, a thing which we generally got once a week, for
the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been
long gone when he came running back, and flew over my
outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground, or the
steps he set his feet on; and before I had time to speak to him,
he cries out to me, "0 Master! 0 Master! 0 sorrow! O badl"---
"What's the matter, Friday?" says I. "O yonder there," says
he, "one, two, three canoes; one, two, three!" By this way of
speaking, I concluded there were six; but on inquiry I found
there were but three. "Well, Friday," says I, "do not be
frighted." So I heartened him up as well as I could. However,
I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared, for nothing
ran in his head but that they were come to look for him, and
would cut him in pieces and eat him; and the poor fellow
trembled so that I scarcely knew what to do with him; I com-
forted him as well as I could, and told him I was in as much
danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as him.
"But," says 1, "Friday, we must resolve to fight them. Can
you fight, Friday?"--"Me shoot," says he, "but there come
many great number."---"No matter for that," said I again;
"our guns will fright them that we do not kill." So I asked him
whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me,
and stand by me, and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me die,
when you bid die, Master." So I went and fetched a good
dram of rum and gave him; forI had been so good a husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he had drunk it,
I made him take the two fowling-pieces, which we always
carried, and load them with large swan-shot, as big as small
pistol bullets; then I took four muskets, and loaded them
with two slugs and five small bullets each; and my two pistols
I loaded with a brace of bullets each: I hung my great sword,
as usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective-
glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to see what I could
discover; and I found quickly by my glass that there were
one-and-twenty savages, three prisoners, and three canoes;
and that their whole business seemed to be the triumphant
banquet upon these three human bodies; a barbarous feast,
indeed, but nothing more than, as I had observed, was usual
with them. I observed also that they had landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his escape, but nearer to
my creek, where the shore was low, and where a thick wood
came almost close down to the sea; this, with the abhorrence
of the inhuman errand these wretches came about, filled me
with such indignation that I came down again to Friday, and
told him I was resolved to go down to them, and kill them
all; and asked him if he would stand by me. He had now got
over his fright, and his spirits being a little raised with the
dram I had given him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as
before, he would die when I bid die.

In this fit of fury I divided the arms, which I had charged,
as before, between us; I gave Friday one pistol to stick
in his girdle, and three guns upon his shoulder, and I took

.one pistol and three guns myself; and in this posture we
marched out. I tookva small bottle of rum in my pocket, and
gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets; and
as to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and not
to stir or shoot, or do anything till I bid him, and in the
meantime not to speak a word; in this posture I fetched a
compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over
the creek as to get into the wood, so that I could come within
shot of them before I should be discovered, which I had seen
by my glass it was easy to do.

While I was making this march, my former thoughts re-
turning, I began to abate my resolution: I do not mean that
I entertained any fear of their number, for, as they were
naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior to them;
nay, though I had been alone. But it occurred to my thoughts,
what all, what occasion, much less what necessity, I was in
to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people who had
neither done nor intended me any wrong? These things were
so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I went,
that I resolved I would only go and place myself near them
that I might observe their barbarous feast, and that I would
act then as God should direct; but that unless something
offered that was more a call to me;han yet I knew of, I would
not meddle with them.

With this resolution I entered the wood, and, with all pos-
sible wariness and silence, Friday following closely at my
heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of the wood on the
side which was next to them, only that one corner of the wood
lay between me and them. Here I called softly to Friday, and
showing him a great tree which was just at the comer of the
wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if he
could see there plainly what they were doing. He did so, and
came immediately back to me, and told me that they might
be plainly viewed there--that they were all about their fireThe Attack 255

eating the flesh-of one of their prisoners, and that another by
bound upon the sand a little from them, whom he said they
would kill next; and this fired the very soul within me. He
told me it was not one of their nation, but one of the bearded
men he told me of, that came to their country in their boat.
I was filled with horror at the very naming of the white
bearded man; and going to the tree, I saw plainly by my glass
a white man, who lay upon the beach of the sea with his hands
and his feet tied with flags, or things like rushes, and that he
was a European, and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it,
about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where I was,
which, by going a little way about, I saw I might come at
undiscovered, and that then I should be within half a shot of
them; so I withheld my passion, though I was indeed enraged
to the highest degree; and going back about twenty paces, I
got behind some bushes, which held all the way till I came to
the other tree, and then came to a little rising ground, which
gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about eighty
yards.

I had now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of the dread-
ful wretches sat upon the ground, all close huddled together,
and had just sent the other two to butcher the poor Christian,
and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to their fire, and they
were stooping down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned
to Friday. "Now, Friday," said I, "do as I bid thee." Friday
said he would. "Then, Friday," says I, "do exactly as you see
me do; fail in nothing." So I set down one of the musket:
and the fowling-pieoe upon the ground, and Friday did the
like by his, and with the other musket I took my aim at
the savages, bidding him do the like; then asking him if he
was ready, he said "Yes." "Then fire," and at the same
moment I fired also.
\ . -.-~ RIDAY took his aim so much better
3 than I, that on the side that he shot
he killed two of them, and wounded
three more; and on my side I killed
one, and wounded two. They were,
. ' ' 7 you may be sure, in a dreadful con-
\ sternation; and all of them that were

_ ' not hurt jumped upon their feet, but
did not immediately know which way to run, or which way

to look, for they knew not from whence their destruction
came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid
him, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as the first
shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took up the
fowling-piece, and Friday did the like; he saw me cock and
present; he did the same again. "Are you ready, Friday " said
I. "Yes," says he. "Let fly, then," says I, "in the name of God!"
And with that I fired again among the amazed wretches, and
so did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaded with what
I call swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we found only two
drop; but so many were wounded, that they ran about yell-
ing and screaming like mad creatures, all bloody, and most
of them miserably wounded; whereof three more fell quick-
ly after though not quite dead.

"Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces,
and taking up the musket which was yet loaded, "follow me,"
which he did with a great deal of courage; upon which I
rushed out of the wood and showed myself, and Friday closeEspagnole 257

at my feet; as soon as I perceived that they saw me, I shouted
as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too, and running as
fast as I could, which by the way was not very fast, being
loaded with arms as I was, I made directly toward the poor
victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach or shore,
between the place where they sat and the sea; the two butchers
who were just going to work with him had left him at the
surprise of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the
sea-side. and had jumped into a canoe, and three more of
the rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade him
step forward and fire at them; he understood me immediately,
and running about forty yards, to be nearer them, he shot at
them; and I thought he had killed them all, for I saw them all
fall of a heap into the boat, though I saw two of them up
again quickly; however, he killed two of them, and wounded
the third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if
he had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife
and cut the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his
hands and feet, I lifted him up, and asked him in the Portu-
guese tongue, what he was. He answered in Latin, "Chris-
tianus"; but was so weak and faint that he could source stand
or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it him,
making signs that he should drink, which he did; and I gave
him a piece of bread, which he ate. Then I asked him what
countryman he was, and he said "Espagnole"; and being a
little recovered, let me know, by all the signs he could possi-'
bly make, how much he was in my debt for his deliverance.
"Seignior," said I, with as much Spanish as I could make up,
"we will talk afterward, but we must fight now: if you have

"'1 ("ERIN
<<>> n
any strength left, take this pistol and sword, and lay about
you." He took them very thankfully; and no sooner had he
the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigor into
him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had cut two
of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole
was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures were so much
frighted with the noise of our pieces that they fell down for
mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to attempt
their own escape, than their flesh had to resist our shot: and
that was the case of those live that Friday shot at in the boat;
for as three of them fell with the hurt they received, so the
other two fell with the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being will-
ing to keep my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard
my pistol and sword: so I called to Friday, and bade him run
up to the tree from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms
which lay there that had been discharged, which he did with
great swiftness; and then giving him my musket, I sat down
myself to load all the rest again, and bade them come to me
when they wanted. While I was loading these pieces, there
happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard and
one of the savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the weapon that was to have killed him be-
fore, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold
and brave as could be imagined, though weak, had fought
the Indian a good while, and had cut two great wounds on
his head; but the savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing in
with him, had thrown him down, being faint, and was wring-
ing my sword out of his hand; when the Spaniard. though
undermost, wisely quitting the sword, drew the pistol fromThe Reckoning 259

his girdle, shot the savage through the body, and killed him
upon the spot, before I could come near.

Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying
wretches with no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and
with that he despatched those three who, as I said before,
were wounded at first, and fallen, and all the rest he could
come up with: and the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I
gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued
two of the savages, and wounded them both; but, as he was
not able to run, they both got from him into the wood. where
Friday pursued them, and killed one of them, but the other
was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded, yet
plunged into the sea, and swam with all his might oil to those
two who were left in the canoe; which three in the canoe
with one wounded, were all that escaped our hands, of one
and twenty. The account of the whole is as follows:

stdeMfimnoum
szatoiemM
:Mdlyfiwymmm
sz'yM9/Mdflntwmuled
{Magmoaaom
stlymW

lMaiWMWW'mMMg/dm
. '2,>>Wd'y'9-WM'"MC/M'

slam/l
Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of
gun-shot, and though Friday made two or three shots at them,
I did not find that he hit any of them. Friday would fain have
had me take one of their canoes, and pursue them; and,In the Canoe 261

indeed, I was very anxious about their escape, lest, carrying
the news home to their people, they should come back per-
haps with two or three hundred of the canoes, and devour us
by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them by sea, and
running to one of the canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday
follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to
find another poor creature lie there, bound hand and foot,
as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with
fear, not knowing what was the matter; for he had not been
able to look up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard
neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that he had really
but little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they
had bound him with, and would have helped him up; but he
could not stand or speak, but groaned most piteously, believ-
ing, it seems, still, that he was only unbound in order to be
killed. When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my bottle,
made him give the poor wretch a dram; which, with the news
of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat.
But when Friday came to hear him speak, and look in his face,
it would have moved any one to tears to have seen how Friday
kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hal-
looed, jumped about, danced, sung; then cn'ed again, wrung
his hands, beat his own face and head; and then sung and
jumped about again like a distracted creature. It was a good
while before I could make him speak to me, or tell me what
was the matter; but when he came a little to himself, he told
me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what
ecstasy and filial afiection had worked in this poor savage at
the sight of his father, and of his being delivered from death;
nor, indeed, can I describe half the extravagances of his affec-
tion after this; for he went into the boat, and out of the boat,
a great many times: when he went in to him, he would sit
down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's head close
to his bosom for many minutes together, to nourish it; then
he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed with the
binding, and chafed and rubbed them with his hands; and
I, perceiving what the case was, gave him some rum out of
my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal
of good.

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with
the other savages, who were now almost out of sight; and itFriday and his Father 263

was happy for us that we did not, for it blew so hard within
two hours after, and before they could be got a quarter of
their way, and continued blowing so hard all the night, and
that from the northwest, which was against them, that I could
not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached
their own coast.

But to return to Friday; he was so busy about his father,
that I could not find in my heart to take him off for some
time; but after I thought he could leave him a little, I called
him to me, and he came jumping and laughing, and pleased
to the highest extreme. Then I asked him if he had given
his father any bread. He shook his head, and said, "None;
ugly dog eat all up self." 50 I gave him a cake of bread, out
of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a dram
for himself; but he would not taste it, but carried it to his
father. I had in my pocket, also, two or three bunches of
raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his father. He
had no sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him
come out of the boat, and run away as if he had been be-
witched (for he was the swiftest fellow on his feet that ever
I saw). I say, he ran at such a rate that he was out of sight, as
it were, in an instant; and though I called, and hallooed out
too, after him, it was all one; away he went; and in a quarter
of an hour I saw him come back again, though not so fast as
he went; and, as he came nearer, I found his pace slacker
because he had something in his hand. When he mme up to
me, I found he had been quite home for an earthen jug or
pot, to bring his father some fresh water, and that he had got
two more cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me,
but the water he carried to his father; however, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little of it; this water revived his father
more than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was
fainting with thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if
there was any water left. He said, "Yes"; and I bade him
give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as much want of it
as his father; and I sent one of the cakes that Friday brought
to the Spaniard, too, who was indeed very weak, and was
reposing himself upon a green place under the shade of a
tree; and whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much
swelled with the rude bandage he had been tied with. When
I saw that upon Friday's coming to him with the water, he
sat up and drank, and took the bread and began to eat, I
went to him and gave him a handful of raisins; he looked up
in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness
that could appear in any countenance; but was so weak, not-
withstanding he had so exerted himself in the fight, that he
could not stand upon his feet; he tried to do it two or three
times, but was really not able, his ankles were so swelled
and so painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused
Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them with mm, as he
had done his father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two min-
utes, or perhaps less, all the while he was here, turn his head
about, to see if his father was in the same place and posture
as he left him sitting; and at last he found he was not to be
seen; at which he started up, and, without speaking a word,
flew with that swiftness to him, that one could scarce per-
ceive his feet to touch the ground as he went: but when he
came, he only found he had lain himself down to case his
limbs. So Friday came back to me presently, and then I spoke
to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could, and
lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him to our
dwelling, where I would take care of him; but Friday, a lusty
young fellow, took the Spaniard upon his back, and mrried
him away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the side
or gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it; and
then lifting him quite in, he set him close to his father; and
presently stepping out again, launched the boat off, and pad-
dled it along the shore faster than I could walk, though the
wind blew pretty hard, too; so he brought them both safe
into our creek, and leaving them in the boat, ran away to
fetch the other canoe. As he passed me I spoke to him, and
asked him whither he went. He told me, "Go fetch more
boat"; so away he went like the wind, for sure never man or
horse ran like him; and he had the other mnoe in the creek
almost as soon as I got to it by land. So he waited me over,
and then went to help our new guests out of the boat, which
he did; but they were neither of them able to walk; so that
poor Friday knew not what to do.

--=-eo REMEDY this, I went to work in

35% my thought, and calling to Friday to

 
 
    
 
   
 
  

  
 
   

,. 131'Lof hand-barrow to lay them on, and
.'afi'kig Friday and I carried them both up
0 5". _together upon it between us; but
____'.-: when we got them to the outside of
our wall, or fortifimtion, we were at a worse loss than be-

fore, for it was impossible to get them over, and I was re-

q'>>
solved not to break it down; so I set to work again, and
Friday and I, in about two hours' time, made a Very hand-
some tent, covered with old sails, and above that with boughs
of trees, being in the space without our outward fence, and
between that and the grove of young wood which I had
planted; and here we made two beds of such things as I had
--of good rice straw, with blankets laid upon it to lie on, and
another to cover them, on each bed.

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself very
rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection, which I fre-
quently made, how like a king I looked. First of all, the whole
country was my own property, so that I had an undoubted
right of dominion; secondly, my people were perfectly sub-
jected; I was absolute lord and law-giver; they all owed their
lives to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there
had been occasion for it, for me; it was remarkable, too, I
had but three subjects, and they were of three different re-
ligions. My man Friday was a Protestant, his father was a
Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard was a Papist. How-
ever, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout my domin-
ions.

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued prisoners,
and given them shelter, and a place to rest them upon, I be-
gan to think of making some provision for them; and the first
thing I did, I ordered Friday to take a yearling goat, between
a kid and a goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed; then
I cut off the hinder-quarter, and chopping it into small pieces,
I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a
very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth (having put
some barley and rice also into the broth), and as I cooked it
without doors (for I made no fire within my inner wall), so
I carried it all into the new tent, and having set a table there
for them, I sat down, and ate my own dinner also with them,
and, as well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them,
Friday being my interpreter, especially to his father, and, in-
deed, to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language
of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to
take one of the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other
firearms, which, for want of time, we had left upon the place
of battle; and the next day, I ordered him to go and bury the
dead bodies of the savages, which lay open to the sun, and
would presently be oEensive; and I also ordered him to bury
the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I could not
think of doing myself; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I
went that way; all which he punctually performed, and de-
faced the very appearances of the savages being there; so that
when I went again, I could scarce know where it was, other-
wise than by the corner of the wood pointing to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two
new subjects; and first, I set Friday to inquire of his father
what he thought of the escape of the savages in that canoe,
and whether we might expect a return of them, with a power
too great for us to resist. His first opinion was, that the savages
in the boat never could live out the storm which blew that

_ night they went off, but must, of necessity, be drowned, or
driven south to those other shores, where they were as sure
to be devoured as they were to be drowned if they were cast
away; but, as to what they would do if they came safe on shore,
he said he knew not; but it was his opinion, that they were so
dreadfully frighted with the manner of their being at-
tacked, the noise, and the fire, that he believed they would
tell the people they were all killed by thunder and lightning,
not by the hand of man; and that the two which appeared,
viz., Friday and I, were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come
down to destroy them, and not men with weapons. This, he
said he knew; because he heard them all cry out so, in their
language, one to another; for it was impossible for them to
conceive that a man could dart fire, and speak thunder, and
kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as was done
now. And this old savage was in the right, for, as I understood
since, by other hands, the savages never attempted to go over
to the island afterward, they were so terrified with the ac-
counts given by those four men (for it seems they did escape
the sea), that they believed whoever went to that enchanted
island would be destroyed with fire from the gods. This, how-
ever, I knew not, and therefore was under continual appre-
hensions for a good while, and kept always upon my guard,
with all my army; for, as there were now four of us, I would
have ventured upon a hundred of them fairly in the open
field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the
fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take my former
thoughts of a voyage to the main into consideration, being
likewise assured by Friday's father that I might depend upon
good usage from their nation, on his account, if I would go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a serious
discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that
there were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese,A Discourse * 269

who having been east away and made their escape to that side,
lived there at peace, indeed, with the savages, but were very
sore put to it for necessaries, and, indeed, for life. I asked him
all the particulars of their voyage, and found they were a
Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata to the Havana,
being directed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly
hides and silver, and to bring back what European goods they
could meet with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen
on board, whom they took out of another wreck; that five of
their own men were drowned when first the ship was lost, and
that these escaped through infinite dangers and hazards, and
arrived, almost starved, on the mnnibal coast, where they ex-
pected to have been devoured every moment. He told me they
had some arms with them, but they were perfectly useless,
for that they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of the
sea having spoiled all their powder, but a little, which they
used at first landing, to provide themselves with some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them there,
and if they had formed any design of making their escape.
He said they had many consultations about it; but that hav-
ing neither vessel, nor tools to build one, nor provisions of
any kind, their councils always ended in tears and despair. I
asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal
from me, which might tend toward an escape; and whether,
if they were all here, it might not be done. I told him with
freedom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-usage of me,
if I put my life in their hands; for that gratitude was no in-
' herent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square
their dealings by the obligations they had received, so much
as they did by'the advantages they expected. I told him it
would be very hard that I should be the instrument of their
deliverance, and that they should afterward make me their
prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman was certain to
be made a sacrifice, what necessity, or what accident soever
brought him thither; and that I had rather be delivered
up to the savages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the
merciless claws of the priests, and be mrried into the Inquisi-
tion. I added that, otherwise, I was persuaded, if they were all
here, we might, with so many hands, build a bark large
enough to carry us all away, either to the Brazils southward,
or to the islands or Spanish coast northward; but that if, in
requital, they should, when I had put weapons into their
hands, carry me by force among their own people, I might be
ill used for my kindness to them, and make my case worse
than it was before.

He answered, with a great deal of candor and ingenuity,
that their condition was so miserable, and that they were so
sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the thought
of using any man unkindly that should contribute to their
deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he would go to them, with
the old man, and discourse with them about it, and return
again, and bring me their answer; that he would make condi-
tions with them upon their solemn oath, that they should be
absolutely under my direction, as their commander and up-
tain; and they should swear upon the holy sacraments and
gospel to be true to me, and go to such Christian country as I
should agree to, and no other; and to be directed wholly and
absolutely by my orders, till they were landed safely in such
country as I intended; and that he would bring a contract
from them, under their hands, for that purpose. Then he told
me he would first swear to me himself, that he would never stir
from me as long as he lived, till I gave him order; and that he
would take my side to the last drop of his blood, if there
should happen the least breach of faith among his country-
men. He told me they were all of them very civil, honest men,
and they were under the greatest distress imaginable, having
neither weapons nor clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy
and discretion of the savages; out of all hopes of ever return-
ing to their own country; and that he was sure, if I would
undertake their relief, they would live and die by me.
Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve
them, if possible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard
over to them to treat. But when we had got all things in readi- .
mess to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection, which .
had so much prudence in it on one hand, and so much sin-
cerity on the other hand, that I could not but be very well
satisfied with it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of
his comrades for at least half a year. The case was thus: he had
been with us now about a month, during which time I had
let him see in what manner I had provided, with the assist-
ance- of Providence, for my support; and he saw evidently
what stock of corn and rice I had laid up; which, though it
was more than sufficient for myself, yet it was not sufficient,
without good husbandry, for my family, now it was increased
to four; but much less would it be sufficient if his country-
men, who were, as he said, sixteen, still alive, should come
over; and, least of, all, would it be sufficient to victual our
vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage to any of the
Christian colonies of America. So he told me he thought it
would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig
and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed
to sow, and that we should wait another harvest, that we
might have a supply of corn for his countrymen, when they
should come; for want might be a temptation to them to
disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, otherwise
than out of one difficulty into another.

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good,
that I could not but be very well pleased at his proposal, as
well as I was satisfied with his fidelity; so we fell to digging,
all four of us, as well as the wooden tools we were furnished
with permitted: and, in about a month's time, by the end
of which it was seed-time, we had got as much land cured and
trimmed up, as we sowed two and twenty bushels of barley
on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was, in short, all the seed
we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves barely
sufficient for our own food for the six months that we had
to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning from the time
we set our seed aside for sou ing: for it is not to be supposed
it is six months in the ground 1n that country.

-_ A v1 N a now society enough, and our

   

come, unless their number had been
very great, we went freely all over the
'island, whenever we found occasion;
, _ -, and as we had our escape or deliver-
. - was r!- V ' ' ' ance upon the thoughts,' it was impos
sible, at least for me, to have the means of it out of mine. To
this purpose, I marked out several trees, which I thought fit
for our work, and I set Friday and his father to cut themWe Prepare to Escape 273

down; and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom I imparted
my thoughts on that affair, to oversee and direct their work;
I showed them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a
large tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the
-1ike, till they made about a dozen large planks of good oak,
near two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two inches
to four inches thick: what prodigious labor it took up, any
one may imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little flock
of tame goats as much as I could; and for this purpose I made
Friday and the Spaniard go out one day, and myself with
Friday the next day (for we took our turns), and by this means
we got about twenty young kids to breed up with the rest;
for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added
them to our flock; but, above all, the season for curing the
grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to be
hung up in the sun, that, I belie"e, had we been at Alitmite,
where the raisins of the sun are cured, we could have filled
sixty or eighty barrels; and these, with our bread, was a great
part of our food--very good living, too, I assure you, for it
is exceedingly nourishing food.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it was not
the most plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, how-
ever, it was enough to answer our end. When we had thus
housed and secured our magazine of corn, we fell to work
to make more wicker-ware, viz., great baskets, in which we
kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at
this part, and often blamed me that I did not make some
things for defence of this kind of work; but I saw no need
of it. And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests
I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main,
to see what he could do with those he had left behind him
there. I gave him a strict charge in writing not to bring any
men who would not first swear, in the presence of himself
and the old savage, that they would in no way injure, fight
with, or attack the person they should find in the island, who
was so kind as to send for them in order to their deliverance;
but that they would stand by him and defend him against
all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely
under and subjected to his command; and that this should
be put in writing, and signed with their hands: how we were
to have this done, when I knew they had neither pen nor ink,
was a question which we never asked. Under these instruc-
tions, the Spaniard and the old savage, the father. of Friday,
went away in one of the canoes which they might be said to
have come in, or rather were brought in, when they came
as prisoners to be devoured by the savages. I gave each of
them a musket, with a fire-lock on it, and about eight charges
of powder and ball, charging them to be very good husbands
of both, and not to use either but upon urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used
by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years
and some days. I gave them provisions of bread, and of dried
grapes, sufficient for themselves for many days, and sufficient
for all the Spaniards for about eight days' time; and wish-
ing them a good voyage, I saw them go. They went away,
with a fair gale, on the day that the moon was at full, by my
account in the month of October; but as for an exact reck-
oning of days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover
it again; nor had I kept even the number of years so punctu-A Ship at Anchor 275

ally as to be sure I was right; though, as it proved, when I
afterward examined my account, I found I had kept a true
reckoning of years.

It was no less than eight days I waited for them, when a
strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the
like has not, perhaps, been heard of in history. I was fast
asleep in my hutch one morning, when my man Friday came
running in to me, and called aloud, "Master, Master, they
are come, they are come!" I jumped up, and, regardless of
danger, I went, as soon as I could get my clothes on, through
my little grove, which, by the way, was by this time grown
to be a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went
without my arms, which was not my custom to do: but I was
surprised, when, turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw
a boat at about a league and a half distance, standing in for
the shore, with a shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and
the wind blowing pretty fair to bring them in: also I observed
presently, that they did not come from that side which the
shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the island.
Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these
were not the people we looked for, and that we might not
know yet whether they were friends or enemies. In the next
place, I went in to fetch my perspective-glass, to see what I
could make of them; and, having taken the ladder out, I
climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was
apprehensive of anything, and to take my view the plainer,
without being discovered.

V I had scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly
discovered a ship lying at anchor, at about two leagues and
a half distance from me, S.S.E., but not above a league and
 

a half from the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly
to be an English ship, and the boat an English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in; though the joy
of seeing a ship, and one that I had reason to believe was
manned by my own countrymen, and consequently friends,
was such as I cannot describe; but yet I had some secret doubts
hung about me--I cannot tell from whence they came--bid-
ding me keep upon my guard; for that I had better continue
as l was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.

I saw the boat. draw near the shore, as if they looked for a
creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing; however,
as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see the
little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts, but ran their
boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile from me;A Landing Party 277

which was very happy for me; for otherwise they would have
landed just at my door, as I may say, and would soon have
beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have plundered me
of all I had. When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied
they were Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two I
thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there were in
all eleven men, whereof three of them I found were un-
armed, and, as I thought, bound; and when the first four
or five of them were jumped on shore, they took those three
out of the boat, as prisoners. One of the three I could per-
ceive using the most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction,
and despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the other two,
I could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes, and ap-
peared concerned indeed, but not to such a degree as the
first. I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not
what the meaning of it should be. Friday called out to me in
English, as well as he could: "0 Master! you see English mans
eat prisoner as well as savage mans."--"Why," said I, "Friday;
I am afraid they will murder them, indeed; but you may be
sure they will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really
was, but stood trembling with the horror of the sight, ex-
pecting every moment when the three prisoners should be
killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm
with a great cutlass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to strike
one of the poor men; and I expected to see him fall every
moment; at which all the blood in my body seemed to run
chill in my veins. I wished heartily now for the Spaniard, and
the savage that was gone with him, or that I had any way to
have come undiscovered, within shot of them, that I might
have secured the three men, for I saw no firearms they had
among them; but it fell out to my mind another way. After
I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by the
insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run scattering about
the island, as if they wanted to see the country. I observed
that the three other men had liberty to go also where they
pleased; but they sat down all three upon the ground very
pensive, and looked like men in despair.

It was just at high water when these people came on shore;
and while they rambled about to see what kind of a place
they were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent,
and the water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their
boat aground. They had left two men in the boat, who, as I
found afterward, having drunk a little too much brandy, fell
asleep; however, one of them waking a little so'oner than the
other, and finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir
it, hallooed out for the rest, who were straggling about; upon
which they all soon came to the boat: but it was past all their
strength to launch her, the boat being very heavy, and the
shore on that side being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quick-
sand. In this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps,
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it
over, and away they strolled about the country again; and I
heard one of them say aloud to another, calling them oif
from the boat, "Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you? she'll
float next tide"; by which I was fully confirmed in the main
inquiry of what countrymen they were. All this while I kept
myself very close, not once daring to stir out of my castle any
further than to my place of observation, near the top of the
hill: and very glad I was to think how well it was fortified. I
knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat could float
again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might be at
more liberty to see their motions, and to hear their discourse,
if they had any.

In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as before,
though with more caution, knowing I had to do with another
kind of enemy than I had at first. I ordered Friday also, whom
I had made an excellent marksman, with his gun, to load
himself with arms. I took myself two fowling--pieces, and I
gave him three muskets; my figure, indeed, was very fierce;
I had my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap
I have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols in
my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design not to have made any attempt till it was
dark; but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found
that they were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I
thought, laid down to sleep; the three poor distressed men,
too anxious for their condition to get any sleep, were, how-
ever, sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a
quarter of a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight
of any of the rest. Upon this I resolved to discover myself
to them, and learn something of their condition. Immediately
I marched as above, my man Friday at a good distance behind
me, as formidable for his arms as I, but not making quite so
staring a spectre-like figure as I did. I' came as near them un-
discovered as I could, and then, before any of them saw me,
I called aloud to them in Spanish, "What are ye, gentlemen?"
They started up at the noise, but were ten times more con-
founded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that I
made. They made no answer, but I thought I perceived them
just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in English.
"Gentlemen," said I, "do not be surprised at me; perhaps
you may have a friend near, when you did not expect it."The Prisoner 281

"He must be sent directly from Heaven, then," said one
of them very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same
time to me; "for our condition is past the help of man."

"All help is from Heaven, sir," said I; "but can you put
a stranger in the way to help you? for you seem to be in some
great distress. I saw you when you landed; and when you
seemed to make application to the brutes that came with you,
I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned--"Am I
talking to God, or man? Is it a real man, or an angel?"-

"Be in no fear about that, sir," said I; "if God had sent an
angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and
armed after another manner than you see me in; pray lay
aside your fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed
to assist you; you see I have one servant only; we have arms
and ammunition; tell us freely, what is your use?"

"Our use, sir," said he, "is too long to tell you, while our
murderers are so near us; but, in short, sir, I was commander
of that ship: my men have mutinied against me; they have
been hardly prevailed on not to murder me, and, at last, have
set me on shore in this desolate place, with these two men
with me--one my mate, the other a passenger; where we ex-
pected to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and
know not what to think of it."

"Where are those brutes, your enemies," said I; "do you
know where they are gone?"

"There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees;
"my heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you
speak; if they have, they will certainly murder us all."

"Have they any firearms?" said I.

"They had only two pieces," he answered, "one of which
they left in the boat."

"Well, then," said I, "leave the rest to me; I see they are
all asleep; it is an easy thing to kill them all; but shall we
rather take them prisoners?"

He told me there were two desperate villains among them
that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but if they were
secured, he believed all the rest would return to their duty.
I asked him which they were. He told me he could not at
that distance distinguish them, but he would obey my orders
in everything I would direct.

"Well," says I, "let us retreat out of their view or hearing,
lest they awake, and we will resolve further." 'The Captain's Proposal :83

So they willingly went back with me, till the woods covered
us from them.

"Look you, sir," said I, "if I venture upon your deliver-
ance, are you willing to make two conditions with me?" He
anticipated my proposals by telling me that both he and the
ship, if recovered, should be wholly directed and commanded
by me in everything; and if the ship was not recovered, he
would live and die with me in what part of the world soever
I would send him; and the two other men said the same.

"Well," says I, "my conditions are but two: first--that
while you stay in this island with me, you will not pretend
to any authority here; and if I put arms in your hands, you
will, upon all occasions, give them up to me, and do no
prejudice to me or mine upon this island, and in the mean-
time be governed by my orders; secondly--that if the ship is
or may be recovered, you will carry me and my man to Eng-
land passage free."

He gave me all the assurance that the invention or faith
of man could devise, that he would comply with these most
reasonable demands, and, besides, would owe his life to me,
and acknowledge it upon all occasions as long as. he lived.
"Well, then," said I, "here are three muskets for you, with
powder and ball; tell me next what you think is proper to
be done." He showed all the testimonies of his gratitude that
he was able, but ofiered to be wholly guided by me. I told
him I thought it was hard venturing anything; but the best
method I could think of was to lire on them at once as they lay,

'and if any were not killed at the first volley, and oifered to
submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's
providence to direct the shot. He said, very modestly, that
he was 10th to kill them, if he could help it; but that those
two were incorrigible villains, and had been the authors of
all the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we should be
undone still, for they would go on board and bring the whole
ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well. then," says I,
"necessity legitimates my advice, for it is the only way to
save our lives." However, seeing him still cautious of shed-
ding blood, I told him they should go themselves, and manage
as they found convenient.

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them
awake, and soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I
asked if either of them were the men who, he had said, were
the heads of the mutiny. He said, "No."--"Well, then," said
I, "you may let them escape; and Providence seems to have
awakened them on purpose to save themselves. Now," says
I, "if the rest escape you, it is your fault." Animated with this,
he took the musket I had given him in his hand, and a pistol
in his belt, and his two comrades with him, with each a piece
in his hand. The two men who were with him going first
made some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was awake,
turned about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the rest;
but it was too late then, for the moment he cried out they
fired, I mean the two men, the captain wisely reserving his
own piece. They had so well aimed their shot at the men
they knew, that one of them was killed on the Spot, and the
other very much wounded; but not being dead, he started
up on his feet, and called eagerly for help to the other; but
the captain stepping up to him, told him it was too late to
cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his villainy,
and with that word knocked him down with the stock of hisOur Victory :85

musket, so that he never spoke more. There were three more
in the company, and one of them was slightly wounded; by
this time I was come; and when they saw their danger, and
that it was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The cap-
tain told them he would spare their lives if they would give
him an assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they
had been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in
recovering the ship, and afterward in carrying her back to
Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave him all the
protestations of their sincerity that could be desired; and
he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives, which I
was not against; only that I obliged him to keep them bound
hand and foot while they were upon the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring away
the oars and sail, which they did; and by and by three snag.
gling men, that were (happily for them) parted from the
rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired; and seeing the
captain, who was before their prisoner, now their conqueror,
they submitted to be bound also. Our victory was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire
into one another's circumstances. I began first, and told him
my whole history, which he heard with an attention even to
amazement, and particularly at the wonderful manner of
my being furnished with provisions and ammunition; and,
indeed, as my story is a whole collection of wonders, it afiected
him deeply; but when he reflected from thence upon him-

' self, and how I seemed to have been preserved there on pur-
pose'to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he could
not speak a word more. After this communication was at an
end, I carried him and his two men into my apartment, lead-
ing them in just where I came out, viz., at the top- of the
house; where I refreshed him with such provision as I had,
and showed them all the contrivances I had made during my
long, long inhabiting that place. .

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amaz--
ing; but above all, the captain admired my fortifications; and
how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with a grove of
trees, which, having been now planted nearly tWenty years,
and the trees growing much faster than in England, was be-
come a little wood, and so thick that it was impassable in any
part of it but at that one side where I had reserved my little
winding passage into it: this I told him was my castle and
my residence; but that I had a seat in'the country, as most
princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I
would show him that, too, another time; but at present our
business was to consider how to recover the ship. He agreed
with me as to that, but told me he was perfectly at a loss what
measures to take, for that there were still six-and-twenty
hands on board, who, having entered into a cursed conspiracy,
by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would
be hardened in it now by desperation; and would carry it on,
knowing that if they were subdued they would be- brought
to the gallows as soon as they tame to England, or to any of
the English colonies; and that, therefore, there would be
no attacking them with so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found
it was a very rational conclusion, and'that therefore some-
thing was to be resolved on speedily, as well to draw the men
on board into some snare for their surprise, as to preventPrecautions. 287

their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon this, it pres-
ently occurred to me that in a little while the ship's crew,
wondering what was become of their comrades and of the
boat, would certainly come on shore in their other heat to
look for them, and that then, perhaps, they might come
armed, and be too strong for us: this he allowed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to
stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might
not my her off; and taking everything out of her, leave her
so far useless as not to be fit to swim; accordingly we went
on board, took the arms which were left on board out of he}
and whatever else we found there, which was a bottle of
brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of
powder, and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas (the
sugar was five or six pounds); all which was very welcome to
me, especially the brandy and sugar, of which I had had none
left for many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars,
mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were carried before), we '
knocked a great hole in her bottom, that if they had come
strong enough to master us, yet they could not carry oil the
boat. Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we could
be able to recover the ship; but my view was, that if they went
away without the boat, I did not much question to make her
again fit to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and call upon
our friends the Spaniards in my way.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first,
by main strength, heaved the boat upon the beach, so high
that the tide would not float her off at high-water mark; and
besides, had broken a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly
stopped, and were sat down musing what we should do, we
heard the ship fire a gun, and make a waft with her ancient,
as a signal for the boat to come on board: but no boat stirred;
and they fired several times, making other signals for the
boat. At last, when all their signals and firing proved fruit-
less, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by
the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out, and row toward
the shore; and we found, as they approached, that there were

no less than ten men in her, and that they had firearms with
them.

the shore, so .we had a full view of
them as they came. and a plain sight
" even of their faces; because the tide

' - the other boat, they rode up under
.shore, to come to the same place

' ' where the other had landed, and
where the boat lay. By this means, I say, we had a full view

of them, and the captain knew the persons and characters
of all the men in the boat, of whom, he said, there were three
very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into this con-
spiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frightened. But
that as for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief officer
among them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any
of the ship's crew, and were no doubt made desperate in their
new enterprise; and terribly apprehensive he was that they
would be too powerful for us. I smiled at him, and told him
that men in our circumstances were past the operation of
fear; that seeing almost every condition that could be was bet-The Matinee" 289

ter than that which we were supposed to be in, we ought to

expect that the consequences, whether death or life, would be

sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought of the

, circumstance of my life, and whether a deliverance were not
worth venturing for. -

"And where, sir," said I, "is your belief of my being pre-
served here on purpose to save your life, which elevated you
a little while ago? For my part," said I, "there seems to be
but one thing amiss in all the prospect of it."

"What is that?" says be.

"Why," said I, "it is that, as you say, there are three or
four honest fellows among them, which should be spared;
had they been all of the wicked part of the crew, I should
have thought God's providence had singled them out to
deliver them into your hands; for depend upon it, every man
that comes ashore is our own, and shall die or live as they
behave to us."

As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful counte-
nance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so we set vigor-
ously to our business: we had, upon the first appearance of
the boat's coming from the ship, considered of separating
our prisoners; and we had, indeed, secured them effectually.

Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than
ordinary, I, sent with Friday, and one of the three delivered
men, to my cave, where they were remote enough, and out
of danger of being heard. or discovered, or of finding their
way out of the woods, if they could have delivered themselves.
Here they left them bound, but gave them provisions, and
promised them, if they continued there quietly, to give them
their liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempted their
escape, they should be put to death without mercy. They
promised faithfully to bear their confinement with patience,
and were very thankful that they had such good usage as to
have provisions and light; for Friday gave them candles (such
as we made ourselves) for their comfort; and they did not
know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were
kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was net able to
trust them; but the other two were taken into my service,
upon the captain's recommendation, and upon their sol-
emnly engaging to live and die with us; so with them and
the three honest men we were seven men, well armed; and I
made no doubt we should be able to deal well enough with
the ten that were coming, considering that the captain had said
there were three or four honest men among them also. As
soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay, they
ran their boat into the beach and came all on shore. hauling
the boat up after them; which I was glad to see, for I was
afraid they would rather have left the boat at an anchor some
distance from the shore, with some hands in her, to guard
her, and so we should not be able to seize the boat. Being
on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their other
boat; and it was easy to see they were under a great surprise
to find her stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a
great hole in her bottom. After they had mused awhile upon
this, they set up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all
their might, to try if they could make their companions hear;
but all was to no purpose. Then they came all close in a ring,
and fired a volley of their small arms, which, indeed, we
heard, and the echoes made the woods ring: but it man
one; those in the cave, we were sure, could not hear; and
those in our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet
durst give no answer to them. They were so astonished at
the surprise of this, that as they told us afterward, they re-
solved to go all on board again to their ship, and let them
know that the men were all murdered, and the long-boat
staved; accordingly, they immediately launched their boat
again, and got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded,
at this, believing they would go on board the ship again, and
set sail, giving their comrades over for lost, and so he should
still lose the ship, which he was in hopes we should have re-
covered; but he was quickly as much frighted the other way.

They had not been long put off with the boat, when we
perceived them all coming on shore again; but with this new
measure in their conduct, which it seems they consulted to-
gether upon, viz., to leave three men in the boat, and the
rest to go up into the country to look for their fellows.

This was a great disappointment to us, for now we were at
a loss what to do, as our seizing those seven men on shore
would be no advantage to us if we let the boat escape, because
they would row away to the ship, and then the rest of them
would be sure to weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the
ship would be lost. However, we had no remedy but to wait
and see what the issue of things might present: the seven men
came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put
her off to-a good distance from the shore, and came to an
anchor to wait for them; so that it was imposible for us to
come at them in the boat. Those that came on shore kept
close together, marching toward the top of the little hill under

 

lrie
which my habitation lay; and we could see them plainly,
though they could not perceive us. We should have been
very glad if they would have come nearer to us, so that we
might have fired at them, or that they would have gone
further off, that we might come abroad. But when they were
come to the brow of the hill, where they could see a great
way into the valleys and woods, which lay toward the north-
east part, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and
hallooed till they were weary: and not caring, it seems, to
venture far from the shore, nor far from one another, they
sat down together, under a tree to consider it: had they
thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other part of
them had done, they had done the job for us; but they were
too full of apprehensions to venture to go to sleep, though
they could not tell what the danger was they had to fear.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this
consultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps they would all fire
a volley again, to endeavor to make their fellows hear, and
that we should all sally upon them just at the juncture when
their pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly
yield, and we should have them without bloodshed. I liked
the proposal, provided it was done while we were near enough
to come up to them before they could load their pieces again.
But this event did not happen; and we lay still a long time,
very irresolute what course to take; at length, I told them
there would be nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and
then, if they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might
find a way to get between them and the shore, and so might
use some stratagem with them in the boat to get them on
shore. We waited a great while, though very impatient forA Stratagem 293

their removing; and were very uneasy, when, after a long
consultation, we saw them all start up, and march down
toward the sea: it seems they had such dreadful apprehensions
of the danger of the place, that they resolved to go on board
the ship again, give their companions over for lost, and so
go on with their intended voyage with the ship.

, '.. ..ssoouaslperceived themgoto-
t , ward the shore, I imagined it to be
f t

. as it really was, that they had given
",0 - E! i over their search, and were going
back again; and the captain, as soon
Q: iv:- .as I told him my thoughts, was ready
Wfi'e to sink at the apprehensions of it: but
-. W I presently thought of a stratagem to
fetch them back, and which answered my end to a tittle. I or-
dered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little creek
westward, toward the place where the savages came on shore
when Friday was rescued, and so soon as they came to a little
rising ground, at about half a mile distance, I bade them hal-
100 out, as loud as they could, and wait till they found the sea-
men heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen
answer them, they should return it again; and then, keeping
out of sight, take a round, always answering when the others
hallooed, to draw them as far into the island and among the
woods as possible, and then wheel about again to me by such
ways as I directed them.

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the
mate hallooed; and they presently heard them, and, answer-
ing, ran along the shore westward, toward the voice they
heard, when they were stopped by the creek, where, the
water being up, they could not get over, and called for the
boat to come up and set them over; as, indeed, I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat
being gone a good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a
harbor within the land, they took one of the three men out
of her, to go along with them, and left only two in the boat,
having fastened her to a stump of a Tittle tree on the shore.
This was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday
and the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with
me; and, crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised
the two men before they were aware--one of them lying on
the shore, and the other being in the boat; the fellow on
shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to start
up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and
knocked him down; and then called out to him in the boat
to yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very few argu-
ments to persuade a single man to yield, when he saw five
men upon him, and his comrade knocked down; besides, this
was, it seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in the
mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily per-
suaded not only to yield, but afterward to join very sincerely
with us. In the meantime Friday and the captain's mate so
well managed their business with the rest, that they drew
them, by hallooing and answering, from one hill to another,
and from one wood to another, till they not only heartily
tired them, but left them where they were very sure they
could not reach back to their boat before it was dark; and,
indeed, they were heartily tired themselves also, by the time
they came back to us.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in, theThe Ambuscade 295

dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure work with
them. It was several hours after Friday tame back to me
before they came back to their boat; and we could hear the
foremost of them, long before they came quite up, calling
to those behind to come along; and could also hear them
answer, and complain how lame and tired they were, and
not able to go any faster: which was very welcome news to
us. At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible
to express their confusion when they found the boat aground
in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone;
we could hear them (all one to another in the most lamentable
manner, telling one another they were got into an enchanted
island; that either there were inhabitants in it, and they
should all be murdered, or else there were devils and spirits
in it, and they should all be carried away and devoured. They
hallooed again, and called their two comrades by their names
a great many times; but no answer. After some time, we could
see them by the little light there was, run about, wringing
their hands like men in despair; and sometimes they would
go and sit down in the boat to nest themselves, then come
ashore again, and walk about again, and so the same thing
over again. My men would fain have had me give them leave
to fall upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing to
take them at some advantage, so as to spare them, and kill
as few of them as I could: and especially I was unwilling to
hazard the killing of any of our men, knowing the others were
'very well armed. I resolved to wait, to see if they did not
separate; and therefore, to make sure of them, I drew my
ambusaide nearer; and ordered Friday and the captain to
creep upon their hands and feet, as close to the ground as

. . HARLLAanni'
they could, that they might not be discovered, and get as
near them as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.

They had not been long in that posture, when the boat-
swain, who was the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and
had now shown himself the most dejected and dispirited of
the rest, came walking toward them, with two more of the
crew. The captain was so eager at having this principal rogue
so much in his power, that he could hardly have patience to
let him come so near as to be sure of him, for they only heard
his tongue before: but when they came nearer, the captain
and Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them. The
boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man was shot
in the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die till
an hour or two after; and the third ran for it. At the noise of
the fire, I immediately advanced with my whole army, which
was now eight men; viz., myself, generalissimo; Friday, my
lieutenant-general; the captain and his two men, and the
three prisoners of war whom we had trusted with arms. We
came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not
see our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat,
who was now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could
bring them to a parley, and so perhaps might reduce them to
terms; which fell out just as we desired: for, indeed, it was
easy to think, as their condition then was, they would be very
willing to capitulate. So he calls out as loud as he could to
one of them, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom Smith an-
swered immediately, "Is that Robinson?" for it seems he
knew the voice. The other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake,
Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are

all dead men this moment."--"Who must we yield to? WhereThe Capture 297

are ?" says Smith again. "Here they are," says he; "here's
our captain and fifty men with him, have been hunting you
these two hours; the boatswain is killed, Will Fry is wounded,
and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield you are all lost."
--"Will they give us quarter then?" says Tom Smith, "and
we will yield."--"I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield,"
said Robinson: so he asked the mptain. And the captain him-
self then calls out, "You, Smith, you know my voice; if you
lay down your arms immediately, and submit, you shall have
your lives, all but Will Atkins."

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, captain,
give me quarter; what have I done? They have all been as
bad as I" (which, by the way, was not true; for, it seems, this
Will Atkins was the first man that laid hold of the captain,
when they first mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying
his hands, and giving him injurious language): however, the
captain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion,
and trust to the Governor's mercy: by which he meant me,
for they all called me Governor. In a word, they all laid down
their arms, and begged their lives; and I sent the man that
had parleyed with them, and two more, who bound them
all; and then my great army of fifty men, which, with those
three, were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them,
and upon their boat; only that I kept myself and one more
out of sight, for reasons of state.

_ Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of seizing

the ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley
with them, he expostulated with them upon the villainy of
their practices with him, and at length upon the further
wickedness of their design, and how certainly it must bring
them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to the
gallows. They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard
for their lives. As for that, he told them they were not his
prisoners, but the commander's of the island; that they
thought they had set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited
island; but it had pleased God so to direct them, that it was
inhabited, and that the Governor was an Englishman; that
he might hang them all there if he pleased; but, as he had
given them all quarter, he supposed he would send them to
England, to be dealt with there as justice required, except
Atkins, whom he was commanded by the Governor to advise
to prepare for death; for that he would be hanged in the
morning.

Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet it had its -
desired effect; Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the captain
to intercede with the Governor for his life; and all the rest
begged of him, for God's sake, that they might not be sent
to England.

It now occurred to me, that the time of our deliverance
was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to bring
these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession of the ship;
so I retired in the dark from them, that they might not see
what kind of a Governor they had, and called the captain to
me; when I called, as at a good distance, one of the men was
ordered to speak again, and say to the mptain, "Captain, the
commander calls for you"; and presently the captain replied,
"Tell his Excellency I am just a-coming." This more per-
fectly amused them, and they all believed that the com-
mander was just by, with his fifty men. Upon the captain
coming to me, I told him my project for seizing the ship,
which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved to put it in
execution the next morning. But, in order to execute it with
more art, and to be secure of success, I told him we must
divide the prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins,
and two more of the worst of them, and send them pinioned
to the cave where the others lay: this was committed to Friday
and the two men who came on shore with the captain. They
conveyed them to the cave as to a prison; and it was, indeed,
a dismal place, especially to men in their condition. The
others I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have
given a full description; and as it was fenced in, and they were
pinioned, the place was secure enough, considering they were
upon their behavior.

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to
enter into a parley with them; in a word, to try them, and
tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or not to
go on board and surprise the ship. He talked to them of the
injury done him, of the condition they were brought to; and
that though--the Governor had given them quarter for their
lives as to the present action, yet that if they were sent to
England, they would all be hanged in chains; but that if
they would join in so just an attempt as to recover the ship,
he would have the Governor's engagement for their pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be
accepted by men in their condition; they fell down on their
. knees to the captain, and promised, with the deepest imprec'a-
tions, that they would be faithful to him to the last drop,
and that they should owe their lives to him, and would go
with him all oVer the world; that they would own him as a
father to them as long as they lived. "Well," says the captain,
"I must go and tell the Governor what you say, and see what
I can do to bring him to consent to it." So he brought me an
account of the temper he found them in, and that he verily
believed they would be faithful. However, that we might be
very secure, I told him he should go back again and choose
out five of them, and tell them, they might see he did not
want men, that he would take out five of them to be his as-
sistants, and that the Governor would keep the other two
and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my cave)
as hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that if they proved
unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages should be
hanged in chains alive upon the shore. This looked severe,
and convinced them that the Governor was in earnest; how-
ever, they had no way left them but to accept it; and it was
now the business of the prisoners, as much as of the captain,
to persuade the other five to do their duty.
_ ;.- . ~_ UR strength was now thus ordered
"1 -- "a: for the expedition: 1, the captain, his
' ' l , mate, and passenger: 2, the two pris-
oners of the first gang, to whom, hav-
ing their character from the captain,
I had given their liberty, and trusted
them with arms: 3, the other two
' fi that I had kept till now in my apart-
ment pinioned, but, on the captain's motion, had now re-
leased: 4, the single man taken in the boat: 5, these five
released at last; so that there were thirteen in all, besides five
we kept prisoners in the wave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these
hands on board the ship; but as for me and my man FridayAttack on the Ship 301

I did not thinkitwas properforustostir, havingsevenmen
left behind; and it was employment enough for us to keep
them asunder, and supply them with victuals. As to the five
in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast; but Friday went in
twice a day to them, to supply them with necessaries; and I
made the other two carry provisions to a certain distance,
where Friday was to take them.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with
the captain, who told them I was the person the Governor
had ordered to look after them; and that it was the Governor's
pleasure they should not stir anywhere but by my direction;
that if they did, they would be laid in irons; so that as we
never suEered them to see me as Governor, I now appeared
as another person, and spoke of the Governor, the garrison,
the castle, and the like, upon all occasions.

The captain had now no difficulty before him, but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man them.
He made his passenger captain of one, with four of the men;
and himself, his mate, and five more, went in the other; and
they contrived their business very well, for they came up to
the ship about midnight. As soon as they came within all
of the ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell them he
had brought oi! the men and the boat, but that it was a long
time before they had found them, and the like; holding them
in chat till they came to the ship's side; when the captain
4 and mate entering first, with their arms immediately knocked
down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end of
their muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men;
they secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-
decks, and began to fasten the hatches, to keep them down
that were below, when the other boat and their men, enter-
ing the forechains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the
scuttle which went down into the cook-room, making three
men they found there prisoners. When this was done, and
all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the mate, with three
men, to break into the round-house, where the new rebel cap-
tain lay, who, having taken the alarm, had got up, and with
two men and a boy had got firearms in their hands; and when
the mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new captain
and his men fired boldly among them, and wounded the
mate with a musket ball, which broke his arm, and wounded
two more of the men, but killed nobody. The mate, calling
for help, rushed, however, into the round-house, wounded
as he was, and with his pistol shot the new captain through
the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and came out
again behind one of his ears, so that he never spoke a word
more: upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken
effectually, without any more lives being lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered
seven guns to be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with
me to give me notice of his success; which, you may be sure,
I was very glad to hear, having sat watching upon the shore
for it till nearly two of the clock in the morning. Having thus
heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it having been
a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was sur-
prised with the noise of a gun; and presently starting up, I
heard a man call me by the name, "Govemorl Governor!"
and presently I knew the captain's voice; when, climbing to
the t0p of the hill, there he stood, and, pointing to the ship,
he embraced me in his arms. "My dear friend and deliverer,"My Deliverance 303

says he, "there's yom' ship; for she is all yours, and so are we,
and all that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and
there she rode, within little more than half a mile of the shore;
for they. had weighed her anchor as soon as they were masters
of her, and, the weather being fair, had brought her to an
anchor just against the mouth of the little creek; and, the
tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace in near
the place where I had first landed my rafts, and so landed just
at my door. I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise;
for I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands,
all things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away
whither I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I was not able
to answer him one word; but as he had taken me in his arms,
I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the ground.
He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled a bottle
out of his podtet and gave me a dram of cordial, which he
had brought on purpose for me. After I drank it, I sat down-
upon the ground; and though it brought me to myself, yet
it was a good while before I could speak a word to him. All
this time the poor man was in as great an eatasy as I, only
not under any surprise as I was; and he said a thousand kind
tender things to me, to compose and bring me to myself; but
such was the flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my
spirits into confusion: at last it broke out into tears, and, in
a little while after, I recovered my speech. I then took my
turn, and embraced him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced
together. I told him I looked upon him as a man sent by
Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction seemed
to be a chain of wonders; that such things as these were the
testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence governing
the world, and an evidence that the eye of an infinite Power
could search into the remotest corner of the world, and send
help to the miserable whenever He pleased. I forgot not to
lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven; and what heart
could forbear to bless Him, who had not only in a miraculous
manner provided for me in such a wilderness, and in such
a desolate condition, but from whom every deliverance must
always be acknowledged to proceed.

When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had
brought me some little refreshments such as the ship afforded,
and such as the wretches that had been so long his masters
had not plundered him of. Upon this, he called aloud to the
boat, and bade his men bring the things ashore that were
for the Governor; and, indeed, it was a present as if I had
been one, not that I was to be carried along with them, but
as if I had been to dwell upon the island still, and they were
to go without me. First, he had brought me a case of bottles
full of excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira
wine (the bottles held two quarts apiece), two pounds of
excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef,
and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a hun-
dredweight of biscuit. He brought me also a box of sugar,
a box of flour, a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-
juice, and abundance of other things. But besides these, and
what was a thousand times more useful to me, he brought
me six new clean shirts, six very good neckcloths, two pairs
of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings,
with a very good suit of clothes of his own, which had been
worn but very little: in a word, he clothed me from head to
foot. It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one mayFate of the Mutineers 305

imagine, to one in my circumstances; but never was anything
in the world of that kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy
as it was to me to wear such clothes at first putting on.

After these ceremonies were past, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we began to
consult what was to be done with the prisoners we had; for
it was worth considering whether we might venture to take
them away with us or no, especially two of them, whom we
knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree;
and the captain said he knew they were such rogues that
there was no obliging them, and if he did cany them away,
it must be in irons, as maleiactors, to be delivered over to
justice at the first English colony he could come at; and I
found that thecaptain himself was very anxious about it.
Upon this, I told him that, if he desired it, I durst undertake
to bring the two men he spoke of to make it their own request
that he should leave them upon the island.

"I should be very glad of that," says the captain, "with all
my heart."

"I will send for them up, and talk with them," says I.

So I caused Friday and the two hostages, for they were now
discharged, their comrades having performed their promise;
I say, I caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the five
men, pinioned as they were, to the bower, and keep them
there till I came. After some time, I came thither dressed in
_my new habit; and now I was called Governor again. Being
all met, and the captain with me, I caused all the men to be
brought before me, and I told them I had got a full account
of their villainous behavior to the captain, but that they were
fallen into the pit which they had dug for others. They might
see by and by that their new captain had received the reward
of his villainy; for that they would see him hanging at the
yard~arms; as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say why I should not execute them as pirates, taken in the

fact, as by my commission they could not doubt I had au-
thority to do.
'E--NE or them answered in the name
Vol? the rest, that they had nothing to
1k say but this, that when they were
' 'Efifif. '5 taken, the captain promised them
,. - ("<1 << I ,3>> 'their lives, and they humbly im-
g, w M 3:>> plored my mercy: but I told them
- . I knew not what mercy to show them;
, for as for myself, I had resolved to
quit t e island with all my men, and had taken passage with
the captain to go for England; and as for the captain, he could
not carry them to England, other than as prisoners in irons, to
be tried for mutiny, and running away with the ship; the con-
sequence of which, they must needs know, would be the
gallows; so that I could not tell what was best for them, unless
they had a mind to take their fate in the island; if they desired
that, I did not care, as I had liberty to leave it. They seemed
very thankful for it, and said they would much rather venture
to stay there than to be carried to England to be hanged:
so I left it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of
it, as if he durst not leave them there: upon this, I seemed
a little angry with the captain, and told him they were my
prisoners, not his; and that seeing I had ofiered them so much
favor, I would be as good as my word; and that if he did not
think fit to consent to it, I would set them at liberty, as I
found them; and if he did not like it, he might take them
again if he could catch them. Upon this, they appeared very
thankful, and I accordingly set them at liberty, and bade them
retire into the woods, to the place whence they came, and I
would leave them some firearms, some ammunition, and
some directions how they should live very well, if they
thoughtfit. Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship,
and desired him to go on board in the meantime, and keep
all right in the ship; but told the captain I would stay that
night to prepare my things, and send the boat on shore next
day for me; ordering him, at all events, to cause the new
captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up to me
to my apartment, and entered seriously into discourse with
them on their circumstances. I told them I thought they had
made a right choice; that if the captain had carried them
away, they would certainly be hanged. I showed them the
new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and told
them they had nothing less to expect.

When they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then
told them I would let them into the story of my living there,
and put them into the way of making it easy to them: accord-
ingly, I gave them the whole history of the place, and of my
coming to it; showed them my fortifications, the way I made
.my bread, planted my corn, cured my grapes; and, in a word,
all that was necessary to make them easy. I told them the story
also of the sixteen Spaniards that were to be expected, for
whom I left a letter, and made them promise to treat them
in common with themselves.
I left them my firearms, viz., five muskets, three fowling-
pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel and a half of
powder left; for after the first year or two I used but little,
and wasted none. I gave them a description of the way I man-
aged the goats, and directions to milk and fatten them, and to
make both butter and cheese. In a word, I gave them every
part of my own story; and told them I should prevail with
the captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more,
and some garden-seeds, which I told them I would have been
very glad of. Also, I gave them the bag of peas which the cap-
tain had brought me to eat, and bade them to be sure to
sow and increase them.

I left them the next day, and went on board the ship. We
prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that night.
The next morning early, two of the five men came swimming
to the ship's side, and, making the most lamentable complaint
of the other three, begged to be taken into the ship for God's
sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the captain
to take them on board, though he hanged them immediately.
Upon this the captain pretended to have no power without
me; but after some difficulty, and after solemn promises of
amendment, they were taken on board, and were, some time
after, soundly whipped and pickled; after which they proved
very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on shore, the
tide being up, with the things promised to the men; to which
the captain, at my intercession, mused their chests and clothes
to be added, which they took, and were very thankful for;
I also encouraged them, by telling them that if it lay in my
power to send any vessel to take them in, I would do so. .-Farewell to my Island 309

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for
relics, the great goat-skin up I had made, my umbrella, and
my parrot; also, I forgot not to take the money I formerly
mentioned, which had lain by me so long useless, that it was
grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass for silver till
it had been a little rubbed and handled, as also the money I
found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.

And thus I left the island, the 1 9th of December, as I found
by the ship's account, in the year 1 686, after I had been upon
it eight-and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days;
being delivered from this second captivity the same day of
the month that I first made my escape in the long-boat from

among the Moors of Sallee.