MVxh

- \
K \ ~ I u \
v7.1 . n \ "a, \\q M
u , . .
. .. ,.. , 3 '1' ~ 5.. 'L'" .. . "m"
'1' ' j." 0. "WI
. W ' ""i!" ' "lb
-~ .

, 49 I

K'\ v ,
\

1W, . , ML ?' ml}
.- [{Efl513"i- ' r491 ' ' "
SS-' I ' a!!!" .' I,

.__.~__'

. \ "mi "it

-4.. ~'.'EUR.~"~ <<--

'PS-'-'-' "did-'1'." 'tutflk'm
m su'filstiasmirt
J '1 'Il'lu'

w..3_nfi'rlSS1TSSZn:1g;I

'2 ' "'~' ' ' WV
ygmy'I/{f/j/ \ ..-~
""6952: . " .

2/.

will.

. IV
5.4.THE

LIFE 'AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE:

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

ILLUSTRATED BY GILBERT. CRUIKSHANK.
AND BROWN.

LONDON:
BARTON AND co., nonnomt HILL.THE LIFE OF

DANIEL DE FOE.

THE original name of the author of Robinson Crusoe,
was Daniel Foe; which from caprice, or some other
motive, he lengthened with a prefix, calling himself
De Foe. He was a native of London, horn in the
year 1660, of humble parentage, his father, James
Foe, exercising the occupation of a butcher. Daniel
De Foe, in the commencement of his career, engaged
in trade: from the business of a hosier he passed to
that of a pantile maker, without any good fortune.
Either from want of prudence, or from dislike to his
occupations, the only reward of his schemes was em-

barrassment and distress.
In the speculations of the literary world he was
. more fortunate. In 1701, when KingWilliam, during
the violence of parties, was censured for his attachment

to, and employment of, foreigners, De Foe espoused
the cause of his monarch, and ridiculed his enemies "
in a satirical poem, called, " The true-born English-
man." This production was honoured with an enor-
mous sale: and he was encouraged to write another
satire, entitled, " Reformation of Manners," in which
he attacked the vices of some persons of eminent
rank. V

A pamphlet, called, " The shortest way with the
Dissenters," was so mistaken, or so misrepresented,
that it was declared, by the House of Commons, to be
of a libellous nature. De Foe, for his ofl'e'nce, was
subjected to fine, imprisonment, and even the pillory.
He did not give his enemies much reason to exult over
his despondence 3 for the subject which he took to
amuse his prison hours, was, "A Hymn to the Pillory."
During his confinement he also undertook the " Re-
view," a periodical work of considerable importance,
in the republic of learning, if, as had been imagined, it
suggested the idea of the Tattler and Spectator, which
have enriched our language with essays of incomparable
beauty.

De Foe was employed in promoting the union of
England and Scotland, of which event he also wrote the
history. Whatever glory he gained from interfering in
the bitter differences of politics, he gained little solid
satisfaction. A second imprisonment, which he suf-
fered, taught him the fate which he was to expect
from the animosity of political opponents. He began
to take a more quiet and useful path of literature in

1715, and published a religious work, called, "' The
Family Instructor." Of the multitude of his other
productions, specific notice is scarcely necessary. It is
sufficient to mention "The History of the Plague in
1665;" a novel entitled, "The History of Colonel
Jack ; " " A new Voyage round the World by a Com-
pany of Merchants ; " " The History of Roxana; "
" The Memoirs of a Cavalier; " " The History of Moll
Flanders ; " and a book entitled, " Religious Court-
ship," which has passed through numerous editions.
But De Foe's reputation, in the present day, rests
chiefly upon his " Robinson Crusoe," a work which
almost every one has read in his childhood, and the
pleasing impressions of which are scarcely obliterated
in old age. Its simple and perspicuOus style is ad-
mirably suited to the capacity of youth: it possesses
enough of the marvellous to seize and. delight the
imagination; and the sentiments which it inspires are
such as need not be'renounced or corrected in mature
age. Respecting this work there is a stery which it
_ is incumbent to relate, although it never has been
: fairly authenticated; It has been aflirmed,* that when
Captain Wobdes Rogers touched at the island of Juan
f' Fernandez, in the South Sea, he brought away Alex-
ander Selkirk, a Scotch seaman, who, having been
left ashore there, had lived upon the island in desolate
solitude, for the space of four years. When Selkirk
returned to England, it is said that he wrote a nar-
rative of his adventures, and put the papers into the

" Encyclopedia Britannica.V111 THE LIFE OF DANIEL DE FOE.

hands of De Foe, to digest for publication; but that
he ungenerously converted the materials into the cele-
brated History of Robinson Crusoe. Part of this story
may be true, and part false. That De Foe might have
had the inspection of Selkirk's journal, is very pos-
sible ; and by his powers of description, and skill in
composition, he might have expanded into an enter-
taining narrative, what, in its original form, was a dull
and awkward composition. But that he was guilty of
any fraud or injustice towards Selkirk, is a suspicion
which his character of general integrity should induce
us to reject. As there is no credible proof against him,
we are bound to give him an acquittal; both because
he is not able to vindicate himself, and one who has
so entertained the rising generation, has more than
an ordinary right not to be condemned upon doubtful
accusation.

Daniel De Foe died at Islington, in the year 1731.
His daughter was respectably settled in life, by marrying
Henry Baker, an eminent naturalist.

Wur-t'tvv I'aWO' rm."
I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of
a good family, though not of that country, my father
being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first at Hull.
He got a good estate by merchandise, and, leaving off
his trade, lived afterward at York; from whence he
had married my mother, whose relations were named
Robinson, a very ood family in that coun , and from
whom I was calleg Robinson Krutznaer ; ut, by the
usual corruption of words in England, we are now
called, nay, we call ourselves, and write our name,
Crusoe ; and so m companions alwa 8 called me.

I had two elder rothers; one of w om was lieuten-
ant,-colonel to an English regiment of foot in Flanders,
formerly commanded by the famous colonel Lockhart,
and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk against the
Spaniards. What became of my second brother I

i . never knew, an more than my father or mother did

 

know what was ecome of me.

Bein the third son of the family, and not bred to
any tra e, my head he to be filled very early with
rambling thoughts. ll y father, who was very ancient,
had given me a com tent share of learni , as far as
house education an a cormtry free-sch generally
goes, and designed me for the law; but I would be
satisfied with nothing but going to sea: and m incli-
nation to this led me so stronglv against the ' nay,
the commands of my father, and against all the en~
treaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in
that propension of nature, tending directly to the life
of misery which was to befall me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was my
design. He called me one morning into his chamber,
where he was confined by thegout, and expostulated

 

very warmly with me upon the subject. He asked
me what reasons, more than a wandering inclination,
I had for leaving my father's house, and my native
country ; yvhcre I might be well introduced, and had
a prospect of raising my fortune by application and
industry, with a life of ease and pleasure. He told me
it was men of desperate fortunes on one hand, or of
aspiring superior fortunes on the other, who went
abroad upon adventures to rise by enterprise, and. '.- amassauwrmu-mm--w--v--r' ----------------- _,, --A--------------~--...----_w_~___._.. _____ _

uoamsox causos. 3

make themselves famous in undertakings of a nature
out of the common road; that these things were all
too far above me, or too far below me ; that mine was
the middle state, or what might be called the upper
station of low life, which he had found, by long ex-
erience, was the best in the world, the most suited to
iuman happiness, not exposed to the miseries and
hardships, the labour and sufferings of the mechanic,
and not embarrassed with the ride, luxury, and envy of
the upper part of mankind. e told me, I might judge
of the hap iness of this state by this one thing, viz., that
this was t e state of life which all other people envied;
that kings have frequently lamented the miserable con-
sequences of being born to great things, and wished
they had been placed in the middle of the two extremes,
between the mean and the great; that the Wise man
gavehis testimony to this, as the just standard of true fe-
liciggwhenhe pra ed neither to have poverty nor riches.
e bade me o serve it, and I should always find,
that the calamities of life were shared among the up-
per and lower part of mankind; but that the middle
stations had the fewest disasters, and were not exposed
to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of
mankind ; nay, they were not subjected to so many dis-
tempers and uneasinesses, either of body or mind, as
those were, who, by vicious living, humry, and extra-
vagances, on one hand, or by hard labour, want of
necessaries, and mean or insuficient diet, on the
other hand, bring distem ers upon themselves by the
natural consequences of t eir way of living; that the
middle station of life was calculated for all kind of
virtues, and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and
plenty were the handmaids of .a middle fortune; that
temperance, moderation, quietness, health, society, all
agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were
the blessings attending the middle station of life; that4 ROBINSON cnvson.

this way men went silently and smoothly through the
world, and comfortably out of it; not embarrassed .
with the labours of the hands, or of the head; not '
sold to the life of slavery for daily bread, or harassed
with perplexed circumstances, which rob the soul of
peace, and the body of rest; not enraged with the
assion of envy, or the secret burning lust of ambition
or great things: but in easy circumstances, sliding
gent y through the world, and sensibly tasting the
sweets of living without the bitter; feehng that they
are happy, and learning by every day's experience to
know it more sensibly.

After this, he pressed me earnestly, and in the most
affectionate manner, not to precipitate myself into
miseries which nature, and the station of life I
was born in, seemed to have provided against; that
I was under no necessity of seeking my bread; that
he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter
me fairly into the station of life which he had just
been recommending to me; and that if I were not
very easy and happy in the world, it must be my mere
fate, or fault, that must hinder it; and that he should
have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his
duty in warning me against measures which he knew
would be to my hurt. In a word, that as he would do
very kind things for me, if I would stay and settle at
home as he directed; so he would not have so much
hand in my misfortunes, as to give me any encourage-
ment to go away : and to close all, he told me, I had
my elder brother for an example, to whom he had
used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from
going into the Low Country wars; but could not pre-
vail, his young desires prompting him to run into the
arm , where he was killed: and though he said he
WO (1 not cease to ray for me, yet he would venture
to say to me, that ' I did take this foolish step, God1~#VMVW\Anm-' . ---- '

ROBINSON crwson. 5

would not bless me; and I would have leisure here-
after to reflect u n having neglected his counsel,
when there might none to assist in my recovery.

I observed in this last part of discourse, which was
truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did not
know it to be so himself; I say, I observed the tears
run down his face very plentifull , especially when he
spoke of my brother who was ' ed: and that when
he spoke of my having leisure to repent and none to
assist me, he was so moved, that he broke off the dis-
course, and told me, his heart was so full, he could say
no more to me.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as in-
deed who could be otherwise? And I resolved not to
think of going abroad any more, but to settle at home
according to my father s desire. But, alas ! a few
days wore it all off; and in short, to prevent any of
my father's further importunities, in a few weeks I re-
so ved to run quite away from him. However, I did
not act so hastily neither, as the first heat of my resolu-
tion prompted; but I took my mother at a time when I
thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and told
her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing
the world, that I should never settle to anything with
resolution enough to go through with it ; and my father
had better give me 1118 consent, than force me to go

' without it: that I was now eighteen years old, which

was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an
attorney; that I was sure, if I did, I should never

serve out my time, but I should certainly run away
from my master before my time was out, and go to

sea: and if she would speak to my father to let me go
one voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did not
like it, I would go no more, and I would promise by
a double diligence, to recover the time I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion. She told
me, She knew it would be to no purpose to speak to
my father upon any such subject; that he knew too
"'9" What was my interest, to give his consent to any
thing so much for my hurt; and that she wondered
how I could think of any such thin , after the dis-
course I had with my; father, and suc kind and ten-
der expressions, as s e knew my father had used to
me; and that, in short, if I would ruin myself, there
was no help for me; but I might depend I should
never have their consent to it: that, for her part, she
would not have so much hand in my destruction; and
I should never have it to say, that my mother was
willing, when my father was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to my father,
yet I heard afterward that she reported all the dis-
course to him; and that my father, after showing a
great concern at it, said to her, with a sigh, ' That
the boy might be ha py, if he would stay at home;
but if he goes abroad: he will be the most miserable
wretch that ever was born: I can give no consent
to it.'

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the mean time I continued obstinately
deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and fre-
quently expostulating with my father, and mother about
their being so positively determined against what they
knew my inclination prompted me to. But being one
day at Hull, whither I went casually, and without any
purpose of making an elopement that time; but, I
say, being there, and one of my companions being
going by sea to London, in his father's ship, and

rompting me to go with them, with the common al-
urement of a seafaring man, that it should cost me
nothing for my passage, I consulted neither father nor
mother any more, nor so much as sent them word of
it: but leaving them to hear of it as they might, with-
out asking God's blessing, or my father's, without any

consideration of circumstances or conse uences, and

in an ill hour, God knows, on the first 0 Se tember,

1651, I went on board a ship bound for ondon.

Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,

began sooner, or continued longer, than mine. The

ship was no sooner got out of the Humber, but the wind
; began to blow, and the sea to rise, m a most fright-
! ful manner; and as I had never been at sea before, I
was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in
mind. I began now seriousl to reflect upon what
I had done, and how justly was overtaken by the
judgment of Heaven, for my wickedness in leaving
my father's house, and abandoning my duty. All the
good counsel of my parents, my father's tears and my
mother's entreaties, came new fresh into my mind;
and my conscience, which was not yet come to the
pitch of hardness to which it has been since, reproached
me with the contempt of advice, and the breach of my
duty to God and'my father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea went
very high, though nothing like what I have seen many
times since; no, nor what I saw a few days after.
But it was enough to affect me then, who was but a
young sailor, and had never known anything of the
: matter. I expected every wave would have swallowed
is: us up, and that every time the ship fell down, as I
5i: thought it did, in the trough or hollow of the sea, we
'e should never rise more. In this agony of mind, I
'=. ' made many vows and resolutions, that if it pleased
God to spare my life in this one vo age, if ever I got
once my foot upon dry land again, I, would go directly
home to my father, and never set it into a ship again
while I lived ; that I would take his advice, and never
mm myself into such miseries as these any more.
Now I saw plainly the goodness of his observations
about the middle station of life, how easy, how come
fortable, he had lived all his days, and never been ex-
posed to tempests at sea or troubles on shore: and, in
short, I resolved that I would, like a true repenting
prodigal, go home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the
while the storm continued, and indeed some time
after; but the next day the wind was abated, and the
sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured to it.
HoweverI was very grave all that day, being also a
little sea-sick still: but towards night the weather
cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming
fine evening followed: the sun went down perfectly
clear, and rose so the next morning; and having lit-
tle or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining
upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most delight-
ful that ever I saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more
sea-sick, but very cheerful: looking with wonder
upon the sea, that was so rough and terrible the day
before, and could be so calm and so pleasant in so lit-
tle a time after. And now, lest my resolution should
continue, my companion, who indeed had enticed me
away, comes to me: ' Well,. Bob,' says he, clapping
me upon the shoulder, ' how do you do after it 2 I
warrant you were frighted, wa'n't you, last nicht, when
it blew but a capfull of wind 2 ' ' A capfull 'you call
it?' said I, ' 'twas a terrible storm.' ' A storm, you
fool you!' replies he: ' do you call that a storm 1?
Why it was nothing at all: give us but a good shi
and sea-room, and we think nothing of such a squa l
of wind as that : but, you're but a fresh-water
sailor, Bob. Come, let us make a bewl of punch, and
we'll forget all that. D'you see what charming
weather 'tis now 12 ' To make short this sad part of my
story, we went the way of all sailors : the punch was
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

made, and I was made half drunk with it, and in that
one night's wickedness I drowned all my re-
pentance, all my reflections upon my past conduct,
and all my resolutions for the future. In a word,
as the sea was returned to its smoothness of
surface, and settled calmness, by the abatement of that
storm, so the hurry of my thoughts being over, my
fears and apprehensions of being swallowed up by the
sea being forgotten, and the current of former desires
returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that
I made in my distress. I found indeed some intervals
of reflection, and the serious thoughts did, as it were,
endeavour to return again sometimes; but I shook
; them off, and roused myself from them, as it were from
._ a distemper; and applying myself to drinking and
f company, soon mastered the return of those fits (for
' so I called them); and I had, in five or six days, got
' as complete a victory over conscience, as any young
; fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it could de-
sire. But I was to have another trial for it still; and
, Providence, as in such cases generally it does, re-
solved to leave me entirely without excuse: for if I
5_ Would not take this for a deliverance, the next was
'; to be such a one, as the worst and most hardened
'f retch among us would confess both the danger and
.133 he mercy.

it The sixth day of our being at sea, we came into

egYarmouth Roads: the wind having been contrary,

{if nd the weather calm, we had made but little way

~ mce the storm. Here we were obliged to come to

, an anchor: and here we lay, the wind continuing con-

e rary, viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days:

during which time a great many ships from Newcastle

5 came into the same roads, as the common harbour

. where the ships might wait for a wind for the river.

We had not, however, rid here so long, but we .
should have tided it up the river, but that the wind
blew too fresh; and, after we had lain four or five
days, blew very hard. However, the roads being

reckoned as good as a harbour, the anchorage good,
and our ground tackle very strong, our men were un-
concerned, and not in the least apprehensive of dan-
ger, but s nt the time in rest and mirth, after the
manner 0 the sea; but the eighth day in the morning
the wind increased, and we had all hands at work to
strike our top-masts, and make everything snug .and
close, that the ship might ride as easy as possrble.
By noon, the sea went very high indeed, and our ship
rode forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought
once or twice our anchor had come home; upon which
our master ordered out the sheet-anchor, so that we
rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered
out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and
now I be an to see terror and amazement in the faces
even of t e seamen themselves. The master, though
vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, yet, as
he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear
him, softly to himself, say several times, 'Lord, be
merciful to us! We shall be all lost: we shall be all
undone!' and the like. During these first hurries I
was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was in the
steerage, and cannot describe my temper. I could ill
resume my first penitence, which I had so apparently
trampled upon, and hardened myself against.
thought the bitterness of death had been past; and
that this would be nothing too, like the first. But
when the master himself came by me, as I said just
now, and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully
frighted. I got up out of my cabin, and looked out;
but such a dismal sight I never saw; the sea went
mormtains high, and broke upon us every three ori

 

ROBINSON onuson. 31

four minutes. When I could look about, I could
see nothing but distress around us. Two shi )s that
rid near us, we found had cut their masts y the
board, being deep loaden; and our men cried out, that
a ship which l'ld about a mile ahead of us was
foundered. Two more ships, being driven from their
anchors, were run out of the roads to sea, at alladven-
tures, and that not with a mast standing. The light
ships fared the best, as not so much labouring in the
sea; but two or three of them drove, and came close
by us, running away, with only their sprit--sail out, be-
fore the wind.

Towards the evening, the mate and boatswain beg-
ged the master of our ship to let them cut away the
tore-mast, which he was very unwillin to do; but the
boatswain protesting to him, that if e did not, the
shi would founder, he consented: and when they
had) cut away the fore-mast, the main~mast stood so
loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged
to cut that away also, and make a clear deck.

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in
at all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had
been in such a fright before at but a little. But, if I
can express at this distance the thoughts I had about
me at that time, I was in ten-fold more horror of
mind upon account of my former convictions, and the
having returned from them to the resolutions I had
wickedly taken at first, than I was at death itself;
and these, added to the terror of the storm, ut me
into such a condition that I can by no words escribe
it. But the worst was not come yet: the storm con-
tinued with such fury, that the seamen themselves
acknowledged the had never seen a worse. We had
a good ship, but s e was deep loaden, and so swallowed
in the sea, that the seamen erery now and then cried
out she wouldifounder. It was my advantage in one
respect, that I did not know what they meant by
founder, till I inquired. However, the storm was
so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the mas-
ter, the boatswain, and some others more sensible
than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every
moment that the ship would go to the bottom. In
the middle of the night, and under all the rest of
our distresses, one of the men that had been down
on purpose to see, cried out we had sprung a leak;
another said, there were four feet water in the hold.
Then all hands were called to the pump. At that very
word my heart, as I thought, died Within me; and I
fell backwards upon the side of the bed where I sat,
into the cabin. However the men roused me, and told
me, that I that was able to do nothing before, was as
well able to pump as another; at which I stirred up,
and went to the pump, and worked very heartily.
While this was doing, the master, who seeing some
light colliers, which not able to ride out the storm,
were obliged to slip and run away to sea, and would
come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal of dis-
tress. I, who knew nothing what that meant, was so
surprised, that I thought the ship had broken, or some
dreadful thing happened. In a word, I' was so sur-
prised that I fell down in a swoon. As this was a
time when every body had his own life to think of, no-
body minded me, or what was become of me: but an-
other man stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me
aside with his foot, let me lie, thinking I had been
dead; and it was a great while before I came to
myself.

We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold,
it was apparent that the ship would founder: and
though the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was
not possible she could swim till we might run into any
port, so the master continued firing guns for help; _
and a li ht ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us
venture a boat out to help us. It was with the ut-
most hazard the boat came near us; but it was im-
possible for us to get on board, or for the boat to lie
near the ship-side, till at last the men rowing very
heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our
men cast them a rope over the stem with a buoy to it,
and then veered it out a great length, which they,
after much labour and hazard, took hold of; and we
hauled them close under our stern, and got into their
boat. It was to no purpose for them or us, after we
were in the boat, to think of reaching to their own
ship: so all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull
her in towards shore as much as we could; and our
master promised them, that if the boat was stavcd upon
shore, he would make it good to their master. So
partly rowing, and artly driving, our boat went away
to the northward, s oping toward the shore almost as
far as Wintertonness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour
out of our ship, but we saw her sink: and then I
understood, for the first time, what was meant by a
ship foundering in the sea. I must aclmowledge I had
hardly eyes to look up, when the seamen told me she

was 'smkmg; for, from that moment, they rather put
me mto the boat, than that I might be said to go m;

my heart was, as it were, dead Within me, partly with
fright, partly with horror of mind, and the thoughts
of what was before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet
labouring at the oar to bring the boat near the shore,
we could see (when our boat mounted the waves, we
were able to see the shore) a great many peo le runnino
along the strand to assist us when we sliould com:
near. But we made but slow way towards the shore;
nor were we able to reach the shore, till, being past
the light-house at Winterton, the shore falls off to the
westward towards Cromer; and so the land broke off
a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in;
and, though not without much. difficulty, got all safe
on shore; and walked afterward on foot to Yarmouth,
where, as unfortunate men, we were used with great
humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who
assigned us good quarters, as by particular merchants
and owners of ships; and had money given us sufficient
to carry us either to London, or back to Hull, as we
thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull,
and have gone home, I had been happy, and my
father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable,
had even killed the fatted calf for me; for, hearing
the ship I went away in was cast away in Yarmouth
Roads, it was a great while before he had any assurances
that I was not drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy
that nothing could resist; and though I had several
times loud calls from my reason, and my more com-
posed judgment, to go home, yet I had no power to do
it. I know not what to call this; nor will I urge,
that it is a secret overruling decree, that hurries us on
to be the instruments of our own destruction, even
though it be before us, and that we rush upon it with
our eyes open. Certainly, nothing but some such
decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which it
was impossible for me to escape, could have pushed me
forward against the calm reasoning and persuasions of
my most retired thoughts, and against two such visible
instructions as I had met with in my first attem t.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me Before,
and who was the master's son, was now less forward
than I. The first time he spoke to me after we Were
at Yarmouth, which was not .till two or three days, for
we were separated in the town to several quarters; I
say, the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone was
altered; and, looking ve melancholy, and shaking
his head, asked me how did: and telling his father
who I was, and how I had come this voyage only for
a trial, in order to go farther abroad ; his father turning
to me with a very grave and concerned tone, ' Young
man,' says he, 'you ought never to go to sea any
more; you ought to take this for a plain and visible
token, that you are not to be aseafaring man.' ' Why,
sir,' said I, ' will you go to sea no more?' 'That is
another case,' said be; 'it is my calling, and therefore
my duty; but, as you made this voyage for a. trial,
you see what a taste Heaven has given you of what

'01: are to expect if you persist: perhaps all this has
liefallen us on your account, like Jonah in the ship of
Tarshish. Pray,' continued he, ' what are on? and
on what account did you go to sea?' Upon t at I told
him some of my story; at the end of which he burst
out with a strange kind of passion, ' What had I done,'
says he, ' that such an unhappy wretch should come
into my ship? I would not set my foot in the same
ship with thee again for a thousand pounds!' This
indeed was, as I said, an excursion of his spirits, which
were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was
farther than he could have authority to go. However,
he afterwards talked very gravely to me, exhorting me
to go back to my father, and not tempt Providence to
my ruin; told me I might see the visible hand of
Heaven against me ;---'Xnd, young man,' said he,
'depend upon it, if you do not. back, wherever you
go, you will meet with nothing ut disasters and dis-
appointments, till your father's words are fulfilled upon

0

n.
We parted soon after; for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more: which way he went, I know
not. As for me, having some money in my pocket, I
travelled to London by land; and there, as well as on
the road, had many struggles with myself, what course
of life I should take, and whether I should go home,
or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions
that offered to my thoughts; and it immediately oc-
1urred to me how I should he laughed at among the
neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, but even every body else.
From whence I have since often observed how incon-
gruous and irrational the common temper of mankind
is, especially of youth, to that reason that ought to
guide them in such cases; viz. that they are not
ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not
ashamed of the actions for which they ought justly to
ac esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the returning,
which only can make them esteemed wise men.

In this state of life, however, I remained some time,
.:ncertain what measures to take, and what course of
er to lead. An irresistible reluctance continued to
going home; and, as I stayed awhile, the remembrance
of the distress I had been in wore off : and as that
abated, the little motion I had in my desires wore off
with it, till at last I quite laid aside the thoughts of it,
and looked out for a v0 ave.

That evil influence w icrh carried me first away from
my father's house, which hurried me into the wild and
indigested notion of raising my fortune, and that im-
pressed those conceits so forcibly upon me, as to make
me deaf to all good advice, and to the entreaties and
even the commands of my father; I say, the same
influence, whatever it was, presented the most unfor-
timate of all enterprises to my view; and I went on
board a vessel bound to the coast of Africa, or, as our
sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to Guinea.
It was my reat misfortune, that in all these ad-
ventures, I di not ship myself as a sailor; wherebv.
though I might indeed have worked a little harder
than ordinary, yet at the same time I had learned the
duty and office of a fore-mast man, and in time might
have qualified myself for mate or lieutenant, if not for
a master. But as it was always my fate to choose for
the worse, so I did here; for, having money in my
pocket, and good clothes to my back, I would always
go on board in the habit of a gentleman; and so I
neither had any business in the ship, nor learned to do
any.

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good
company in London, which does not always happen to
such loose and unguided young fellows as I then was;
the devil not omitting to lay some snare for them very
early: but it was not so with me. I first fell ac-

uamted with the master of the ship, who had been on
t e coast of Guinea, and who, having had very good
success there, was resolved to go again. This captam,
taking a fancy to my conversation, which was not
disagreeable at that time, hearing me say I had a mind
to see the world, told me, if I would the voy oe
with him, I should be at no expense; should be his
messmate, and his companion ; and if I could carry
any thing with me, I should have all the advantage of
it that the trade would admit; and perhaps I might
meet with some encouragement.

I embraced the offer, and, entering into a strict
friendship with this captain, who was an honest plain-
dealing man, went the voyage with him; and carried
a small adventure with me, which, by the disinterested
honesty of my friend the captain, I increased very
considerably; for I carried about 401. in such trifles as
the captain directed me to buy. This 401. I had

mustered together by the assistance of some of my
relations whom I corresponded with, and who, I be-
lieve, got my father, or at least my mother, to con-
tribute so much as that to my first adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say was suc- .
cessful in all my adventures, and which I owe to the
integrity and honesty of my friend the captain : under
whom I also got a competent knowledge of the ma-
thematics, and the rules of navigation; learned how
to keep an account of the ship's course, take an ob-
servation, and, in short, to understand some things
that were needful to be understood by a sailor: for
as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to
learn; and, in a word, this voy e made me both a
sailor and a merchant: for I broug 1: home five pounds
nine ounces of gold-dust for my adventure, which
yielded me in London, at my return, almost 300l.;
and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which
have since so completed my ruin.

Yet, even in this voyage, I had my misfortunes
too; particularly that I was continually sick, being
thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive heat
of the climate, our principal trading being upon the

coast, from the latitude of 15 degrees N. even to the
line itself.

I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great misfortune, dying soon after his
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again: and
I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his
mate in the former voyage, and had now got the com-

mand of the ship. This was the unhappiest voyage
that ever man made; for though I did not carry uite
1001. of my new-gained wealth, so that I had 00!.
left, and which I lodged with my friend's widow, who
was very just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes
in this voyage; and the first was this; viz. our ship,

making her course towards the Canary Islands, or
rather between those islands and the African shore,
was s rised in the gray of the morning by a Moorish
rover o Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail
she could make. We crowded also as much canvas as
our yards would spread, or our masts carry, to have
got clear; but finding the pirate gained upon us, and
would certainly come up with us in a few hours, we
prepared to fight; our ship having twelve guns, and
the Rogue eighteen. About three in the afternoon he
came up with us, and bringing to, by mistake, just
athwart our quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as
he intended, we brought eioht of our guns to bear on
that side, and poured in a broadside upon him, which
made him sheer off again, after returning our fire, and
pourin in also his small shot from near two hundred
men w ich he had on board. However, we had not a
man touched, all our men keeping close. He prepared
to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves; but,
laying us on board the next time upon the other quar-
ter, he entered ninety men upon our decks, who im-
mediately fell to cutting and hacking the decks and
rigging. We plied them with small shot, half-pikes,
powder-chests, and such like, and cleared our decks of
them twice. However, to cut short this melancholy
part of our story, our shi being disabled, and three
of our men killed, and eig t wounded, we were obli ed
to yield; and were carried all prisoners into S ee,

a port belongin to the Moors.
The usage I ad there was not so dreadful as at

first 1 apprehended; nor was I carried up the country,
to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men were,
but was kept by the captain of the rover as his proper
prize, and made his slave, being young and nimble,
and fit for his business. At this surprising change of
my circumstances, from a merchant to a miserable

slave, I was perfectly overwhelmed; and now I looked20 Romxsox causoa'.

back upon my father's prophetic discourse to me, that
I should be miserable, and have none to relieve me,
which I thought was now so effectually brought to
ass, that I could not be worse; that now the hand of
'Ieaven had overtaken me, and I was undone without
redemption. But, alas! this was but a taste of the
misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel
of this story.

As my new patron or master had taken me home to
his house, so I was in hopes that he would take me
with him when he went to sea avain, believing that it
would be some time or other his ztzate to be taken by a
Spanish or Portuguese man of war ; and that then I
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was
soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he left
me on shore to look after his little garden, and do the
common drudgery of slaves about his house ; and
when he came home again from his cruise, he ordered
me to lie in the cabin, to look after the ship.

We were frequently out with this boat a fishing;
and as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he
never went without me. It happened one day, after
I had been with him about two years, that he had ap-
pointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or
for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction,
and for whom he had provided extraordinarily, and
had therefore sent on board the boat over night a
larger store of provisions than usual; and had ordered
me to get ready three fusils with powder and shot,
which were on board his ship; for that they designed
some sport of fowling as well as fishing.

I got all things ready, as he had directed ; and
waited the next morning with the boat washed clean,
her ancient and pendants out, and every thing to ac-
commodate his guests; when, by and by, my patron
came on board alone, and told me his guests had putA

ROBINSON causon. 21

off going, upon some business that fell out, and or-
dered me With the man and boy, as usual, to go out
with the boat, and catch them some fish, for that his
friends were to sup at his house. He, commanded me
too, that as soon as I had got some fish, I should
bring it. All which I repared to do.

This moment my ormer notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was like
to have a little ship at my command; and my master
being gone, I prepared to furnish m self, not for fish-
ing, but for a voyage: though I ew not, neither
did I so much as consider, whither 1 would steer; for
anywhere to get out of that place was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to
speak to this Moor, to get something for our subsist-
ence on board; for I told him we must not presume
to eat of our patron's bread. He said, that was true;
so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit, of their
kind, and three jars with fresh water, into the boat.

I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood, which
it was evident by the make, were taken out of some
English prize, and I conveyed them into the boat,
while the Moor was on shore, as if they had been
there before for our master. I conveyed also a great
lump of bees-wax into the boat, which wei had about
half a hundred weight, with a parcel o twine or
thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer, all of which
were of great use to us afterwards: especially the wax
to make candles. Another trick I tried upon him,
which he innocently came into also. His name was
Ishmael, whom they called Muley, or Moley; so I
called to him: ' Moley,' said I, our patron's guns are
all on board the boat: can you not get a little powder
and shot? it may be we may kill some alcomies (a
fowl like our curlews) for ourselves; for I know he
keeps the gunner's stores in the ship.' ' Yes,' says he,
' I'll bring some.' Accordingly he brought a great
leather pouch, which held about a pound and a half of
powder or rather more; and another with shot, that
had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and ut all
into the boat. At the same time I had foun some
powder of my master's in the great cabin, with which

filled one of the large bottles in the case, which was
almost empty, pouring what was in it into another;
and thus furnished with every thing needful, we sailed
out of the ort to fish. The castle, which is at the
entrance 0 the port, knew who we were, and took no
notice of us; and we were not above a mile out of the
port, before we hauled in our sail, and sat us down
to fish. The wind blew from the N. N. E. which was
contrary to my desire; for had it blown southerly, I
had been sure to have made the coast of Spain, and
at least reached to the bay of Cadiz ; but my resolu-
tions were, blow which way it would, I would be gone
from that horrid place where I was, and leave the rest
to fate.

After we had fished some time, and eatched nothing
(for when I had fish on my hook, I would not pull
them up, that he might not see them,) I said to the
Moor, ' This will not do : our master will not be thus
served. We must stand farther off.' He, thinking
no harm, agreed; and being in the head of the boat,
set the sails, and, as I had the helm, I run the boat
out near a league farther, and then brought her to,
as if I would fish; when giving the boy the helm, I
step ed forward to where the Moor was, and making
as 1 I stooped for something behind him, I took him
by surprise with my arm under his twist, and tossed
him clear overboard into the sea. He rose imme-
diately, for he swam like a cork, and called to me,
begged to be taken in, told me he would go all over
the world with me. He swam so strong after the
boat, that he. would have reached me very quickly,
there bein but little wind; upon which I stepped
into the ea in, and fetching one of the fowling pieces,
I presented it at him, and told him I had done him
no hurt, and if he would be quiet, I would do him
none: But,' said I, 'you swim well enough to reach
the shore, and the sea is calm ; make the best of your
way to shore, and I will do you no harm ; but if you

 

come hear the boat, I'll shoot you through the head.
fOr I am resolved to have my.liberty.' So he turned
himself about, and Si "am for the shore, and I make
no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was an
excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was no
venturing to trust him. When he was gone, I turned
to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him,
' Xury, if you will be faithful to me, I'll make you a
great man ; but if you will not stroke your face to be
true to me,' that .is, swear by Mahomet, and his fa--
ther's beard, ' I must throw you into the sea too.' The
boy smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that
I could not mistrust him ; and swore to be faithful to
me, and go all over the world with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swim-
ming, I stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather
stretching to windward, that they might think me
gone towards the Strait's mouth (as indeed any one
that had been in their wits must have been supposed
to do); for who would have supposed we were sailed
on to the southward, to the truly Barbarian coast,
where whole nations of Negroes were sure to surround
us with their canoes, and destroy us; where we could
never once go on shore, but we should be devoured by
savage beasts, or more merciless savages of human
kind 2

But, as soon as it grew dusk in the evenin , I
changed my course, and steered directly south am? by
east, bending my course a little towards the east, that
I might keep in with the shore; and having a fair fresh
gale of wind, and a smooth quiet sea, I made such
sail, that I believe, by the next day at three o'clock
in the afternoon, when I first made the land, I could
not be less than 150 miles south of Sallee, quite beyond
the emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of
any other king thereabouts, for we saw no such _
people.
Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or
come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I had
sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind
shifting to the southward, I concluded also, that if any
of our vessels were in chase after me, they also would,
now give over; so I ventured to make to the coast.
and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river,
I knew not what or where, neither what latitude, what
country, what nation, or what river. I neither saw
nor desired to see any peOple ; the principle thing I
wanted was fresh water. We came into this creek in
the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it
was dark, and discover the country but as soon as it
was quite dark, we heard such dreadful noises of the

'barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of
we knew not what kinds, and the poor boy was ready
to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore
till day. ' W'ell, Xury,' said I, ' then I won't; but it
may be we may see men by day, who will be as had
to us as those lions.' 'Then we may give them the
shoot gun,' says Xury, laughing, 'make them run
way.' Such English Xury spoke, by conversing
among us slaves. However, I was glad to see the boy
so cheerful, and I gave him a dram (out of our pa-
tron's case of bottles) to cheer him up. After all,
Xury's advice was ood, and I took it: we dropped
our little anchor, an lay still all night; I say still, for
we slept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast
great creatures, we knew not what to call them, of
many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and run into
the water, wallowing and washing themselves for the
pleasure of cooling themselves; and they made such

1iideous howlings and yellings, that I never heard the
e.
1;
Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was 1
too; but we were both 1101se fiighted 11 hen we heard
one of the mighty creatures come swimming towards
our boat: we could not see him, but we might hear
him by his blowing to be a monstrous huge and fu-
1ious beast. Xury said it was a lion, and that it might
be for aught I know. Poor Xtu'y cried out to me bto
weigh the anchor, and row away.' No,' says I,
' Xury, we can slip our cable 111th a buoy to it, and
go to sea; they cannot follow us far.' I had no sooner
said so, but I perceived the creature (whatever it was)
within two oars' length, which something surprised
me: however I immediately stepped to the cabin door,
and taking 11p mv gun, fired at him, upon 11 hich he
immediately turned about, and 511 am towards the
shore again.

But it was not possible to describe the horrible
noises and hideous cries and how hugs that were
raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as higher
within the count11' upon the noise or report of a gun, 1
a thing, Ihare some reason to believe, these crea-
tures had ne1 er heard before. This convinced me
that there 11 as no going on shore for 11s in the night
upon that coast, and how to venture on show in the
11111511115 another question too; for, to have fallen into

me hands of anv of the savages, had been as bad as to
lime fallen into the pans of lions . 11d tigers , at least
11 e 11' em equally apprehensive of the dangei of it.

Be that as it 11ould11'e 11 ere obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other for 11",ate1 fort we had not a pint
in the boat: 1111111 or where to get it, was the point.
2.111". said, it I 11 ould let him go on sl1c1' 1'0 111th one of

the 1.11 s, he 111111111 find if there 11 as auv 11 ater, and
b1 ing some to me. oI asked him 11111 he would go,
11hyI should not 1111 he sta1- in the boat. The

boy answered withg so much affection that made 113.6nomxsox cavson. '27

love nim ever after. Says he, ' If wild mans come,
they eat me; you go way.' ' Well, Xury,' said I, 'we
will both go; and if the wild mans come, we will kill
them : they shall eat neither of us.' So I gave Xury
a piece of mask-bread to eat, and a dram out of our
patron's case of bottles, which I mentioned before, and
we hauled the boat in as near the shore as we thought
was proper, and waded on shore, carrying nothing hut
our arms, and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river:
but the boy seeing a low lace, about a mile up the
country, rambled to it, and y and by I saw him come
running towards me. .I thought he was pursued by
some savage, or frighted with some wild beast, and I
ran forward towards him to help him; but when I
came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over his
shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot, like
a hare, but different in colour, and longer legs. How-
ever, we were very glad of it, and it was very good
meat; but the great jo r that poor Xury came with,
was to tell me he had fhund good water, and seen no
wild mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such
pains for water, for a little higher up the creek where
we were, we found the water fresh when the tide was
out, which flows but a little way up: so we filled our
jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed, and pre-
pared to go on our way, having seen no footsteps of
any human creature in that part of the country.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far off from the
mast. But as I had no instruments to take an obser-
vation to know what latitude we were in, and did not

exactly know, or at least not remember what latitude

132
they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or
when to stand off to sea towards them, otherwise I
might now easily have found some of these islands.
But my hope was, that if I stood along this coast till
I came to that part where the English traded, I
should find some of their vessels upon their usual de-
sign of trade, that would relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where I
now was must be that country which, lying between
the emperor of Morocco's dominions and the Negroes,
lies waste and uninhabited, except by wild beasts, the
Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther south,
for fear of the Moors; and the Moors not thinking it
worth inhabiting, by reason of its barrenness, and in-
deed both forsaking it because of the prodigiousmum-
bers of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious crea-
tures which harbour there, so that the Moors use it
for their hunting only, where they go like an army,
two or three thousand men at a time; and indeed for
near a hundred miles together upon this coast, we saw
nothing but a waste uninhabited country by day, and
heard nothing but howlings and roarings of wild beasts
by night.

Once or twice in the day-time, I thought I saw the
Pico of Teneritfe, being the hi h top of the mountain
Teneriffe in the Canaries, an had a great mind to
venture out in hopes of reaching thither; but, having
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds,
the sea also going too high for my little vessel; so I
resolved to pursue my first design, and keep along the
shore.

Several times we were obliged to land for fresh
water, after we had left this place; and once in par-
ticular, being early in the mourning, we came to an an-
chor under a little point of water, which was pretty
high, and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go
farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him
than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells
me that we had best go farther off the shore, ' For,'
says he, 'look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the
side of that hillock, fast asleep.' I looked where he
pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed; for it
was a terrible great lion, that lay on the side of the
shore, under the shade of a piece of the hill, that hung
as it were a little over him. ' Xury,' said I, 'you
shall go on shore, and kill him.' Xury looked
frighte , and 'said, 'Me kill! He eat me at one
mouth!' one mouthful he meant. However, I said
no more to the boy, but bade him be still, and took
our biggest gun, which was almost musket-bore, and
loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with two
slugs, and laid it down; then I loaded another gun
with two bullets, and the third (for we had three
)ieces) I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took the
est aim I could with the first piece, to have shot him
into the head; but he lay so with his leg raised a lit-
tle above his nose, that the slug hit his leg about the
knee, and broke the bone. He started up growling
at first, but finding his leg broke, fell down again, and
then got upon three legs, and gave the most hideous
roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I
had not hit him on the head: however, I took up the
second piece immediately; and, though he began to
move ofl', fired again, and shot him in the head, and
had the pleasure to see him drop, and making but lit-
tle noise, he lay struggling for life. Then Xury took
heart, and would let me have him go on shore.
'Well, go,' said I. So the boy jumped into the water,
and taking a little gun in one hand, swam to shore
with the other hand, and coming close to the creature,
put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and shot him
in the head again, which dispatched him quite.

D330 ROBINSON 01113503.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food;
and I was very sorry to lose three charges of powder
and shot, upon a creature that was good for nothing
to us. However, Xury said he would have some of
him: so he comes on board, and asked me to give
him the hatchet. 'For what, Xury 2' said I. ' Me
cut off his head,' said be. However, Xury could not
cut off his head; but he cut off a foot, and brought it
with him, and it was a monstrous great one.

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin
of him miOht one way or other he of some value to us ;
and I reso ved to take off the skin if I could. So Xu
and I went to work with him, but Xury was muc
the better workman at it, for I knew very ill how to
do it. Indeed it took us up the whole day: but at
last we got off the hide of him, and, spreading it on
the t0p of our cabin, the sun effectually dried it in two
days' time, and it afterward served me to lie upon.

After this stop, we made on to the southward con-
tinually, for ten or twelve days, living very sparingly
on our provisions, which began to abate very much,
and going no oftener into the shore than we were
obliged to for fresh water. My design in this was to
make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to say, any
where about the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes
to meet with some European ship, and if I did not,
I knew not what course I had to take, but to seek for
the islands, or perish there among the Negroes. I
knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed
either to the coast of Guinea, or to Brazil, or to the
East Indies, made this cape or those islands, and, in a
word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this single
point}; either that I must meet with some ship or must

ems .

P When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land
was inhabited: and in two or three places, as we
sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore to look.
at us; we could also perceive they were quite black,
and stark naked. 1 was once inclined to have gone
on shore to them, but Xury was my better counsellor,
and said to me, ' No go, no go.' However, I hauled
in nearer the shore, that I might talk to them, and I
found they ran along the shore by me a good way. I
observed they had no weapons in their hands, except
one, who had a long slender stick, which Xury said
was a lance, and that they would throw them a great
way with good aim : so I kept at a distance, but talked
with them by signs as well as I could, and particularly
made signs for something to eat. They beckoned to
me to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some
meat.'

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing
to make them amends ; but an opportunity offered that
instant to oblige them wonderfully; for while we
were lying by the shore, came two mighty creatures,
one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury,
from the mountains towards the sea: at last one of
them be an to come nearer our boat than at first I
expeete ; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded
my gun with all possible expedition, and bade Xury
load both the others. As soon ashe came fairly within
my reach, I fired, and shot him directly into the head.
Immediately he sunk down into the water, but he
rose instantly, and plunged up and down as if he was
struggling for life; and so indeed he was. He im-
mediately made to the shore; but, between the wound,
which was his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the
water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these
poor creatures at the noise and fire of my gun; some
of them were ready even to die for fear, and fell down
as dead with the very terror. But when they saw the
creature dead, and sunk in the water, and that I made
signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart
and came to the shore, and began to search for the
creature. I found him by his blood staining the water,
and by the help of a rope, which I flung round him,
and gave the negroes to haul, they dragged him on
shore, and found that it was a most curious leopard,
spotted and fine to an admirable degree; and the ne-
groes held up their hands with admiration, to think
what it was I killed him with.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire,
and the noise of the gun, swam to the shore, and ran
up directly to the mountains from whence they came;
nor could I, at that distance, know what it was. I
found quickly the Negroes were for eating the flesh of
this creature, so I was willing to have them take it as
a favour from me, which, when I made signs to them
that they might take him, they were very thankful for.
Immediately they fell to work with him; and though
they had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece of
wood, they took 011' his skin as readily--nay, much
more readily--than we would have done with a knife.
They offered me some of the flesh, which I declined,
making as ifI would give it them; but made signs for
the skin, which they gave me very freely, and brought
me a great deal more of their provision, which though
I did not understand, yet I accepted. Then I made
signs to them for some water, and held out one of my
jars to them, turning its bottom upward, to show that
it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to some of their friends, and there
came two women, and brought a great vessel, made of
earth, and burnt, as I suppose, in the sun : this they
set down for me. as before. and I sent Xury on shore
with my jars, and filled them all three. The women
were as stark naked as the men.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it
was, and water; and, leaving my friendly Negroes, I
made forward for about eleven days more, without of-
fering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run out
a great length into the sea, at about the distance of
four or five leagues before me, and, the sea being very
calm, I kept a large ofiing to make this point: at
length, doubling the point at about two leagues from
the land, I saw plainly land on the other side, to sea-
ward; then I concluded--as it was most certain, in-
deed--that this was the Cape de Verd, and those the
islands, called from thence Ca e de Verd Islands.
However, they were at a great distance, and I could
not well tell what I had best to do; for if I should be
talien with a fresh wind, I might neither reach one nor
ot er.

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped
into the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the
helm, when, on a sudden, the boy cried out, " Master,
master, a ship was a sail!" and the foolish boy was
frighted out of his wits, thinking it must needs be some
of his master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew
we were gotten far enough out of their reach. 'I
jumped out of the cabin, and immediately saw, not
only the ship, but what she was; viz., that it was a
Portuguese ship, and, as I thought, was bound to the
Coast of Guinea for Ne roes. But, when I observed
the course she steered, was soon convinced they were
bound some other way, and did not design to go any
nearer to the shore, upon which I stretched out to sea
as much as I could, resolving to speak with them, if
possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should
not be able to come in their way, but that they would
be gone by before I could make any signal to them;
but after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to
despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their

erspective glasses, and that it was some European
boat, which they supposed must belong to some ship
that was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come
up. I was encouraged with this, and as I had my pa-
tron's ancient on board, I made a waft of it to them
for a signal of distress, and fired a gun, both which
they saw ; for they told me they saw the smoke, though
they did not hear the gun. Upon these signals, they
very kindly brought to, and lay by for me; and in
about three hours' time I came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French: but I understood none of
them; but at last a Scots sailor, who was on board,
called to me, and I answered him, and I told him I was
an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of
slavery from the Moors, at Sallee. Then they bade
me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and
all my goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me, that any one will
believe, that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it,
from such a miserable and almost hopeless condition
as l was in. I immediately offered all I had to the
captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance;
but he generously told me he would take nothing from
me, but that all I had should be delivered safe to me
when I came to the Brazils. 'For,' says he, ' I have
saved your life on no other terms than as I would be
glad to be saved myself; and it may, one time or
other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition.
Besides,' says he, ' when I carry you to the Brazils,
so great a way from 'our own country, if I should
take from you what litt e you have, you will be starved
there, and then I only take away that life I have given.
No, no,' says he, ' Signor Inglese (Mr. Englishman),
I will carry you thither in charity, and these things
will help you to buy your subsistence there, and your
passage home again.

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was
just in the performance to a tittle; for he ordered the
seamen that none should offer to touch anything I
had: then he took everything into his own possession,
and gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I
might have them again, even so much as my three
earthem jars.

As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's
use, and asked me what I would have for it. I told
him he had been so generous to me in everything, that
I could not offer to make any price of the boat, but
left it entirely to him; upon which he told me he
would give me a note of his hand to pay me 80 pieces
of eight for it at Brazil, and when it came there, if
any one offered to give more, he would make it up.
He offered me also 60 pieces of eight more for my
boy, Xury, which I was loath to take; not that I was
not willing to let the captain have him, but I was very
loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted
me so faithfully in procurino my own. However, when
I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just, and
offered me this medium, that he would give the boy
an obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned
Christian. Upon this, Xm'y saying he was willing to
go to him, I let the captain have him.

We had a very good voyaoe to the Brazils, and ar-
rived in the Bay te Todos z'I'los Santos, or all Saints
Bay, in about twenty~two days after. And now I was-
once more delivered from the most miserable of all
conditions of life; and what to do next with myself, I
was to consider.
The generoust treatment the captain gave me I can
never enough remember: he would take nothing of
me for my Dpassage, gave me 20 ducats for the lee-
pard's skin, and 40 for the lion's skin, which I had 1n
the boat, and caused every thingI had in the ship to
be punctuall; delivered to me; and what I was willing

to sell he bought, such as the case of bottles, two of
1111 guns, and a piece of the lump of bees' -wax, for I
had made candles of the rest: in a word, I made about
220 pieces of eight of all mv cargo, and with this
stock I 11 cut on show 111 the Brazils.

I had not been long here, but, being recommended
to the house of a good, honest man, like himself. who
had an ingenio, as the) call it--that is, a plantation
and a sugar- house--I li1 ed with him some time, and
acquainted 1n1_ self, In that means, with the manner of
their planting and making of sugar: and, seeino how
11 01 the planters lived, aiid how they grew ricli sud-
de 1111', I resolved, if I could get licence to settle there,
I 11011111 turn planter among them , 1"esolVing in the
meantime, to find out some way to get mv money
11111111 I had leit in London remitted to me. To this
111111.0se,g wetting a kind of letter of naturalization, I
'1111('l1.1~e(l as much land that was uncured as my monev

1'ould reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and
settlement, and such a one as might be suitable to the
stock which I proposed to myself to receive from Eng-
land.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born
of English parents, whose name 11as \Vells, and in
much such circumstances as I was. I call him neigh-
bour, because his plantation lay next to mine, anda we
110111; on very sociably together, my stock was but
10.1', as well as his, and 11e rather planted for food than
anything else, for about two years. However, we be-

ga . to i crease, and our land began to come into orde:,
so that the third year we planted some tobacco, and
made each of us a large piece of ground ready for
planting canes in the year to come: but we both wanted
help; and now I found, more than before, I had done
wrong in parting with my boy Xury.

But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did right,
was no great wonder. I had no remedy but to go on.
I had gotten into an employment quite remote to my
genius, and directly contrary to the life I delighted in,
and for which I forsook my father's house, and broke
through all his good advice; nay, I was coming into
the very middle station, or up er degree of low life,
which my father advised me to efore, and which, if I
resolved to go on with, I might as well have staid at
home, and never fatigued myself in the world, as I
have done: and I used often to say to myself, I could
have done this as well in England, among my friends,
as have gone 5,000 miles off to do it, amon strangers
and sav es in a wilderness, and at such a 'stance as
never to ear from any part of the world that had the
least knowledge of me.

In this manner I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse
with, but now and then this nei hbour ; no work to be
done, but by the labour of my ands; and I used to
'say, I live just like a man cast away upon some deso-
late island, that had nobody there but himself. But
how just has it been, and how should all men reflect,
that when they compare their present condition with
others that are worse, Heaven may obli them to
make the exchange, and be convinced of t eir former
felicity, by their experience! I say, how just has it
been, that the truly solitary life I reflected on in an
island of mere deso ation should be my lot, who had so

often unjustly compared it with the hfe which I than
n
led ; in which, had I continued, I had, in all probabi-
lity, been exceedingly prosperous and rich!

I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend, the
captain of the ship that took me up at sea, went back;
for the ship remained there, in providing her loading,
and preparing for her voyage, near three months;
when telling him what little stock I had left behind
me in London, he gave me his friendly and sincere
advice :----' Signor Inglese.' says he, (for so he always
called me), 'if you will give me letters, and a procu-
ration here in form to me, with orders to the person
who has your money in London, to send your effects
to Lisbon, to such persons as I shall direct, and in
such goods as are proper for this country, I will bring
you the produce of them, God willing, at my return;
but, since human affairs are all subject to changes and
disasters, I would have you fgive orders for 1001. ster-
ling, which, you say, is hal your stock, and let the
hazard be run for the first; so that if it come safe, you
may order the rest the same way; and if it miscarry,
you have the other half to have recourse to for your
supply.'

This was such wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was the
best course I could take; so I accordingly pre ared
letters to the gentlewoman with whom I had le my
money, and a procuration to the Portuguese captain,
as he desired. '

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures, my slavery, escape, and how I
had met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the huma-
nity of his behaviour, and what condition I was now
in, with all other necessary directions for my supply;
and when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he found
means, by some of the English merchants there, to
send over, not the order only, but a full account of
my story, to a merchant in London, who presented it
effectually to her; whereupon she not only delivered
the money, but out of her own pocket sent the Por-
tuguese captain a very handsome present for his huma-
nity and charity to me.

The merchant in London vested this 1002. in Eng-
lish goods, such as the captain had written for, sent
them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought them
all safe to me to the Brazils; among which, without
my directions (for I was too young in my business to
think of them), he had taken care to have all sorts of
tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary for my planta-
tion, and which were of great use to me.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, I was surprised with the joy of it; and my
good steward, the captain, had laid out the 5l. which
my friend had sent him for a present for himself, to
purchase and bring me over a servant, under bond for
six years' service, and would not accept of any consi-
deration. except a little tobacco, which I would have
him accept, being of my own produce.

Neither was this all; but my goods being all Eng-
lish manufactures, such as cloth, stufi', baize and
thin 'cularly valuable and desirable in the coun-
try, ound means to sell them to a great advantage;
so that I may say, I had more than four times the
wane of my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond
my noor neighbour--I mean in the advancement of
my mantation; for the first thing I did, I bou ht me
a Xegro slave, and a Euro ean servant also: mean
another besides that whic the captain brought me
from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it with

me. . went on the next year with great success in my
E 240 nonmson cnvson.

plantation; I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my
own ground, more than I had disposed of for necessa-
ries among my neighbours; and these fifty rolls bein
each of above lOOlbs. weight, were well cured, an
laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon.
And now, increasing in business and wealth, my head
began to be full of projects and undertakings be and
my reach--such as are, indeed, often the ruin o the
best heads in business.

Had I continued in the station I was now in, I had
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me,
for which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet,
retired life, and which he had so sensibly described'
the middle station of life to be full of ; but other things
attended me, and I was still to be the wilful agent of
all my own miseries: and particularly to increase my
fault, and double the reflections upon myself, which,
in my future sorrows, I should have leisure to make. ,
All these miscarriages ' were procured by my apparent
obstinate adhering to my foolish inclination of wander-
ing abroad, and pursuing that inclination, in contra-
diction to the clearest views of doing myself good in a
fair and plain pursuit of those prospects, and those
measures of life, which Nature and Providence con-
curred to present me with, and to make my duty.

As I had once done thus in breaking away from my
parents, so I could not be content now; but I must go
and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and
thriving man in my new plantation, only to pursue a
rash and immoderate desire of rising faster than the
nature of the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself
down again into the deepest gulf of human misery
that ever man fell into, or perhaps could be consistent
with life and a state of health in the world.

To come, then, by just degrees to the particulars of

this part of my story :---You may suppose that, having
now lived almost four years in the Brazils, and begin-
ning to thrive and rosper very well upon my planta-
tion, I had not 0 y learned the language; but had
contracted acquaintance and friendship among my fel-
low-planters, as well as among the merchants of St.
Salvadore, which was our port; and that, in my dis-
course among them, I had frequently given them an
account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea, the
manner of trading with the Negroes there, and how
easy it was to purchase upon the coast, for trifles, such
as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits of glass,
and the like, not only gold-dust, Guinea grains, ele-
phants' teeth, &c., but Negroes for the service of the
Brazils, in great numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my dis?
courses on these hea s; but especially to that part
which related to the buying Negroes, which was a
trade, at that time, not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been carried on by the assientoes,
or permission of the kings of Spain and Portugal, and
engrossed in the ublic stock, so that few Negroes
were bought, and t ose excessively dear.

It happened, being in company one day with some
merchants and planters of my acquaintance, and talk-
ing of those things very. earnestly, three of them came
to me the next morning, and told me they had been
musing very much upon what I had discoursed of with
them the last night, and they came to make a secret
proposal to me; and, after enjoining on me secrecy,
they told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship to
go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well as

, and were straitened for nothing so much as servants;
that as it was a trade that could not be carried on, be-
cause they could not publicly sell the Negroes when
they came home, so they desired to make but one

voyage, to bring the N egrogs on shore privately, and
E
divide them among their own plantations; and, in a
word, the question was, whether I would go their
supercargo m the ship, to manage the trading part
upon the coast of Guinea; and they offered me that I
should have my equal share of the Negroes, without
providing any art of the stock.

This was a air proposal, it must he confessed, had
it been made to any one that had not had a settlement
and plantation of his own too look after, which was in
a fair way of coming to be very considerable, and with
a good stock upon it. But for me, who was thus esta-
blished, and had nothing to do but to go on as I had
begun for three or four years more, and to have sent
for the other 1001. from England, and who, in that
time, and with that little addition, could scarce have
failed of being worthy 3,0001. or 4,0001. sterling, and
that increasing too; for me to think of such a voyage,
was the most preposterous thing that ever man, in -
such circumstances, could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could
no more resist the offer, than I could restrain my first
rambling designs, when my father's good counsel was
lost u on me. In a word, I told them I would go
with my heart, if they would undertake to look
after my plantation in my absence, and would dis ose
of it to such as I should direct, if I miscarried. his
they all engaged to do, and entered into writings, or
covenants to do so; and I made a formal will, dispos-
ing of my plantation and effects in case of my death---
making the captain of the ship that had saved my life,
as before, my universal heir, but obliging him to dis-

ose of my effects as I had directed in my will ; one.
alf of the produce being to himself, and the other to
be shipped to England.

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my

effects, and to keep up my plantation. Had I used
half as much prudence to have looked into my own in-
terest, and have made a judgment of what I ought to
have done, and not to have done, I had certain] never
gone away from so prosperous an undertaking; eaving
all the probable views of a thriving circumstance, and
gone upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its com-
mon hazards, to say nothing of the reasons I had to
expect particular misfortunes to myself. .
But was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the die-
tates'of my fancy, rather than my reason; and, ac-
cordingly, the ship bein fitted out, and the cargo fur-
nished, and all things one as my agreement y my
partners in the voyage, I went on board in .an evxl
our again, the 1st of September, 1659, being the
same day ei ht years that I went from my father and
mother at ull in order to act the rebel to their auo
thority, and the fool to my own interest. .
Our ship was! about 120 tons burden, carried six
guns and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy,
and myself. We had on board no large cargo of goods,
except of such toys as were fit for our trade With the
Negroes; such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd
trifles--especially little looking-glasses, knives, scis-
sors, hatchets and the like.

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward u on our own coast, with a de-

sign to stretch over for t e African coast, when they
came into about ten or twelve degrees of northern la-
titude, which, it seems, was the manner of their course
in those days. We had very good weather, only ex-
cessively hot all the way u 11 our own coast, till we
came to the height of ape St. Augustino, from
whence, keeping farther off at sea, we lost si ht of
land, and steered as if we were bound for the sle of
Fernand de Norouba; holding our course N. E. by N.,

and leaving those isles on the east. In this course we
assed the line in about twelve days' time, and were,

y our last observation, in 7 degrees, 22 minutes,
northern latitude, when a violent tornado, or burn-
cane, took us quite out of our knowledge; it began
from the south-east, came about to the north-west, and
then settled into the north-east--from whence it blew
in such a terrible manner, that for twelve days toge-
ther, we could do nothing but drive, and, scuddmg
away before it, let it carry us wherever fate, and the
fury of the winds, directed: and during these twelve
days, I need not say that I expected every day to be
swallowed up; nor did any in the ship expect to save
their lives.

In this distress we had, besides the terror of the
storm, one of our men died of the calenture, and one
man and the boy washed overboard. About the twelfth
day, the weather abating a little, the master made an
observation as well as he could, and found that he was
in about 11 degrees of north latitude, but that he was
22 degrees of longitude difference west from Cape St
Augustino; so that he found he had gotten upon the
coast of Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond
the river Amazons, towards that of the river Oro-
noque, commonly called the Great River: and now he
began to consult with me what course he should take ;
for the ship was leaky, and very much disabled, and
he was for going directly back to the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that; and looking over the
charts of the sea-coast of America with him, we con-
cluded there was no inhabited country for us to have
recourse to, till we came within the circle of the Ca-
ribee Islands; and, therefore, resolved to stand away
for Barbadoes, which, by keeping off at sea, to avoid
the indraught of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we might
very easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days'
sail; whereas we could not possibly make our voyage
to the coast of Africa, without some assistance, both to
our ship, and to ourselves.

With this des' 11, we changed our course, and steered
away N. W. b ., in order to reach some of our
English islan , where I hoped for relief; but our
voyage was otherwise determined; for being in the
latitude of 12 degrees, 18 minutes, a second storm
came upon us, which carried us away with the same
impetuosity westward, and drove us so out of the very
way of a1 human commerce, that, had all our lives
been saved as to the sea, we were rather in danger of
being devoured by savages, than ever returning to our
own count .

In this 'stress, the wind still blowing very hard,
one of our men, early one morning, cried out, ' Land !'
and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out
in ho a of seeing whereabouts in the world we were,
but t e ship struck upon a sand, and, in a moment,
her motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her in
such a manner, that we expected we should all have
perished immediately; and we were even driven into
close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam and
spray of the sea.

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consterna-
tion of men in such circumstances. We knew nothing
where we were, or u on what land it was we were
driven-whether an is and or the main, whether inha-
bited or not inhabited; and as the rage of the wind
was still great, though rather less than at first, we
could not so much as hape to have the ship hold many
minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the wind
by a kind of miracle, should turn immediately about.
In a word, we sat looking one upon another, and ex-
pecting death every moment, and every man acting
accordingly, as preparing for another world; for there
was little or nothing more for us to do in this: that
which was our present comfort, and all the comfort we
had, was, that, contrary to our expectation, the shi
did not break yet, and that the master said the wing
be u to abate.

ow, though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship, having thus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too fast for us to expect her gettin oil",
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and bar? no-
thing to do but to think of saving our lives as well as
we could. We had a boat at our stern just before the
storm; but she was first staved by dashin ainst
the ship's rudder, and, in the next place, 5 e roke
away, and either sunk, or was driven off to sea; so
there was no hOpe for her. We had another boat on
board; but how to get her off into the sea, was a doubt-
ful thing. However, there was no room to debate, for
we fancied the ship would break in pieces every
minute; and some told us she was actually broken
already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel la s hold of
the boat, and, with the hel of the rest 0 the men,
they got her flung over the s ip's side; and getting all
into her, let go, and committed ourselves, bemg eleven
in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea : for
though the storm was abated considerably, yet the sea
went dreadfully hi h upon the shore, and might well
be called, ' Der wfid zee,' as the Dutch call the sea in
a storm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we
all saw plainly that the sea went so high, that the boat
could not escape, and that we should be inevitably
drowned. As to making sail, we had none; nor, if
we had, could we have done anything with it; so we
worked at the oar towards the land, though with heavy
hearts, like men going to execution; for we all knew,
that when the boat came near the shore, she would be
dashed in a thousand pieces by the beach of the sea.
However, we committed our souls to God in the most
earnest manner; and the wind driving us towards the
shore, we hastened our destruction with our own
hands, pulling, as well as we could, towards land.

What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not: the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation, was,
if we happen to get into some bay or gulf, or the
mouth of some river, where by (great chance, we might
have run our boat in, or got un er the lee of the land,
and perha 3 made smooth water. But there was no-
thing of t is appeared; but as we made nearer and
nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than
the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
like, came rollinge astern of us, and plainly bade us
expect the coup grace. In a word, it took us with
such a fury, that it overset the boat at once, and,
separating us as well from the boat as from one another,
gave us not time hardly to say, ' 0 God ! ' for we
were all swallowed u in a moment

Nothing can descn e the confusion of thou ht which
I felt when I sunk into the water; for tho I swam
very well, yet I could net deliver myse from the
waves so as to draw breath, till that wave having
driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on to-
wards the shore, and having spent itself, went back,
and left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead
with the water I took in. I had so much presence of
mind as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer
the main land than I expected, I got upon my feet,
and endeavoured to make on towards the land, as-fast
38-1 could, before another wave should return, and
take me up again. But I soon found it was impossible
to avoid it ; for I saw the sea come after me as high
as a great hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I
had no means or strength to contend with: my busi-
ness was, to hold my breath, and raise myself upon
the water, if I could, and so, by swimming, to pre-
serve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore,
if possible; my greatest concern now being, that the
wave, as it would carry me a great way tdwards the
shore when it came on, might not carry me back again
with it, when it gave back towards the sea.

The wave then came upon me again buried me at
once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own body, and
I could feel myself carried, with a mighty force and
swiftness, towards the shore a very great way; but I
held my breath, and assisted myself to swim still for-
ward with all my might. I was ready to burst with
holding my breath, when, as I felt myself rising u ,
so, to my immediate relief, I found my head and hangs
shoot out above the surface of the water; and though
it was not two seconds of time that I could keep my-
self so, yet it relieved me greatly--gave me breath
and new courage. Iwas covered main with water a
good while, but not so long but I Dheld it out; and
finding the water had spent itself, and began to return,
I struck forward against the return of the waves, and
felt ground again with my feet. I stood still a few
moments to recover breath, and till the water went
from me, and then I took to my heels. and ran with
what strength I had, farther towards the shore. But
neither would this deliver me from the fury of the
sea, which came uring in after me again; and twice
more I was lifte up by the waves, and carried for-
wards as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well near been fatal.
to me; for the sea having hurried me along as before,
landed me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of a
rock, and that with such force that it left me senseless,
and, indeed, helpless, as to my own deliverance; for
the blow, taking my side and breast, beat the breath,
as it were, quite out of my body; and had it returned
again immediately, I must have been strangled in the
water; but I recovered a little before the return of
the waves, and, seeing I should be covered again with
the water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the
rock, and so to hold my breath, if possible, till the wave
went back. Now, as the waves were not so high as
at first, being near land, I held my hold till the wave
abated, and then fetched another run, which brought
me so near the shore, that the next wave, though it
went over me, yet did not so swallow me up as to
carry me awa ; and the next run I took, I got to the
main land, w ere, to my great comfort, I clambered
up the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down upon the
grass, free from danger, and quite out of the reach of
the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to
look 11 and thank God that my life was saved, in a
case w erein there was, some minutes before, scarce
any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to e ress
to the life, what the ecstasies and transports o the
soul are when it is so saved, as I may say, out of the
grave : and I do not wonder now at that custom, viz.,
that when a malefactor, who has the halter about his
neck, is tied up, and just going to be turned off, and
has a reprieve brought to him; I say, I do not wonder
that they bring a surgeon with it, to let him blood
that very moment they tell him of it, that the surprise
may not drive the animal spirits from the heart, and

overwhelm him :--

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,

aud my whole being, as I might say, wrapt u in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a t ousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe--reflect-

ing upon all m comrades that were drowned, and
that there shoul not be one soul saved but myself;
for, as for them, I never saw them afterward, nor any
sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and

two shoes that were not fellows.
I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the

breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly
see it--it lay so far off ; and considered, Lord! how

was it possible I could get on shore ?
After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable

part of my condition, I began to look around me, to see
what kind of place I was in, and what was next to be
done, and I soon found my comforts abate, and that
in' a word I had a dreadful deliverance : for I was wet,
had no clothes to shift me, nor anything, either to eat
or drink, to comfort me; neither did I see any pros-

ect before me, but that of perishing with hunger, or

eing devoured by wild beasts: and that which was
particularly afflicting to me was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature, for my sustenance,
or to defend myself a ' st any other creature that
might desire to kill me or theirs. In a word, I had
nothing about me but a knife, 9. tobacco-pipe, and a
little tobacco in a box; this was all my provision, and
this threw me into terrible agonies of mind, that, for a
while, I ran about like a madman. Night coming u on
me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider w at
would be my lot, if there were any ravenous beasts in
that country, seeing at night they always come abroad

for their prey.
All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that

time was, to get lip into a thick bushy tree, like a fir,
but thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved
to sit all night, and consider the next day what death I
should die; for, as yet, I saw no prospect of life. I
walked about a furlong from the shore, to see if I could
find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to my great
joy; and having drunk, and at a little tobacco in my
mouth, to prevent hunger, went to the tree, and
gettin up into it, endeavoured to place myself so as
that, ' I should sleep, I might not fall; and having,

cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for my defence,

I took up m 10d ' g ; and having been excessive]
fatigued, I ell asap, and slept as comfortably as

believe few could have done in my condition; and found
myself the more refreshed with it than I think I ever

was on such an occasion.
When I waked, it was broad day, the weather clear,

and the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and
swell as before; but that which surprised me most
was, that the shi was lifted off, in the night, from the
sand where she ay, by the swelling of the tide, and
was driven up almost as far as the rock which I first
mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the dash-
ing me against it. This being within about a mile
from the shore where I was, and the ship securing to
stand upright still, I wished myself on board, that,
at least, I might save some necessary things for my use.

When I came down from m apartment in the tree,
I looked about me again; an the first thing I found
was the boat, which lay as the wind and the sea had
thrown her 11 on the land, about two miles on my right
hand. I we ed as far as I could upon the shore, to
got to her, but found a neck or inlet of water between
me and the boat, which was about half a mile broad;
so I came back for- the present, being more intent
upon getting at the shi , where I hoped to find some-
thing for my present suisistence.
A little after noon I found the sea very calm; and
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the shi ; and here I found a fresh
renewing of my grief; for saw evidently that if we
had kept on board we had all been safe, that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore, and I had not been so
miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all comfort
and company, as I now was. This forced tears from
my eyes again; but as there was little relief in that,
I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship; so I pulled
off my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity,
and took the water; but when I came to the ship, my
difficul was still greater to know how to get on board;
for as s e lay aground, and high out of the water,
there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I
swam round her twice, and the second time I espied
a small iece of rope, which I wondered I did not see
at first, ang down by the fore chains, so low as that
with great difficulty I got hold of it, and, by the help
of that rope, got up in the forecastle of the ship. Here
I found that the ship was bulged, and had a great deal
of water in her hold, but that she lay so on the side of
a bank of hard sand or rather earth, that her stern
lay lifted up upon the bank, and her head low almost
to the water; by this means all her quarter was free,
and all that was in that part was dry; for you may be
sure my first work was to search and to see what was

oiled and what was free; and first I found that all
t e ship's dprovisions were and untouched by the
water; an being very well isposed to eat, I went to
the bread-room, and filled my pockets with biscuit, and
ate it as I went about other things, for I had no time
to lose. I also found some mm m the cat cabin, of
which I took a large dram, and which had indeed
need enough of, to spirit me for what was before me.
Now I wanted nothing but a boat to furnish myself with
many things which I foresaw would be necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to be had; and this extremity roused my application.
We had several spare yards, and two large squares of
wood, and a spare tap-mast or two in the ship ; I re-
solved to fall to work with these, and flung as many of
them overboard as I could manage for their weight;
tying every one with a rope, that they might not
drive away. When this was done, I went down the
ship's side, and pulling them to me, I tied four of them
fast together at both ends, as well as I could, in the
form of a raft; and laying two or three short pieces
of plank crossways, I found I could walk upon it very
well, but that it was not able to hear any great weight
the pieces being too light: so I went too work with a
carpenter's saw, I cut a spare top-mast into three
lengths, and added them to my raft, with a great deal
of labour and pains; but the hope of furnishing my-
self with necessaries encouraged me to go beyond
what I should have been able to have done upon
another occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any rea-
sonable weight. My next care was what to load it
with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from
the surface of the sea : but I was not lon considerin
this; I first laid all the planks or boargs upon it
could get, and having considered well what I most
wanted, I first got three of the seamen's chests, which I
had broken open and emptied, and lowered them down
upon my raft. The first of these I filled with pro-
visions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five
pieces of dried goat's flesh, which we lived much
u n, and a little remainder of European corn,
w ich had been laid by for some fowls which we
had brought to sea with us; but the fowls were
killed: there had been some barley and wheat
together, but to my great disappointment, I found
afterward that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all.
As for liquors, I found several cases of bottles belong-
ing to our skipper, in which were some cordial waters,
and in all above five or six gallons of arrack: these I
stowed by themselves, there being no need to put
them into the chest, nor any room for them. While
I was doing this, I found the tide began to flow,
though very calm, and I had the mortifieation to see
. my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore
upon the sand, swim away; as for my breeches, which
were onl linen and open-knee'd, I swam on board in
them an my stockings. However, this put me u on
rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough, ut
took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had
other things which my eye was more upon; as first,
tools to work with on shore, and it was after long
searching I found out. the carpenter's chest, which
was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much more
valuable than a ship-loading of gold would have been
at that time. I got it down to my raft, even whole as
it was, without loosing time to look into it, for I knew
in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two ve good fowling-pieces in the great
cabin, and two pisto s : these I secured first, with some
powder-horns, a small bag of shot, and two old rusty
swords. I knew there were three barrels of powder in
the ship, but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them, but with much scearh I found them, two of them
dry and good, the third had taken water : those two I
got to my raft with the arms. And now I thought
myself pretty well freighted, and began to think how I
should get to shore with them, having neither sail,
oar, or rudder, and the least capful of wind would

have overset all my navigation.
I had three encouragements. First, a smooth and
calm sea. Secondly, the tide rising and setting
into the shore. Thirdly, what little wind there was,
blew me towards the land. And thus, having found
two or three broken oars belonging to the boat, and
besides the tools which were in the chest, I found two
saws, an ax and a hammer, and with this cargo I put
to sea. For a mile, or thereabout, my raft went very
well, only that I found it drive a little distant from the
place where I had landed before, by which I rceived
there was some indraught of the water, an conse-
quently I hoped to find some creek or river there,
which I might make use of as a port to get to land
with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was; there appeared before me
a little opening of the land. I found a strong current
of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as well as I
could, to keep in the middle of the stream. But here
I had liked to have suffered a second shipwreck, which
if I had, I think verily would have broken my heart;
for, knowing nothing of the coast, my raft run aground,
at one end of it, upon a shoal not being aground; at the
other end, it wanted but a little that my cargo had
sli ped off towards that end that was afloat, and so
f en into the water: I did my utmost by setting
my back against the chests, to keep them in their
places, but could not thrust off the raft with all my
strength; neither durst I stir from the posture I
was in, but, holding up the chests with all my might,
stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time
the rising of the water brought me a little more upon
a level; and a little after, the water still rising, m
raft floated again, and I thrust her off with the our
had, into the channel, and then driving up higher, I at
length found myself in the mouth of a little river, with
Ian on both sides, and a strong current of tide running
up. I looked on both sides for a proper place to get
to shore, for I was not willing to be driven too high u'
the river, hoping in time to see some ship at sea an

therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast as
I could.

 

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore o
the creek, to which, with great pain and difiiculty, I
guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that, reach-
mg ound with my oar, I could thrust her directly in;
' but ere I had liked to have dipped all my cargo in the
sea ain; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is to
day, soping, there was no place to land, but where
one end of the float, if it ran on shore, would lie so high,
and the other sink lower, as before, that it would en-
danger m car again. All that I could do, was to
wait till t e ti e was at the highest, keeping the raft
with my oar, like an anchor, to hold t e side of it
fast to the shore, near a flat piece of ground, which I
expected the water would flow over; and so it did.
As soon as I found water enough (for my raft drew
about a foot of water), I thrust her upon that flat
piece of ground, and there fastened and moored her,

y stickin my two broken oars into the ground, one
on one si e near one end, and one on the other
side near the other end; and thus I ebbed away and
left all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek a
proper place for my habitation, and where to stow my
goods, to secure them from whatever might happen.

Vhere I was, I yet knew not; whether on the con-
tinent or on an island; whether inhabited or not in-
habited; whether in danger of wild beasts or not.
There was a hill not above a mile from me, which
rose up very steep and high, and which seemed to
overtop some other hills, which lay as in a ridge from
it, northward, I took out one of the fowling- ieces,
and one of the istols, and a horn of powder, an ,thus
armed, I trave ed for discovery 11 to the top of that
hill, where, after I had with great labour and difficulty
got up, I immediately saw my fate, to my great
affliction : viz. that I was in an island, environed every
way with the sea; no land to be seen, exce t some
rocks, which lay a great way off, and two sm islands
less than this, which lay about three leagues to the
west.

I found also that the island that I was in was barren
and, as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited, ex-
cept by wild beasts, of which, however, I saw none:
yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds,
neither, when I killed them, could I tell what was
fit for food, and what not. At my coming back I
shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree,
on the side of a large wood. I behave it was the first
gun that had been fired there, since the creation of
the world. I had no sooner fired, but from all
parts of the wood there arose an extraordinary number
of fowls, of many sorts, making a confused screaming
and crying, every one according to his usual note;
but not one of them of any kind that I knew. As for
the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of hawk,
its colour and beak resembling it, but it had no talons
or claws more than common; its flesh was carrion,
and fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore,
which took me up the rest of the day. What to do
with myself at night, I knew not, nor indeed where to
rest for I was afraid to lie down on the ground, not
knowing but what some wild beast might devour me,
though I afterwards found there was really no need
of those fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricadoed myself
round with the chests and boards that I had brought
on shore, and made a kind of a but for that night's
lodging, as for food, I yet saw not which way to sup-
ply myself, except that I had seen two or three crea-
tures, like hares, run out of the wood where I shot
the fowl.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship, which would be useful to
me, and particularly some of the rigging and sails, and
such other things as might come to hand, and I re-
solved to make another voyage on board the vessel, if
possible; and as I knew the first storm that blew
must necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved to
set all other thmgs apart, till I got every thing out of
the ship that I could t; then I called a council, that
is to say, in m thoug ts, whether I should take back
the raft, but t is appeared impracticable, so I resolved
to go as before, when the tide was down, and I did so,
only that I stripped before I went from my hut,
having nothing on but a checked shirt, 9. pair of
linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a
second raft; and having had experience of the first I
neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard;
but yet I brought away several things very useful to
me; as first, in the carpenter's store I found two or
three bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack,
a dozen or two of hatchets, and, above all, that most
useful thing called a grindstone; all these I secured,
tOgether with several things belonging to the gunner,
particularly two or three iron crows, and two barrels
of musket bullets, seven muskets and another fowling-
piece, with some small quantity of powder more: a
large bag full of small shot, and a great roll of sheet
lead: but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it
up to get it over the shi 's side.

Besides these things, took all the men's clothes
that I could find, and a spare fore-topsail, hammock,
and some bedding; and with this I loaded my second
raft, and brought them also safe on shore, to my very
great comfort.

I was under some apprehensions during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisions might be
devoured on shore ; but when I came back, I found
no sign of any visitor, only there sat a creatiu'e like a
Wild cat upon one of the chests, which when I came
toward it ran away to a little distance, and then stood
still. She sat very composed and unconcerned, and
looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be ac-
quainted with me. I presented my gun at her; but
as she did not understand it, she was perfectly uncon-
cerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away; upon
which 'I tossed her a bit of biscuit , though by the
way I was not very free of it, for my store was not
great. However I spared her a bit, I say, and she
went to it, smelled it, and ate it, and looked as if pleased
for more, but I thanked her, and could spare no
more; so she marched off.

Having got my second cargo on shore (though I was
fain to open .the barrels of powder, and bring them
by parcels, for they were too heavy, being large
casks) I went to work to make a little tent with the
sail and some oles which I cut for the purpose; and
into this tent brought every thing that knew would
spoil, either with rain or sun: and I piled all the
empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent,
to fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from man
or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest set
up on one end without, and spreading one of the beds
upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my head,
and my gun at length by me, I went to bed, for the
first time, and slept very quietly all night, being very
weary and heavy; for the night before I had slept
little, and laboured very hard all day, as well to
fetch those things from the ship as to get them on
share.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that
ever was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was
not satisfied still, for while the ship sat upright in
that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing out
of her that I could: so every day at low water I went
on. board, and brought away something or other. But
particularl the third time I went, I brou ht away so
much of t e rigging as I could, as also the small
.ropes, and rope-twine I could get, with a piece of
spare canvas, which was to mend the sails upon oc-
casion, and the barrel of wet gunpowder. In a word,
I brought away all the sails first and last, only that I
was fain to cut them in pieces, and bring as much at
a time as I could : for they were no more useful to me

for sails, but as mere canvas only.

But that which comforted me more still, was that
at last of all, after I had made five or six such voy-
ages as these, and thought I had nothing more to ex-
pect from the ship that was worth my meddling with,

say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread,
three large runlets of rum or Spirits, a box of sugar,
and a barrel of fine flour: this was surprising to me,
because I had given over expecting an more pro-
visions, except what was spoiled by t 6 water. I
soon emptied the hogshead, of that bread, and wra t it
up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of the sails, which cut
out; and, in a word, I got all this safe on shore also,
though at several times.

The next day I made another voyage: and now,
having plundered the ship of what was portable, and
fit to hand out, I began with the cables; and cuttino
the great cable into pieces, such as I could move,I
got two cables and a haulser on shore, with all the
iron-work I could get; and having cut down the sprit-
sail-yard, and the mizen- ard, and every thing I
could to make a large raft, l loaded it with all those
heavy goods and came away. But my good luck be-
gan to leave me, for this raft was so unwieldy, and so
overladen, that after I had entered the little cove,
where I had landed the rest of my goods, not being
able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset,
and threw me and all my cargo into the water. As for
myself it was no great harm, for I was near the shore
but as to my cargo it was a great part of it lost, es-
pecially the iron, which I expected would have been of

eat use to me. However, when the tide was out,

got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of
the iron, though with infinite labour, for I was fain
to dip for it into the water, a work which fatigued me
very much. After this I went every day on board,
and brought away what I could get.

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship, in which time I had
brou ht away all that one pair of hands could
well ie supposed capable to bring, though I believe
verily, had the calm whether held, I should have
brought away the whole ship, piece by piece. But pre-
paring the twelfth time to go on board, I found the
wind began to rise: however, at low water, I went
on board ; and though I thought I had rummaged the
cabin so effectually, as that nothing more could
be found, yet I discovered a locker, with drawers in it,
in one of which I found two or three razors, and one
pair of large scissors, with ten or a dozen good knives
and forks : in another, I found about thirty-six pounds
value in money, some Euro an coin, some Brazil,
some pieces of eight, some go (1, some silver.

When I was gotten home to my little tent, I lay
with all m wealth about me very secure: it blew
very hard 1 that night; and in the morning, when I
looked out, behold no more ship was to be seen! I
was a little surprised, but recoverin myself with this
satisfactory reflection; viz. that I ha lost no time, nor
abated any diligence, to get every thing out of her
that could be useful to me; and that indeed there was
little left in her that I was able to bring away, if I had
had more time. I now gave over any more thought
of the ship, or of any thing of her, except what might
drive on shore from her wreck, as indeed divers

pieces of her afterwards did; but those things were of
small use to me.

Some days after this, after I had been on board the
ship, and had got all I could out of her, I could not
forbear getting up to the top of a little mountain, and
looking out to sea, in hapes of seeing a ship: then
fancy, at a vast distance, spied a sail; please my-
self with the hopes of it; and then, after looking
steadily, till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and sit
down and weep like a child, and thus increase my
misery by my folly.

But having gotten over these things, in some mea-
sure, and having settled my household stufl' and habi-
tation, made me a table and achair, and all as hand-
some about me as I could, I began, I say, to keep a
journal, of which I shall here give you the copy
(though in it will be told all these particulars over
again), as long as it lasted; for at last having no more
ink, I was forced to leave it 011'.

THE JOURNAL.

SEPTEMBER. 30, 1659. 1, poor miserable Robinson
Crusoe, being shipwrecked dm-ing a dreadful storm in
the offing, came on shore on this dismal unfortunate
island, which I called the Island of Despair, all the

rest of the ship's company being drowned, and myself
almost dead.

All the rest of the day I spent in afflicting myself at
the dismal circumstance I was brought to,---viz. I had
neither food, house, clothes, weapon, nor place to 11
to, and in despair of any relief, saw nothing but deat
before me, either that I should be devoured by wild
_ beasts, murdered b savages, or starved to death for
want of food. At t e approach of night, I slept in a
tree, for fear of wild creatures, but slept soundly,
though it rained all night.

October 1. In the morningI saw, to my great sur-
prise, the ship had floated with the high tide, and was
driven on shore again much nearer the island, which,
as it was some comfort on the one hand (for seein her
sit upright, and not broken in pieces, I hoped, i the
wind abated, I might get on board, and get some food
and necessaries out of her for my relief), so, on the
other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my
comrades, who,I imagined, if we had all stayed on
board, might have saved the ship, or at least that they
would not have been all drowned, as they were; and
that, had the men been saved, we might erhaps have
built us a boat out of the ruins of the s i), to have
carried us to some other part of the worl . I spent
great part of this day in perplexing myself on these
things; but at length, seeing the ship almost dry, I
went upon the sand as near as I could, and then swam
on board. This day also continued raining, though
with no wind at all.

From the 1st of October to the 24th. All these
days entirely spent in making several v0 'ages to get
all I could out of the ship, which Ibroug t on shore,
every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain also in
these days, though With some intervals of fair wea-
ther; but, it seems, this was the rainy season.

October 24. I overset my raft, and all the goods I
had got upon it; and being in shoal water, and the
things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of them

when the tide was out.
October 25. It rained all ni ht, and all day, with
some gusts of wind, during whic time the ship broke
in (pieces, the wind blowing a little harder than before,
an was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her,
and that only at low water. I s ent this da in cover-
ing and securing the goods w ich I save , that the
rain might not spoil them.

October 26. I walked about the shore almost all
day to find out a place to fix my habitation, greatly
concerned to secure myself from any attack, in the
night, either from wild beasts or men. Towards night
I fixed upon a proper place under a rock, and marked
out a semicircle for my encampment, which I resolved
to stren hen with a work, or wall, or fortification,
made 0 double piles, lined within with cable, and
without with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in

carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
some part of the time it rained exceedingly hard.
The 31st, in the mornin , I went out into the is-
land with my gun, to see or some food, and discover
the country; when I killed a she-goat, and her kid
followed me home, which I afterwards killed also, be-
cause it would not feed.

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock, and
lay there for the first night, making it as large as I
could, with stakes, driven in to swing my hammock
u on.

pNovember 2. I set up all my chests and boards,
and the pieces of timber which made my rafts, and
with them formed a fence round me, a little within
the lace I had marked out for my fortification.

Navember 3. I went out with my gun, and killed
two fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In
the afternoon, I went to work to make me a table.

November 4. This morning I began to order my
times of work, of ing out with my gun, time of
sleep, and time o diversion--vviz. every morning I
walked out with my gun, for two or three hours, if it
did not rain; then employed myself to work till about
eleven o'clock; then eat what I had to live on: and
from twelve to two, I la down to sleep, the weather
being excessively hot, an then in the evening to work
again. The working part of this day and the next
were wholly employed in making my table, for I was
yet but a very sorry workman, though time and ne-
cessity made me a com lete natural mechanic soon .

after, as I believe it woul do any one else.

November 5. This day I went abroad with my gun
and my dog, and killed a wild eat; her skin pretty
soft, but her flesh good for nothing. Every creature
I killed, I took off the skins and preserved them.
Coming back, by the seashore, I saw many sorts of
sea-fowls which I did not understand; but was sur-
prised, and almost frighted, with two or three turtles,
which, while I was gazing at, not well knowing what
they were, got into the sea, and escaped me for that
time.

November 6. After my morning walk, I went to
work with my table again, and finishing it, though not
to my liking; nor was it long before I learned to
mend it.

November 7. Now it be an to be settled fair wea-
ther. The 7th, 8th, 9th, 15th, and part of the 12th,
(for the llth was Sunday, according to my reckon-
ing), I took wholly up to make me a chair, and, with
much ado, brought it to a tolerable sha e, but never
to please me; and even in the making pulled it to
pieces several times. Note, I soon neglected keeping
my Sundays; for omitting my mark for them on my
post, I forgot which was which.

November 13. This day it rained, which refreshed
me exceedingly, and cooled the earth : but it was ac-
companied with terrible thunder and lightning, which
frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my powder. As
soon as it was over, I resolved to separate my stock of
powder into as many little parcels as possible, that it
might not be in danger.

November l4, 15, 16. These three days I spent in
making little square chests or boxes, which might hold
about a pound, or two pounds at most, of powder;
and so putting the powder in, I stowed it in places as
secure and remote from one another as possible. On
one of these three days I killed a large bird that was
good to eat, but I knew not what to call it. -

November 17. This day I began to dig behind my
tent into the rock, to make room for my further con:
veniency. Note, three things I wanted exceedingly
for this work; viz. a pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheel-
barrow or basket: so I desisted from my work, and
began to consider how to supply that want, and make
me some tools. As for the pick-axe, I made use of
the iron crows, which were proper enough, though
heavy; but the next thing was a shovel or spade;
this was so absolutely necessary that indeed I could
do nothing effectually without it ; but what kind of
one to make I knew not.

November 18. The next day, in searching the
woods, I found a tree of that wood, or like it, which,
in the Brazils they call the iron-tree, for its exceed-
mg hardness: of this, with great labour, and almost
spoiling my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home
too with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding heavy.

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no
other way, made me a long while upon this machine;
for I worked it effectually, by little and little, into the.
form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly shaped
like ours in England, only that the broad part having
no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not last me
so long; however, it served well enough for the uses68 aoamson cnosoa.

which I had occasion to put it to: but never was a
shovel, I believe, made after that fashion, or so long a'
making.

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or a
wheel-barrow: a basket I could not make by any
means, having no such thing as twigs that would bend
to make wicker-ware, or at least none yet found out;
and, as to the wheel-barrow, I fancied I could make
all but the wheel; but that I had no notion of, neither '
did I know how to go about it: besides, I had no
possible way to make iron gudgeons, for the spindle
or the axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave over: and,
for carrying away the earth which I dug out of the
cave, I made me a thing like a hod, which the labour-
ers carry mortar in, when they serve the bricklayers.

This was not so difficult to me as the making the
shovel; and yet this, and the shovel, and the attempt
which I made in vain to make a wheel-barrow, took
me up no.1ess than four days: I mean, always except-
ing my morning walk with my gun, which Iseldom
failed, and very seldom failed also of bringing home
somethin fit to eat.

Novem er 25. My other work having stood still,
because of my making these tools, when they were
finished I went on; and, working every day'as much
as my strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen
days entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that
it might hold my goods commodiously.

Note, during all this time I worked to make this
room, or cave, spacious enough to accommodate me as
a warehouse, or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room,
and a cellar; as for a lodging, I kept to the tent, ex-
cept that sometimes in the wet season of the year it
rained so hard, that I could not keep myself dry;
which caused me afterwards to cover all my place
within my pale, with long poles, in the form of rafters,
leaning against the rock, and load them with flags
and large leaves of trees, like a thatch.

December 10. I began now to think my cave or
vault finished, when, on a sudden (it seems I had
made it too large), a great quantity of earth fell down

 

from the top and one side, so much that, in short, it
frightened me, and not without reason, for if I had
been under it, I had never. wanted. a grave-digger.
Upon this disaster I had a great deal of work to do
over again: for I had the loose earth to carry out.
and, which was of more importance, I had the ceiling
to prop up, so that I might be sure no more woul
come down.

December 11. This day I went to Work with it ac-
cordingly, and got two shores or posts, pitched upright
to the top, with two pieces of board across over each
post. This I finished the next day; and setting more
posts up with boards, in about a week more I had the
roof secured; and the posts, standing in rows, served
me for partitions to part of? my house.

December 17. From this day to the 20th I placed
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts, to hang
every thing up that could be hung up; and now I be-
gan to be in some order within doors.

December 20. Now I carried every thing into the
cave, and began to furnish my house, and set up some
pieces of board, like a dresser, to order my victuals
upon; but boards began to be very scarce with me.
I also made me another table.

December 24. Much rain all night and all day:
no stirring out.

December 25. Rain all day.

December 26. No rain, and the earth much cooler
than before, and pleasanter.

December 27. Killed a young goat, and lamed an-
other, so that I caught it, and led it home in a string;
when I got it home I bound and splintered up its leg,
which was broken, and I took such care of it that
it lived, and the leg grew well. and as strong as ever;
but by nursing it so long it grew tame, and fed upon
the little een at my door, and would not go away.
This was t e first time that I entertained a thought of -
breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have
food when my owder and shot were all spent. '

December 25, 29, 30. Great beats and no breeze -
so that there was no stirring abroad, except in the
evening, for food. This time I spent in putting all my
things in order within doors.

January 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early
and late, with my gun, and lay still in the middle of
the day. This evening, going farther into the valleys,
which lay to the centre of the island, I found there
were plenty of goats, though exceedingly shy, and hard
to come at: however I resolved to try if I could not
bring my dog to hunt them down.

J anu 2. Accordingly, the next day, I went out
with my 0g, and set him upon the goats; but I was
mistaken, for they allfaced about upon the dog, and
he knew his danger too well, for he would not'come

'sirthms Ib f ' all h'hb'

anu . e my ence orw , w 1c , em
still jealhyus of my fig attacked by somebody, I reg
solved to make very thick and strong. I was no less
time than from the 3d of January to the 14th of April,
working, finishing, and perfecting this wall, though it
was no more than about twenty-four yards in length
being a half circle, from one place in the rock to an-
other place about eight yards trom it, the door of the-
cave being in the centre behind it.

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hinder-
ing me many days, nay, sometimes, weeks together;
but I thought I never should be perfectly secure till
this wall was finished: and it is scarcely credible what
inexpressible labour everything was done with, espe-
cially the bringing piles out of the woods, and drivmg
them into the ground ; for I made them much bigger
than I needed to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double
fenced, with a turf-wall raised up close to it, I per-
suaded myself, that; if any people were to come on
shore there, they would not perceive ' anything like a
habitation : and it was very well I did so, as may be
observed hereafter, upon a very remarkable occasion.

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods
for game every day, when the rain permitted me, and
made frequent discoveries in these walks of somethin
or other to my advantage; particularly I found a kin
of wild pigeon which build not as wood pigeons in a
tree, but rather as house-pigeons in the holes of the
rocks; and taking some young ones, I endeavoured to
breed them up tame, and did so ; but when they grew
older, they all flew away, which perhaps was at first
for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give
them : however, I frequently found their nests, and
got their young ones, which were very good meat.

And now, in the managing my household affairs, I
found myself wanting in many things, which I thought
at first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed as
to some of them it was : for instance, I could never
make a cask to be hooped. I had a small runlet or
two, as I observed before, but I could never arrive at
the capacity of making one by them, though I spent
many weeks about it; I could neither put in the heads,
nor join the staves so true to one another as to make
them hold water; so I gave that over also.

In the next place, I was at a great loss for candles:
so that as soon as it was dark, which was generally by
seven o'clock I was obliged to go to bed. I remem-
bered the lump of bees-wax, with which I made can-
dles in my African adventure; but I had none of that
now : the only remedy I had was, that when I had
killed a goat, I saved the tallow, and with a little dish
added a wick of some oakum, and made me a lamp : and
this gave me light, though not a clear steady light
like a candle. In the middle of all my labours it hap-

ened, that rummaging my things, I found a little
rag, which, as I hinted before, had- been: filled with
corn, for the feeding of poultry not for this voyage,
but before, as I suppose, when the ship came from
Lisbon: what little remainder of corn had been in the
bag, was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nothing
in the be but husks and dust; and being willing to
have the bag for some other use (I think it was to put
powder in, when I divided it for fear of the lightning,
or some such use), I shook the husks of corn out of
it, on one side of m fortification, under the rock.

It was a little be are the great rains, just now men-
tioned, that I threw this stufi' away, taking no notice
of anything, and not so much as remembering that I
had thrown anythin there; when about a month
after, or thereabouts, saw some few stalks of some-
thing green shooting up on the ground, which I fan-
cied might be some plant I had not seen ; but I was

rised, and perfectly astonished, when after, a
litt e longer time, I saw about ten or twelve cars come
out, which were perfect green barley, of the same
kind as our European, nay as our English barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion: I had
hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all; in-
deed I had very few notions of religion in my head,
nor had Ientertained any sense of anything that had be-
fallen me, otherwise than as a chance, or as we lightly
say, what pleases God; but now I thought these the
pure productions of Providence for my support.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be
sure, in their season, which was about the end of
June; and, laying up every com, I resolved to sow
them all again, hoping in time to have some quantifyl
sufficient to supply me with bread: but it was not '
the fourth year that I would allow myself the least
grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same
care, and whose use was of the same kind, or to the
same purpose ; viz. to make me bread, or rather food;
for I found ways to cook it up without baking, though
I did that also, after some time. But to return to my
journal.

I worked excessively hard these three or four months,
to get my wall done; and, the 14th of April, I closed
it up contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over
the wall, by a ladder, that there might be no sign on
the outside of my habitation.

April 16. I finished the ladder: so I went up with
the ladder to the top and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down on the outside. This was a complete
enclosure to me 3 for within I had room enough, and
nothing could come at me from without, unless it
could first mount my wall.

May 1. In the morning, looking towards the sea-
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the
shore, bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask;
when I came to it I found a small barrel, and two or
three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were
driven on shore by a luu'ricane; and looking towards
the wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher out
of the water than it used to do. I examined the bar-
rel which was driven on shore, and soon found it was
a barrel of gunpowder, but it had taken water, and
the powder was caked as hard as a stone; however, I
rolled it farther on shore for the present, and went on
upon the sands, as near as I could to the wreck of the
ship, to look for more.

When I came down to the ship, I found it strangely
removed: the fore-castle, which lay before buried in
the sand, was heaved up at least six feet - and the
stern, which was broken to pieces, and parted from
the rest by the force of the sea, soon after I had left
rummaging of her, was tossed, as it were, up, and cast
on one side; and the sand was thrown so high on that
side next the stern, and whereas there was a great place
of water before, so that I could not come within a
quarter of a mile of the wreck without swimming, I
could now walk quite up to her when the tide was out.
I was surprised with this at first, but soon concluded
it must be done by the earthquake, a violent shock of
which I had felt some days previously; and as by this
violence the ship was more broken upon than formerly,
so many things came daily on shore, which the sea
had loosened, and which the winds and water rolled
by degrees to the land.

Having resolved to pull every thing to pieces that I
could of the ship, concluding that every thing I could
get from her would be of some use or other to me--

May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a iece of a
beam through, which I thou ht held some 0 the upper
part, or, quarter-deck, toget er: and when I had cut
it through, I cleared away the sand as well as I could,
from the side which lay highest: but the tide coming
in I was obli ed to give over for that time.

I continue this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be'
when the tide was up, that I might be ready when it
was ebbed out: and by this time, I had gotten timber
and plank, and iron work enou h to have built a good
boat, if I had known how; an also I got at several
pieces, near one hundred weight of sheet-lead. '

June 16. Going down on the sea-side, I found a
large tortoise or turtle; this was the first I had sccny
which, it seems was only my misfortune; not any

defect of the place, or scarcity; for had I happened
to be on the other side of the island, I might have had

hundreds of them every day, - as I found afterwards :
but, perhaps, had paid dear enough for them.

i '
June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in
her threescore eggs; and her flesh was to me at that
time the most savoury and pleasant that ever I tasted
in my life, having had no flesh but of goats and fowls,
since I landed in this horrible place.

June 18. Rained all the day, so that I staid within.
I thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in that
latitude.

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.

June 20. No rest all night, violent pains in the head,
and feverish.

June 21. Very ill, frightened almost to death with
the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and
no help. Prayed to God, for the first time since the
storm off Hull; but scarce knew what I said, or why:
my thoughts bein all confused.

June 22. A litt e better; but under dreadful ap-
prehensions of sickness.

June 23. Very had again, cold and shivering, and
then a violent head-aceh.

June 24. Much better.

June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me
seven hours, cold fit and hot with faint sweats after it.

June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat
took my gun, but found myself very weak: however
I killed a she-goat, and, with much difficulty, got it
home, and broiled some of it, and ate it: I would fain
have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.

June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay a--bed
all day and neither ate nor drank. I was read to
perish for thirst, but so weak, I had not strengt to
stand up, or to get myself any water to drink; prayed
to God again, but was light-headed; and when I was

not I was so ignorant, that I knew not what to say ;

r"
only I lay and cried, ' Lord, look upon me! Lord,

ity me! Lord have mercy upon me !' I su pose
Idid nothing else for two or three hours, till t e fit
wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not awake till far in
the night. When I waked, I found myself much re-
freshed, but weak and exceedingly thirsty : however,
as I had no water in my whole habitation, I was
forced to lie till morning and went to sleep again. .

The good advice of my father now came to my
mind, and presently his prediction, which I mentioned
at the begmning of this story; viz. That, if I did
take this foolish step, God would not bless me, and I
should have leisure hereafter to reflect upon having
neglected his counsel, when there might be none to
assist me in my recovery. ' Now,' said I aloud, ' my
dear father's words are come to pass: God's justice
has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me.
I rejected the voice of Providence, whiclf had mer-
cifully put me in a posture or station 'of life wherein
I might have been happy and easy; but I would
neither see it myself, nor learn to know the blessing
of it from my parents: I left them to mourn over my
folly, and now I am left to mourn under the conse-
quences of it. I refused their help and assistance,
who would have lifted me into the world, and would
have made every thing easy tome: and now I have
difficulties to struggle with, too great for even nature
itself to su port, and no assistance, no help, no com-
fort, no ac vice.' Then I cried out, ' Lord, be my
help, for I am in great distress !'

This was the first prayer, if I might call it so, that
I had made for many years. But I return to my
journal.

J um 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with the
slccpI had had, and the fit being entirely off I got
up; and the first thing I did Ifilled a large square
case bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in
reach of my bed; and to take off the chill or agueish
disposition of the water, I put about a uarter of a
pint of turn into it, and mixed them toget er; then I
got me a piece of goat's flesh, and broiled it on the
coals, but could eat very little; I walked about, but
was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted,
in the sense of my miserable condition, dreading the
return of my distemper the next day: at night I
made my su per of three of the turtle's e gs wind) I
roasted in t e ashes, and ate, as we cafi it, in the
shell; and this was the first bit of meat I had ever
asked God's blessing to, that I could remember, in

my whole life.

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found my-
self so weak, that I could hardly carry the gun (for I
never went out without that) : so I went but a little way
and sat dovm upon the ground, looking out n on the
sea, which was just before me, and very m and
smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts as these
occurred to me.

What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much? Whence is it produced? And what am I,
and all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and
brutal, whence are we?

Such we are all made by some secret power, who
formed the earth and sea, the air and sky: and who
is that?

Then it followed most naturally : it is God that has
made it all. Well, but then it came on strongly: If
God has made all these things, he guides and governs
them all, and all things that concern them; for the
Being that could make all things, must certainly have
power to guide and direct them. * '

If so, nothing can happen in the great circuit of his
works, either without his knowledge or appointment.
And if nothing happens without his knowled , he
knows that I am here, and am in this dre con-
dition; and if nothing happens without his appoint-
ment, he has appointed all this to befal me.

Nothing occured to my tho hts to contradict any
of these conclusions; an there are it rested upon me
with the greater force, that it musts needs be, that God
has appointed all this to befal me ; that I was brought
to this miserable circumstance by his direction, he
having the sole power, not of me only, but of every
thing that happened in the world. Immediately it
followed,

Why has God done this to me ? What have I done
to be thus used?

My conscience presently1 checked me in that in-
quiry, as if I had blas emed; and methought, it
spoke to me like a voice, retch! dost thou ask 'what
t on hast done ! Look back upon a dreadful misspent

life, and ask thyself what thou hast done? Ask, why
is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed; Why wert
thou not drowned in Yarmouth roads? killed in the
fight when the ship was taken by the Shllee man of
war '2 devoured by wild beasts on the coasts of Africa ?
or, drowned here, when all the crew perished but
thyself? Dost thou ask, What have I done 'I
I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one
astonished, and had not a word to say, no, not to an-
swer myself; but rose up, pensive and sad, waiked
backto my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I
had been going to bed: but my thoughts were sad];I
disturbed, and I had no inclination to slee ; so I sat
down in my chair and lighted my lamp, or it began
to be dark. Now, as the apprehensions of the return
of my distemper terrified me very much, it occurred
to my thought that the Brazilians take no physio but
'their tobacco for almost all distemper: ; and had a
piece of roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which
was quite cured, and some also that was green, and
not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this
chest I found a cure both for soul and body. I Opened
the chest, and found what I looked for, viz. the to-
bacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there too,
I took out one of the Bibles which I had mentioned
before, and which to this time, I had not found leisure,
or so much as inclination, to look into: I say I took it
out, and brought both that and the tobacco with me to

the table.
What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to

my distemper, or whether it was good for me or not;
but I tried several experiments with it, as if I was re-
solved it should hit one way or other. I first took a
piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which
indeed, at first almost stupified my brain, the tobacco
being green and strong, and not having been much
used to it: then I took some. and stee ed it an hour
or two in rum, and resolved to take a ose of it when
I lay down; and lastly, I burnt some upon a an of
coals, and held my nose close over the smoke o it, as
long as I could bear it, as well for the heat as the
virtue of it, and I held it almost to suffocation.

In the interval of this operation, I took up the Bi-
ble, and began to read ; but my head was too much
disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading, at least at
that time : only, having opened the book casually, the
first words that occurred to me were these, ' Call on
me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify mc.'

The words were very apt to my case, and made
some impression upon my thoughts at the time of
reading them, though not so much as they did after-
ward; for, as for being delivered, the word had noU

nonmsox cruises. 81

sound, as I may say, to me; the thing was so remote,
so impossible in my apprehension of things, that I
began to say as the children of Israel did, when they
were promised flesh to eat, ' Can God spread a table
in the wilderness ?' So I began to say, Can God
himself deliver me from this place ? And as it was
not for many years that any hope appeared, this pre-
vailed very often upon my thoughts. But, however,
the words made a great impression upon me, and I
mused upon them very often. It grew now late, and
the tobacco had, as I said, dozed my head so much,
that I inclined to slee ; so I lefi my lamp burning in
the cave, lest I shoul want an thing in the night,
and went to bed: but before I y down, I did what
I never had done in all my life, I kneeled down, and
prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that, if I
called upon him in the day of trouble, he would de-
liver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer
was over, I drank the rum in which I had steeped the
tobacco, which was so strong and rank of the tobacco,
that indeed I could scarce get it down. Immediately
upon this I went to bed, and I found presently it flew
up into my head violently ; but I fell into a sound
sleep, and waked no more, till by the sun, it must ne-
cessarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon, the
next day :,nay, to this hour, I am partly of the opinion
that I slept all the next day and ni ht, and till almost
three the day after; for, otherwise, knew not how I
should lose a day out of my reckoning in the da s of
the week, as it appeared, some years after, I had one;
for if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the line,
I should have lost more than one day; but certainly,
I lost a day in my account, and I never knew which way.

Be that as it may, one way or other, when I awaked
Ifound myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits
11ver and cheerful. When I got up I was stronger
than Iwas the day before, and my stomach better;
for I was hungry, and in short, I had no fit the next
day, but continued much altered for the better. This
was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too far.
I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a brand-
goose, and brought them home, but was not very
forward to ate them; so I eat some more of the tur-
tles' eggs, which were very good. This evening I
renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did. me
good the day before, viz. the tobacco steeped in rum,
only I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew
any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke.
However, I was not so well the next day, which was
the lst of July, as I hoped I should have been; for I
had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was not much.

July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways,
and dosed myself with it as at first, and doubled the
quantity which I drank. '

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though I
did not recover my full strength for some weeks atter.
While I was thus gathering strength, my thoughts
ran exceedingly upon this Scripture,' ' I will deliver
thee; and the impossibility of my deliverance lay
much u n my mind, in bar of my ever expecting it.
But as was discouraging myself with such thoughts,
it occurred to my mind, that I pored so much upon
my deliverance from the main affliction, that I disre-
garded the deliverance I had received; and I was, as
it were, made to ask myself such questions as these :
viz. Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully too,
from sickness; from the most distressed condition
that could be, and that was so frightful to me 2 And
what notice had I taken of it? Had I done my part 2
God had delivered me: but I had not glorified him;
that is to sa , I had not owned and been thankful for
that as a de 'verance: and how could I expect greater
deliverance 11

This touched my heart very much, and immediately
I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud, for my
recovery from sickness.

July 4. In the morning, I took the Bible; and,
beginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to
read it, and imposed upon myself to read every morn-
ing and every night, not tying myself to a number of
chapters, but as long as m thoughts should engage
me. It was not long after set seriously to this work,
but I found my heart more deeply and sincerely
affected with the wickedness of my past life. The
impression of a dream revived, and the words 'All
these things have not brought thee to repentance,' ran
seriously in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging of
God to give me repentance, when it happened provi-
dentially, the very day, that reading the Scripture, I
came to the words, ' He is exalted a Prince, and a
Saviour, to give repentance, and to 've remission.'
I threw down the book, and, with my cart as well as
my hands lifted up to Heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of
joy, I cried out aloud. ' Jesus, thou Son of David,
Jesus, thou exalted Prince and Saviour, give me re-
pentance !' '

This was the first time that I could say, in the true
sense of the word, that I prayed in all my life; for
now I prayed with a sense of my condition, and with
a true Scripture view of hope, founded on the en-
cour ment of the word of God; and from this
time, may say, I began to have hope that God would
hear me.

Now I began to construe the words mentioned above
' Call on me, and I will deliver you,' in a different
sense from what I had ever done before :' for then I
had. no notion of any thing being called deliverance,
but my being delivered from the captivity I was in ;
for though I was indeed at large in the place, yet the
island was certainly a prison to me, and that in the
worst sense of the word ; but now I learned to take
it in another sense. Now, I looked back upon my
past life with such horror, and my sins ap cared so
dreadful, that my soul sought nothing of God but de-
liverance from the load of guilt that bore down all my
comfort. As for my solitary life it was nothing ; I did
not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think
of it : it was all of no consideration in comparison of
this ; and I add this part here, to hint to whoever
shall read it, that whenever they come to a true sense
of things, they will find deliverance from sin a much
greater blessing, than deliverance from affliction.

But, leaving this part, I return to my journal.

My condition began now to be, t on h not less
miserabl as to my way of living, yet muc easier to
my min ; and m thoughts being directed, by a con-
stant reading of t e Scriptures, and prayin to God, to
things of a higher nature, I had agreat d of comfort
within, which till now I knew nothing of. Also, as
my health and strength returned, I bestirred myself
to furnish myself- with every thing that I wanted, and
make my way of living as regular as I could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly
employed in walking about with my gun in my hand,
a little and a little at a time, as a man that was gather-
ing up his strength after a fit of sickness: for it is
hardly to be imagined, how low I was, and to what
weakness I was reduced. The application which I
made use of was perfectly new, and perha 5 what had
never cured an ague before; neither can recommend
it to any one to practise, by this e eriment; and
though it did carry off the fit, yet it rat er contributed
to weaken me: for I had frequent convulsions in my
nerves and limbs for some time.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten
months: all possibility of deliverance from this condi-
tion seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I
firmly believed that no human shape had ever set foot
upon that lace. Having now secured my habitation,
as I thoug t, fully to my mind, I had a great desire to
make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to
see what other productions I might find, which yet I
knew nothing of.

It was the 15th of July that I be an to take a more
particular survey of the island itse . I went u the
creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my on
shore. I found, after I came about two miles up,
that the tide did not flow any hi her, and that it was
no more than a little brook 0 running water, and
very fresh and good; but this being the dry season,
there was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least
not enough to run in any perceptible stream.

0n the bank of this brook, I found many pleasant
savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with
grass; and on the rising pares of them, next to the

igher grounds, where the water, as it might be sup-
posed, never overflowed, I found a great deal of

tobacco, een, and rowing to a great and very strong
stalk. T ere were givers other plants, which I had

no notion of, or understanding about; and might,
perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I could not

find out.
I searched for the Cassava root, which the Indians,

in all that climate, make their bread of ; but I could
find none. 'I saw large plants of aloes, but did not
then understand them. I saw several sugar-canes,
but wild, and for want of cultivation, im ect.

The next day the 16th, I went up t e same way

I
again : and, after going something farther than I had
gone the day before, I found the brook and the savan-
nas began to cease, and the country became more
woody than before. In this part I found different
fruits, and particularly I found melons upon the
ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the
trees: the vines had spread indeed over the trees, and
the clusters of grapes were just now in their prime,
very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery,
and I was exceedingly glad of them; but I was warned
by my experience, to eat sparingly of them, remem-
bering that when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating
of grapes killed several of our Englishmen, who were
slaves there, by throwing them into fluxes and fevers :
but I found an excellent use for these grapes; and
that was to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep
them as dried raisins are kept, which I thought would
be, as indeed they were, as wholesome, and as agree-
able to eat, when no grapes might be had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to
my habitation, which, by the way, was the first night,
as I might say, I had lain from home. In the night I
took my first contrivance, and got up into a tree,
where I slept well, and the next morning proceeded
upon my discovery, travelling near four miles, as I
might judge by the length of the valley, keeping still
duo north, with a ridge of hills on the south and north
side of me.

At the end of this march, I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west;
and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out of p
the side of the hill by me, ran the other way, that is,
due east: and the country appeared so fresh, so green,
so flourishing, everytbin being in a constant verdure,
or flourish of spring, t at it looked like a planted
garden.
I descended a little on the side of that delicious
valley, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure
(though mixed with other afflicting thoughts), to think
that this was all my own; that I was a king and lord of
all this country indefeasibly, and I had a right of pos-
session; and, if I could convey it, I might have it in
inheritance, as completely as any lord of a manor in
England. I saw ere abundance of cocoa-trees;
oran e, and lemon, and citron trees : but all wild, and
few caring any fruit, at least not then. However,
the green limes that I gathered were not only pleasant
to eat, but very wholesome; and I mixed their juice
afterwards with water, which made it very wholesome,
and very cool and refreshing.

I found now I had business enough to gather and
carry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well
of grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish myself for
the wet season, which I knew was a proaching.

In order to do this, I gathere a great heap of
grapes in one place, and a lesser heap in another
place, and a great parcel of limes and lemons in ano-
ther lace; and, taking a few of each with me, I tra-
velleg homeward, and resolved to come again, and
bring a bag or sack, or what I could make, to carry
the rest home.

Accordingly, having spent three days in my journey,
I came home (so 'I must now call my tent and my
cave); but, before I got thither, the grapes were
spoiled; the richness of the fruit, and the weight of
the juice, having broken them and bruised them, they
were good for little or nothing: as to the limes, they
were good, but I could brin but few.

The next day, being the 9th, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest;
but I was surprised, when coming to m heap of
grapes, which were so rich and fine when gathered
them, I found them all spread abroad, trod to pieces,
and dragged about, some here, some there, and
abundance eaten and devoured. By this, I concluded
there'were some wild creatures thereabouts, which had
done this; but what they were, I knew not.

However, as I found there was no laying them up
on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack; but
that one way they would be destro ed, and the other
way they would be crushed with t eir own weight, I
took another course; for I gathered a large quantity of
the grapes, and hung them upon the out-branches of
the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun;
and as for the limes, and lemons, I carried as many
back as I could well stand under.

When I came home from this journey, I contem-
plated, with great pleasure, the fruitfulness of that
valley, and the pleasantness of the situation, the se-
curit from storms on that side of the water, and the
woo ; and concluding that I had pitched upon a place
to fix my abode, which was, by far, the worst part of
the country. Upon the whole, I be n to consider of
removing my habitation, and to 100 out for a lace
equally safe as where I now was situate, if possib e, in
that pleasant fruitful part of the island.

This thought run long in my head, and I was ex-
ceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of
the place tempted me; but when I came to a nearer
view of it, and to consider that I was now by the sea-
side, where it was at least possible that something
might happen to my advantage, and that the same ill
fate which brought me hither, might bring some other
unhappy wretches to the same place; and though it
was scarce probable that any such thing should ever
happen, yet, to enclose myself among the hills and
woods, and to render such an affair not only impro-

bable, but impossible; and that therefore I ought not,
by any means to remove.
However, I was so enamoured with this place, that
I spent much of my time there, for the whole remain-
ing part of the month of July: and though, upon
second thoughts, I resolved as above, not to remove,
vet I built me alittle kind of a bower, and surrounded

 

it at adistance with a strong fence, being a double
hedge, as high as I could reach, well staked and filled
between with brushwood 3 and here I lay very secure,
sometimes two or three nights together, always ing
over it with a ladder, as before, so that l fancie now
I had m country house, and my sea-coast house; and
this war took me up to the beginning of Au t.

I had but newly finished my fence, and egan to
enjoy my labour, when the rains came on, and made
me stick close to my first habitation; for though I
had made me a tent like the other, with a piece of
a sail, and 8 read it very well, yet I had not the

shelter of a ' to keep me from storms, nor a cave
behind me to retreat into, when the rains were extra-
ordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjo myself. The
3rd of August, I found the grapes {had hung up
were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good
raisins of the sun; so I began to take them down from
the trees; and it was very happy that I did so, for
the rains which followed wou have spoiled them,
and I had lost the best part of my winter food; for I
had above two hundred large bunches of them. N o
sooner had I taken them all down, and carried most of
them home to my cave, but it began to rain; and from
hence, which was the 14th of August, it rained more
or less every day till the middle of October; and some-
times so violently, that Icould not stir out of my cave
for several days.

In this season, I was much surprised with the in-
crease of my family. I had been concerned for the
loss of one of my cats, who ran away from me, or, as
I thought, had been dead; and I heard no more tale
or tidings of her, till, to my astonishment, she came
home about the end of August with three kittens.

This was the more strange to me, because, though I
had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my gun,
yet I thought it was quite a difi'erent kind from our
European cats; yet the young cats were the same kind
of house-breed, like the old one; and both my cats
being females, I thought it very stran . But from
these three cats I afterwards came mi: so pestered
with cats, that I was forced to kill them like vermin,
or wild beasts, and to drive them from my house as
much as ssible.

From t e 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain,
so that I could not stir, and was now very careful not
to be much wet. In this confinement I be to be
straitened for food; but ventured out twice, one day
killed a goat; and the last day, which was the 26th,
found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me;
and my food was regulated thus: I eat a bunch of
raisins for my breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh,
or of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled (for, to my
great misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew any
thing); and two or three of the turtle's eggs for
an per.

urin this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked ' y two or three hours at enlarging my cave;
and, by degrees, worked it on towards one side, till I
came to the outside of the hill, and made a door or we
out, which came beyond my fence or wall, and so
came in and out this way. But I was not perfectly
easty at layin so open; for, as I had managed my-
ael before, was in a perfect enclosure; whereas
now I thou ht I lay exposed; and yet I could not r-
ceive that t ere was any living thing to fear, the ig-
gest creature that I had yet seen upon the island

eing a goat.

September the 30th. I was now come to the un-
happy anniversary of my landin . I cast up the
note es on my post, and found I been on shore
three hundre and sixty-five days. I kept this day
as a solemn fast, setting it apm to religious exercise,
prostrating myself on the ground with the most serious
umiliation, confessed my sins to God, acknowledging
his righteous judgments upon me, and praying to im
to have mercy on me, through Jesus Christ; and not
having tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours,
even till the going down of the sun, I then eat a biscuit
cake, and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finish-
ing the day as I began it.

I had all this time observed no Sabbath-day ; for as
at first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I
had after some time omitted to distinguish the
weeks, by making a longer notch than ordinary for the
Sabbath-day, and so did not really know what any of
the days were: but now having cast up the days as
above, I found I had been there a year, so 1 divided it
into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a
Sabbath ; though I found at the end of my amount, I
lost a day or two in my reckoning.

A little after this my ink began to fail me, and so I
contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write
down only the most remarkable events of my life,
whithout continuing a daily memorandum of other
t inos.

I 'x'nentioned before, that I had a great mind to see
the whole island, and that I had travelled up the
brook, and so on to where I had built my bower, and
where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the
other side of the island, I now resolved to travel
quite across to the sea-shore on that side; so taking my
gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of
powder and shot than usual, with two biscuit cakes,
and a great bunch of raisins in my ouch, for my
store, I began my journey. When I lad passed the
vale where my bower stood, as above, I came in view
of the sea, to the west; and it being a very clear day,
I fairly descried land, whether an island or a continent,

Hahn...>> --
I could not tell; but it lay very high, extending from
the west, to the W. S. W. at a very t distance:
by my guess it could not be less than en or twenty
le es of.

could not tell what of the world this might be,
otherwise than that I ew that it must be part of
America: and, as I concluded, by all my observations,
must be near the Spanish dominions, and erhaps was
all inhabited by savages, where, if I s ould have
landed, I had been in a worse condition than I was
now; and therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions of
Providence, which I be u now to own, and to be-
lieve, ordered everything or the best; I say, I uieted
my mind with this, and left afflicting my min with
fruitless wishes of being there.

Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I con-
sidered, that if this land was the Spanish coast, I
should some time or other see some vessels pass or
repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the
savage coast between the Spanish country and
Brazils, which were indeed the worst of savages, for
they are cannibals, or men-eaters, and fail not to
murder and devour all the human bodies that fall into
their hands.

With these considerations I walked ve leisurely
forward. I found that side of the island w ere I now
was much leasanter than mine, the open or
savannah fiel s sweet, adorned with flowers and s,
and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance 0 ar-
rots, and fain would I have caught one, if possi 1e,
to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak to
me. I did after some pains taken, catch a young
parrot; for I knocked it down with a stick, and having
recovered it, I brought it home, but it was some years
before I could make him speak. However, at last I
taught him to call me by my name very familiar.
But the accident that followed, though it be a trifle,-
will be very diverting in its place.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I
found in the low grounds, hares, as I thought them
to be, and foxes, but they differed greatly from all
other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy my-
self to eat them, though I killed several. But I had
no need to be venturous, for I had no want of food,
and of that which was very good too; especially these
three sorts, viz. goats, pigeon, and turtle or tortoise,
which added to my grapes,.Leadenhall market could
not have furnished a table better than I, in proportion
to the company. And though my case was deplorable-
enough, yet I ad great cause for thankfulness, that I
was not driven to any extremities for food, but had
rather plenty, even to danties.

I never travelled in this journe above two miles
outright in a day, or thereabouts; ut I took so many
turns and returns, to see what discoveries I could
make, that I came weary enough to the place where I
resolved to sit down for. all night ; and then I either re-
posed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a
row of stakes set upright in the ground, either from
one tree to another, so as no wild creature could come
at me, without waking me. .

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was surprised
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of
the island; for here indeed the shore was covered with
innumerable turtles; whereas on the other side I had
found but: hree in a year and a half. Here was al-
so an infimte number of fowls, of many kinds, some of
which I had seen, and some of which I had not seen
before, and many of them very good meat; but such
as I knew not the names of, except those called pen-
gums.

I could. have shot as many as I pleased, but was
very sparing of my powder and shot; and therefore
ha more mind to kill a she- oat, if I could, which I
could better feed on. And t rough there were many
goats here more than on my side of the island, yet it
was with much more difficulty that I could come near
them, the countr being flat and even, and they saw
me much sooner t an when I was on the hills.

I confess this side of the country much pleasanter
than mine, but yet I had not the least inchnation to
remove; for as I was fixed in my habitation, it be-
came natural to me; and I seemed all the while I was
here, to be, as it were, upon a journey, and from
home. However, I travelled along the shore of the
sea, towards the east, I suppose, about twelve miles;
and then settin up a great pole upon the shore, for a
mark, I conclu ed I would go hOme again; and that
the next journey I took, should be on the other side
of the island, east from . my dwellin , and so round,
till I came to my post again: of whic in its place.

I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much in
my view, that I could not miss finding my first dwel-
ling, by viewing the country: but I found myself
mistaken: for being come about two or three miles, I
found myself descended into a very large valle , but
so surrounded with hills, and those hills covere with
woods, that I could not see which was my way
by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then,
unless I knew very well the position of the sun at that
time of the day.

It happened to my farther misfortune, that the
weather proved hazy for three or four days, while I
was in this valley; and not being able to see the sun,
I wandered about very uncomfortable, and at last
was obliged to find out the sea-side, look for my post,
and come back the same way I went; and then, by
easy journeys, I turned homeward, the weather being
exceedingly hot; and my gun, ammunition, hatchet,
and other things, very heavy.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it; and I running in to take hold of it,
caught it, and saved it alive om the dog. I had a
great mind to bring it home, if I could; for I had
often been musing whether it might not be possible to
get a kid or two, and to raise a breed of tame goats,
which might supply me when my powder and shot

should be all spent.
I made a collar to this little creature, and with a

string, which I made of some rope-yarn, which I
always carried about me, I led him along, though with
some dificulty, till I came to my bower, and there I
enclosed him, and left him; for I was ve impatient
to be at home, from whence I had been a sent above
a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to
come into m old hutch, and lie down in my ham-
mock-bed. his little wandering journey, without
any settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant
to me, that m own house, as I called it to myself, was
a perfect sett ement to me, compared to that; and it
rendered everything about me so comfortable, that I
resolved I would never go a great way from it again,
while it should be my lot to stay on the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale my-
self after my long journey, during which, most of the
time was taken 11 in the weighty affair of making a
cage for my po , who began now to be a mere
domestic, and to be mighty well uninted with me.
Then I began to think of the poor 'd, which I had

ent in within my little circle, and resolved to go and
etch it home, or give it some food: accordingly -I

went, and found it where I left it, for indeed it could
not get out, but was almost starved for want of food.
I went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of such
shrubs as I could find, and threw it over; and having
fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away ; but it
was so tame with being hungry 'that I had no need
to have tied it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I
continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so
gentle, and so fond, that it was from that time
one of my domestics also, and would never leave me
afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the
same solemn manner as before, being the anniversary
of my landing on the island, having now been there
two years, and no more prospect of being delivered
than the first day I came there. I spent the whole
day in humble and thankful acknowledgments of the
many wonderful mercies which m solitary condition
was attended with, and without w 'ch it might have
been infinitely more miserable. I gave humble and
hearty thanks that God had been pleased to discover to
me, even that it was possible I might be more happy -
in this solitary condition, than I should have been in a
liberty of society, and in all the pleasures of the world;
that he could fully make up to me the deficiencies of
my solitary state, and the want of human society, by
his presence, and the communications of his grace to
my soul, supporting, comfortin , and encouraging me
to depend upon his providence ere, and hope for his
eternal presence hereafter.

It was now that I be sensibly to feel how
much more happy the life now led was, with all its
miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed,
abominable life I led all the past part of my days;
and now having changed both my sorrows and m joys,
my very desires altered, my affections changedy their
guests, and my delights were perfectly new, from what
they were at my first coming, or indeed for the two
years past.

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting, or
for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul at my
condition would break out upon me on a sudden, and
my very heart would die within me, to think of the
woods, the mountains, the deserts I was in: and how
I was a prisoner locked up with the eternal bars and
bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited wilderness, with-
out redemption. In the midst of the greatest com-
posures of mind, this w0uld break out upon me,
like a storm, and make me wring m hands, and weep
like a child. Sometimes it would, take me in the
middle of my work, and I would immediately sit down
and sigh, and look upon the ground for an hour or two
together, and this was still worse to me; for if I could
burst out into tears, or vent myself by words, it would
gp) off, and the grief, having exhausted itself, would
a ate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts. I daily read the word of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to my resent state. One morning,
being very sad, I opened t e Bible upon these words,
'I will never, never leave thee, nor forsake thee !'
immediately it occurred, that these words were to me ;
why else should they be directed in such a manner,
just at the moment when I was mourning over my
condition, as one forsaken of God and man ! ' Well,
then,' said I, ' if God does not forsake me, of what ill
consequence can it be, or what matters it, though the
world should all forsake me, seeing, on the other hand,
if I had all the world, and should lose the favour and
blessing of God, there would be no comparison in the

ass 2'
From this moment I began to conclude in mymind
that it was possible for me to be more happy in this
forsaken, so 'tary condition, than it was robable I
' should have ever been in any other partic ar state in
the world; and with this thought, I was going to
give thanks to God for bringing me to this place.

I was now in the months of November and Decem-
ber, ex ecting my crop of barley and rice. The
ground had manured or dug up for them was not
great; for my seed of each was not above the quantity
of half a peck, for I had lost one whole crop by sow-
ing in the dry season, but now my crop promised very
well, when, on a sudden, I found I was in danger of
losing it all again, by enemies of several sorts, which
it was scarcely possible to keep from it; as first, the
goats, and Wild creatures which I called hares, who,
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and
day, as soon as it came up, and ate it so close that it
could get no time to shoot up into stalk.

This I saw no remedy for, but by making an en-
closure about it with a hedge, which I did with a great
deal of toil, and the more because it required speed,
the creatures daily Spoiling my corn. However, as
my arable land was but small, suited to m crop, I
got it tolerably well fenced in about three wee s' time;
and shooting some of the creatures in the day-time, I
set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him 11 to
a stake at the gate, where he would stand and bar all
night long; so, in a little time, the enemies forsook
the place, and the corn grew very strong and well,

and began to ripen apace.
But, as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn

was in the blade, so the birds were likely to rum
me now, when it was in the ear; for going along by
the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop
surrounded with fowls, of I know not how many sorts,
who stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone.
I immediately let fly among them (for I always had
my gun with me). I had no sooner shot, but there ,
rose up a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at
all, from among the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly: for I foresaw that, in a
few da 3, they would devour all my hopes; that I
should e starved, and never be able to raise a cm at
all; and what to do I could not tell. However, re-
solved not to lose my corn, if possible, thou h I
should watch it night and day. In the first p see,
I went among it to see what damage was already done,
and found they had spoiled a good deal of it; but that,
as it was yet too green for them, the loss was not so
great, but that the remainder was likely to be a good
crolp, if it could be saved.

staid by it to load my gun, and then coming away,
I could easily see the thieves sitting u on all the trees
about me, as if they only waited till was gone away,
and the event proved it to be so; for as I walked off
as if I were gone, I was no sooner out of their sight,
but they dropped down, one by one, into the corn again.
I was so provoked, that I could not have patience to
stay till more came on, knowin that every grain that
they eat now, was, as it might e said, a peck loaf to
me in the consequences; but, coming up to the hedge,
I fired again, and killed three of them. This was
what I wished for; so I took them up, and served
them as we serve notorious thieves in England, viz.
hanging them in chains for a terror to others. It is
almost impossible to imagine that this should have
such an effect as it had; for the fowls would not on]
not come at the corn, but, in short, they forsook
that part of the island, and I could never see a bird
near the place as long as my scarecrows hung there.

This I was very lad of, you may be sure; and,
about the latter en of December, which was our
second harvest of the year, I reaped my crop.
I was sadly aplut to it for a scythe, or a sickle, to cut
it down, and I could do was to make one as well as
I could, out of one of the broad-swords, or cutlasses,
which I saved among the arms out of the ship. How-
ever, as my cm was but small, I had no great diffi-
culty to cut it own. In short, I reaped it my way;
for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it away
in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed it
out with my hands. And at the end of all nly harvest-
ing, I found that out of my half peek of seed, I had
near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and a
half of barley; that is to say, by my guess, for I had
no measure at that time.

However, this was a great encouragement to me;
and I foresaw that, in time, it would please God to
supply me with bread. And yet here I was perplexed
aoam, for I neither knew how to grind or make meal
of my corn, or indeed how to clean it, and art it;
nor, if made into meal, how to make bread 0 it, at
I knew not how to bake it. These things being ad ed
to my desire of having a good quantity for store, and
to secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any
of this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the
next season, and, in the meantime, to employ all my
study and hours of werking to accomplish this great
work of providing myself With corn and bread.

When my corn was growing and grown, I have
observed how many things I wanted, to fence it, se-
cure it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it home, thresh,
part it from the chaff, and save it. Then I wanted a
mill to grind it, sieves to dress 1t, yeast and salt to-
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it in; and.
yet all these things I did without, as shall be observed;
and the corn was an inestimable comfort and ad-
vantage to me too. All this, as I said, made every
thing laborious and tedious to me, but that there was

I
no help for: neither was my time so much loss to me,
because as I had divided it, a certain part of it was
every day appointed to these works; and, as I re-
solved to use none of the corn for bread, till I had a
greater quanti by me, I had the next six months to
apply myselfw 011 by labour and invention to furnish
myself with utens' s prOper for the performing all the
operations, necessary for the making the corn, when I
had it fit for my use.

But first, I was to repare more land, for I had now
seed enough to sow a ve an acre of ground. Before
I did this, I had a week's work at least to make me a
spade, which, when it was done, was but a sorry one
indeed, and very heavy, and required double labour to
work with it. However, I went through that, and
sowed m seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as
near my ouse as I could find them to my mind, and
fenced them in with a good hedge, the stakes of which
were all cut of that wood which I had set before,
which I knew would ow ; so that, in one year's
time, I knew I should ave a quick or living hedge,
that would want but little repair. This work was not
so little as to take me up less than three months, be-
cause eat part of that time was of the wet seasons
when could not go abroad. _

Within-doors, that is, when it rained, and I could
not go out, I found employment on the following oc-
casions; always observmg, that all the while I was at
work, I diverted myself With talking to my parrot, and
teaching him to speak; and I quickly taught him to
know his own name, at last to s eak it out pretty loud
' Poll 5' which was the first word had ever heard spoken
in the island by any mouth but my own. This, there-
fore, was not my work, but an assistant to my work;
for now, as I said, I had a great employment upon my
hands, as follows viz... I had long studied, by some.- nu--vvm--

aosmsorz causes. 103

means or other, to make myself some earthern vessels,
which indeed I wanted sorely, but knew not where to
come at them. However, considering the heat of the
climate, I did not doubt but, if I could find out any
such clay, I might botch up some such pot, as might,
being dried in the sun, be hard enough, and strong
enough, to bear handling, and to hold an thing that
was dry, and required to be kept so ; an as this was
necessary in preparing corn, meal, &c. which was the
thing Iwas upon, I resolved to make some as large as
I could, and fit only to stand like jars to hold what
should be ut into them. :

It woul make the reader pity me, or rather laugh
at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to raise
this paste; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I made;
how many of them fell in, and how many fell out,
the clay not being stifi' enough to bear its own weight:
how many cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun,
being set out too hastily; and how many fell to pieces
with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried: and, in a word, how, after having laboured
hard to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring
it home, and work it, I could not make above two
large, earthen, ugly things, I cannot call them jars, in
about two months labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gent] up, and set them down
again in two great wicker-has ets, which I had made
on pu se for them, that they might not break;
and as etween the t and the basket there was a lit-
tle room to spare, stufi'ed it full of the rice and bar-
ley straw; and these two ts, being to stand always
dry, I thought would hol my dry corn, and perhaps
the meal when the corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for
large pots, yet I made several smaller things with bet-
ter success; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, and anything my hand turned to ;
and the heat of the sun baked them extremely hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which
was to get an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and
bear the fire, which none of these could do. It h?)-
pened after some time, making a pretty large fire or
cooking my meat, when I went to put it out, after I
had done with it, I found a broken piece of one of my
earthenware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a
stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised to
see it, and said to myself, that certainly they might be
made to burn whole, if they would burn broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as to
make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of a
kiln, such as the tters burn in, or of glazing them
with lead, though had some lead to do it with; but I
placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots, in a
pile one upon another, and placed my fire-wood all
round it With a great heap of embers under them. I
piled the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and
upon the tow, till I saw the pots in the inside red-hot
quite through, and observed they did not crack at all.
When I saw them a clear red, I let them stand in that
heat about five or six hours, till I found one of them,
though it did not crack, did melt or run; for the sand
which was mixed with the clay melted with the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, if I
had one on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till the
pots egan to abate of the red colour, and watching
them all night, that I might not let the fire abate too
fast, in the morning I had three very good, I will not
say handsome pipkins, and two other earthenpots, as
hard burnt as could be desired; and one of them per"
fs-ctly glazed with the running of the sand.

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted
no sort of earthenware for my use; but I must needs
say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indiffe-
rent, as anyone may suppose, when I had no way of
making them, but as the children make dirt-pies, or
as a woman would make pies that never learnt to raise
paste.

No joy at a thin of so mean a nature was ever
equal to mine, when found I had made an earthen
pot that would bear the fire; and I had hardly pa-
tience to stay till they were cold, before I set one upon
the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me some
meat, which it did admirably well; and, with a piece
of kid, I made some very good broth, though I
wanted oatmeal, and several other in dients requisite
to make it as good as I would have ad it.

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to
stamp or beat some corn in; for as to the mill, there
was no thought of arrivin to that perfection of art
with one pair of hands. 0 supply this want I was
at a great loss: for, of all trades m the world, I was as
perfectly unqualified for a stone-cutter, as for anything
whatever: neither had I any tools to go about it with.
I spent many a day to find out a great stone bi
enough to cut hollow, and make fit for a mortar, am
could find none at all. except what was in the solid
rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out; nor
indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness suffi-
cient, but were of a sandy crumbling stone, which
would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor
would break the corn without filling it with sand. So,
after a great deal of time lost in searching for a stone,
I gave it over, and resolved to look for a great block
of hard wood, which I found indeed much easier; and
getting one as big as I had stren h to stir, I rounded
it. an formed it on the outsi e with my axe and
hatchet; and then. with the help of fire, and infinite
labour, made a hollow place in it, as the Indians in
Brazil make their canoes. After this I made a great
heavy pestle or heater, of the wood called the iron-
wood, and this I prepared and laid by against I had
my next crop of corn, when I proposed to myself to
grind, or rather pound, my corn into meal, to make
my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or scarce,
to dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the
husk without which I did not see it possible I could
have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, so
much as but to think on; for, to be sure, I had no-
thing like the necessary thing to make it with, I mean
fine thin canvass, or stuff to searce the meal through.
And here I was at a full stop for man months; nor
did I really know what to do: linen had none left,
but what was mere rags. I had goat's hair, but nei-
ther knew I how to weave or spin it; and had I
known how, here were no tools to work it with: all
the remedy that I found for this, was, that at last I
did remember I had, among the seamen's clothes,
which were saved out of the ship, some neckcloths of
calico or muslin; and with some pieces of these I
made three small sieves, but proper enough for the
work: and thus I made shift for some years. How I
did afterwards, I shall show in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when I came to have
corn; for, first, I had no yeast. As to that part; as
there was no supplying the want, so I did not concern
myself much about it; but for an oven, I was indeed
in great pain. At length I found out an expedient
for that also, which was this: I made some earthen
vessels, very broad, but not deep; that is to say, about
two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep:
these I burnt in the fire, as I had done the other, and
laid them by, and when I wanted to bake, I made a
great fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with
some square tiles, of my own making and burning
also: but I should not call them square.

When the fire-wood was burnt pretty much into
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon this
hearth so as to cover it all over; and there I let them
lie, till the hearth was very hot; then sweeping away
all the embers, I set down my loaf and loaves, and,
whelmino down the earthen pot upon them, drew the
embers all round the outside of the pot to keep in,
and add to the heat; and thus as well as in the best
oven in the world, I baked my barley-loaves, and be-
came, in a little time, a mere pastry--cook into the
bargain; for I made m self several cakes of the rice,
and puddings: indeed made no pies, neither had I
any thing to put into them, supposing I had, except
the flesh either of fowls or goats.

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took
me up most part of the third year of my abode here:
for it is to be observed, that, in the intervals of these
things, I had my new harvest and husbandry to man-
age, for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried it
home as well as I could, and laid it up in the ear, in
my large baskets, till I had time to rub it out; for I
hadhno floor to thresh it on, or instrument to thresh it
wrt .

And now indeed my stock of corn increasing, I
really wanted to build my barns bigger. I wanted a
place to lay it up in; for the increase of the corn now
yielded me so much, that I had of barley about twen
bushels, and of the rice as much, or more; insomuc
that now I resolved to begin to use it freely, for my
bread had been quite gone a great while; also I re-
solved to see what quantity would be sufficient for me
a Whole year, and to sow but once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of
barley and rice were much more than I could consume
in a year; so I resolved to sow just the same quantity
every year that I sowed the last, in h0pes that such a
quantity would fully provide me With bread, &c.

All the while these things were doing you may be
sure my thoughts ran many times upon the rospect
of land, which I had seen from the other side of the
island; and I was not without secret wishes that I
were on shore there, fancying that seeing the main
land, and an inhabited country, I might find some
way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at
last find some means of escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the dan-
gers of such a condition, and how I might fall into the
hands of savages, and perhaps such as I might have
reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers of
Africa: if I once came into their power, I should
run a hazard more than a thousand to one of being
killed, and perha s of being eaten; for I had heard,
that the people 0 the Carribean coast were cannibals,
or men-eaters: and I knew by the latitude, that I
could not be far off from that shore; that, suppose
they were not cannibals, yet they mi ht kill me, as
many Europeans who had fallen into t eir hands had
been served, even when they had been ten or twenty
together; much more I that was but one, and could
make little or no defence. All these thinos, I say
which I ought to have considered well of, and did cast
up in my thoughts afterward, yet took up none of my
apprehensions at first; and my head ran mightily
upon the thought of getting over to that shore.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat,
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but
this was in vain. Then I thought I would go and
look at our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was
blown up upon t e shore, a great way, in the storm,
and we were first cast away. She lay almost where
she did at first, but not (Luite: and was turned, by the
force of the waves and t e winds, almost bottom up-
wards, against a high ridge of beachy rough sand, but
no water about her, as before.

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have
launched her into the water, the boat would have done
well enough, and I might have gone back into the
Brazils with her easily enough: but I might have
easily foreseen that I could no more turn her, and set
her 11 right upon her bottom, than I could remove the
islan . However, I went to the woods, and cut levers
and rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolved to
try what I could do, suggesting to myself, that if I
could but turn her down, I might easily repair the
damage she had received, and she would be a very
good boat, and I might go to sea in her very easily.

I spared no pains indeed in this piece of frurtless
toil, and spent, think, three or four weeks about it:
at last, finding it impossible to heave it up with my
little strength, I fell to dig away the sand to un-
dermine it, and so to make it all down, setting pieces
of wood to thrust and guide it right in the fall.

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up
again, or get under it, much less to move it forward
towards the water; so I was forced to give it over:
and yet, though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my
desire to venture over for the main increased, rather
than decreased, as the means for it seemed impossible.

This at length set me uponpthinking, whether it was
not possible to make myselfa canoe, or periagua, such
as the natives of those climates make; even without
tools, or, as I might say, without hands; viz., of the
trunk of a great tree. This I not only thought possi-
ble, but eas ; and pleased myself extremely with the
thoughts 0 making it, and with my having much more
convenience for it than any of the negroes or Indians,
but not at all considering the particular inconveniences
which I lay under more than the Indians did, viz.
want of hands to move it into the water, when it was
made: a difficulty much harder for me to surmount,
than all the consequences of want of tools could be to
them; for what was it to me, that when I had chosen

 

a vast tree in the woods, I might with great trouble
cut it down, if after I might be able with m tools to
hue and dub the outside into the proper s ape of a
boat, and burn or .cut out the inside to make it hollow,
so to make a boat of it, if, after all this, I must leave it
iust where I found it, and was not able to launch it into
the water?

One would have thought, I could not have had the
least affection upon my mind of my circumstances,
while I was making this boat, but I should have im-
mediately thought how I should get it into the sea;
but my thoughts were so intent upon my voyage over
the sea in it, that I never once consrdercd how I
should get it off the land; and it was really, in its own
nature, more easy for me to guide it over forty-five
miles of sea, than about forty-five fathom of land, where
it lay, to set it afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did who had any of his senses awake.
I pleased myself with the design, without determining
whether I was ever able to undertake it: not but that
the difficulty of launching my boat came often into my
head; but I put a stop to my own enquiries into it, by
this foolish answer, which I ve myself; ' Let me first
make it, I'll warrant I'll fin some way or other to get
it along, when it is done.'

This was a most preposterous method; but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to workI went,
and felled a cedar-tree. I uestion much whether
Solomon ever had such a one or the building the tem-
ple at Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches diameter,
at the lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven
inches diameter, at the end of twenty-two feet; after
which, it lessened for a while, and then arted into
into branches. It was not without infinite a ur that I
felled this tree. I was twenty days hacking and hew-
iilg it at the bottom: I was fourteen more gettmg
the branches, and limbs, and the vast s reading head of
it cut off, which I hacked and hewed t rough With my
axe and hatchet, and inexpressible labour. After this
it cost me a month to shape it, and dub it to a propor-
tion, and to something like the bottom of a boat, that
it might swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me
near three months more to clear the inside, and work
it out so as to make an exact boat of it. This I did
indeed without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by
the dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to be a very
handsome periagua, and big enough to have carried
six-and-twenty men, and consequently big enough to
have carried me and all my cargo.

When I had gone through this work, I was ex-
tremely delighted with it. The boat was really much
bigger than I ever saw a canoe, or pariagua, that was
made of one tree, in my life; many a weary stroke it
had cost, you may be sure, and there remained no-
thing but to get it into the water; and had I gotten it
into the water, I make no question but I should have
begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to
be performed, that ever was undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me,
though they cost me infinite labour too: it lay about
one hundred yards from the water, and not more;
but the first inconvenience was, it was uphill towards
the creek. Well, to take away this discouragement,
I resolved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so
make a declivity. This I began and it cost me a pro-
digious deal of pains; but who grudge ains that have
their deliverance in view? But when t is was worked
through, and this difficulty managed, it was still much
at one; for I could no more stir the canoe, than I
could the other boat.

Then I measured the distance of ground, and re-
solved to cut a dock, or canal, to bring the water up to
the canoe, seeing that I could not bring the canoe
down to the water. Well, I begun this work, and
when I begun to enter into it, and calculated how deep
it was to be duO, how broad, how the stuff was to be
thrown out, I fimnd that, by the number of hands ~ I
had, being none but my own, it must have been ten
or twelve years before I should have gone through
with it; for the shore lay high, so that at the upper
end it must have been at least twenty feet deep; so at
length, though with great reluctancy, Igave this at-
tempt over also. -

This grieved me heartily ; and now I saw, though too
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the
cost, and before we judge rightly of our own strength
to 0 through with it.

n the middle of this work, I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with the
same devotion and with as much comfort, as ever be-
fore; for by a constant study, and a serious applica-
tion of the word of God, and by the assistance of his
grace I gained a different knowledge from what I had

efore. I entertained different notions of things. I
looked now upon the world as a thing remote, which
I had nothing to do with, no e ectation from, and in-
deed no desire about; in a war , I had nothing indeed
to do with it, nor was ever like to have, so I thought
it looked, as we erhaps may look upon it hereafter;
viz. as a place I had lived in, but was come out of it ;
and well might I say as father Abraham to Dives,
' Between me and thee is a great gulf fixed.'

In the first place, I was removed from all the
wickedness of the world here. I had neither the 'lust
of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride of life.'
I had nothing to covet; for I had all I was capable of
enjoying: I was lord of the whole manor, or, if I
pleased, I might call m self King or emperor over the
whole country which I ad possession of. There were
no rivals. I had no competitor; none to dispute
sovereignty or command with me. I might have
raised shi -loads of corn but I had no use for it, so
I let ash tle grow as I thought enough for my oc-
casion. I had tortoises or turtles enough; but now
and then one was as much as I could put to any use.
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships. - I
had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have
cured into raisins, to have loaded that fleet when they
had been built.

But all that I could make use of, was all that was
valuable. I had enough to eat, and to supp y my
wants, and what was all the rest to me? If killed
more flesh than I could eat, the (log must eat it, or
the vermin? if I sowed more corn than I could eat,
it must be spoiled. The trees that I cut down were
lying to rot on the ground, I could make no more use
of them than for fuel : and that I had no occasion for,
but to dress my food.

These reflections made me very sensible of the
goodness of Providence to me, and ver thankful for
my present condition, with all its hards ips and mis-
fortunes.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being
entirely composed, by resigning to the will of God,
and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of his
providence. This made my life better than sociable;
for when I began to regret the want of conversation,
I would ask myself, whether thus conversing mutually
with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I may say, with
even my Maker, by ejaculations and petitions, was
not better than the utmost enjoyment of human
society in the world?

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened to me; but I lived on in the
posture and place just as before. The chief thing I
was employed in, besides my yearly labour of plantmg
my barley and rice, and curing my raisins, of both
which I always kept up just enough to have suf-
ficient stock of one year's provisions before-hand;
I say, besides this yearly labour, and my daily labour
of going out with my gun, I had one labour to make
me a canoe, which at last I finished. So that by dig-
ging a canal to it six feet wide and four feet deep, I
brought it into the creek-almost half a mile. As for
the first, that was so vastly big, as I made it without
considering before-hand as I ought to do, how I
should be able to launch it, so never beino able to bringl
it to the water, or bring the water to it,OI was oblige
to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach
me to be wiser next time. Indeed the next time,
though I could not get a tree proper for it, and was in
a place where I could not get the>> water to it, at any
less distance than, as I have said, of nearly half a mile,
yet as I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it
over; and though I was near two years about it, yet I
never grudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat
to go off to sea in at last.

However, though my little periagua was finished, yet
the size of it was not at all answerable to the design
which I had in view, when I made the first, I mean of
venturing over to the terra firma, where it was above
forty miles broad : accordingly, the smallness of my boat
assisted to put an end to that design, and now I thought
no more of it. But as I had a boat, my next desngn
was to make a tour round the island; for as I had
been on the other side in one lace, crossing as I have
already described it, over the and, so the discoveries I
made in that journey made me very eager to see other
parts of the coast; and now I had a boat I thought of
nothing but sailing round the island.

For this purpose, and that I might do every thing
with discretion and consideration, I 'fitted up a little
mast to my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of
the pieces of the ship's sail, which lay in store, and of
which I had a cat stock by me.

Having fitte my mast and sail, and tried the boat,
I found she would sail very well. Then I made little
lockers or boxes at either end of my boat, to put pro-
visions, necessaries, and ammunition, &c. into, to be
kept dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea, and
a little long hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat,
where I could lay my gun, making a flap to hang over
it to keep it dry.

I fixed an umbrella of my own manufacture also
in a step of the stern, like a mast, to stand over my
head, and to keep the heat of the sun off me, like an
awning; and thus I every now and then took a little
voyage upon the sea, but never went far out, nor far
from the little creek.

I was something impatient, to have the use of my
boat, though very loath to run any hazards; and
therefore sometimes I sat contriving ways to get her
about the island, and at other times I sat myself down
contented enough without her. But I had a strange
uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of ,the
island, where, as I have said, in my last ramble, I
went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the
current sat, that I might see what I had to do. This
inclination increased upon me every day, and at length
I resolved to travel thither by land; and, following
the edge of the shore, I did so; but had any one in
England been to meet such a man as I was, it must
either have frightened him, or raised a great deal of
laughter; and as I frequently stood still to look at
myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my
travelling through Yorkshire with such an equipage,
and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of

my figure as follows:
I had a great, high shapeless cap, made of a goat's
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to keep
the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off from running
into my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these cli-
mates, as the rain upon the flesh under the clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middle of my thighs; and a pair of
open knee'd breeches of the same : the breeches were
made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung
down such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons,
it reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings and
shoes I had none; but I had made me a air of some-
thing, I scarce knew what to call them, 'ke buskins,
to flap over my legs, and lace on either side like s at-
terdishes, but of a most barbarous shape, as in eed
were all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I
drew together with two thongs of the same, instead of
buckles; and, in a kind of a frog, on either side of
this, instead of a sword and a dagger, hung a little
saw and a hatchet, one on one side, one on the other.
I had another belt not so broad, and fastened in the
same manner, which hun over my shoulder; and at
the end of it, under mydeft arm, hung two pouches,
both made of goat's skin too: in one of which bung
my powder, in the other my shot. At my back
carried my basket, on my shoulder a , and over
my head a great clumsy, ugly, goat's-s 'n umbrella,
but which, after all, was the most necessary thing I had
about me, next to my gun. As for my face, .the
colour of it was really not so Mulatto-like as one might
expect from a man not at all careful of it, and livmg
within nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My hear
I had once sufl'ered to grow till it was about a quarter
of a yard long; but as I had both scissors and razors

sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew
on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a large
pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had seen worn
by some Turks, whom I saw at Sallee; for the Moors
did not wear such, though the Turks did. Of these
mustachios, or whiskers, I will not say they were long
enough to hang my hat upon them; but they were of
a length and shape monstrous enough, and such as in
England would have passed for frightful.

But all this is by the bye: for as to my figure, I
had so few to observe me, that it was of no manner of
consequence; so I say no more to that part. In this
kind of figure I went my new journey, and was out
five or six days. I travelled first along the sea-shore,
directly to the place where I first brought my boat to
anchor, to get up upon the rocks; and, having no boat
now to take care of, I went over the land a nearer way,
to the same height that I was upon before, when look-
ing forward to the point of the rocks which lay out,
and which I was to double with my boat, as I said
above, I was surprised to see the sea all smooth and

quiet: no rippling, no motion, no current, any more
there than in other places. -

I was at a strange loss to understand this, and re-
solved to spend some time in observing it, to see if
nothing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it.
But I was presently convinced how it was, viz. that
the tide of ebb setting from the west, and joining with
the current of waters from some great river on the
shore, must be the occasion of this current: and that,
. according as the wind blew more forcibly from the
west, or from the north, this current came near, or
went farther from the shore; for, waiting thereabouts
till evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the
tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current
again as before, only that it ran farther off, being near
half a league from the shore; whereas, in my case, it
set close upon the shore, and hurried me in my canoe,
along with it, which at another time it would not have
done.

This observation convinced me, that I had nothing
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again; but when I began to think of putting it
into practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at
the remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I
could not think of it again with any patience; but, on
the contrary, I took up another resolution, which was
more safe, though more laborious, and this was, that
I would build, or rather make me another periagua,

or canoe, and so have one for one side of the island,
and one for the other.

You are to understand that now I had, as I may
call it, two plantations in the island; .one, my little
fortification or tent, with the wall about it under the
rock, with the cave behind me, which, by this time I
had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one
within another. One of these, which was the driest
and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall or
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall
joined to the rock, was all filled up with large eathern

ots, of which I have given an account, and with
ourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold
five or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores of
provisions, especially my corn, some in the ear cut 03'
short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with
my hand.

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes
or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by
this time grown so big, and spread so very much, that

there was not the least ap arance, to any one's view,
of any habitation behind t em.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther
within the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two
pieces of corn ground, which I kept duly cultivated
and sowed, and which duly ~yeilded me their harvest
in its seasons; and whenever I had occations for more
com, I had more land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now
a tolerable plantation there also. For, first, I had my
little bower, as I called it, which I I kept in repair;
that is to say, I kept the hedge which circled it in
constantly fitted u ) to its usual height, the ladder
standing always in t e inside. I kept the trees, which
at first were no more than my stakes, but were now
grown very firm and tall; I kept them always so cut,
that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which they did effec-
tually to my mind. In the middle of this I had my
tent always standing, being a piece of a sale spread
over poles set up for that purpose, and which never
wanted any repair or renewrng ; and under this I had
made me a squab or couch, with the skins of the
creatures I had killed, and with other soft things, and
a blanket laid on them, such 'as belonged to our sea-
bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to
cover me: and here, whenever I had occasion to be
absent from my chief seat, I took up my country
habitation.

Adjoining to this, I had my enclosures for my cattle,
that is to say, my goats: and as I had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground,
I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, less the goats
should break through, that I never left off, till,
with infinite labour, I had stuck the outside of the
hedges so full of small stakes, and so near to one an-
other, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and
there was scarce room to put my hand through between
them, which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as
they all did in the next rainy season, made the inclo-
sure strong like a wall, indeed stronger than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that
I spared no pains to bring to pass what ever a peared
necessary for my comfortable support; for consi-
dered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus
at my hand, would be a living magazine of flesh, milk,
butter, and cheese for me, as long as I lived in the
place,if it were to be forty years; and that keeping
them within my reach, depended entirely u on my
perfecting m enclosures to such a degree that might
be sure of ee ing them together; which by this
method indeed so effectually secured, that when
these little stakes began to grow, I had planted them
so very thick I was forced to pull some of them up
a .

gin: this lace also I had my grapes growing, which
I principa 1y depended on for my winter-store of
raisins, ' and which I never failed to preserve 'very
carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of my
whole diet; and indeed they were not agreeable only,
but physical, wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing
to the last degree.

As this was also about half way between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid u my boat,
I generally staid and lay here in my way t 'ther ; for
I used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all things
about or belonging to her in very good order. Some-
times I went out in her to divert myself; but not any
hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever above
a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so appre-
hensive of being hurried out of my knowledge by
the currents, or winds, or by other accident. But now
I come to a new scene of my life.

It happened one day about noon, goingl towards my
boat, I was exceedingly surprised Wlth t e print of a
122 ROBINSON CRUSOE.

man's naked foot on the shore, which was very plain
to be seen in the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck,

 

or as if I had seen an apparition. I listened, I looked
round me : I could hear nothing, nor see any thing.
I went u to the rising ground to look farther. I
went up t e shore, and down the shore, but it was all
one; I could see no other impression but that one.
I went to it again to see if there were any more, and
to observe if it mi ht not be my fancv; but there was
no room for that, or there was exactly the very print
of a foot, toes, heel, and every part of a foot : how it
came thither, I knew not, nor could in the least im-
agine. But after innumerable fluttering thoughts,
like a man perfectly confused and out of myself, I
came home to my fortification, not feeling, as we say,
the ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree,
looking behind me at every two or three steps, mis-
taking every bush and tree, and fancying every stump
at a ( istance to be a man. Nor is it possible to de-
scribe how many various shapes an affrighted im-
agination represented things to me in; how many
wild ideas were formed every moment in my fancy,
and what strange unaccountable whimsies came into
my thoughts by the way.

When I came to my castle, for so I think I called
it ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued:
whether I went over by the ladder, as first contrived,
or went in at the hole in the rock, which I called a
door, I cannot remember; for never frighted hare
fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of mind
than I to this retreat.

I had no sleep that night. The farther I was from
the occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehen-
sions were; which is something contrary to the nature
of such things, and es ecially to the usual practice of
all creatures in fear. But I was so embarrassed with
my own frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed
nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even though
I was now a great way off it.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue
me, that it must be some of the savages of the main
land over against me, who had wandered out to sea in
their canoes, and, either driven b the current, or by
contrary winds, had made the is and; and had been
on shore, but gone away again to sea, being as loath,
perhaps, to have staid in this desolate island, as I
would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind,' for I had

121 aonmsort causon.

I was very thankful in m thoughts, and I was so
happy as not to be therea outs at that time, or that
they did not see my boat, by which they would have
concluded, that some inhabitants had been in the place,
and perhaps have searched farther for me. Then
terrible thouohts racked my imaginations about their
having found my boat, and there were eople here;
and that, if so, I should certainly have t em come in
greater numbers, and devour me; that if it should
happen so that they should not find me, yet they
would find my enclosure, destroy all my corn, carry
away all my flock of tame goats, and I should perish
at last for mere want.

In the middle of my cogitations, apprehensions, and
reflections, it came into my thoughts one day that all
this might be a mere chimera of my own, and this foot
might be the print of my own foot, when I came on
shore from my boat. This cheered me up a little too,
and I began to persuade myself it was all a delusion;
that it was nothing else but my own foot; and why
might not I come that way from the boat, as well as I
was going that way to the boat 2 Again, I considered
also, that I could by no means tell for certain where I
had trod, and where I had not; and that if at last this
was only the print of my own foot, I had played the
part of those fools, who strive to make stories of spectres
and apparitions, and then are themselves frighted at
them more than any body else.

Now I be to take courage, and to peep abroad
again: for I ad not started out of my castle for three
days and ni hts, so that I began to starve for rovision,

fittle or nothing within doors, at some
barley cakes and water. Then I knew my goats
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my

evening diversion.
Heartening myself therefore with the belief, that
this was nothing but- the rint of one of my own feet
(and so I might be said to start at my own
shadow,) I began to o abroad again, and went to my
country house to mil my flock; to see with what
fear I went forward, how often I looked behind me,
how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down my
basket, and run for my life, it would have made any
one have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience,

or that I had been lately most terribly frighted; and
so indeed I had.

However, as I went on thus two or three days, and
had seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder, and to
think there was really nothing in it but my own im-
agination ; but I could not persuade myself fully of
this, till I should go down to the shore again, and see
this rint of a foot, and measure it by my own, and
see i there was any similitude or fitness, that I might
be assured it was my own foot. But when I came to
the place first, it ap ared evidently to me, that when
I laid up my boat, could not possibly be on shore
any where thereabouts. Secondly, when I came to
measure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot
not so large by a great deal: both these things filled
my head with new imaginations, and gave me the
vapours again to the highest degree, so that I shook
with cold, like one in an ague, and I went home again,
filled with the belief that some man or men had been
on shore there ; or, in short, that the island was in-
habited, and I might be surprised before I was aware ;
and what course to take for my security, I knew not.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night; but in the morning I fell asleep, and havin
by the amusement of my mind, been as it were, tire ,
and my spirits exhausted, I sle t very soundly, and
awoke much better composed t an I had ever been
before. And now I began to think sedately ; and
upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded, that
this island, which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful,
and no further from the main land than as I had seen,
was not so entirely abandoned as I might imagine;
that although there were no stated inhabitants who
lived on this spot, yet there might sometimes come
boats off from the shore, who either with design, or
perhaps never but when they were driven by cross
winds, might come to this place : that I had lived
fifteen years now, and had not met with the least
shadow or figure of any people before; and that if at
any time they should be driven here, it was probable
they went away again as soon as ever they could, see-
ing they had never thought fit to fix there, upon any
occasion, to this time; that the most I could suggest
an dan er from, was, from any such casual ac--
ci ental ending of straggling peOple from the main;
who as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were
here against their wills, so they made no stay here but
went off again with all possible speed, seldom staying
one night on shore, lest they should not have the elp
of the tides and daylight back again: and that there-
fore I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe
retreat, in case should see any savages land upon
the spot.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my
cave so large as to bring a door through again, which
door as I said, came out beyond where my fortification
joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering this,
therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification,
in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from
my wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees,
about twelve years before, of which I made mention.
These trees having been planted so thick before, there
wanted but a few piles to be driven between them,
that they should be thicker and stronger, and my wall
would be soon finished
So that had now a double wall, and my outer
wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables,
and every thing I could think of to make it strong;
having in it seven ,little holes about as big as I might
put my arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened
my wall to about ten feet thick, continually brin 'ng
earth out of my cave, and laying it at the foot 0 the
wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven
holes I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I
took notice that I got seven on shore out of the ship;
these I say, I plnated like my cannon, and fitted them
into frames that held them like a carriage, that so I
could fire all the guns in two minutes' time. This wall
I was many a weary month in finishing, and yet never
thought myself safe till it was done. '

When this was done, I struck all the ground with-
out my wall, for a great way every way, as full with
stakes or sticks of the osier--like wood which I found
so apt to grow, as they could well stand ; insomuch that
I might set in twenty thousand of them, leaving a
pretty large space between them and my wall, that

might have room to see an enemy, and they might
have no, shelter from the young trees if they approach-
ed my outer wall.

Thus, in two years I had a thick ove ; and,
in five or six years time, I had a woo before my
dwelling grown so monstrous thick and strong that it
was indeed perfectly impassable ; and no man of what
_ _ kind soever, would ever imagine that there was any-
thin beyond it, much less a habitation. As for the
waygl proposed to myself to go in and out (for I left
no avenue), it was by setting two ladders; one to a
part of the rock which was low, and then broke in,
and left room to place another ladder upon that: so
that when the two ladders were taken down, no man

living could come down to me without mischiefing
himself; and if they had come down, they were still
on the outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation; and it will be seen,
at length, that they were not altogether without just
reason, though I foresaw nothing at that time, more
than fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless
of my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me
for my little herd of goats: they were not only a present
supply to me upon every occasion, and began to be
sufficient to me without the expense of powder and
shot, but also abated the fatigue of my hunting after
the wild ones; and I was loath to lose the advantage
of them, and to have them all to nurse up over again.

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think of but two ways to preserve them: one was to
find another convenient place to dig a cave under
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and
the other was to enclose two or three little bits of land,
remote from one another, and as much concealed as I
could, where I might keep about half a dozen young
goats in each place, so that if any disaster happened to
the flock in general, I might be able to raise them again
with little trouble and time: and this, though it would
require a great deal of time and labour, I thought was
the most rational design.

Accordingly I spent some time to find out the most
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one
which was private indeed as my heart could wish; for
it was a little damp piece of ground in the middle of the
hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, 1 almost
lost myself once before, endeavouring to come back
that way from the eastern part of the island. Here I
found a clear piece of land, near three acres, so sur-
rounded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure by..-. MAMMM-A-u - .,

"' 'wrmsun-z'..m:ms.umx .>> - i, .',_

ROBINSON causoa. 129

nature; at least it did not want near so much labour to

make it so, as the other pieces of ground I had worked
so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this iece of

ound; and, in less than a month's time, had so

enced it round, that my flock or herd, call it which you
please, which were not so wild now as at first they might

e supposed to be, were well enough secured in it. So,
without any further delay, I removed ten she-goats and
two he-goats to this piece; and when they were there,
I continued to perfect the fence, till I made it as secure
as the other, which however I did at more leisure, and
it took me up more time by a great deal.

All this labour I was at the expense of, purely from
my apprehensions on the account of the print of a
man's foot which I had seen; for as yet I never saw
any human creature come near the island; and I had
now lived two years under these uneasinesses, which
indeed made my life much less comfortable than it was
before, as may well be imagined by any who knows what
it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of man;
and this I must observe with grief too, that the discom-
posure of my mind had too great impressions also upon
the reli 'ous part of my thoughts; for the dread and
terror 0 falling into the hands of savages and cannibals
lay so upon my spirits, that I seldom found myself in

a a due temper for application to my Maker, at least not

with the sedate calmness and resrgnation of soul which
1 was wont to do.

But to go on. After I had thus secured one part of
my little living stock, I went about the whole island,
searching for another private place, to make such ano-
ther deposit; when, wandering more to the west point
of the island than -I had ever done yet, and looking out
to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great
distance. I had found a perspective glass or two, in130 30131380>>: cavson.

one of the seamen's chests which I saved out of our
ship; but I had it not about me, and this was so re-
mote, that I could not tell what to make of it, though
I looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look
any longer. 'Vhether it was a boat or not, I do not
know; but as I descended from the hill, I could see
no more of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to go
no more without a perspective glass in my pocket.

When I was come down the hill, to the end of the
island, where, indeed, I had never been before, I was
presently convinced that the seeing the print of a man's
foot was not such a strange thing in the island as I
imagined; and, but that it was a special providence
that I was cast upon the side of the island where the
savages never came, I should easily have known that
nothing was more fre uent than for the canoes from
the main, when they iappened to be a little too far
out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for
harbour; likewise, as they often met, and fought in
their canoes, the victors, having taken any prisoners,
would bring them over to this shore, where, according
to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they
would kill and eat them : of which, hereafter.

When I was come cown the hill to the shore, as I
said above, being the south-west point of the island, I
was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it pos-
sible for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing
the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other
bones of human bodies, and particularly I observed a
place where there had been a fire made, and a circle
dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where, it is supposed,
the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman
feastings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notion of any danger to myself
from it for a long while. All my apprehensions were
buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman,
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of
human nature, which, though I had heard of often,
yet I never had so near a view of before; in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle, my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of
fainting, when nature discharged the disorder rom my
stomach; and, having vomited with an uncommon
violence, I was a little relieved, but could not bear to
stay in the lace a moment; so I got me up the hill
again, with a the speed I could, and walked on towards
my own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island,
I stood still awhile, as amazed; and, then recovering
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my
soul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God
thanks, that I had cast my first lot in a part of the
world where I was distinguished from such dreadful
creatures as these, and that, though I had esteemed
my present condition very miserable, had yet given
me so many comforts in it, that I had still more to give
thanks for than to complain of; and this, above all,
that I had, even in this miserable condition, been com-
forted with the knowledge of Himself, and the hope of
his blessing, which was a felicity more than sufficiently
equivalent to all the misery which I had suffered, or
could suffer.

In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was before;
for I observed that these wretches never came to this
island in search of what they could get; perhaps not
seeking, not wanting, or not expecting anything here;
and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered
woody part of. it, without finding anything to their
purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen
years, and never saw the least footste )3 of human
creature there before; and might be ere eighteen
more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not
discover myself to them, which I had no manner of
occasion to do--it being my only business to keep
myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a

better sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself
known to.

'et I entertained such an abhorrence of the sav e
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eat-
ing one another up, that I continued pensive and sad,
and kept close within my own circle for almost two
years after this. When I say my own circle, I mean
by it my three plantations--viz., my castle, my country
seat, which I called my bower, and my enclosure in the
woods; nor did I look after this for any other use than
as an enclosure for my goats: for the aversion which
nature gave me to these hellish wretches was such, that
I was as fearful of seeing them as of seeing the devil
himself. Nor did I so much as go to look after my
beat all this time, but began rather to think of making
me another; for I could not think of ever making any
more attempts to bring the other boat round the island
to me, lest I should meet with some of these creatures
at sea, in which, if I had happened to have fallen into
their hands, I knew what would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was
in no danger of being discovered by these peo 1e, began
to wear off my uneasiness about them; and began to
live just in the same com sed manner as before--only
with this difference, that used more caution, and kept
my eyes more about me than I did before, lest I should
happen to be seen by any of them; and particularly I
was more cautious in firing my gun, lest any of them
being on the island should happen to hear it; and it
was, therefore, a very good providence to me that I had
furnished myself With a tame breed of goats, that I
needed not hunt any more about the woods, or shoot at
them: and if I did catch any of them after "us, it was
by traps and snares, as I had done before; so that for
two years after this, I believe I never fired my gun once
off, though I never went out without it; and, which
was more, as I had saved three pistols out of the ship,
I always carried them out with me, or at least two of
them, sticking them in my goat-skin belt. I likewise
furbished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out
of the ship, and made me a belt to put it on also; so
that as I was now a most formidable fellow to look at
when I went abroad, if you add to the former descrip-
tion of myself the particular of two pistols, and a great
broadsword hanging at my side in a belt, but without a
scabbard.

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time,
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to
my former calm, sedate way of living. All these things
tended to showing me, more and more, how far my
condition was from being miserable, com axed to some
others, nay, to many other particulars 0 life, which it
might have pleased God to have made my lot. It put
me upon reflecting how little repining there would be
among, mankind, at any condition of life, if pe0ple
would rather compare their conditions with those that
are worse, in order to be thankful, than be always
comparing them with those which are better, to assist
their murmurings and complaininvs.

As in my present condition tirere were not really
man things which I wanted, so indeed I thought that
the 'ghts I had been in about these savage wretches,
and the concern I had been in for my own preservation,
had taken off the edge of my invention for my own
conveniences; and I had dropped a good design, which

3.1
I had once bent my thoughts upon, and that was, to
try if I could not make some of my barley into malt,
and then try to brew myself some beer. This was
really a whimsical thought, and I reproved myself often
for the simplicity of it; for [presently saw there would
be the want of several things necessary to the making
my beer that it would be impossible for me to supply;
as, first, casks to preserve it in, which was a thing that,
as I have observed already, I could never compass; no,
though I spent not many days, but weeks, nay, months,
in attempting it, but to no purpose. In the next place
I had no hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it
work, no copper or kettle to make it boil; and et had
not all these things intervened (I mean the frig ts and
terrors I was in about the savages), I had undertaken it,
and perhaps brought it to pass too; for I seldom gave
anything over without accomplishing it, when once I
had it in my head enough to begin it.

But my invention now ran quite another way; for
night and day I could think of nothing but how I might
destroy some of these monsters in their cruel, bloody
entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim they
should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a
larger volume than this whole work is intended to be,
to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather
brooded upon, in man thoughts, for the destroying
these creatures, or at east frightening them, so as to
prevent their coming hither any more. But all was
abortive; nothing could be possible to take effect, un-

less I was to be there to do it myself. And what could . 4

one man do among them, when, perhaps, there might
be twenty or thirty of them together with their darts,
or their bows and arrows, with which they could shoot
as true to a mark as I could with my gun.

Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place

where they made their fire, and put in five or six pounds
of npowder, which, when they kindled their fire,
wou d consequently take fire, and blow up all that was
near it. But as, in the first place, I was loath to spend
so much powder upon them, my store being now within
the quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure of
its going off at any certain time, when it might surprise
them, and at best it would do little more than just
blow the fire about their ears and frighten them, but
not sufficient to make them forsake the place; so I
laid it aside, and then pr0posed I should lay myself in
ambush, in some convenient place, with my three guns,
all double loaded, and in the middle of their bloody
ceremony let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill
. or wound perhaps two or three at every shot, and then
fallin in upon them with my three pistols and sword,
I ma e no doubt but that if there were twenty I should
kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some
weeks, and I was so full that I often dreamed of it, and
sometimes that I was just going to let fly among them
in my sleep.

I went so far with it in my imagination, that I em-
ployed myself several days to find out a proper place to
put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them;
and I went frequently to the place itself, which was
now grown more familiar to me, and especially while
my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and
of putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as I
will call it; but the horror I had at the place, and at
the signals of the barbarous wretches devouring one
another, abated m malice.

Well, at length found a lace in the side of the hill,
where I was satisfied I mig t securely wait till I saw
any of their boats coming, and might then, even before
they would beready to come on shore, convey myself
unseen into the thickest of the trees, in one of which
there was a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely,
and where I might sit and observe all their doings, and
take my full aim at their heads, when they were so
close together that it would be next to impossible that
I should miss my shot, or that I could fail wounding
three or four of them at the first fire.

In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design, and
accordingly I pre ared two muskets and my ordinary
fowling-piece. T e two muskets I loaded with a brace
of sln 3 each, and four or five small bullets, about the
size 0 pistol bullets; and the fowling-piece I loaded
with nearly a handful of swan shot, of the largest size.
I also loaded my pistols with about four bullets each;
and in this posture, provided with ammunition for a
second and third charge, I prepared myself for my ex-
pedition.

After I had thus laid the scheme for my desi , and,
in my imagination, put it in practice, I continualIylmade
my tour every morning up to the top of the bill, which
was from my castle (as I called it) about three miles, or
more, to see if I could observe any boats upon the sea
coming near the island, or standing over towards it;
but I began to tire of this hard duty, after I had for
two or three months constantly kept watch, and come
always back without any discovery, there having not in
all that time been the least appearance, not only on or
near the shore, but not on the whole ocean, so far as
my eyes or glasses could reach every way.

As long as I kept u the daily tour to the hill to
look out, so long also kept up the vilgour of my de-

sign; and my spirits seemed to be a the while m a
suitable frame for such an outrageous execution as the

killing of twenty or thirty naked savages.

I believe the reader 0 this will not think it strange
if I confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers
I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, at
an end to all invention, and to all the contrivanoes t at
I had laid for my future accommodation and conve-
niences. I had the care of my safety more now upon
my hands than that of my food. I cared not to drive
a nail, or cho a stick of wood now, for fear the noise
I made shoul be heard; much less would I fire a gun
for the same reason; and, above all, I was very uneasy
at making any fire, lest the smoke, which is visible at a
great distance in the day, should betray me; and for
this reason I removed that part of my business which
required fire, such as the burning of pots, pipes, &c.,
into my new apartment in the woods, where, after I
had been some time, I found, to my unspeakable con-
solation, a mere natural cave in the earth, which went
in a vast way, and where I dare say no savage, had he
been at the mouth of it, would be so hardy as to ven-
ture in; nor, indeed, would any one else but one who,
like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a

eat rock, where, by mere accident I would say (if I

id not see abundant reason to ascribe all such things
now to Providence), I was cutting down some thick
branches of trees to make charcoal.

I was afraid of making a smoke about m habitation,
as I said before, and yet I could not live t ere without
baking my bread, cooking m meat, &c. ; so I contrived
to burn some wood here, as had seen done in England
under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal; and then
putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home,
and performed the other services for which fire was
wantmg, without danger of smoke.

But this by the bye. While I was cutting down
some wood here, I perceived that, behind a very thick
branch of low brush-wood or under-wood, there was a
kind of a hollow place. I was curious to look into it,
and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found
it was pretty large--that is to say, sufficient for me to138 nostssox causoa.

stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me; but
I must confess to you I made more haste out than I
did in, when, looking farther into the place, which was
perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some
creature, which twinkled like two stars; the dim light
from the cave's mouth shining directly in, and making
the reflection.

However, after some pause I recovered myself; and
plucking up courage, I took up a great firebrand, and
in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my hand.
I had not gone three steps in, but I was almost as much
frig1 tened as I was before; for I heard a very loud
sig , like that of a man in some pain, and it was fol-
lowed by a broken noise, as if of words half expressed,
and then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was
indeed struck with such a surprise that it put me into
a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat on my head, I
would not answer for it that my hair had not lifted it
off. But still plucking up my spirits as well as I could,
and encouraging myself a little with considering that
the power and presence of God was ever where, and
was able to protect me, I stepped forwar again, and
by the light of the firebrand, holding it a little over my
head, I saw, lying on the grouod, a most monstrous
frightful old he--goat, just makin his will, as we say,
gas ing for life, and dying, indee , of mere old age.

stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
and he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise
himself; and I thought with myself he might even lie
there ; for if he had frightened me so, he would certainly
frighten any of the savages, if any of them should be so
Iliardy as to come in there, while he had any life in
nu.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to
look round me, when I found the cave was but very
small; that is to say, it might be about twelve feet
over, but in no manner of shape, either round or square,
no hands having ever been employed in making it than
those of mere nature. I observed, also, that there was
a place at the further side of it that went in farther,
but it was so low that it required me to creep upon my
hands and knees to go into it, and whither it went I
knew not; so, having no candle, I gave it over for
some time, but resolved to come again the next day,

 

provided with candles and a tinder-box, which I had
made of the lock of "one of the muskets, with some
wildfire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day, I came rovided with six
large-candles of my own making, for made very good
candles now of goat's tallow; and oing into this low
place I was obliged to creep upon 51 fours, as I have
said, almost ten yards, which, by' the way, I thought
was a venture hold enough, considering that I knew not
how far it might go, or what was beyond it. When I
was got through the strait, I found the roof rose higher
up, I believe near twenty feet; but never was such a
glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was,
to look round the sides and roof of this vault or cave.
The walls reflected a hundred thousand lights to me
from my two candles; what it was in the rock, whether
diamonds, or any other precious stones, or gold, which
I supposed it to be, I knew not.

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity, or
grotto, of its kind, as could he expected, though per-
fectly dark; the floor was dry and level, and had a sort
of small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen; neither
was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof. The
only difficulty in it was the entrance, which however,

as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so that I

really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved, without
any delay, to bring some of those things which I was
most anxious about to this place; particularly I re-
selved to bring hither my magazine of powder, and all
my spare arms, viz., two fowling pieces (for I had three
in all,) and three muskets (for of them I had eight in
all); so I kept at my castle only five, which stood
ready mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my outmost
fence, and were already to take out upon any expe-
dition.

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
was obliged to open the barrel of powder which I took
up out of the sea, and which had been wet; andI
found that the water had penetrated about three or four
inches into the powder on every side. which caking and
growing hard, had preserved the inside like a kernel in
a shell, so that I had sixty pounds of very good powder
in the centre of the cask; and this was an agreeable
discovery to me at that time: so I carried all away
thither, never keeping above two or three pounds of
powder with me in my castle, for fear of a su rise of
any kind. I also carried thither all the lead I ad left
for bullets.

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants,
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none could come at them; for I persuaded my-
' self, while I was here, if five hundred savages were to

hunt me, they could never find me out; or if they did
they would never venture to attack me.

The old oat, whom I found expiring, died in the
mouth of t e cave, the next day after I made this dis-
covery; and I found it much easier to dig a great hole
there, and throw him in, and cover him with earth, than
to drag him out: so I interred him there, to prevent
offence to my nose.

I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in
this island, and was so naturalized to the lace, that I
began to be very well contented with the 'fe I led, if
it might but have been secured from the dread of the
savages.

But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be
amiss for all people who shall meet with my story to
make this just observation from it; viz., how frequently,
in the course of our lives, the evil, which in itself we
seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into,
is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very door
of our deliverance, by which alone we can be raised
again from the affliction we are fallen into. I could
give many examples of this in the course of my unac-
countable life; but in nothing was it more particularly
remarkable, than in the circumstances of the last years
of my solitary residence in this island.

It was now the month of December, as I said above, _
in my twenty-third year; and this being the southern
solstice, for winter I cannot call it. was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty much
abroad in the fields; when going out pretty early in
the morning. even before it was thorough daylight, I
was surprised with seeing a light of some fire upon the
shore at a distance from me of about two miles, towards
the end of the island where I had observed some
savages had been as before; but not on the other side,
but, to my great affliction, it was on my side of the
island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stop red short within my grove, not daring to go out,
lest might be surprised ; and yet I had no more. peace
within from the apprehensions I had that if these
savages. in rambling over the island, should find my
eorn standing, or cut, or any of my works or improve-
ments, they would inunediately conclude that there
were people in the place, and would then never give
over till they found me out. In this extremity I went
back directly to my castle, pulled up the ladder after
me, having made. all things without look as wild and
natural as I could.

Then I repared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of ( efence. I loaded all my cannon as I called
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and re-
solved to defend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting
seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the
hands of the barbarians: and in this posture I con-
tinued about two hours, but. began to be mighty im-
patient for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies to
send out.

After sitting awhile longer, and musing what I
should do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in
ignoranee longer; so setting up my ladder to the side
of the hill, where there was a flat place, as I observed
before, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I set
it up again, and mounted to the top of the hill ; and
pulling out my perspective glass, which I had taken
on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly on the
ground, and began to look for the place. I presently
found there were no less than nine naked savages
sitting round a small fire they had made; not to warm
them, for they had no need of that, the weather being
extremely hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of their
barbarous diet of human flesh, which they had brought
with them, whether alive or dead, I could not know.

They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up on the shore: and as it was then tide of
ebb, they seemed to wait the return of the flood to go
away again. It is not easy to imagine what confusion
this siOht put me into, eSpeeially seeing them come on
my Slt e the island, and so near me too; but when I
observed their coming must be always with the cur-
rent of the ebb, I began afterward to be sedate in m
mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad wit
safety, all the time of tide of flood, if they were mt
on shore before; and having made this observation I
went abroad about my harvest-work with the more
composure.

As I expected so it proved; for as soon as the tide
made to the westward, I saw them all take boat, and
row (or addle, as we call it,) all away. I should have
observed: that for an hour and more before they went
off, they went to dancing, and I could easily discern
their postures and gestures by my glasses: I could not
perceive. by my nicest observation, but that they were
stark naked, and had not the least covering upon them;
but whether they were men or women, that I could not
distinguish.
As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle,
and my great sword by my side, without a sca bard,
and with all the speed I was able to make, I went away
to the hill, where I had discovered the first appearance
of all. As soon as I got thither, which was not less
than two hours (for I could not go apace, being so
loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had been
three canoes more of savages on that place; and looking
out farther, I saw they were at sea together, making
over for the main.

This was a (h'eadfnl sight to me especially when
going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror which the dismal work they had been about had
left behind it, viz., the blood, the bones, and part of the
flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by those
wretchcs with merriment and sport. I was so filled
with indignation at the sight, that I began now to pro.
meditate the destruction of the next that I saw there,
let them be who or how many soever.

It seemed evident to me, that the visits which they
thus made to this island, were not very frequent; for
it was above fifteen months before any more of them
came on shore there again; that is to say, I never saw
them, or any footsteps or signals of them, in all that
time: for, as to the rainy seasons, then they are sure
not to come abroad, at least not so far; yet all this
while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of the constant
apprehensions I was in of their coming upon me by
surprise; from whence I observe that the expectation
of evil is more bitter than the suffering, especially if
there is no room to shake off that expectation, or those
apprehensions. '

During all this time, I was in the murdering humour;
and took u most of my hours, which should have been
better emp oyed, in contriving how to circumvent and
fall upon them the very next time I should see them,
especially if they should be d111dcd as they new at
the last time, into t11o parties: nor did I consuler at
all, that if I killed one party, suppose ten or a dozen,
I was still the next day. or week, or month, to kill
another, and so another, c1 en ad infinitmn, till I should
be no less a murde1cr than they were in being man-
eaters, and perhaps much more so.

I spent my 1la1s now in meat perplexity and anxiety
of mind, expecting that I should one day or other fall
into the hands of these merciless c1eatures. If I did at
11111 time venture abroad, it was not without the greatest

care and caution imaginable , and 110w I found, to my
greatest comfort, [1011 happy it 11' as that I had provided
a tame flock or a herd of goats; for I durst not, upon
any account, tire my gun, especially near that side of
the island, 11 here they usually came, lest I should alarm
the savages; and if they had fled from me now, I 11 as
sum to 111110 them come back again, with perhaps t11o
or three hundred canoes 111th them, 1n a few days, and
then I knew what to expect.

IIowe1er I wore out a year and tluee months more,
before I ever saw any more of the sav ages , and then
I found them again, as I shall soon obser1e. It is
true, they might have been there once or twice; but
either "1131 made no stay, or at least I did not hear
them, but in the mouth of Ma1 , as near as I could

calculate, and in my four-and-twentieth year, I had
a very strange encounter with them, of which in its
)1: ice.
I The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or
sixteen months' interval was very great. I slept uu-
quiet, dreaming always frightful dreams, and often
started out of my slee in the night; in the 11.11 great
troubles overwhelmed, my mind, in the night I

dreamed often of killing savages, aiid the reasons why
N
I might justify the doing: of it. But, to waive all this
for ac'11l1ile,it was in the middle of IlIay y, on the six-
teentl 1 da_1'.11s 11 ell as my poor wooden calendar would
11.11ko11; for l 111111ke1l all upon the post still: I say, it
1111s on the sixteenth of M1 11 , that 1t blew a very great
<<to: .11 of 1111111 1111 11:11', with a <<mat deal of lightnino
and thunder. and :1 1'111'1 foul nicrht was after it. I
1111011 not 11hat 1111s the paitieular occasion of it; but
as l 1111s 11:1111li111.1,- in the bible, and taken up with
serious thoughts about 1111' present condition, I was
sun prisul 111th the noise ol 11 gun, as I thought, fired at
$11.1.

This was. to he sure, a surprise. of quite a different
nature from :1111' I had 111et11itl1 before; for the notions
this put into 1111 thouwhts 11 ere quite of another kind.
I started up in the nieatest haste imaginable, and, in
11 nice. clapped up 1111' ladder to the ciniddle place ot
the rock. and pulled it. after me. and, mounting it the
second time, got to the top of the hill; that very
lllmllt'llt a flash of tire bade me listen for a second gun,
11l1i1l1 acconlilwlv, in about half a minute, I he 11d
and 111 the sound knew that it 1111s from that part of
the sea where I was driven out with the current in my
l111.. '.t

l innncdiateh' considered that this must be some
ship 111 distress, and that they had some comrade, or
some other ship 111 company, and fired these guns for
sivuals ot distrch, and to obtain help. I had the
presence 0t mind at that minute, 11s to think that.
though I could not help them. it may be they micht
hell) me; so I brought together all the dry wood I
could are t at. hand. and. making a good handsOme pile,
i set it. on the upon the hill. the wood was dry, and
bl: 1111111 t"-'11'11l_1 and though the wind blew very hard,
1111 it burnt l'-ai1l_1 out so that I was certain, if there
was any such thing as a ship, they niust needs see it,
and no doubt thc3 did; for as soon as 1113' fire blazed
11p, I 11011111 another gun, and after that several others,
all from the same (punter. I plied 1113' the all night
long, till 11:13 bloke: :1111111111'11 it "as broad 11:13, and
the air cleared up, I saw something at a great. distance
at sea, full cast of the island, whether :1 sail. or a 111111,
I could not distinguish, no not 111th 1113 glasses, the
distance 11 as so great, and the 11e.1thcr still something
hazy also: at least it 11' as so out at sea.

I looked fiequently at it all that 11:13, and soon per-
ceived that it did not more; so I pr.'esent13 concluded
that it was a ship at anchor ; and being eager, 3 011 may
be sme, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and
ran towards the soutli-east part of the island, to the
rocks, where I had been formerly carried an :11 11 ith the.
current, and getting up there, the weather by this time
being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to 1113 great
sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast an a3 in the niwlib1t upon
these concealed rocks, which I had found "hen out
in my boat: and which rocks, as they checked the
violence of the stream, and made a kind of counter-
stream, or eddy, were the occasion of 1113 1'eco1C1ing
then from the most despeiate, hopeless condition that
ever I had been 111 all my life.

Thus, 11hat is one man's safety, is another man's
destruction ; for it seems these men, whoever they
new, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being
wholly under 11"ate1, had been dri1 e11 upon them 1n the
night, the wind blowing hard at E. and L. N. E. Had
they seen the island, as 6I must necessaril3 suppose the3
did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavoured to
have saved themselves on shore by the help of their
boat; but their firing of their guns yfor help, pespecially
when they saw, as In imagined, my fire, filled me with
many thoughts. First, ID imagined that, upon seeing
my light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and have e111le111 ourcd to make. the shore. but
that thes1a going very high, they might have been
east 1111'a1. Other times I inmgined tliat thev might
1111111 lost their boat 11111'1111', as mie'ht be the case 11111111
11111's: as part ti1'111a1'l1' b1 the breaking of the sea upon
their ship. which 111a11_1'times obliged men to stave. or
take 111 pieces their boat. and sometimes to throw it
overboard with their own hands. Other times I ima-
gined the1' had some other ship or ships 111 eompanv.
11ho upon the signals of distress the) had 11111d11.l1a1l
taken them 11p. 111111 carried them 011'. Other 11hiles I
t'1nei1d they 11111-11 all gone off to sea. and. being-
luuried 1111111' 111 the current that I had been formcrh
in. 11'1111 emi'ied out into the. great ocean, 11"he111 there
1111s nothing but. misery and perishing; and that perhaps
t.he_1'1ni1.:ht.b1 this time, think of starving, and of being
in :1 condition to at one another.

It 1111s not. 111111 111 er, till the 111st year of 1111' being: 111
this island. that 1 mm knew whether anv were saved
1: ut 111 that ship 01' no: and 111111 only the afiliction.
some 1la1s after. to see the corpse of 11111'111111111lboy

eonie. 1111 shore, at the. 111111 of the island 11hieh 1111s11e.\t
the ship11'reek. Ile had 011 no clothes but a seaman's
"aisteoat. a pair of open-knced line11'dra11'ers, and a
blue linen shirt; but nothing to dim t me so much as
to 111css 11 hat nation he 11 as of. He had nothing 111
his pocket but two pieces of eight. and a tobacco-pipe, 1
the last was to me of ten times more value than the
Iil'st.

It was nowc calm, and I had a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might

find something on board that might be useful to me ,
but that did not altogether press me so much as the
possibility that there might be. yet some living creature
on board, whose life I might not only save, but might,
by saving that life, c0111fo1t my own to the last degree. '
and this thought clung so to my heart, thatl could not
be quiet, night or day, but I must venture out on board
this wreck; and, committing the rest to God's pro-
vidence, I thought the impression was so strong upon
my mind, that it could not be resisted, that it must
come from some invisible direction, and that I should
be wanting to myself if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back
to my castle, prepared everythino for my voyage, took
a quantity of bread, a great pot or fresh water, a com-
liass to steer b ', a bottle of rum (for I had still a great
1 eal of that le ) and a basket full of raisins: and thus
loading myself with everything necessary, I went down
to my boat, got the water out of her, and got her afloat,
loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home again
for more. My second cargo was a great bag full of rice,
the umbrella to set up over my head for shade, another
large )ot full of fresh water, and about two dozen of
small eaves, or barley cakes, more than before, with a
bottle of goat's milk, and a cheese; all which, with
great labour and sweat, I brought to my boat, and
praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out; and
rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore, I came
at last to the utmost point of the island, on that side,
viz. N. E. And now I was to launch out into the
ocean; and either to venture, or not to venture. I
looked on the rapid currents which ran constantly on
both sides of the island, at a distance, and which were
very terrible to me, from the remembrance of an hazard
I had been in before, and my heart began to fail me;
for I foresaw that, if I were driven into either of those
currents, I should be carried a vast way out to sea, and
pcrha 3 out of my reach, or sight of the island again;
and t at then, as my boat was but small, if any little
gale of wind should rise, I should he inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began
to give over my enterprise, and, having hauled my
boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and
sat me down upon a little spot of rising ground, _vcry
pensive and anxious, between fear and desire, about
my voyage; when, as I was musing. Icould perceive
that the tide was turned, and the flood came on, u )0"
which my going was for so many hours impractica le.
Upon this, it presently occurred to me that I should go
up to the highest piece of ground I could find, and
observe, ifI could, how the sets of the tides 0r currents
lay, when the flood came in, that I might judge whether,
if I were driven one way out. I might not expect to be
driven another way home, with the same rapidness of
the currents. This thought was no sooner in my head,
but I cast my eye upon a little hill, which suflieiently
overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I had
a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and
which way I was to guide myself in my return. Here
I found, that as the current of the ebb set out close by
the south point of the island, so the current of the flood
set in close by the shore of the north side; and that I
had nothing to do, but to keep to the north of the
island in my return, and I should do well enough.

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the
next morning. to set out with the first of the tide;
and reposino- myself for that night under the great
watch-coat fmentioned, I launched out. I made first
a little way out to sea, full north, till I began to feel
the benefit of the current which set eastward, and
which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not so
much hurry me as the southern side current had done
before, and so as to take from me all government of
the boat; but, having a strong steeragc with my pad-
dle, I went, I say, at a great rate, directly for the wreck,
and in less than two hours I came up to it.

It was a dismal sight to look at: the ship, which by
the building was Spanish, stuck fast, jambed in between
two rocks; all the stern and quarter of her were beaten
to pieces by the sea; and as her forecastle, which
stuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence, her
mainmast and foremast were brought by the board,
that is to say, broken short off; but her bows rit was
sound, and the head and bow appeared firm. Vhen I
came close to her, a do appeared upon her, who, seeing
me coming, yelped an cried; and as soon as I called
him, jumped into the sea to come to me; and I took
him into the boat, but found him almost dead for
hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and
he eat like a ravenous wolf that had been starving a
fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor creature
some fresh water; with which, if I would have let him,
he would have burst himself.

After this I went on board. The first sight I met
with, was two men drowned in the cock-room, or
forecastle of the shi ), with their arms fast about one
another. I conclm ed, as is indeed probable, that,
when the ship struck, it being a storm, the sea broke
so high, that the men were not able to bear it, and
were strangled with the constant rushing in of the
water, as much as if they had been under water. Be-
sides the dog, there was nothing left in the ship that
had life; not any goods that I could see, but what
were spoiled b the water. There were some casks
of liquor, whet er wine or brandy, I knew not, which
lay in the lower hold, and which, the water being
ebbed out, I could see; but they were too big to med-
dle with. I saw several chests, which, I believed,
belonged to some of the seamen; and I got two of
tpem in the boat, without examining what was in
t rem.

Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore
part broken off, I am persuaded I might have made a
ood voyage; for, by what I found in these two chests,

had room to suppose the ship had a great deal of
wealth on board: and, if I may guess by the course
she steered, she must have been bound from Bucnos
Ayres, or the Roi de la Plata, in the south part of
America, beyond the Brazils, to the IIavannah, in the
Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps, to Spain. She had,
no doubt, a great treasure in her, but of no use, at that
time, to anybody; and what became of the rest of her
people, I knew not.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my
boat with much difficulty. There were several muskets
in a cabin, and a great powderohom, with about four
pounds of powder in it: as for the muskets I had no
occasion for them: so I left them, but took the
powder-horn. I took a fire shovel and tongs, which

wanted extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a
copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron: and
with this cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide
beginning to make home again: and the same evening,
about an hour within night, I reached the island again,
weary and fatigued to the last degree.

I reposed that night in the boat; and in the morn-
ing I resolved to harbour what I had gotten in my new
cave, not to carry it home to my castle. After re-
freshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and be-

an to examine the articulars. The cask of liquor I
ound to be a kind 0 rum, but not such as we had at
the Brazils; and, in a word, not at all good. But
when I came. to open the chests, I found several
things which I wanted: for example, I found in one
a fine case of bottles, of an extraordinary kind, and
filled with cordial waters, fine and very good: the
bottles held about three pints each, and were tip ed
with silver. I found two pots of very good succadbs,
or sweetmeats, so fastened also on tep, that the salt
water had not hurt them; and two more of the same,
which the water had spoiled. I found some very good
shirts, which were very welcome to me, and about a
dozen and a half of white linen handkerchiefs, and
coloured neckeloths; the former also were very wel-
come, being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my face
in a hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till in
the chest, I found there three great bms of pieces of
eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all;
and in one of them, wra t up in a paper, SIX doubloons
of gold, and some smal bars of wedges of gold; I
suppose they might all weigh near a pound.

The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but
of little value; but by the circumstances it must have
belonged to the gunner's mate, though there was no
powder in it, but about two pounds of glazed wder,
in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for c argin
their fowling--pieces on occasions. Upon the whole,I
got very little by this voyaoe, that was of much use to
me; for, as to the mone , Iliad no manner of occasion
for it, it was to me as t e dirt under my feet, and I
would have given it all for three or four pair of English
shoes and stockings; which were things I greatly
wanted, but had not had on my feet now for many
years. I had, indeed, gotten two pair of shoes now,
which I took off the feet of the two drowned men
whom I saw in the wreck; and I found two pair more
in one of the chests, which were very welcome to me;
but they were not like our English shoes, either for
ease or service, being rather what we call pumps than
shoes. I found in this seaman's chest about fifty
pieces of eight in royals, but no gold; I suppose this

elonged to a poorer man than the other, which seemed
to belong to some officer.

Well, however, I lugged this money home to my
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before, which
I had brought from our own ship; but it was a great
pity, as I said, that the other part of the ship had not
come to my share, for I am satisfied I might have
loaded my canoe several times over with money;
which, had I ever escaped to England, would have
laid here safe enough, till I might have come again
and fetched it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or
paddled her along the shore to her old harbour, where

laid her up, and made the best of my way to my old
habitation, where I found every thing safe and quiet;
so I began to re iose myself, live after my old fashion,
and take care 0 my family affairs; and for a while I
lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than
I used to he, looked out often and did not go abroad
so much ; and if at any time 1 did stir with any free-
dom, it was always to the east part of the island, where
I was pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and
where I could go without so many precautions, and
such a load of arms and ammunition as I always carried
with me if I went the other way.

I lived in this condition near two years more; but
my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it
was born to make my body miserable, was all those
two years filled with projects and designs, how, if it
were possible, I might get away from this island; for
sometimes I was making another voyage to the wreck,
though my reason told me, that there was nothing left
there worth the hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a
ramble one way, sometimes another; and I believe
verily, if I had had the boat that I went from Sallee
in, I should have ventured to sea bound anywhere. I_
know not whither.

I am now to be supposed to be retired into my castle,
after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid up,
and secured un er water as usual, and condition re-
stored to what it was before. I had more wealth, in-
deed, than I had before, but was not at all the richer;
for I had no more use for it than the Indians of Peru
had before the Spaniards came thither.

About a year and a half after I was surprised one
morning early, with seeing no less than five canoes, all
on shore together, on my Side the island, and the people
who belonged to them all landed and out of my sig t.
The number of them broke all my measures; for see-
ing so many, and knowing they always came four or
six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could not tell what
to think of it, or how to take my measures to attack
twenty or thirty men single-handed; so I lay still in
my castle, perplexed and discomforted. However, I
put myself mto all the same postures for an attack
that I had formerly provided, and was just ready for
action, if anything had resented. Having waited a
good while, listening to rear if they made any noise,
at length being very impatient, I set my guns at the
foot of the ladder, and clambered up to the to of the
hill by my two stages, as usual; standing so, owever,
that my head did not appear above the hill; so that
they could not perceive me, by any means. Here I
observed, by the help of my perspective glass, that
there were no less than thirty in number; that they
had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed:
how they cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was;
but they were all dancing, in I know not how many
barbarous gestures and figures, their own way, round
the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by
my erspective, two miserable wretches dragged from
the oats, where, it seems, they were laid by. and were
now brought out for the slaughter. I perceived one of
them immediately fell, being knocked down, I suppose,
111th a club, or wooden s11 ord, for that was their way ,
and two or three others were at wo1k immediately,
cutting him open for their cookery, 1111ile the other
victimb 11 as left standing by himself, till they should be
ready f01 11i111.ln that very moment this poor wietch
seeing himself a little at 1'1bcrt1. nature inspired him
111th hopes of life, and he started away from them, and
ran with incredible swiftncss along the sands, directly
towards me. I mean to11a1ds that part of the coast
11l1e1e my habitation 11 as

I 11 as d1eadfullv frightened (that I must acknow-
ledge), 11hcn I perceived him to run my "way , and
especially 11 hen, as I thought, I saw him pursued by
the whole body. However, I kept my present station,
and my spirits began to new er, when I found that
he outstripped them exceedingly 111 running ,and gained
ground of them, so that if he could but hold it out
about half an hour, I saw easily he would get away
from them all.

There 11' as between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned often at the first part of my story.
11 hen I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I
knew he must necessarily swim ()1 er, or the poor
11reteh 11011111 be taken there: but 11hcn the savage
escaping came thither, he made nothing of it, swam
through 111 about tl1irt1' strokes, o1 thereabout, landed,
and mu 011 with exceeding strength and swiftness.
When the three pursuers came to 13the creek, I found
that two of them could swim, but the third could not,
and that he standing 011 the other side, looked at the
others, but went no farther; and soon after went softly
back again. which as it happened, was very well for
him in the main.

1 observed that the two 11110 swam, 11"c1e yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek, as tho
fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly,
that now was my time to get me a servant, and er-
haps a com anion or assistant, and that I was c led

lainly by rovidence, to save this poor creature's life.
I immediately got down the ladders, with all possible
expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both
at the foot of the ladders, as I observed above; and
getting up again with the same haste to the top of
the hill, I crossed towards the sea: and, having a
very short cut all down hill, clapped myself in the
way between the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing
aloud to him that fled, who, looking back, was per-
haps as much frighted at me as at them; but I beck~
oncd with in hand to him to come back, and, in the
mean time, slowly advanced towards the two that
followed: then rushing at once upon the foremost, I
knocked him down with the stock of my piece: I was
loath to fire, because I would not have the rest hear;
though at that distance it would not have been easily
hoard ; and being out of sight of the smoke too they
would not easily know what to make of it. Having
knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued him
stooped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced
apace towards him; but as I came nearer, I perceived
presently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it
to shoot at me; so I was then necessitated to shoot at
him first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot.
The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he
saw both his enemies fallen and killed (as he thought),
yet was so frighted with the fire and noise of in piece,
that he stood stock-still, and neither came orward,
nor went backward, though he seemed rather inclined
to fly still, than to come on. I hallooed again to him,
and made signs to come forward, which be easily un-

derstood, and came a little way, then stopped again,
01:38 Immssos cannon.

and Hum II littlII t'.IIIIthIIII ImIl stIIppIIIl again. . and l
IIIIIIlIl tlIIIII pIIIIIIIIII II that lIII stIIIIIl tIIIIIIIlIliIII'. as it lIII
lIIIIl lIIIIIn tIIkIIII lIIIisIIIII r. and had just lIIIIIII "limit. to lIII.
killIIIl. as his tIIII IIIIIIIIIiI-s IIIIIIII l lIIIIIlIIInIIIl him
IIIzinII tII IIIIIIIII tII IIIII. IIIIIl L'tu't' him II" the siIIIIs at
I IIIIIIIIII. IIIIIII IIIII m. l IIIIIIlIl think III; and lIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIII II
and IIIIIIIIII II. lIIIIIIIliIIg IlIIII'II IIIII IIII tIIII IIII tII'IIlI'II stops.
in tIIkI II IIII :lt"l\|l()\\'lttlt'lllt'lll. t'IIII. ':l\'lll:': his life. |
snIilIIIl at. him IIIIII hmluul plIIIIsIIIItlI. IInIl lIIIIIkIIIIIIIl to
him to IIIIIIIII still IIIIIIrI II. .-.\t lIIIII.:tlI lIII IIIIIIIII IIlIIsII tII
IIIII. and the II lIII kIIIIIIlII Il IlIIII'II III.:IIiII. I\l.\'.\'('(l t.|III ground
and laid his lIII III IIpIIII thII IIIIIIIIiIIIl. tllltl taking: IIIII. by
the hint. sIIt III_I' lIIIIt Illlllanlis lIIIIIIl; this. it. sIII Ins.
was in ltllu' III IIl SWt'tll'llltr tII l)t' III_v slIII'II tIIII ('\t'l'. l
tIIIIlI him up. IIIIII IIIIIIlII IIIIIII II III him. and IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
him all I IIIIIIIIl. "Ill tlIII IIII II 'l\ nIIIIII IIIIIIk tII IlII IIIt .
lIIII l [IIIIIIIII IiIIIIl tlIII sIIIIIIIIIII II hunt I kIIIIIIkIIIl IIIIII'II IIIIs
IIIIt. killIIIl. lIIIt stIIIIIIIIIl IIith tlIII Mn". and lIIIgIIn tII
IIIIIIIII to himself. SII l lltllllit'tl tII him. and shIIII'iIIp;
lIiIII thII sIII'IIgII. that. lIII II'IIs IIIIt. IlIIIIIlI. IIpIIn this lIII
Slullu' sIIIIIII IIIIIIIIls tII IIIII. :IIIIl lltt)ll_"ll l IIIIIIlIl IIIIt. IIII-
IlIIIIstIIIIIl tlIIIIII. IIIt. l tlIIIIIIlet tlIIII' IIIIIIII plIIIISIIIIt III
III" :III. tIII' thIIy IIIIIIII tlIII tiIIst sIIIIIIIl III II IIIIIII's IIIiIIII
that l lIIIIl hI IIIrIl. my IIIIII IIMIIIIIItIIl. lIII' IIhIII'II liI'II-
IIIIIl-IIIIIIntII)IIIIIIIs. lhIt tlIIIIIII IIIIIs IIII tiIIIII for such
IIIItlIIIItiIIIIs IIIIIII. 'l'lIII sIII'IIgII IIlIII IIIIIs klltlt'lu'tl IlIIII'II
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIl lIiIIIsIIlt'sII t'III'IIs tII sit lllltlll tlIII gIIIIIIIIIl :
and l lIIIIIIIIIiI'IIIl III_II sIII'IIgII lIIIgIIII III lIII IIl'I'IIiIl: lIIIt.
"'llt'll lIII saw that l IIIIIIsIIIItIIIl Ill)' IItlIIII' piIIIIII at tho
IIIIIII. IIs it'l "'Ullltl slIIIIIt lIiIII: lllttlll this my sIIIIIIgII.
t'IIIIsIIl IIIll lIiIII IIIIII'. IIIIIIlII II IIIIIIIIIII tII IIIII tII IIIIIIl
hiIII ll|_\' SWOI'tl. \\'llil'll hung lltllu'tl in II lIIIlt. by my
siIlII; m I did. "II III) sIIIIIIIIII had it. but; lIII runs to
his IIIIIIIIII'. and. at. Ollt' l)l()\\', out. off his lIIIIIIl IIs
IIlIIIIIIIIlII. no IIxIIIIIIIimIIIII in Germany could have done
It Nlollt'l' or better 5 "'lllCll l thought very strange for11011111130111 canson. l5!)

one. who I had reason to believe. never saw a sword
in his life before. exeept their own wooden swords.
llowe1'e r. it se1 111s. as I learned afterwards. they
111aheth11r wooden swo1ds so sharp. so he111'1', and
the wood 1s so hard. they will eat otl heads even with
them. aye. and arms. and that at one blow too. When
he had done this. he eomes laughing at me in signs of
trinm 1b. and brought 11111 the sword again. and with
abnndanee of gestures. whieh I did not understand,
laid it down. with the head of the savage that he
had killed. just. before me.

But that whieh astonished him most was to know
how I had killed the other Indian so far ott'; so
minting to him. he made signs to me to let him go to
him: so I bade him go. as well as l eould. When
he eame to him. he stood like one amazed. looking at
hnn ; turned him first; on one side. then on the other;
looked at the wound the bullet. had made. whieh. it
seems. was just in his breast. where. it had made:
hole. and no gr at quantitv ot blood had tlow,ed but
he had bled inwardh. tor he was quite dead. 'lhen
he took up his bows and arr'ows.a11d eame haek ; so I
turned to go away. and heekoned to him to follow 111e,
111:1ki11g signs to him that more 111ight 111111111 after them.

I- pon this. he signed to 11111. that he should bury
them with sand. that the1 nught not. he seen by the
rest. it they followed; and so I made signs again to
him to do so: he fell to work. and in 1111 instant; he
seraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big enough
to hnr_1 the first in. and then dragged him into it, and
named him; and did so also by the other. I believe
he had buried them both in a quart er of an hour;
then calling him 1111111l1arried him. not to my castle.
but quite aw .11 to 1111' care. 011 the farther part of the
island: so I did not let my dream eome to pass in
that part, viz. that he came into 1111' <<row for sheltei.160 IIIHIINSUN IIIIIIsIIIc.

llIII'II l gIII'II lIinI lII'IIIIIl and II bunch of I'IIisiIIs I0
IIIII. and II IlrIIIIglII III IIIII..III' "Inch 1 IIIIIIIIl lIII "as in-
IlII IIIl III gIIIIIII (IiSII'I'ss for. by his running. . and having:
I'I' IrIIslIIIIl lIinI.l IIIIIIlII signs IIII' lIiIII III go liII down
and slIIII I pniIIIing III II plI III II. II'lIIIIII I had laid II grout
pIIIIIIIIl III rIIIII <<Iran. and II lIlIInlIIII IIpIIII iI. IIlIiIIlI l
IISI'II I.II slIIIIpIIpIIII III) SI'" sIInIIIIinIII.' : so IlIII pIIIIr III'IIII-
IIIIIII lIIy (IOWII. and "'('III III slI I" I.

"II IIIIII II IIIIIIIIIlI. lIIInIlsIIIIIII lI'IIllIII'; lIIIIIIIIII.III IIII Ill
IIIIIIlI'. IIiIlI sIrIIigliI. IOIIL': liIIIlIs. IIIII. IIIII large; III"
and IIIIll- -slIIIpIIIl. and. as l rIIIIlIIIII. IIlIIIIII IIIIIIII-six
Inns of age. "II had II IIII'I I'IIIIIl IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII II. IIIII II
I'IIIrIIII IIIIIl surly IIspIIIII. lnII sv I IIIII Id In lIIII II sIIIIIIIlIiIIIII
I'IIIII IIIIIIIlI in lIi~I IIIIIII. IIIIIl IIIII lIII lIIIIl IIll IlIII SWI'I'I-
new and SIIfIIIIIxs III IIII l'illI'UPI'I III in his IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIII. IIspIIIiIIlly IIlII II lIII Slllllttl. His hair was longI
IIIIIl lIlIIIIlI. IIIII ('lll'lI'Il lilIII. II'IIIIl: lIis IiII'I IIlIIIIIl I'III'I'
high. and lawn. and II ngIIII III III III and spIII-lIlinsI;
slIIII'pIIIIss III liis III II 'I'IIII IIIIlIIIII' III his skin II II\ IIIII
IpIiIII lIlIIIIlI. lIIII I'III'I IIIIIIII. IIIIIl III.I IIIII III IIII III:I_I.
_\I'll0\\. IIIIIISI'OIISIIIII'IH. III: "In Brazilians. IIIIIl \iII-
giIIiIIns. IIIIIl IIIlIIIIIIIIIIiIIIs III :'lllI'l'lI'Il III'I'. Inn. of II
lIIIiI_I;lII lIiIIIl III II Ilnn IIliIII IIIIIIIIII'. IlIIII Inn] in it snInII-
IlIiiIII \'I III) IIIgI'IIIIIIlIlII. IlIIIIIIIIlI IIIIIIIIrI' IIIIsy III III'SI'I'II'II'.
llis ?Il('i' IIIIs round and plump lIis IIIIsII sIIIIIll IIIII.
IlIII likII IIIII NIIgIIIIIIs. II \IIrI gIIIIIl IIIIIIIIlI. IlIiII lips.
and his IIIIIIlI I'IIIII. II'IIll SI'I. IIIIIl II'lIiIII. an ivory. AIIIIII
lIII lIIIIl slIIIIIlIIIrIIIl. rIIIlIIIr IlIIIII slept. about half an
lIIIIII'. lIII II'IIIIIIII again. and IIIIIIIIIs out of IlIII IIIII'II III
IIIII IIII' I had lIIIIIII IIIillIiIIII Iny IIIIIIIs. which I had in
the IIIIIIlIIsanI iIIIII. lIV. "lIIIiI lIII III-IpiIIIl IIIII. lIII. IIIIIIIII
rInnIIIIIII III IIIII. lIIIiiIII llIlllSI'll IlIIII'II <<grain npon IlIII
ngIIIIIIl. IIiIlI II" "III. pIIssilIlII siI'IIs III IIII lIIIIIIlIlII.
IlIIIIIlIIIIl IlispIIsiIiIIII InIIlIiIIg IIIIIIII IIIIIiII gIIsIIIrIIs to
shun iI. AI. last he lIIIs his lIIIIIIl IIIII IIpIIII IIIII ground.
('lox'c III III) fool. and acts ll!) other foot upon hisnomssoN eaosoa. llil

head. as he had done. before : and after this. made all
the signs to me of subjection. servitude. and submis-
sion inmginable, to let me know how much he would
serve me as long as he lived. I understood him in
many things. and let him know I was very well pleased
with him. In a little time I began to speak to him.
and teach him to speak to me; and first, I made him
understand his name should be Friday, which was the.
day I saved his lif F: and I called him so for the me-
mory ot' the time ; l likewise. taught him to say.
' Master.' and let him know that was to be mv name.
I likewise. taught him to say. ' Yes.' and ' No.3 and to
know the meaning of them. Igave him some. milk in
an earthen pot. mnl let him see me. drink it before
him. and sop mv bread in it: and I gave him a cake
of bread to do the like. which he. quickly complied with
and made signs that it. was very good for him.

I kept there. with him all that night; but as soon as
it. was day. l heekoned to him to come with me, and
let him know I would give him some. clothes : at
which he seemed verv glad. for he was stark naked.
As we went by the place where we had buried the two
men. he pointed exactly to the spot. and showed me
the marks that he had made to find them again. mak-
ing signs to me that he would dig them up again and
eat. them: at this I appeared very angry. expressed
my abhorrenee of it. made as if I would vomit at. the.
thoughts of it. and beckoned with my band to him to
come away. which he did immediately with reat sub-
mission. 1 then led him up to the top of t to bill, to
see if his enemies were rune. and mlling out my
41188. I looked. and saw p aiuly the place. where. they
had been. but no appearance of them. or of their canoes:
so that is was plain that they were. gone. and had let' t
their two comrades behind them, without any search
after them.
But I was not content with this discovery; but

having now more cour we. and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man "riday with me, riving him
the sword in his lumd, with the bow and ar ows at his
back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one mu for me, and l two for my-
self. and away we mare led to the place where these
creatures had been; for I had a mind now to get some
fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the
pine . my very blood ran chill in my veins, and my
wart sunk within me at the horror of the spectacle.
Indeed it was a dreadful si ht, at least it was so to me,
though Friday made not ring of it: the lplace was
covered with human bones. the ground dyer with the
blood, great pieces of flesh left here and there, half
eaten man led and scorched; and, in short all the
tokens of t K: triumphant feast they had been making
there, after a victory over their enemies. I saw three
skulls. five hands. and the bones of three or four legs
and feet, and abundance of other parts of the bodies ;
and Friday, by his signs made. me understand that
they brou rht over four prisoners to feast upon ; that
three. of t cm were eaten up, and that be. pointing to
himself. was the fourth; that there had been a great
battle between them and their next king, whose sub-
jects. it seems, he had been one of; and that they had
taken a great number of prisoners. all which were car-
ried to several places by those that had taken them in
the fight. in order to feast upon them, as was done
here by these wretches upon those they brought hi-
tber.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh,
and whatever remained, and lay them together on a
heap, and make a tire upon it and burn them all to
ashes. 1 found Friday had still a hankering stomach
after some of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his
nature; but I discovered so much abhorrencc at the
very thought of it, and at the least up iearance of it,
that he durst not discover it; for 1 had, by some
means, let him know, that I would kill him if he
offered it.

When he had done this, we came back to our castle,
and there I fell to work for my man Friday. And
first of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which
I had out of the gunner's chest I had mentioned, and
which I found in the wreck; and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well: then I made him a
jerkin of goat's skin, as well as my skill would allow,
and I was now grown a tolerably ood tailor; and I
gave him a cap, which I had ma e of a hare-skin,
very convenient. and fashionable enough : and thus
he was dressed, for the present, tolerably well; and
mightily was he pleased to see himself almost as well
clothed as his master. It is true, he went awkwardly
in these things at first; wearing the drawers was
very awkward to him; and the sleeves of the waist-
coat galled his shoulders, and the inside of his arms;
but a little easin them where he complained they hurt
him, and nsin imself to them, at length he took to
them very wel .

The next day after I came home to my hutch with
him I be u to consider where I should lodge him:
and that might do well for him, and yet be perfectly
easy myself, I made a little tent for him, in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the msxde of
the. last, and in the outside of the first: 'and as there
was a door of entrance there into my cave, I made a
formal framed door-case,. and a door to it of boards,
and set it up in the passage, a little within the entrance;
and, causing the door to open on the. inside, I barred
it u '0 in the. night, taking in my ladders too; so that
Frii ay could no way come at me in the insnle of my
innermost wall. without making so IIIIIIIlI noise in get-
ting over. that it must. needs awaken me, . for my first
wall had now a complete II'ool 0\'t'l' it of lonIr poles.
covering all my tent. and leaning up to the. side ot the
hill. II lIIelI II as aIIIain laid eross with small stie Iks instead
of laths. and then thatehed oI er II great thickness with
the riee straw. IIlIiII h was strong like reeds; and at the
hole. or plaee. whieh was left to go in or out by tIhI
ladder. I. had plaeed a kind ol trap-door. IIhII h. it it
had been attempted on the. outside. would not. have
opened at all. but would have fallen down. and made
a great noise. I and as to weapons, I took them all in to
InI' side IIIIIIIIII night.

llnt I needed none at all this preeautionI . tor IIII IIIII
had IIIIIII II more faithful. loving. sInIIIIIIII seIIIIIIut than
Friday was to me; without passions. snllenness. 01'
design; pIIIIl'IIIItlII obliged and engaged ; his very atl'ee-
tions were tied to IIIII. like. those of II IIlIild to II father;
and l d: we say he would have saeritieed his life for the
saving mine. upon any oeIII IsiIIIIIIIIlIIItsoeI LII. 'lhe IIIIIIII
testimonies he gave IIIII ot this put it. out at doubt.
and soon IIonIIiIIIIed IIIII. that I needed to use no pre-
cautions as to my satetI' on his aeeount.

lIIIIs greatly IleliIrhteIl with him, and made. it In)
business to te aelI him all that was piIopeII to make him
usetul. handy. and hel Itul; but es IeIIiIIllII to make him
speak. and IIIIIleIIstanI me when i spoke. I and he. II .h
the aptest seholar t.hat ever was. and paIItienlaIIIlI was
so IIIIIIIIII'. so constantIlI IliliIIIent. and so pleased when
he eould but understand me. or make me understand
him. that it was very pleasant for IIIII to talk to him.
And now my lite liegan to he so easy. that I began to
an to my sell. that IIoulIl I but haII e heen sale tIIonI
more savages. l IIInI Id not it' 1 was never to II InIoIIe
lIIonI the plaee while. I liI' ed

After 1 had been two or three days IIItInIned to my
castle. I thou ht, that in order to bring Friday off
from his horriiI way of feeding, and from the relish of
a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him taste other
flesh. So I took him out with me one mornin v to the
woods; I went, indeed, intending to kill a kl( out of
my own flock, and bring it home and dress it: but, as
I was going, I saw a she-goat, lying down in the shade,
and two young kids sitting by ier. I caught hold of
Friday; " Ilold," said 1: " stand still ;" and made
signs to him not to stir: immediately 1 presented my
piece, shot and killed one of the kids. 'I' re poor crea-
ture who had, at a distance, indeed seen me kill the
savage, his enemy, but did not know nor could imagine
how it was done, was sensibly su rised, trembled
and shook. and looked so amazed, t rat I thought he
would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I had
shot at, nor perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his
waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded; and, as I
found presently, thought 1 was resolved to kill him:
for he came and kneeled down to me, and embracing
my knees, said a great many things I did not under-
stand; but I could easily see, that his meaning was to
pray me not to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him, that I would
do him no harm; and, taking him up by the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I had
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he
did; and while he was wondering and looking to see
how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun again, '
and by-aud-by I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon
a tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little
what I would do, I called him to me again, pointing at
the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought
it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot and
to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let
him see I would make hun fall, I made him understand
that I would shoot and kill that bird: accordingly, I
fired, and made him look, and immediately he saw the
parrot fall. He stood like one frightened again, not-
withstanding all that I had said to him; and I found
he was the more amazed, because he did not see me
put anything into the gun; but thought there must be
some wonderful fund of death and destruction in that
thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything near or far
off ; for the astonishment this created him was such as
could not wear off for some time; and I believe, if I
would have let him, he would have worshipped me and
my gun: as for the gun itself, he would not so much
as touch it for several days after; but would speak to
it, and talk to it as if it had answered him, when he
was by himself, which, as I afterwards learned of him,
was to desire it not to kill him.

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this,
I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot,
which he did, but staid some time 5 for the parrot, not
being quite dead, had fluttered a good way off from
the place where she fell. However, he found her,
took her up, and brought her to me; and as I had
perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took
this advantage to charge the gun again, and not let
him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other
mark that might present; but nothing more offered at
that time. So I brought home the kid, and the same
evening I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I.
could; and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or
stewed some of the flesh, and made some very good
broth : after I had begun to eat some I gave some to
my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very
well; but that which was strangest to him was to see
me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me, that the
salt was not ood to eat, and putting a little into his
own mouth, 1e seemed to nauseate it, and would spit
and sputter at. it. washing his mouth with fresh water
after it; on the other hand. I took some. meat in my
month without salt. and l pretended to spit and sputter
for want of salt. as fast as he. had done at the salt: but
it. would not do; he would never care for salt with
meat. or in his broth. at least. not fora great while
and then but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth. I
was resolved to feast. him the next day with roasting a
pieee ot' the kid : this I did by hanging it before the
tire in a string. as I had seen many people do in Eng-
land. setting two poles up. one on each side the tirv.
and one eross on the top. and tying the string to the
cross stiek. letting the meat turn continually. This
Friday admired very mueh: but when he came to taste
the tlesh. he took so many ways to tell me how well he
liked it. that l eonld not. but; understand him: aml at
last. he told me he would never eat man's flesh any
more. whieh l was very glad to hear.

The next. day I set him to work to beating some
eorn out. and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as
I observed before; zmd he soon understood how to do
it as well as l. espeeially after he had seen what the
tin-zoning ot' it. was. and that it was to make bread of;
for after I had let. him see. me. make my bread. and
bake it too ; and in a little time Friday was able to do
all the work for me. as well as I could do it myself.

l began now to eonsider, that. having two months to
t'ee-l instead of one. I must provide more. ground for
in) harvest. and plant a larger quantity of mm than I
Used to do. so I marked out a larger pieee of land. and
began to fence in the same manner as before. in which
l-'riday not only worked very willingly. aml very hard.
but did it very eheerl'ully ; and I told him what it was
for. that it was for corn to make more bread. because
he was now with me, and that I might have enough for
him and myself too. He appeared very sensible of
that part. and let me know that he thought I had much
more labour upon me on his account than I had for
myself, and that he would work the harder for me, if I
would tell him what to do.

This was the pleasantcst year of all the life I led in
this place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and
understtmd the names 01 almost ever thing I had oc-
casion to call for. and of every place I had to send him
to. and talk a great deal to me : so that in short I be.
gan now to have some use for my tongue again, which
indeed I had vcr little occasion for before; that is to
say, about speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to
him. I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself:
his simple. unfeigncd honesty, a )pcared to be more and
more every da . and I began rea ly to love the creature;
and, on his sir e. I believe he loved me more than it was
possible for him ever to love anything before.

lhad a mind once to try if he had any hankering
inclination to his own country again; and having
taught him English so well that he could answer me
almost any questions. I asked whether the nation that
he belonged to never conquered in battle. At which he
smiled, and said, " Yes, yes: we always tight the
better;" that is, he meant, always get the better in
light: and so we began the followinw discourse. " You
always tight the better! " said I : "Ilow came you to
be. taken prisoner then. Friday 'I "

Friday. My nation heat much for all that

Master. [low heat 'I If your nation beat them, how
came on to be taken?

Fric ay. 'l'hey more than my nation in the ilace
where me was: they take one. two, three, an me.
My nation over-beat them in the yonder place, where
me no was: there my nation take one, two great
thousand.
Master. But why did not your side recover you from
the hands of 'our enemies then?

Friday. '1' ey run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe: my nation have no canoe that
time.

Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men the take? Do they carry them away,
and eat them as these did ?

Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too, eat all up.

Master. Where do the car them 2

Friday. Go to other p ace w ere they think.

Master. Do they come hither?

Friday. Yes, yes, them come hither: come other
else plase.

Master. Have ou been here with them?

Friday. Yes, I een here. (Points to the N.W. side
of the island, which it seems was their side.)

By this I understand that my man Friday had for-
merly been among the savages who used to come on
shore, on the farther art of the island, on the said
man-eating occasion t at he was now brought for:
and some time after, when I took courage to can
him to that side, being the same I former] mentione ,
he presently knew the place, and told me e was there
once, when they eat up twenty men, two women, and
one child: he could not tell twenty in English, but he
numbered them by laying so many stones in a row,
and pointin to me to tell them over.

I have tofd this pass n'e, because it introduces what
follows: that, after I ha had this discourse with him,
I asked him how far it was from our island to the
shore. and whether the canoes were not often lost. He
told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but
that. after a little way out to sea, there was a current,
and a wind always one way in the morning, the other

in the afternoon.
P
This I umlcrstaml to be. no more. than the. sets of
the tide. as going out or coming in ; but I afterwards
understod it was occasioned by the. great draught and
reflux ot' the. mighty river ()roonoquo; in the, mouth
of which river. as I thought. afterward. our island lay;
and that this land which I pcreeived to the W. and
N.W.. was the. great island 'l'rinidad. on the north
point of the month of the river. I asked Friday a
thousand questions about the country, the, inhabitants.
the sea. the eoast. and what. nations were. near: he told
me all he knew. with the greatest openness imaginable.
I asked him the. names of the. several nations of his
sort of people. but could get no other name, than
t'arihs; from whence l easily understood. that these.
were the ('-aribhees which our maps place on that part.
of America which r 'aehes from the. mouth of the river
()roonoqne. to Guinea. and onward to St. Martha.
He told me. that. up a great way beyond the moon,
that was. beyond the setting of the moon. which must
he west from their eountry. there dwelt. white-bearded
men. like. me. and pointed to my great whiskers. wbieh
I mentioned before; and that they had killed " much
mans." that was his word ; by all wbieh I understood he
meant. the Spaniards. whose. eruelties in America had
been spread over the whole countries. and wers re-
membered by all the nations. from father to son.

I inquired il' he could tell me. how I might come.
from this island. and get. among those white men; he
told me. yes. yes. I might go in " two canoe." I could
not. mulerstand what he meant by " two canoe. 1" till at.
last. with great dillieulty, I found he meant. that it
must. be in a large. great big canoe, as big as two

.eanoes.

This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with
me very well : and from that time I entertained some.
hopes, that, one time. or other, I might find an oppor-
tnnity to make my escape from this place, and that
this poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.

During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me, and un-
derstand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of
religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked
him one time, who made him. The poor creature did
not understand me at all, but thought I had asked
who was his father. But I took it by another handle,
and asked him who made the sea, the ground he
walked on, and the hills and woods. He told me, it
was one old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all. He
could describe nothing of this great person, but that
he was veryr old ; much older, he saii , than the sea or
the land, than the moon or the stars. I asked him
then. if this old person had made all things, why did
not all things worship him. He looked very grave,
and with a werfeet look of innocence, said, "All things
said 0 ! to him." I asked him if the people who die
in his country, went anywhere. He said, yes, they all
went to Benamnckee. Then I asked him, whether
those they eat up went thither : he said, " Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him, that the great
Maker of all things lived up there, pointing up towards
heaven: that he governs the world by the same power
and providence by which he had made it; that he was
onnnpotent, could do everything for us, give everythixw
to us, take everything from us: and thus, by degrees,I
opened his eyes. He listened with great attention,
and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ
being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making
our prayer to God, and his being able to hear us, even
in heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could
hear us up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater
God than their Benamuekcc, who lived but a little way

Q217;? uoamsow oaoson.

otl'. and yet could not hear. till they went up to the
great mountains where he dwelt. to speak to rim. I
asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him : he.
said. no ; they never went that were young men ; none
went thither hat the old men. whom he called their
Oowokee. that. is, as I made. him explain it to me. their
religious, or clergy: and that they went to say 0 (so
he called saying prayers), and then came back, aml told
them what lleuamnekee said. By this I observed.
that there is a priestcraft even amongst the most
hliuded. ignorant Pagans in the world; and the policy
of making a secret religion. in order to preserve. the
veneration of the people to the clergy. is not only to
he found in the Roman. but perhaps among all religious
in the. world. even among the most brntisli and barba-
rons savages.

[endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday. and told him. that the pretence of their old
men going up to the. mountains to say 0 to their God
llimamnekee. was a cheat; and their bringing word
from thence what he said. was nmeh more. so; that it'
they met with any answer. or spoke with any one there.
it. must he with an evil spirit: and then I entered into
a long discourse. with him about the devil. the original
of him, his rebellion against God. his enmity to man.
the reason of it. his setting himself up in the dark
parts of the world to be worshipped instead of God. and
as (led. aml the many stratagems he made. use. of to
delude mankind to their rnm: how he had secret ae--
eess to our passions. and to our atl'eetious. adapted his
snares so to our inclinations. as to cause us to be our
tempters. and to run upon our own destruction, by our
own choice.

I always applied myself to reading the Scriptures,
and to let him know. as well as I could. the. meaning
of what 1 read ; and he again, by his serious inquiries
and questions. made me. a much better scholar in the
Scripture knowledge thaw I should ever have been by
my own mere private readnm.

After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted. and that he could understand almost all I
said to him. and speak fluently, though in broken
English, to me, I acquainted him with my' own story.
or at least so much of it as related to my coming into
the place. how I had lived there, and how long. I let
him into the mystery (for such it was to him) of gun-
powder and bullet. and taught him how to shoot. I
gave him a knife. which he was wonderfully delighted
with. and I made him a belt with a frog hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangers in; and, in the
frog. instead of a hanger. I gave him a hatchet. which
was not only a good weapon in some cases, but much
more useful upon many occasions.

I descrilnal to him the countries of Europe, and par-
ticularly 'lngland, which I came from; how we lived,
how we worshipped (lod. how we hehavcd to one
another. and how we. traded in ships to all parts of the
world. Igave. him an account of the. wreck which I
had heen on hoard of. and showed him. as near asI
could. the place where she lay ; but she was beaten in
pieces long before. and quite. gone.

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which was lost
when l escaped. and which I could not stir with my
whole strength then. hut was now fallen almost all to
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Fridav stood musing a
great while, and said nothing. I IlSlit'll him what it
was he studied upon: at last, says he, " Me see such
hoat like come to place at my nation."

I did not understimd him a good while; but at last,
when I examined further into it, I understood by him.
that a boat, such as that had been. came on shore upon
the country where he lived : that is, as he explainci it,

Q3
was driven there by stress of weather. I presently
imagined, that some European ship must have been
cast away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose
and drive ashore; but was so dull that I never once
thought of men making escape from a wreck thither.

much less whence they might come; so I only inquired
after a description of the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him when he added.
with some warmth, " We save the white mans from
drown." Then I iresently asked him if there were
any white mans. as he ealled them, in the boat: "Yes,"
he said. "the boat full of white mans." I asked him.
"How many ?" He told me, it won his fingers. seven-
teen. I asked him then. "W lat beeame of them ?"
He told me. " They live. they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts again into my head; for]

presently imagined. that these might be the men he-
onging to the ship that was east away in sight of my
island. as I now call it: and who. after the ship Was
struck on the roek. and they saw her inevitable loss.
had saved themselves in their boat. and were landed
upon that wild shore amon the savages.

Upon this] inquired 0 him more critically, what
was become of them: he assured me they lived still
there; that they had been there about four years; that
the savages let them alone. and gave them vietuals to
live. I asked him, how it came to iass they did not
kill them, and eat them. He said. ' 0, they make bro-
ther with them ;' that is. as I understood him. a truce :
and then he added, ' They eat no mans. but when
make the war fight -,' that. is to say, they never eat any
men. but such as come to tight with them, and are
taken in battle.

It was after this. some considerable time, that being
on the top of the hill. at the east side of the island,

~\~

noamson 0110802. 1/5

from whence I had, in a clear day, discovered the main
or continent of America; Frida , the weather being
very serene, looks very earnest y towards the main
land, and, in a kind of surprise, falls a jumping and
dancing, and calls out to me. for I was at some distance
from lum: I asked him what was the matter. ' 0
joy 1' says he, ' O glad! There see my country!
there my nation!'

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure ap-
pear in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his coun-
tenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had
a mind to be in his own country again ; and this ob-
servation of mine put a great many thoughts into me,
which made me at first not so easy about my new man
Friday, as I was before; and I made no doubt, but
that if Friday could get back to his own nation again
he would not only for ret all his religion, but all his '
obligation to me ; an would be forward enough to
give his countrymen an account of me, and come back
perhaps, with a hundred or two of them, and make a
feast upon me. at which he might be as me as they
used to be with those of his enemies when l.izey were
taken in war.

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very sorry afterward: however as my
jealously increased, and held me some weeks, I was a
little more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind
to him as before: in which I was certainly in the wrong
too, the honest grateful creature having no thought
about it, but what consisted of the best princi les, both
as a reli 'ous Christian, and as a grateful riend, as
up eare afterward to my full satisfaction.

Vhilst my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure
I was every day pumping him to see if he would dis-
cover anv of the new thou hts which I suspected were
in him ; But I found every t ring he said was honest, and
so innocent that l mm" and nothinIv to nourish my
suspieiIInI . and III spite III all my uneasiness. he made
me at last entiIelI his own aIrain; nor did he in the
least. peIIeeiI'e. that I "as uneasy; and theIIeloIIe l
eould not suspect him ol Ileeeit.

One day walking II I the. same hill. but. the weather
ll('l|l"' hazy at. sea. so I Iat IIe eould not see the eon-
Iiuent. l ealled III him, and said' Friday. do not Ion
IIislI Iourselt III IquI IIIIII eouutI'I. IIIIII' own nation'a"
' \Ins. he. said, I he mIIIIlI () glad to he. at. IIII IIIIII
nation. ' \\ hIII. would you do there. 3" said I : ' would
IIIII turn IIiId IIIrain. eat man's Ilesh III ain. and he
saIIaI'e as Iou III re. hetore'" He. looked In I III IIoIIeeI'II.
and shnkiiw his head said. No. no; lI'I'idaI tell them
III live good. tell them III pray (Iod. tell them to eat.
eIII'n- -.lIIdegIIaIl IIaItle- Ilesh. milk: no eat IIIIIII III'ain.'

' Why then.' said I III him. ' theI will kill y'ou.
He. looked "'I'IIH' at that. and then said. ' No, they no
kill me; IheI IIillinI' loIe learn.' "I: meant by this
they II ould lie willing III learn: he. added the) learned
mueh III the bearded mans that eame in the boat. Then
I asked him it he IIoIIld '0 hack to them. He smiled
at that. and said he mold not swim so far. I told him
I would make. a name for him. he told me. he. II onld
go. it'l would I'o with him. '1 gol' said I. ' IIhI' they
will eat me. if T IIome. Il.'Iere ' No. IIII. 'said he, me.
make. them not when : me make theI mueh love you.'
llemeant he. would tell them how I had killed his
enemies. and saved his life. and so he would make
them love me. Then he told me. as II ell as he could.
how kind thIII II ere. to seventeen white. men. or bearded
men. as he called them, II he came IIII shore there in
distress.

From this time. I confess. I had a mind to venture
over. and see. if 1 IIIIIIld possibly join with these
bearded men, who, 1 made. no doubt, were Spaniards
or Portu uesc; not doubting, but, if I could, we
might tint some method to escape from thence, being
upon the continent, and a good company together.
better than I could from an island. forty miles off the
shore, and alone without help. So, after some days.
I took Friday to work again, by way of discourse: and
told him, I would give him a boat to go hack to his
own nation; and accordingly carried him to my fri-
gate. which In on the other side of the island; and
having cleareil'it of water (for 1 always kept it sunk in
the water), I brought it out, and showed it him, and
we. both went into it.

I found he was a mostdexterous fellow at managing
it, would make it go almost as fast again as I could;
so when he was in it, 1 said to him, ' Well, now, F ri-
day, shall we go to your nation'." He. looked very
dull at my saying so; which, it seems, was because he
thought the boat too small to go so far. I told him
then I had ahigger; so the next da' 1 went to the
place where the first boat lay which had made, but
which I could not get into the. water. He said that
was big enou rh; but then as I had taken no care of
it, and It had ain two or three-and- twenty years there,
the sun had split and dried it, that it was in a manner
rotten. Friday told me, that such a heat would do
very well. and would carry ' much enough vittle, drink,
bread ;' that was his way of talking.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon
my design of going over with him to the continent,
that I told him we would go and make one as big as
that. and he should go home in it. Ile answered not
one word, and looked very grave and sad. I asked
him what was'the matter with him. He asked me
again thus, ' Why you angry mad with Friday 2
\\ hat me done 'I' lasked him what he meant: I told
him I was not angry with him at all. ' No angry!17:4 1111111113011 1111111111112.
N11 1111;..111'1' 1 11111111111. 11111111111111; 11111. 11111113 1111.1'111'111 1.1111113- :
'11111 5111111 11111111 111111111 1111111' 1.11 1111' 1111111111'1' ' \1'111'.
1111111 1. ' 11"1111111'. 11i11 1'1111 11111 5111' 111111 11111111111 1'1111 11'111'11.
1111111111." '\'.11s 1'1111' $.11s 1111. "111.1111 1111 11111.11 11111111; 1111
wish 11'1'1111111 1.1111111. 1111 11111311111 111111'11. ' 111 11. 11111111. 1111
111111111 11111 11111111 111' 11111111" 111111111 11111111111. 11111. '1 go
111111111.1"1'111111'1'141111l";l '1111111. 5111111111 1 1111 11111101 "'
1111. 1111111111 1'111'1'1111111111'1 11111111 11111 at 111111: ' 11111 1111
1.9111111 1111111 111111111 111111111.' 1411111 1111.1 ' 11111 1111111111 11"1111 111111111
1111 1.2111111. s11111'1' 11111111. 1111111: 11111 11111 1.1111111 111111111 (11111.
pray(11111.111111111'11111111'111'11.".-\111.~1! 11'11i11111.' 811111 1.
'1.111111 111111111111 11111. 1111111. 1111111 511111.11: I 11111 11111. 1111
111-1111r11111 1111111 11118112'11 '\('S. 11113. $111.11 1111. '1'1111
1111111111111. 11111 "111111. 11111 1111111111111 11111111 g111111."N11. 1111
11"1'111111.' 311111 1. 'y1111 shall 11;" 11111.1.111111 11111. 1 111111111. 11111.
111' 1111 s1111'.1 11.11 I 111111 1111 1111111. 1111 11111111111 1111111'11s111l111r111u
111. 111111 11'111':1l 111111. 1111111111111: 111 111111 111' 11111. 11111111111111
111111111 1111113111 111 11'111111.11111111111s i1 1111111111111.11111114111111
11 11111. ' \11111111111st 1 1111 with 111132" 311111 1 111 111111.
' \1111 111110 kill 111111111". 5111': 1111. ' "'11111 must. [kill you
1'111"1's11i11 1 1111111111. 1111. 1'11.'111111s 1'111'1' 1111111111. ' \1'1111t
1'1111 M11111 111'111111'1111"111 1'".111' '1'111111. 11111 111'111111. 1111511111l
'111'1'111111 1111'111'. ' '1 11111 1111.1111111. s11 11111111111111. 111111. 1 1111111
11111rs 111111111 in his 11111.11. 8111 11 11111111 1 s11 plainly 11181111-
1'11r11111.h11.11111111st1111111111111111 111111 111 11111. 111111 11 111111
1111511111111111111 111111. 1111111 111111 111111 1111111 111111 11111111 1111011
111111. 1 111111111 111111111 $111111 111111 111111111 from 1110 111111. 11111111
11111111111 111 51111111111 21111

11111111 11111 111111111. 1111 1 {11111111.111 1111 his 1118111111311. 11
511111111111111111111111111 11111. 111111 1.11111 11111111111: should part
111111 from 11111. so 1 111111111 1111 1111.1 1'111111111111111101' his
11111111111. 111 <<1111 111 his 111111 country was 111111 in his 1111111111;
1111'1111ti1111 111 11111 11111111111, 1111111113110111111 111' 1111' doing them
1111111. 11 111111g.11h111h 1111 1 111111 1111 1111111111 111' 1111sclf, so

111111 11111. the 1111131 thou 111. or intention. (111 1111811111. of
undertaking it. But sti 1 found 11 strong inchnntion
to my attempting an escape, as ahove. founded on the
supposition gathered from the former discourse; viz.
that there were seventeen bearded men there; and
therefore. without any more. delay, I went to work
with Friday, to find out a great tree proper to fell.
and make a large periagua. or canoe, to undertake the
voyage. There. were trees enough in the island to
have huilta little lleet. not of periagnas and canoes
only. hut. even of good large vessels: but the main
thing I looked at was to get one. so near the water,
that we might latmeh it when it was made, to avoid
the mistake. I committed at first.

At. last Friday pitehed n ion a tree; for I found he
knew mneh hotter than I w tat kind of wood was fittest
for it; nor ean I tell to this day, what wood to call
the tree we eat down, except that it was very like the
tree we. call l'ustie. or between that and the Nicaragua
wood. for it was much of the same colour and smell.
Friday was for burning the hollow or cavity of this
tree out to make. it into a heat: but I showed him
how rather to eat it out with tools, which after I
showed him how to use. he did it very handily; and
in about a month's hard labour. we finished it, and
made it very handsome. especially when with our axes.
whieh I showed him how to handle. we eat and hewed
the outside into the. true shape. of a boat. After this,
however. it. cost as near a fortnight's time to get her
along. as it were. ineh hy inch. upon great rollers, into
the water: but when she. was in, she would have car-
ried twentv men with ease.

When she. was in the water, and though she was so
big. it amazed me. to see with what dexterity and how
swift my man Friday would manage her. turn her,
and paddle her along. So I asked him. if he would,
and if we. might venture. over in her; ' Yes,' he said,
' me venture over in her very well, though great blow
wind.' However. I had a farther design that he knew
nothing of. and that. was to make a mast: and a sail,
and to fit her with an anehor and cable. As to a mast.
that. was easy enough to get: so I iitehed upon a
straight young cedar-tree. which 1 man] near the.
plaee. and wlueh there was a rent plenty of in the is-
land ; and I set Friday to worfi to eat it down. and
gate him direetions how to sha \e and order it : hut as
to the sale. that was my partienlar eare. I knew I had
old sails or rather pieees. of old sails enough. but as I
had had them now twenty-six years by me. and not.
been \er)' careful to perserre. them. not imagininw
that I should ever have this kind of use for them. ?
tlltl not doubt but they were all rotten: aml indeed
must of them were so. However. I found two pieees
ulna-h appeared pretty good. and with these. I went to
work ; and with a great deal of pains. and awkward
tedious stitching (you may he snrel.for wantol' needles.
I at length made a three-eorned n 'ly thing. like. what
we eall in l'higland. a slunihler-ot-mntton sail, to go
with a hootn at. the huttmn. and a little sprit at the top.
::..eh as usually our ships' long-boats sail with. and
aneh as l hest hnew how to manage. heeansc it was sneh
a mlt' as I used in the. heat. in whieh [made my eseape,
ti-mn llarharp. as related in the. first part of my story.

I was near two months performing this last. work;
ri'z. rigging and tittin r my masts and sails ; for l tin-
ished them very eompli'te. making a small stay. and a
sail. or fore--sale to it. to assist. it. we should turn to
windward -. and nhieh was more. than all. I fixed a
rudder to the stern of her. to steer with: and thone'h
I was hat. a hunglillg shipwright. yet: as I knew t m
usefulness and even neeessity of sueh a thing, I applied
myself with so much pains to do it. that at ast l
lumight it to pass ; though. considering the many dnll
enutrivmiees 1 had for it that failed. 1 think it: cost me
almost as much labour as making the boat.
After all this was done. I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation ot my
boat: for though he knew very well how to paddle the
canoe : he knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a
rudder. and was the more amazed when he saw me
work the boat to-and-again in the sea. by the rudder,
and how the sail gibbed. and filled this way or that
way, as the course we sailed changed ; I say when he
saw this. he stood like one astonished and amazed.
Ilowcvcr, with a little use, I made all these things
familiar to him. and he became an expert sailor, ex-
cept that as to the compass, I could make him under-
stand very little of that: on the other hand, as there
was very little cloudy weather. and seldom or never
any fogs in those parts. there was the less owasion for
a compass. seeing the stars wme always to be seen by
night, and the shore by day, except in the rain sca-
sous; and then nobody cared to stir abroad, cit icr by
land or sea.

I was now entered on the seven--and-twentieth year
of my captivity in this place; though the three last
years that I had this creature with me ought rather to

)e left out of the account, my habitation being quite
of another kind, than in all the rest of the tune. I
kept the anniversary of my landing here, with the
same thankfulness to God for his mercies as at first;
and if I had such cause of acknowledgment at first, I
had nmeh more so now, having such additional testi-
monies of the care of Providence over me, and the
great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily de-
livered: or lhad an invincible impression it on my
thou hts, that my deliverance was at hand, am that I
shou d not be another vear in this place. However,
I went on with my husbandry, digging. planting,
fencin , as usual: I gathered and cured my grapes,
and ' every necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was in the mean time upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times;
so I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the
beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and
hauling her up to the shore. at high-water mark, I
made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough
to hold her, and just deep enough to give her water
enough to float in; and that when the tide was out,
we. made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the
water out ; and so she lay dry, as to the tide from the
sea; and to keep the. rain off, we laid a great many
houghs of trees so thick, that she was as well thatched
as a house; and thus we waited for the months of
November and December, in which I designed to
make. my adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage ; and the first
thing 1 did was to lay by a certain quantity of pro-
visions. being the stores for our voyage ; and intended
in a week or fortnight's time to open the dock, and
launch out our boat. Iwas busy one morning upon
Something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and
bade him go to the. sea-shore, and see if he could find

turtle. or tortoise, a thing which we generally get
race a week, for the sake of the eggs, as well as the
flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came
running back, and flew over my outward wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set
his feet on; and before I had time to speak to him, he
cried out to me, ' 0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow!
0 had!' 'What's the matter, Friday?' said I. ' O
yonder there,' says he, ' one, two, three canoe! one,
two, three!' By this way of speaking, I concluded
there were six; but, on inquiry, I found there were
but three. ' Well, Friday,' said I, ' do not be frighc
tencd:' so I heartened him up as well as I could.
However, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly
scared ; for nothing ran in his head but that they were
come to look for him, and would cut him in pieces
and eat him; and the poor fellow trembled so that I
scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him
as well as I could, and told him I was in as much dan-
ger as he, and that they would eat me as well as him.
' But,' said I, ' Friday, we must resolve to fight them.
Can you fight, Friday?' ' Me shoot,' says he; 'but
there come many great number.' ' No matter for that,'
said I again, ' our guns will fright them that we do not
kill.' So I asked him, whether, if I resolved to defend
him, he would defend me, and stand by me, and do
just as I bade him. He said, ' Me die, when you bid
die, master.' So I went and fetched a good dram of
rum, and gave him ; for I had made so good a husband
of my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he
had drank it, I made him take the two fouling-pieces,
which we always carried, and loaded them with swan-
shot, as big as small pistol-bullets: then I took four
muskets, and loaded them with two slugs, and five
small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded with
a brace of bullets each. I hung my great sword, as
usual, naked by my side, and gave Friday his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my per-
spective glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to
see what I could discover; and I found quickly, by my
glass, that there were one-and-twenty savages, three
prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole
business seemed to be the triumphant banquet over
these three human bodies (a barbarous feast indeed!) :
but nothing more than as I had observed was usual
with them.

I observed also, that they were landed, not where

32
they had done when Frida made his escape, but
nearer to my creek, when t ie shore was low, and
where a thick wood came close almost down to the
sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand
these creatures came about, so filled me with indi a-
tion, that I came down again to Friday and told im
I was resolved to go down to them, and kill them all;
and asked if he would stand by me. He had now
gotten over his fright, and his spirits being a little
raised with the dram I had given him, he was very
cheerful: and told me, as before, 'he would die, when
I bid die.' - '

In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms
which I had charged as before, between us: I gave
Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol and the other
three myself, and in this posture we marched out. I
took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave
Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets; and
as to orders, I char d him to keep close behind me,
and not to stir, or s loot, or do any thing till I bade
him; and in the mean time, not to speak a word. In
this posture I fetched a compass to my right hand of
near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to et into
the wood; so that I might come within shot 0 them,
before I should be discovered, which I had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.

I now entered the wood, and with all possible wari-
ness and silence (Friday following close at my heels),,I
marched till I came to the skirt of it, on the side which
was next to them; only that one corner of the wood
lay between me and them. Here I called softly to
Friday, and showing him a reat tree, which was just
at the corner of the wood, I ade him go to the tree,
and bring me word if he could see there plainly what
they were doing. He did so, and came immediately
back and said, they might be plainly viewed there ; that
they were all about the tire, eating the flesh of one of
their prisoners ; and that another lay bound upon the
sand, a little from them, whom, he said, they would
kill next, and which fried the very soul within me.
He told me it was not one of their nation. but one of
the bearded men whom he had told me of, that came
to their country in the boat. I was filled with horror
at the very naming the white, bearded man; and.
going to the tree, I saw plainly, by my glass, a white
man, who lay u )on the beach of the sea with his hands
and his feet tier with flags, or things like rushes; and
that he was a European, and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the dam
where I was, which by going a little way, about, i saw
I might come at undiscovered. and that then I should
be within half-shot of them. So I withheld my passion,
though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree;
and, going back about twenty paces, I got behind some
bushes which held all the way till I came to the other
tree, and then I came to a little rising ground, which
gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about
eighty yards.

lhad now not a moment to lose; for nineteen of
the dreadful wretches sat upon the round, all close
huddled together, and had just sent the other two to
butcher the poor Christian, and bring him perhaps.
limb by limb, to their fire; and they were stooped
down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Fri-
day : ' Now, Friday,' said I, ' do as I bid thee.' Fri-
day said he would. ' Then, Friday,' said I, ' do ex-
actly as you see me do; fail in nothing. So I set
down one of the my muskets, and the fowling piece.
upon the ground, and Friday did the like by his ; and
with the other musket 1 took my aim at the savages,

33
bidding him to do the like: then asking him if he was
ready, he said, 'Yes.' 'Then fire at them,' said I;
and the same moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and, on my side, I killed one,
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in a
dreadful consternation ; and all of them who were not
hurt, jumped upon their feet immediately, but (lid
not know which way to run, or which way to look;
for they knew not from whence their destruction came.
Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that as I had bid
him, he might observe what I did: so soon as the
first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took
up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like: he
sees me cock and present; he did the same again.
' Are you ready, Friday '1' said I. ' Yes,' said he.
' Let fly, then,' said I, 'in the name of God ;' and
with that I fired again among the amazed wretches,
and so did Friday ; and as our pieces were now loaded
with what I call swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we
found only two drop :but so many were wounded that
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad crea-
tures, all bloody and miserably wounded, most of them;
ghee-eof three more fell quickly after, though not quite

ea .

' Now, Friday,' said I, laying down the discharged
pieces and taking up the musket, which was yet loaded,
' follow me,' said I _: which he did, with a great deal of
courage: upon which I rushed out of the wood, and
showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As soon
as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as I
could, and bade Friday do so to; and running as fast
as I could, which, by the way, was not very fast, being
loaded with arms as I was, I made directly towards the
poor victim, who was, as I said, lying upon the beach
or shore, between the place where they sat and the
sea. The two butchers who were just going to work
with him, had left him, at the su rise of our first
fire, and fled in a terrible fright to t e sea-side, and
had jumped into a. canoe, and three more of the rest
had made the same wa . I turned to Friday, and bade
him step forwards, an fire at them: he understood
me immediately, and, running about forty yards to be
near them, he shot at them, and I thought he had
killed them all; for I saw them all fall in a hea in
the boat; though I saw two of them up again quic ly;
however, he killed two of them, andeounded the
third, so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat,
as if he had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out
my knife, and cut the fl as that bound the poor vic-
tim; and, loosing his ban and feet, I lifted him up,
and asked him, in the Portuguese tongue what he was.
He answered, in Latin, ' Christianus :' but was so
weak and faint, that he could scarcely stand, or speak.
I took my bottle out of my ocket, and ve it him,
making signs that he should ' k, which e did ; and
I gave him a iece of bread, which he eat. Then I
asked him w at countryman he was; and he said,
' Espagnole :' and being a little recovered, let me
know, by all the signs he could possibly make, how
much he was in my debt for his deliverance. ' Seig-
nor,' said I, with as much Spanish as I could make
up, 'we will talk afterward, but we must fight now;
if you have an strength left, take' this pistol and
sword, and lay a out you.' He took them very thank-
fully, and no sooner had he the arms in his hands,
but, as if they had put new vigour into him, he flew
upon his murderers, like a fury, and had cut two of
them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the
whole was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures
were so much frighted with the noise of our pieces,
that they fell down for mere amazement and fear, and
had no more power to attempt their own escape, than
their fiesh had to resist our shot: and that was the.
case of those five that Friday shot in the boat; for
as three of them tell with the hurt they received, so
the other two fell with the fright.

Ikept my piece in my hand still, without firing,
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I had
given the Spaniard my pistol and sword; soI called
to Friday, and bade. him run up to the tree from
whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay
there, that had been discharged; which he (lid with
great swiftness; and then giving him my musket. I
sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade
them come to me. when they wanted. While I was
loading these pieces. there happened a fierce engage-
ment between the. Spaniard and one of the savages,
who made at him with one of their great wooden
swords, the same. w ~apon that was to have killed him
before, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who
was as bold and as brave as could be imagined, though
weak. had fought this Indian a good while, and had
cut him two great wounds on his head; but the
savage. being a stout lusty fellow, closing in with
him, had thrown him down (being faint), and was
wringing my sword out of his hand. when the Spa-
niard, though undcrmost, wisely quitting the sword,
drew the pistol from his ~rdle, shot the savage
through his body, and kille him 11 ion the spot, be-
fore I, who was running to help, cou d come near him.
--Friday, being now left at his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet; and with that he dispatched those three who,
as I said before, were wounded at first and fallen, and
all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowl-
ing-pieces with which he pursued two of the savages,
and wounded them both; but as he was not able to
run, they both got from him into the wood, where
Friday pursued them, and killed one of them ; but the
other was too nimble for him; and though he was
wounded, yet had plunged into the sea, and swam,
with all his might, off to those who were left in the
canoe, which three in the canoe, with one wounded, we
know not whether he died or no, were all that escaped
our hands, of one-and-twcnty. The account of the
rest is as follows :--

fl

3 Killed at our first shot from the tree.

2 Killed at the next shot.

2 Killed by Friday in the boat.

2 Killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.

1 Killed by ditto, in the wood.

3 Killed by the Spaniard.

4 Killed, being found dropped here and there of
their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase
of them.

4 Escaped in the boat, whereof one was wounded, if

not dead.

------

21 In all.

Those that were in the canoe, worked hard to get
out of gun-shot; and though Friday made two or three
shot at them, I did not find that he hit any of them.
Friday would fain have had me take one of their ea-
noes, and pursue them, aml indeed I was very anxious
about their escape, lest carrying the news home to
their people, they should come back, perhaps with two
or three hundred of their canoes, and devour us by
mere multitude: so I consented to pursue them by
sea; and running to one of their canoes, I jumped in,
and bade Friday follow us but, when I was in the
canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature
lie there alive, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard
was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what the matter was, for he had not been able
to look up over the side of the boat; he was tied so
hard, neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that
he had really little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags, or rushes, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him
pp; but he could not stand or speak, but oaned most
piteously, believing, it seems, still that it: was 01:13
unbound in order to be killed.

 

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my
bottle, made him give' the poor wretch a dram, which,
with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and
he sat up in the boat; but when Friday came to hear
him speak, and looked in his face, it would have moved
any one to tears, to have seen how Friday kissed him,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
jumped about, danced, sung, then cried .a in, wrung
his hands, beat his own face and head, an then sung
aml jumped about again, like a distracted creature. It
was a good while before I could make him speak to
me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he
mane a little to himself, he told me that it was his fa-
thcr.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me,
to see what ecstacy and filial affection had worked in
this poor savage, at the sight of his father, and of his
being delivered from death; nor indeed can I describe
half the extravaganccs of his afi'ection after this; for
he went into the boat, and out of the boat a great many
times. When he went in to him, he would sit down
by him. open his breast, and hold his father's head
close to his bosom, half an hour together, to nourish it;
then he took his arms and ancles, which were numbed
and stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them
with his hands: and I, perceiving what the case was,
gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with,
whit h did them a great deal of good.

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who wcre now gotten almost out
of sight; and it was happy for us that we did not, for
it blew so hard within two hours after, and before they
could be gotten a uarter of their way, and continued
blowing so hard al night, and that from the north
west, which was against them, that I could not sup ose
their boat could live, or that they ever reached t eir
own coast.

But to return to Friday, he was so busy about his192 uoumsos (mason.

father. that. l eould not. tind in my heart. to take. him
00'. for some time : but after I thought he eould leave.
him a little. I ealled him to me. and he eame. jumping
and laughing. and pleased to the. highest extreme.
'|'heu l asked him. if he had given his father any
bread. He shook his head. and said. 'None: ugly
dog eat all up sell'.' So I gave him a rake of bread
out of a little poneh l earried on pm' iose; I also gave
him a dram for himself. but he would not. taste it ; lmt.
rarried it. to his father. I had in my poeket also two
or three lmnehes of my raisins. so I gave him a hand-
ful of them for his father. lle had no sooner given
his father these raisins. but I saw him eome out. of the
hunt. and run away. as if he had been hewitehed. He
ran at. sueh a rate tt'or he. was the swil'test. fellow of
his foot. that. ever l sawl. I say. he ran at. sueh a rate.
that. he. was out. of sight. as it. were in an instant:
and though I enlled and halloned too after him. it. \\'as
all one: away he went. and in a quarter of an hour.
I saw him eome haeh again. though not. so fast. as he
went; and as he eame nearer. I found his pare was
slaeher. heeause he had something: in his hand.
When he eame up to me. I found he had been quite.
home for an eartheru jug. or lot. to bring his father
some fresh water; and that. he liad got. two mor ' cakes
or loaves of bread. The broad ho gave me. but. the
water he earried to his father: however. as l was very
thirsty too. I tool; a little sip of it. This water revived
his father more than all the rum or spirits I had given
him: for he was just. fainting with thirst.
When his father had drunl'. l eulled to him to know
if there was any water left: he said. "Yes;" and l
bade. him give it to the poor Spaniard. who was in as
nmeh want of it. as his father; and I sent. one. of the.
akes that Friday brought. to the Spaniard too. who
was indeed very weak, and was reposmg himself upon
a green plaee. under the shade of a tree. and whose
limbs were also very stiff. and very mueh swelled with
the rude bandage. he had been tied with. When I saw
that upon Friday's coming n ) to him with the water.
he sat. up. and drank. and too - the bread. and began to
eat. I went. to him. and gave him a handful of raisins.
He looked up in my faee with all the tokens of gratitude
and tliaukfuluess that eould appear in any eounteuanee;
but so weak. notwithstanding he had so exerted himself
in the light. that he eould not stand up upon his feet:
he tried to do it two or three times. but was really not
able. his aneles were so swelled. and so painful to him ;
so I bade him sit still. and caused Friday to rub his
aueles. and bathe them with rum. as he had done his
father's.

I observed the poor alfm-tionate ereature every two
minutes. or perhaps less. all the while he was here,
turned his head about. to see if his father was in the
same plaee and posture as he left him sitting; and at
last he found he was not. to be seen, at which he
started up. and without speaking a word. flew with that
swiftuess to him. that one eonld searee. iereeive his feet
to toneh the ground as he went: but when he came he
only found that he had laid himself down to case his
limbs. So Friday eame baek to me presently; and I
then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday hel 3 him up,
if he. eould. and lead him to the boat. and then he
should earry him to our dwelling. where I would take
'are of him; but Friday. a lusty young fellow, took
the. Spaniard quite up upon his back. and carried him
away to the boat. and set him down softly upon the
side or gunwale of the eauoe. with his feet in the inside
of it. and then lifted him quite in, and set him close to
his father. and presently stepping out again, launched
the boat off. mid paddled it along the shore faster than
I could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard too;

8
so he brought them both safe into our creek, and
leaving; them in the boat, runs away to fetch the other
IIIIIIoII. .\s lIII passed IIIII I spoke. to him, and asked
him whither he went. He told me. " (it) feteh more
boat." So away he went. like the wind; for sure
IIIII'IIII man or horse. ran like. him: and he had the
other Iauoe in the. ewe k, ahnost as soon as I got to it
h_I laud : so he wat'ted me over. and then II cut to help
our new guests out. ot the boat, which he did; but
the II- IIIIIIe neither ot them able to walk; so that poor

lIIIiIth knew not what to do.
"lo IIIIIIIIIdI- this. 1 went to work III my thoughts, and

willing: to Fl'itlav to hid them sit down on the bank
II hIhI he came to me I soon made a kind of hand-
harm)" to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them
up hoth together upon it between us. But when we
got. tIlII III to the outside. ot our wall, or tIIrtificIItiIIII.I we
IIII III. at a worse loss than before for it was iIIIpossihle
to get. them over; and l was resolved not to break it
down. So 1 set to work again; and lI'IIiIla and l. in
about two hours' time. made a very hmulix'ome tent.
covered with old sails, and above that with houghs of
trees. heinw in the space. without our outward fence,
and hem III II that and the. grove of VOIHII" wood which
I had planted: and here IIII. III Ide them two beds of
such thinvrs as I had; viz. ot good rice-straw, with
blankets laid upon it to lie. on, and another to cover

them on IIaIIh he d.
M) island II .l\ now peopled, and I thought myself

IIIIIIv IIieh in sIIlIIIIIIts; and it was a merry brctleetion
whieh I lrequeuily made. how like a king,I I looked.
lI'iIIst ot all, the II hole country II a: my own mere. pro-
pertI, so that I had an IIIIIloiIhted l'lI'llt ot dominion.
Secondly. 1'!" people were pIIIIl'eIItlv subjected: I was
the absolute lord and laIIII'iIIIIr: they all owed their
lives to me, and more II Ind) to lag, down their liI es, if
there had been occasion of it, for me. It was remark-
able too. I had but three subjects, and they were of
three different religions: my man Friday was a pro-
testant; his father was a pagan and a cannibal: and
the Spaniard was a papist. However. I allowed liberty
of conscience throughout my dominions. But this is
by the way.

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued
prisoners, and given them shelter, and a place to rest
them upon, I began to think of making some provision
for them; and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday
to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out
of my particular flock, to be killed. Then I cut ofl' the
hinder quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set
Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them
a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth,
having nit some barley and rice also into the broth;
and as cooked it without doors, for I made no fire
within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new
tent: and having set a table there for them, I sat down
and eat my dinner also with them: and, as well as I
could, cheered them and encouraged them, Friday being
my interpreter, especially to his father. and indeed to
the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the language
of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather suppcd, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes. and go and fetch our
nuiskets and other tire-arms, which, for want of time,
we had left upon the place. of battle: and the next day
I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the
savages, which lay open to the sun, and would )resently
be otl'ensive; and I also ordered him to bury t 1e horrid
remains of their barbarous feast, which I knew were
pretty much, and which I could not think of doing
myself; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I went
that way. All which he punctually performed, and

s2
defaced the very appearance of the savages being there;
so that when I went again, I could scarcely know where
it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing
to the place.

1 then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects; and I first set Friday to inquire
of his father what he thought of the escape of the
savages in that canoe, and whether we might expect a
return of them with a power too great for us to resist.
His first opinion was, that the savages in the boat
never could live out the storm which blew that night
they went off, but must of necessity be drowned, or
driven south to those other shores, where they were
as sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned, if
they were cast away ; but as to what they would do, if
they came safe on shore, he said he knew not: but it
was his opinion that they were so dreadfully frighted
with the manner of their being attacked, the noise and
the fire, that he believed they would tell their people
they were all killed by thunder and lightning, and not
by the hand of man: and that the two which appeared
(viz. Friday and I) were two heavenly spirits or furies
come down to destroy them, and not men with weapons.
This, he said, he knew, because he heard them all cry
out so in their language one to another; for it was
impossible to them to conceive that a man could dart
fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, without
lifting up the hand, as was done now. And this old
savage was in the right; for, as I understood since by
other hands, the savages of that part never attempted
to go over to the island afterward. They were so
terrified with the accounts given by those four men
(for it seems they did escape the sea), that they believed,
whosoever went to that enchanted island, would be
destroyed with fire from the gods.

This, however, I knew not, and therefore was under
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept
always upon my guard, I and all my army; for as we
were now four of us, I would have ventured upon a
hundred of them fairly, in the open field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take
my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into con-
sideration, bein likewise assured by Frida 's father,
that I mi ht depend u n good usage rom their
nation, on is account, if lowould go.

But my thoughts were a little suspended, when I
had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I
understood that there were sixteen more of his country-
men and Portuguese, who having been cast away, and
made their escape to that side, lived there at peace
indeed with the savages, but were very sore put to it
for necessaries, and mdeed for life. I asked him all
the particulars of their voyage, and found they were 'a
Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la Plata, to the
Havannah, being directed to leave their loading there,
which was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back
what European goods they could meet with there;
that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
they took out of another wreck: that five of their own
men were drowned when first their ship was lost; and
that these esca ed through infinite danger and hazards,
and arrived almost starved on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to have been devoured every
moment. .

He told me, they had some arms with them, but
they were perfect] useless, for that they had neither
powder nor ball, t e washing of the sea havin spoiled
all their powder, but a little which they use at their
first landing to provide themselves some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them

e

there; and if they bad form no design of making any
a 3 '
escape. He said, they had had many consultations about
it: but that having neither vessei, nor tools to build
one, nor provisions of any kind, their counsels always
ended in tears and despair.

I asked him how he thought they would receive a
proposal from me, which might tend towards an escape;
and whether, if they were all here it might not be
done. I told him, with freedom, I feared most] their
treachery and ill usage of me, if I put my lie into
their hands; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue
in the nature of man; nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, so much
as they did by the advantages they expected. I told
him it would be very hard, that I should be the in-
strument of their deliverance, and that they should
afterwards make me their prisoner in New Spain,
where an Englishman was certain to he made a sacri-
fice, what necessity or what accident soever, brought
him thither: and that I had rather be delivered up to
the savages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the
merciless paws of the priests, and be carried into the
Inquisition. I added, that otherwise I was persuaded.
if they were all here, we might, with so many hands,
build a bark large enough to carry us all away, either
to the Brazils southward, or to the islands, or Spanish
coast northward: but that if, in requital, they should,
when I had put weapons into their hands, carry me, by
force, among their own people, I might be ill-used for
my kindness to them, and make my case worse than it
was before.

He answered with a great deal of candour and inge-
nuity, that their condition was so miserable, and they
were so sensible of it, that they would abhor the
thought of usin _ any man unkindly, that should con-
tribute to their ( eliverance: and that if I pleased, he
would go with them to the old man, and discourse with
them about it, and return again, and bring me their
answer: that he would make conditions with them,
upon their solemn oath, that they should be absolutely
under my leading, as their commander and captain;
and they should swear upon the holy Sacraments and
the Gospel, to be true to me, and to go to such Chris-
tian country as I should agree to, and no other; and
to be directed wholly and absolutely by my orders, till
they were landed safely in such country as I intended;
and that he would bring a contract from them, under
their hands, for that purpose.

Then he told me, he would first swear to me himself,
that he would never stir from me as long as he lived,
till I gave him orders ; and that he would take my side
to the last dro of blood, if there should happen the
least breach of aith among his countrymen.

He told me they were all of them very civil, honest
men, and they were under the greatest distress ima-
ginable, having neither weapons nor clothes, nor any
food, but at the mercy and discretion of the savages,
out of all hopes of ever returning to their own coun-
try; and that he was sure, if I would undertake their
relief, the would live and die by me.

Upon t ese assurances, I resolved to venture to re-
lieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage and
the Spaniard over-to them to treat. But when he
had gotten all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard
himself started an objection, which had so much pru-
dence in it on the one hand, and so much sincerity on
the other hand, that I could not but be very well satis-
fied in it; and, by his advice, put ofi' the deliverance of
hlis comrades for at least half a year. The case was
t us :--

He had been with us now about a month, durin
which time I had let him see in what manner I h
provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my
support; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and
rice I had raised up, which, as it was more than suffi-
cient for myself, so it was not sufficient, at least with-
out good husbandry, for my family, now it was in-
creased to number four: but much less would it be
sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one,
for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of Ame-
rica. So he told me, he thought it would be more
advisable to let him, and the two others, dig and culti-
vate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to
sow; and that we should wait another harvest, that
we might have a supply of corn for his countrymen,
when they should come; for want might be a temp-
tation to them to disagree, or not to think themselves
delivered, otherwise than out of one difficulty into
another. " You know," said he, " the children of ISo
rael, though they rejoiced at first at their being deli-
vered out of Egypt, yet rebelled even against God him-
self, that delivered them, when they came to want
bread in the wilderness."

I lis caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good,
that 1 could not but be very well pleased with his pro-
posal, as well as l was satisfied with his fidelity.

So we fell to digging all four of us, as well as the
wooden tools we were furnished with permitted; and
in about a month's time, by the end of which it was
seed-dime, we had gotten as much land cured and
trimmed up as we sowed twenty-two bushels of barley
on, and sixteen jars of rice, which was. in short, all the
seed we had to spare; nor indeed did we leave our-
selves barley sufficient for our own food, for the six
months that we had to expect our crop, that is to say,
reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for sow-
ing, for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the
ground in that country.

Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they
had come, unless their numbers had been very reat,
we went freely all over the island, wherever we ound
occasion; and as here we had our esca e or deliver-
ance upon our thoughts, it was impossib e, at least for
me, to have the means of it out of mine. To this pur-
pose I marked out several trees, which I thought fit
for our purpose, and I set Friday and his father to cut-
ting them down: and then I caused the Spaniard, to
whom I imparted my thoughts on that affair, to over-
see and direct their work. I showed them with what
indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into single
planks, and I caused them to do the like, till they had
made about a dozen large planks of good oak, near
two feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two
inches to four inches thick. What prodigious labour
it took up, anyone may imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and to this
purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one
day, and myself with Friday the next day; for we took
our turns: and, by this means we got about twenty
young kids to breed up with the rest; for whenever
we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added them
to our flock. But, above all, the season for curing
the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious
quantity to be hung up in the sun, that I believe, had
we been at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are
cured, we should have filled sixty or eighty barrels;
and these, with our bread, were a great part of our
food, and very good living too, I assure you; for it is
an exceeding nourishing food.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order. It
was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our end;
for from our twenty-two bushels of barley, we brought202 nonmsou 0311502.

in and threshed out above two hundred and twenty
bushels of barley, and the like in proportion of the rice,
which was store enough for our food to the next har-
vest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on
shore with me; or, if we had been ready for a voyage,
it would very plentifully have victuallcd our ship, to
have carried us to any part of the world, that is to say,
of America. When we had thus housed and secured
our magazine of corn, we fell to work to make more
wicker--work ; viz., great baskets, in which we kept it:
and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this
part, and often blamed me, that I did not make some
things for defence, of this kind of work; but I saw no
need of it.

And now, having a full supply of food for all the
guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go
over to the main, to see what he could do with those
he had left behind him there. I gave him a strict
" charge in writing not to bring any man with him, who
would not first swear in the presence of himself, and
the old savage, that he would no way injure, fight with,
or attack the person he should find in the island, who
was so kind as to send for them, in order to their de-
liverance; but that they would stand by and defend
him against all such attempts; and, wherever they
went, would be entirely under, and subjected to, his
command; and that this should be put in writing, and
signed with their hands. How we were to have this
done, when I knew they had neither pen nor ink, that
indeed was a question which we never asked.

Under these instructions, the Spaniard, and the old
savage (the father of Friday), went away in one of the
canoes, which they might be said to come in, or rather
were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be
devoured by the savages.

I gave each of them a musket with a firelock on it,
and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging
them to be very good husbands of both, and not to use
either of them but upon urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-
seven years and some days. I gave them provisions
of bread, and of dried grapes, sufficient for themselves
for many days, and sufficient for all their countrymen
for about eight (lays' time; and wishing them a good
voyage, I let them go, agreeing with them about a sig-
nal they should hang out at their return, by which I
should know them again, when they came back, at a
distance, before they came on shore.

They went away, with a fair gale, on the day that
the moon was at the full; by my account, in the month
of October: but as to the exact reckoning of days,
after I had once lost it, I could never recover it again;
nor had I ever kept the number of years so punctual]
as to be sure that I was right, though, as it rove( ,
when I afterwards examined my account, I foun I had
kept a true reckoning of years.

It was no less than eight days I waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of
which the like has not, perhaps, been heard of in his-
tory. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when
my man Friday came running in to me, and called
aloud, " Master, master, the are come, they are come."

I jumped up, and regard ess of danger, I went out,
as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little
grove, which (by the way) was by this time grown to
be a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I
went without my arms, which it was not my custom to
do; but I was surprised, when, turning my eyes to the
sea, I presently saw a boat, at about a league and a
half 's distance, standing in for the shore, with a shoul-
der-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blow-
ing pretty fair to bring them in. Also I observed
presently, that they did not come from that side which
the shore lay on, but from the sonthermost end of the
island. Upon this, I called Friday in, and bade him
lie close, for these were not the people we looked for,
and that we did not know yet whether they were
friends or enemies.

In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective
glass, to see what I could make of them; and having
taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the
hill. as I used to do when I was apprehensive of any-
thing. and to take my view the plainer, without being
discovered.

I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship, lying at an anchor, at about
two leagues and a half's distance from me, S.S.E., but
not above a league and a half from the shore. By my
observation, it appeared plainly to be an English ship,
and the boat appeared to be an English long-boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in, through the
joy of seeing a ship, and one which, I had reason to
believe, was manned by my own countrymen, and
consequently friends, was such as Ieannot describe;
but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me, 1
cannot tell from whence they came, bidding me keep
upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred to me
to consider what business an English ship could have
in that part of the world, since it was not the way to
or from any part of the world where the English had
any traliie; and I knew there had been no storms to
drive them in there, as in distress; and that if they
were English really, it was most probable that they
were here upon no good design, and I had better con-
tinue as I was, than fall into the hands of thieves and
murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
danger, which sometimes are given him, when he may
think there is no possibility of its being real. That
such hints and notices are given us, I believe few that
have made any observations on things, can deny; that
they are certain discoveries of an invisible world, and
a converse of spirits, we cannot doubt; and if the ten-
dency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why
should we not suppose they are from some friendly
agent (whether supreme, or inferior and insubordinate,
is not the question), and that they are given for our
good?

The present question abundantly confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; for had I not been made
cautious by this secret admonition, come it from
whence it will, I had been undone inevitably, and
in a far worse condition than before, as you will see
presently.

I had not kept myself long in this posture, when I
saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked for
a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing:
however, as they did not come quite far enough, they
did not see the little inlet where I formerly landed my
rafts, but run their boat on shore upon the beach, at
about half a mile from me, which was very happy for
me; for otherwise they would have landed just, as I
may say, at my door, and soon would have beaten me
out of my castle, and, perhaps, have plundered me of
all I bad.

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they
were Englishmen, at least, most of them: one or two
I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so. There
were in all eleven men, whereof three I found were
unarmed, and (as I thought) bound: and when the
first four or five of them were jumped on shore, they
took those three out of the boat as prisoners. One of
the three I could perceive using the most passronate

0'.2516 ROIIINSON (rmrsoI-z.

<<restores oi IIIIIIII aiy, aillietion, and despair, even to II
kind oi IIxtII'IIIIIgIIIIII-II; the. other two, 1 could pereeiI'II.
lifted up their hands LII'HllI'ilillt'h', and appeared II.III-
eerned ind: ed, but not to xIII-h a degree as the lirst.

l was ])('1It'('tl\ confounded at the sisrht, and knew
not what the Ineaninw oi it. I:IlIoIIl l he. . Friday called
out to me, in l'nglish, as II ell as he eould, " 0 master,
you see llneIlish mans eat prisoners as "1'" as savage
mans." 'I \\ hr," 3 aid 1, " lI'I'iIlI II, do _Iou think they
are going: to eat them ill( II. ' ;. IIIS,' ' says l'l'iday.
" lheI' Iiill eat them." " No, no," said I, " Friday: I
am III'IIIIiIl they will murder them indeed; but you may
he sure they will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really II 'l\, but stood tIIIIInlIli'IIIII with the horror of the
sight, mpeetiny; IIIIIIIv moment, when the three pri-
sonI'IIs should be killed; IIIII, once I saw one of the
villains hit up his arm, with a great cntlass (as the
seamen IIIIll it) or sw,ord to strike one of the poor
men; and I e xpected to see. him fall every moment, at
wide lI all the hi I'Iod In my body seemed to run chill In
my III his.

1 wI-ishz l her: rlily now for in" Spaniard, and the
saIIa<IIe th: It we. IIIIIII III IIIIIh him: or that I had any way
to have. III-nine IiIIIliseoI'eI IIIIl \Iithin shot of them, that I
Iniwht lIIIIe III Iened the. three mcnI , for III saw no fire--
arms thev had nine. III- them: but it fell out to my
mind another I: y .

Atter I had observed the outrageous usage of the
three men, by the insolent seamen, I observed the
fellows rans .IIitItIIIing about the land, as if they wanted
to see the. iIonIItry. I observed also, that the thre,
other men had liberty to go where they pleased, bicit
they sat down all three upon the ground very pensive.
and looked like men in des Iair.

This put me in mind 0 the first time when I came
on shore, and began to look about me: how I gave
1111' sell over lor lost, how wildly Ilookcd round me,
1111111: (111111111111 appthensions I 111111.11111111011' l lodged
111 the tree 1111 nitrht, for fear of beinv de1"co111ed by
111111 beasts.

1.s I knew nothing that nif'ht of the supply luas
to revoke, b1 the providential dri1ing 01 the ship
nearer the land, 11y the storms and tide, by 1111ie11s l
have since been so 1011" nourished and s1ipported;
these three poor, desolate men, knew nothino' hosw
1'111'tai11 of 11eli1EUR:;nee and supply the1 we1',11 how near
it was to them, and how elt'eetually and rally they
were in a condition of safetv, at the same time as they
thoun'ht themselves lost, and their case desperate.

So little do we see before 11s in the 1101111, and so
much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the
great Maker of the 1101111, that he does not leave his
1'1e1 1tures so absolutely destitute, but that In the worst
circumstances tl1e1 111' we alwayssomething to be thank-
1111 for, and sometimes .11e nearer their deliverance
than thcv inmcrine; 111111, are even brought to their
deliverance byn the means which they seem to be
b111ught to their destruction.

lto was just at the top of 1110-11-11ater when these
people came 011 shore, and while partly they stood
11111111) 11111- with the pi 1111111113 th11' b1ought, and partly
"Lilo they rambled about to see what kind of place
tin-1' new in, they had ea1'111'ssl1' stmcd till the tide
was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably away,
leaving their boat aground.

They had left two men in the boat, 11110, as I found
afterward, having drunk a little too much brandy, fell
asleep. However, one of them waking sooner than
the other, and finding the boat too fast aground for
him to stir it, hallooed for the rest, who 11'e1e strag-
gling about, upon which they all soon came to the

T2
boat; but it was past all their strength to launch her,
the boat being very heavy, and the shore on that side
being a soft, oozy sand, almost like a quieksand.

In this condition, like true seamen, who are, per<<
haps, the least of all mankind given to forethought,
they gave it over, and away they strolled about the
country again; and I heard one say aloud to another
(calling them off from the boat), "Why, let her alone,
Jack, can't ye? She'll float next tide." By which I
was fully confirmed in the main inquiry, of what
countrymen they were.

All this while, I kept myself close, not once daring
to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place
of observation, near the top of the hill; and very glad
I was to think how well it was fortified. I knew it
was no less than ten hours before the boat could be
afloat again, and by that time it would be dark, and I
might, be more at liberty to see their motions, and to
hear their discourse, if they had an .

In the meantime, I fitted myselfy up for a battle, as
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to
do with another kind of enemy than I had at first. I
ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms. I
took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three
muskcts. My figure indeed was very fierce: I had
my formidable goat-skin coat On, with the great cap I
mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols in
my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made
any attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock,
being the heat of the day, I found, that, in short, they
were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I
thought, were all laid down to sleep. The three poor
distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get
any sleep, were, however, set down under the shelter
of a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me,
and, as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest.

Upon this, I resolved to discover myself to them,
and learn something of their condition. Immediately
Imarchcd, in the figure above; my man Friday at a
good distance behind me, as fornidable for his arms
as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like
figure as I did.

I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and

     

'. ' ' ' .x 4' I '
., . I .
-'..l!,'.?'1 ;;{:':f . ,. ., , 1."

They started up at the sound, but were ten times
more confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth

T3
figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but
I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me,
when I spoke to them in English; " Gentlemen," said
I, " do not be surprised at me : perhaps you may have
a friend near you, when you do not expect it." " He
must be sent directly from Heaven then," said one of
them very gravely to me, and pulling ofl' his hat at
the same time; " for our condition is past the hel of
man." " All help is from Heaven, sir," said I. " ut
can you put a stranger in the way how to help you;
for you seem to me to be in some great distress? I
saw you when you landed; and when you seemed to
make application to the brutes that came with you,
I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face,
and trembling, looking like one astonished, returned,
' Am I talking to God or man? Is it a real man, or
an angel?' 'Be in no fear about that, sir,' said I. 'If
God had sent an angel to relieve ou, he would have
come better clothed, and armed a ter another manner,
than you see me. Pray lay aside your fears; I am a
man, an Englishman, and dis osed to assist you, you
see. I have one servant on y: we have arms and
ammunition. Tell us freely: can we serve you?
What is your case?'

' Our case, sir,' said he, 'is too long to tell you,
while our murderers are so near; but, in short, sir, I
was commander of that ship; my men having muti-
nied against me, they have been hardly prevailed on
not to murder me, and, at last, have set me on shore
in this desolate place, with these two men with me,
one my mate, the other a passenger, where we expect-
ed to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited,
and know not yet what to think of it.' ,

' Where are those brutes, your enemies?' said I.
' Do you know where they are gone?' 'There they
are, sir,' said he pointing to a thicket of trees. 'My
heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard
you lfpeali; if they have, they will certainly murder
us a .'

' Have they any fire-arms ?' said I. He answered
they had onlyvtwo pieces, and one which they left in
the boat. ' ell, then,' said I, 'leave the rest to me.
I see they are all asleep. It is an easy thing to kill
them all: but shall we rather take them prisoners?'
He told me there were two desperate villains among
them, that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to;
but if they were secured, he believed all the rest
would turn to their duty. I asked him which they
were. He told me he could not at that distance de-
scribe them; but he would obey my orders in any-
thing I would direct. 'Well,' said I, 'let us retreat
out of their view or hearing, lest they awake; and we
will resolve farther.' So they willingly went back
with me, till the woods covered us from them.

'Look you, Sir,' said I, 'if I venture upon your de-
liverance, are you willing to make two conditions with
me 2' He anticipated my proposals, by telling me,
that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be
wholl directed and commanded by me in everything;
and ' the ship was not recovered, he would live and
die with me, in what part of the world soever I would
send him; and the two other men said the same.

'Well,' said I, ' my conditions are but two: first,
That while you stay on this island with me, you will.not
pretend to any authority here; and if I put arms mto
your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them up
to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine, upon this
island: and, in the mean time, be governe by my
orders.'

' Secondly, that if the ship is or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England passage-free.'
He gave me all the assurances that the invention and
faith of a man could devise, that he would comply with
these most reasonable demands; and, besides, would
owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occa~
sions as long as he lived.

' \Vell, then,' said I, 'here are three muskets for
you, with powder and ball. Tell me next what you
think is proper to be done.' He showed all the testi-
mony of his gratitude that he was able; but offered
to be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it
was hard venturing anything, but the best method I
could think of, was to fire upon them at once, as they
la ; and if any were not killed at the first volley, and
o ered to submit, we might save them, and so put it
wholly upon God's providence to direct the shot.

He said very modestly, that he was loath to kill them,
if he could help it; but that those two were incorrigible
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in
the ship; and if they escaped, we should be undone
still; for they would go on board and bring the whole
ship's company, and destroy us all. "Well then," said
I, "necessity lcgitimates my advice; for it is the only
way to save our lives." However, seeing him still
cautious of shedding blood, I told him they should go
themselves, and manage as they found convenient.

In the middle of this discourse, we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them on
their feet. I asked him if either of them were the men
who, he had said, were the heads of the mutiny. He
said, " No." " Well then," said I, "you may let
them escape, and Providence seems to have wakened
them on purpose to save themselves. Now," said I,
"if the rest escape on, it is your fault."

Animated with t s, he took the musket I had given
him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two
mmrades with him, with each man a piece in his hand.
The two men, who were with him, ' going first, made
some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was
awake, turned about, and, seeing them coming, cried
out to the rest; but it was too late then, for the mo-
ment he cried out, they fired, I mean the two men, the
captain wisely reserving his own piece. They had so
well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one
of them was killed on the spot, and the other very
much wounded; but not being dead, he started up upon
his feet, and called eagerly for help to the other: but
the captain, step 'ing to him, told him it was too late
to cry for help, e should call upon God to forgive
his'v111any, and, with that word, knocked him down
with the stock of his musket, so that he never spoke
more. There were three more in the company, and
one of them was also slightly wounded. By this time
I was come; and when they saw their danger, and
that it was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy.
The captain told them he would spare their lives, if
they would give him any assurance of their abhorrence
of the treachery they had been guilty of, and would
swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and
afterward in carryin her back to Jamaica, from
whence they came. They gave him all the protesta-
tions of their sincerity that could be desired, and he
was willing to believe them, and spare their lives,
which I was not against; only I obliged him to keep
tliemdbound, hand and foot, when they were upon the
is an .

While this was doing, I sent Friday, with the cap-
tain's mate, to the boat, with orders to secure her, and
brin away the oars and sail, which they did; and,
by-t e-by, three straggling men, that were (happily
for them) parted from the rest, came back, upon hear-
ing the fired; and seeing their captain, who was
before PS3}: prisoner, now their conqueror, they sub-
mitted to be bound also; and so our victory was
complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should in-
quire into one another's circumstances. I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
an attention even to amazement, and particularly at
the wonderful manner of my beinrr furnished with pro-
visions and ammunition; and, in eed, as my story is a
whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply;
but when he reflected from thence upon himself, and
how I seemed to have been preserved there on purpose

to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he
could not speak a word more.

After this communication was at an end, I carried
him, and his two men, into my apartment, leading
them in just where I came out, viz. at the top of the
house, where I refreshed them with such provisions as I
had, and showed them all the contrivanees I had made,
during my long, long inhabiting that place.

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but, above all, the captain admired my for-
tification, and how perfectly I had concealed my re-
treat with a grove of trees, which having been new
planted near twenty years, and the trees growing
much faster than in England, was become a little
wood, and so thick that it was impassable in any part
of it, but at that one side where 1 had reserved my
little winding passage into it. This I told him was
my castle and my residence; but that I had a seat in
the country, as most princes have, whither I could
retreat upon occasion, and I would show him that too
another time; but at present our business was to con-
sider, how to recover the ship. He agreed with me
as to that; but told me, he was perfectly at a loss
what measures to take, for that there were still six-
and-twenty hands on board, who, having entered into
a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited
their lives to the law, would be hardened in it now by
desperation, and would carry it on, knowmg that if
they were reduced, they should be brought to the
gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any of
the English colonies; and that therefore there would
be no attacking them with so small a number as we
were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and
found it was a very rational conclusion; and that
therefore something was to be resolved on very speedily,
as well to draw the men on board into some snare for
their surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us and
destroying us. Upon this it presently occurred to me,
that, in a little while, the ship's crew, wondering what
was become of their comrades, and of the boat, would
certainly come on shore in their other boat, to see for
them; and that then, perhaps, they might come armed,
and be too strong for us : this, he allowed, was rational.

Upon this I told him the first thing we had to do
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so
that they might not carry her ofi' ; and taking every
thing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be
fit to swim. Accordingly we went on board, took the
arms which were left on board out of her, and whatever
else we found there, which was a bottle of brandy,
another of rum, a few biscuit cakes, a horn of powder,
and a great lump of sugar, in a piece of canvass: the
sugar was five or six pounds 3 all which was very
welcome to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of
which I had'had none left for many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat, were carried
away before), we knocked a great hole in her bottom,
that if they had come strono- enough to master us, yet
they could not carry off thetboat.
Indeed it was not much in my thoughts, that we
could be capable to recover the ship: but my view
was, that if they went away without the boat, I did not
much question to make her fit again to carry us away
to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends, the
Spaniards, in my way; for I had them still in my
thoughts.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had
first, by main strengt , heaved the boat upon the
beach, so high that the tide would not float her off at
high-water mark; and besides had broken a hole in
her bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were sat
down musing what we should do, we heard the ship fire
a gun, and saw her make a waft with her ensign, as a
signal for the boat to come on board: but no boat
stirred, and they fired several times, making other
signals for the boat.

At last, when all the signals and firings proved
fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw
them (by the help of my glasses) hoist another boat
out, and row towards the shore: and we found, as they
approached, that there were no less than ten men in
her, and that they had fire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore,
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain
sight of the men, even of their faces; because the tide
having set them a little to the east of the other boat,
they rowed up under shore, to corne to the same place
where the other had landed, and where the boat lay.

By this means, I say, we had a full view of them,
and the captain knew the rsons and characters of all
the men in the boat, of w om he said,that there were
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led
into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and
frightened.

But that as for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the
chief oflicer among them, and all the rest, they were as
outrageous as any of the ship's crew; and were, no
doubt, made deSperate in their new enterprise; and
terribly apprehensive he was that they would be too
powerful for us. -

I smiled at him, and told him that men in our err-
cumstances were past the operations of fear: that
seeing almost every condition that could be, was better
than that which we were supposed to be in, we ought
to ex ect that the conse uence, whether death or life,
woulr be sure to be a eliverance, I asked him what
he thought of the circumstances of my life: and
whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for.
" And where, sir," said I, "is your belief of my being
preserved here on purpose to save your life, which
elevated you a little while ago? For my part, there
seems to be but one thing amiss in all the pros ect of
it." "What's that? " said he. "Why," said , "'tis
that, as you say, there are three or four honest fellows
among them, which should be spared; had they been
all of the wicked part of the crew, I should have
thought God's providence had singled them out, to
deliver them into your hands 3 for, depend upon it,
every man of them that comes ashore is our own, and
shall die or live, as he behaves to us."

As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful
countenance, I found it greatly encour ed him; so we
set vigorously to our business. We ha , upon the first
appearance of the boat's coming from the ship, con-
sidered of separating our prisoners, and had indeed
secured them effectually.

Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured
than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one of the three
delivered men, to my cave, where they were remote
enough, and out of danger of being heard or discovered,
.or of finding their way out of the woods, if they could

U
ha1 e delivered themselves. Here they left them bound,
but gave them provisions, and promised them, if they
continued there quietly, to give them their liberty m a
day or two; but that if they attempted their escape,
they should be put to death 111thout mercy. The
promised faithfully to bear their confinement wit
patience, and new 1ery thankful that they had such
good usage, as to have provisions and a light left. them;
for Friday gave them candles (such as 11c made our-
sel1es) for their eomfmt: and they did not know but
that he stood sentinel 01' er them at the entrance.

The. other prisoners had better usage; t11o of them
11 me pinioned indeed, because the captain "as not free
to t111st them ; but the other t11o were taken into my
service, upon tl1ci1 captain's recommendation, and upon
their solemnly engaging to li1e and die with us; so,
11itl1thcm and the three honest men, 11c ""610 se1 en
men. 11 ell aimed; and I made no doubt we should be
able to deal 11' ell enough with the ten that were a com-
ing, considering that the captain had said there new
thiee 01 four honest men among them also.

As soon as tl1e1 got to the place where their other
heat 1:11, they ran their boat into the beach, and came
all 011 shore; hauling the. boat up after them, which I
11 as glad to see; for I was afraid they 11 ould rather ha1 e
lelt the boat at a11a11eho1, some distance from the shore,
111th some bands 111 110.1 to guard her; and so 11e should
not be able to seize the boat.

Being 011 shore, the iiist thing the1 did, they ran all
to the othe1 boat; and it 11:15 easv to see they new
under a great su1piise, to find he1 stripped, as above,
of all that 11 as in her, and a hole 1n her bottom.

\fter the1 had mused a11l1ile upon this, they set 11p
t11o 01 three great shouts hallooeing 111th all their
might, to 01' it the} could make their companions
hcai , but it 11:15 all to no pmpose. Then they came
all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small
arms, which indeed we heard, and the echoes made
the woods ring: but it was all one; those in the cave
we were sure could not hear, and those in our keeping,
though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to them.

They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that,
as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on -
board again to their ship, and let them know there,
that the men were all murdered, and the long-boat
staved: accordingly, they immediately launched their
boat again, and got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even con-
founded at this, believing they would go on board the
ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades up for
lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which he was
in hopes he should have recovered: but he was quickly
as much frighted the other way.

They had not long been put off with the boat, but
we perceived them all coming on shore again; but with
this new measure in their conduct, which, it seems,
they consulted together upon; viz., to leave three men
in the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up
into the country, to look for their fellows.

This was a great disappointment to us; for now we
were at a loss to know what to do; for our seizing
those seven men on shore would be no advantage to us,
if we let the boat escape, because they would then row
away to the ship; and then the rest of them would be
sure to weigh, and set sail, and so our hope of recover-
in the ship would be lost.

owever, we had no remedy but to wait and see
what the issue of things might present. The seven
men came on shore, and the three who remained in the

boat, put her off to a good2distance from the shore,
U
and came to an anchor to wait for them, so that it was
impossible for us to come at them in the boat.

Those that came on shore kept close together,
marching towards the tOp of the little hill, under which
my habitation lay; and we could see them plainly,
though they could not perceive us. We could have
been very glad they would have come nearer to us,
so that we might have fired at them; or that they
would have gone farther off, that we might have come
abroad.

But when they were come. to the blow of the hill,
where they could see a great way into the valleys and
woods, wliich lay towards the north-east part, and
where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed
till they were weary; and not caring, it seems, to ven-
ture far from the shore, nor far from one another,
they sat down together under a tree, to consider of it.
Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as
the other party of them had done, they had done the
job for us: but they were too full of a )prehensions of
danger to venture to go to sleep, thong they could not
tell what the danger was they had to fear neither.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this consultation of theirs, viz., that perhapsthey would
all fire a volley again, to endeavour to make their fel-
lows hear, and that we should all sally upon them,
just at the juncture when their pieces were all dis-
charged, and they would certainly yield, and we should
have them without bloodshed. I liked the proposal,
provided it were done while we were near enough to
come up to them, before they could load their pieces
again.

But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long
time, very irresolute what course to take: at length I
told him there would be nothing to be done in my
vpinion till night; and then, if they did not return to
the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between
them and the shore, and so might use some stratagem
with them in the boat, to get them on shore.

We waited a great while, though very impatient for
their removing, and were very uneasy; when after long
consultations, we saw them all start up, and march
down towards the sea. It seems they had such dread-
ful apprehensions upon them of the danger of the place,
that they resolved to go on board the ship again, give
their companions over for lost, and so go on with their
intended voy with the ship.

As soon as erceived them go towards the shore, I

imagined it to e as it really was, that they had given
over the search, and were for going back again; and

the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was
read to sink at the apprehensions of it: but I pre-

sent ythought of a stratagem to fetch them back again;
and which answered my end to a tittle.

I ordered Friday, and the captain's mate, to go over
the little creek westward, towards the place where the
savages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and
as soon as they came to a little rising grormd, at about
half a mile's distance, I bade them halloo as loud as
they could, and wait till they found the seamen heard
them; that as soon as they heard the seamen answer
them, they should return it again, and then keeping
out of sight, take a round, always answering when the
other hallooed, to draw them as far into the island and
among the woods as possible; and then wheel about
again to me, by such ways as I directed.

They were just goin into the boat, when Friday and
the mate hallooed, an they presently heard them, and
answering, run along the shore westward, towards the
voice they heard, when they were presently stopped by
th'e creek, where the water being up, they could not

U3
et over, and called for the boat to come up, and set

t em over, as indeed I expected.
When they had set themselves over, I observed that

the boat being gone up a good way into the creek, and,
as it were, in a harbour within the land, they took one

of the three men out of her to go along with them, and
left only two in the boat, having fastened her to the
stump of a little tree on the shore.

This was what I wished for 3 and immediately leav-
ng Friday and the captain's mate to their business, I
took the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of
their sight, we surprised the two men before they were
aware, one of them lying on shore, and the other being
n the boat: the fellow on shore was between sleeping
and waking, and going to start up, the captain, who
was foremost, ran in u on him, and knocked him down,
and then called out to im in the boat to yield, or he

was a dead man.
There needed very few arguments to persuade a

single man to yield, when he saw five men upon him,
and his comrade knocked down : besides, this was it
seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in the
mutiny as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily
pursuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to join very
sincerely with us.

In the mean time, Friday and the captain's mate so
well managed the business with the rest, that they
drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one hill
to another, and from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they
were, very sure they could not reach back before it was
dark: and indeed they were heartily tired themselves
also by the time they got back to us. _

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in
the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure

work with them.
It was several hours after Friday came back to me,
before they came back to their boat; and we could
hear the foremost of them, long before they came up,
calling to those behind to come along, and could also
hear them answer, and complain bow lame and tired
they were, and not able to come any faster, which was
very welcome news to us. '

At length they came up to the boat; but it is im-
possible to express their confusion when they found
the boat fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out,
and their two men gone. We could hear them call to
one another, in the most lamentable manner, telling
,one another they were gotten into an enchanted
island ; that either there were inhabitants in it, and
they should all be murdered, or else there were devils
or spirits in it, and they should be all carried away and
devoured.

They hallooed again, and called their two comrades
by their names a great many times, but no answer.
After some time we could see them, by the little light
there was, running about wringing their hands, like
men in despair; and that sometimes they would go
and sit down in the boat to rest themselves, then come
ashore again, and walk about again, and do the same
thing over again.

My men would fain have had me give them leave to
fall upon them at once in the dark; but I was willin
to take them at some advantage, so to spare them, an
kill as few of them as I could: and especially as I was
unwilling to hazard the killing any of our men, know-
ing the others were very well armed. I resolved to
wait to see if they did not separate; and therefore, to
make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and
ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their
hands and feet, as close to the ground as they could,

' that they might not be discovered, and get as near
them as they possibly could before they ofi'ered to
fire.

They had not been long in that posture, when the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader 'of the mu-
tiny, and had now shown himself the most dejected
and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards
them, with two more of their crew. The captain was
so eager, at having the principal rogue so much in his
power, that he could hardly have patience to let him
come so near as to be sure of him; for he only heard
his tongue before: but when they came nearer, the
cfiptain and Friday, starting upon their feet, let fly at
t em.

The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next
man was shot into the body, and fell just by him,
though he did not die till an hour or two after; and
the third ran for it.

At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced
with my whole army, which was now eight men, viz.,
myself, generalissimo ; Friday, my lieutenant-general;
the captain, and his two men; and the three prisoners
of war, whom we had trusted with arms.

We came upon them indeed in the dark, so that
they could not see our number; and I made the man
they had left in the boat, who was now one of us, to
call them by name, to try if I could bring them to a
parley, and so might perhaps reduce them to terms,
which fell out just as we desired: for indeed it was
easy to think, as their condition then was, they would
be very willing to capitulate. So he called out, as
loud as he could, to one of them, " Tom Smith! Tom
Smith!" Tom Smith answered immediately, "Who's
that ? Robinson?" for it seems he knew his voice.
The other answered, " Aye, aye; for God's sake,
Tom Smith. throw down your arms, and yield: or you
are dead men this moment!"
"Whom must we yield to ? Where are they?" says
Smith again. "Here they are," says he. " Here is
our captain, and fifty men with him, have been hunt-
ing you this two hours. The boatswain is killed, Will
Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if you do
not yield, ou are all lost."

"Will t ey give us quarter then," says Tom Smith,
"and we will yield." "I'll go and ask, if you promise
to yield," says Robinson. So he asked the captain,
and the captain himself then calls out, " You, Smith,-
you know my voice; if you lay down your arms im-
immediately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all
but Will Atkins."

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, " For God's sake,
captain, give me quarter! What have - I done ?
They have all been as bad as I l" which, by the way,
was not true, neither; for it seems this Will Atkins
was the first man that laid hold of the captain, when
they first mutined, and used him barbarously, in ty-
ing his hands, and giving him injurious language.
However, the captain told him he must lay down his
arms at discretion, and trust to the Governor's mercy:
for they all called me Governor.

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and beg-
ged their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed
with them, and two more, who bound them all; and
then my great army of fifty men, which, particularly
with those three, were all but eight, came up and
seized upon them all, and upon their boat, only that I
kapt myself, and one more out of sight, for reasons of
s te.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think
of seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he
had leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with
them upon the villany of their practices with him, and
at length, upon the farther wickedness of their design;
and how certainly it must bring them to misery and
distress in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard
for their lives. As for that, he told them they were
none of his prisoners, but the commander's of the
island; that they thought that they had set him on
shore in a barren, uninhabited island, but it had
pleased God so to direct them, that the island was in-
habited, and that the governor was an Englishman;
that he might hang them all there, if he pleased; but
as he had given them all quarter, be supposed he
would send them to England, to be dealt with there
as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was com-
manded by the governor to advise to prepare for death;
for that he would be hanged in the morning.

Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had
its desired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees to beg
the captain to intercede with the governor for his life;
and all the rest begged of him, for God's sake, that
they might not be sent to England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliver-
ance was come, and that it would be a most easy thing
to bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting pos-
session of the ship. So I retired in the dark from
them, that they might not see what kind of a overnor
they had, and called the captain to me. - hen I
called, as at a good distance, one of the men was or-
dered to speak again, and say to the captain, " Ca
tain, the commander calls for you ;" and presently t e
captain replied, " Tell his excellency I am just a-com-
ing." This most perfectly surprised them; and they
all believed that the commander was just by, with his
fifty men. '

Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my
project for seizmg the ship, which he liked wonder-
fully well, and resolved to put it in execution the next
morning.

But in order to execute it with more art, and to be
secure of success, I told him we must divide the pri-
soners, and that he should go and take Atkins and two
more of the worst of them, and send them pinioned
to the cave where the others lay. This was committed
to Friday, and the two men who came on shore with
the captain. '

They conveyed them to the cave as to a prison;
and it was indeed a dismal place, especially to men in
their condition.

The other I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of
which I have given a full descri tion; and as it was
fenced in, and they pinioned, t e lace was secure
enough, considering they were upon t eir behaviour.

To these, in the morning, I sent the captain, who
was, to enter into a parley with them; in a word, to
try them, and tell me whether he thought he might be
trusted or no, to go on board, and surprise the ship.
He talked to them of the injury done him, of the
condition they were brought to ; and that though the
governor had given them uarter for their lives, as to
the present action, yet if t ey were sent to England,
they would all be hung in chains to be sure; but that
if they would join so just an attempt, as to recover the
ship, he would have the governor's engagement for
their pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
would he accepted by men in their condition; they
fell down on their knees to the captain, and promised
with the deepest imprecations, that they would be
faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should
owe their lives to him, and would go with him all over

the world; that they would own him for a father to-- --
them as long as they lived.

5
"Well," says the captain, " I must go and tell the
governor what you say, and see what I can do to bring
him to consent to it." So he brought me an account
of the temper he found them in; and that he verily
believed they would be faithful.

However, that we might be very secure, I told him
he should go back again, and choose out five of them,
and tell them that they should see that they did not
want men ; but we would take out those five to be his
assistants, and that the governor would keep the other
two, and the three that were sent prisoners to the eas-
tle (my cave), as hostages, for the fidelity of those
five; and that if they proved unfaithful in the execu-
tion, the five hostages should be hanged in chains alive
upon the shore.

This looked severe, and convinced them, that the
governor was in earnest. However, they had no way
left them but to accept it; and it was now the business
of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade
the other five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedi-
tion: First, the captain, his mate, and passenger. Se-
cond, then the two prisoners of the first gang, to
whom, having their characters from the captain, I had
given their liberty,'and trusted them with arms. Third,
the other two, whom I had kept till now in my bower,
pinioned; but, upon the captain's motion, had now
released. Fourth, these five released at last: so that

there were twelve in all, beside five we kept prisoners :

in the cave for hostages.
I asked the captain if he was Willing to venture

with these bands on board the ship; for, as for me and
my man Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to
stir, having seven men left behind: and it was em-
ployment enough for us to keep them asunder, and
supply them with victnals.

g
As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them
fast; but Friday went twice a day to them, to supply
them with necessaries; and I made the other two
carry provisions to a certain distance, where Friday
was to take it.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person the
governor had ordered to look after them, and that it
was the governor's pleasure they should not stir any
where, but by my direction; that if they did, they
should be fetched into the castle and laid in irons; so
that as we never suffered them to see me as governor,
I now appeared as another person, and spoke of the
governor, the garrison. the castle, and the like, upon
all occasions.

The captain had now no difficulty before him, but
to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and
man them. He made his passen er "captain of one,
with four other men; and himsel , his mate, and five
more, went in the other. And they contrived their
business very well; for they came up to the ship about
midni ht. As soon as they came within call of the
ship, e made Robinson hail them, and tell them he
had brought off the men and the.boat, and that it was
a long time before they had found them, and the like;
holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's
side: when the captain and the mate, entering first
with their arms, immediately knocked down the se-
cond mate and carpenter with the butt-end. of their
muskets, being very faithfully seconded by their men.
They secured all the rest that were upon the main and
quarter-decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep
them down who were below, when the other boat, and
their men entering at the fore-chains, secured the fore-
:astle of the ship, and the skuttle, which went down

a:
into the cook-room, making the three men they found
there prisoners.

When this was done, and all safe upon the deck,
the captain ordered the mate, with three men, to break
into the round-house, where the new rebel captain
lay, and, having taken the alarm, was gotten up, and
with two men and a boy, were gotten fire-arms in their
hands; and when the mate, with a crow, split open
the door, the new captain and his men fired boldly
among them, and wounded the mate with a musket-
ball, which broke his arm, and wounded two more of
the men, but killed nobody.

The mate called for help, rushed, however, into
the round-house, wounded as he was, and, with his
pistol, shot the new captain in the head; the bullet en-
tered at his mouth, and came out again behind one of
his cars; so that he never spoke a word : upon which
the rest yielded, and the ship was taken effectually,
without any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain
ordered seven guns to be fired, which was the signal
agreed upon by me, to give me notice of his success,
which, you may be sure, I was very glad to hear, hav-
ing sat watching upon the shore for it, till near two of
the clock in the morning.

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down; and it having been a day of great fatigue to
me, I slept very sound, till I was something surprized
with the noise of a gun; and presently starting up, I
heard a man call me by the name of ' Governor, go-
vernor :' and presently I knew the captain's voice,
when climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood,
and pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms.
' My dear friend and deliverer,' says he, ' there's your
ship; for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that

belong to her.' I cast my eye to the ship, and there
she rode within little more than half a mile of the
shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as they
were masters of her, and the weather being fair, had
brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of a
little creek: and the tide being up, the captain had
brought the )innace in near the place where I first
landed my s, and so landed just at my door.

I was, at first, ready to sink down with the surprise;
for I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my
hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to
carry me away, whither I pleased to go. At first, for
some time, I was not able to answer one word; but as
he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I
should have fallen to the ground.

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a
bottle out of his pocket and gave me a dram of cor-
dial, which he had brought on purpose for me. After
I drank it, I sat down upon the ground, and though it
brought me to myself, yet it was a good while before I
could speak a word to him.

All this while, the poor man was in as great an
ecstacy as I, only not under any surprise, as I was;
and he said a thousand kind, tender things to me, to
com se and bring me to myself; but such was the
floo of joy in my breast, that put all my spirits into
confusion: at last it broke out. into tears, and a little
while after I recovered my speech.

Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my de-
liverer ; and we rejoiced together. I told him, I looked
upon him as aman sent from heaven to deliver me, and
that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of
wonders; that such things as these were the testimo-
nies we had of a secret hand of Providence governing
the world, and an evidence that the eyes of an infinite
Power could search into the remotest corner of the

world, andsendhelp tothe miserable wheneverhe pleased.
x 2
I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to
Heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless Him,
who had not only, in a miraculous manner, provided
for one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate
condition, but from whom every deliverance must
always be acknowledged to proceed?

When we all talked a while, the captain told me he
had brought me some little refreshment, such as the
ship afforded, and such as the wretches, who had been
so long his masters, had not plundered him of. Upon
this he called aloud to the boat, and bade his men
bring the things ashore, that were for the governor;
and indeed it was a present, as if I had been one, not
that was to be carried away along with them, but as if
I had been to dwell upon the island still, and they
were to go without me.

First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of
excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira
wine, the bottles held two quarts a piece, two pounds
of excellent tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's
beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag of pease,
and about a hundred weight of biscuit.

He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour,
a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice, and
abundance of other things. But, besides these, and,
what was a thousand times more useful to me, he
brought me six clean, new shirts, six very good neck-
cloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and
one pair of stockings, and a very good suit of clothes
of his own, which had been worn but very little : in a
word, he clothed me from head to foot.

It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any
one may imagine, to one in my circumstances; but
never was anything in the world of that kind so un-
pleasant, awkward, and uneasy as it was to me to wear
such clothes at their first putting on.
After these ceremonies, past, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we be-
gan to consult what was to be done with the prisoners
we had; for it was worth considering, whether we
might venture to take them away with us or no, espe-
cia ly two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible
and refractory, to the last degree: and the captain said
he knew that they were such rogues, that there was no
obliging them; and if he did carry them away, it must
be in irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over to jus-
tice, at the first English colony he could come at; and
I found the captain himself was very anxious about it.

Upon this, I told him, that if he desired it, I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of, to make
it their own request that he should leave them upon
the island. ' I should be very glad of that,' says the
captain, 'with all my heart.'

' Well,' said I, ' I will send for them, and talk with
them for you,' So I caused Friday and the two hos-
tages, for they were now discharged, their comrades
having performed their promise; I say, I caused them
to go to the cave, and bring up the five men pinioned
as they were, to the bower, and keep them there till I
came.

After some time, I came thither, dressed in my new
habit, and now I was called governor again. Being
all met, and the captain with me, I caused the men to
be brought before me, and I told them I had had a
full account of their villanous behaviour to the cap-
tain, and how they had run away with the ship, and
were preparing to commit further robberies; but that
Providence had ensnared them in their own ways, and
that they had fallen into the pit which they had digged
for others.

I let them know that, by my direction, the shi had

been seized; that she lay now in the road; an they
at 3
might see by-and-h that their new captain had re.
ceived the reward 0 his villany; for that they might
see him hanging at the yard-arm.

That as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say, why I should not execute them as pirates, taken
in the fact, as by my commision they could not doubt
I had authority to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were
taken, the captain had promised them their lives, and
they humbly implored my mercy. But I told them I
knew not what mercy to show them: for, as for my-
self, I had resolved to quit the island with all my men,
and had taken passage with the captain to go for Eng-
land: and as for the captain he could not carry them
to England, other than as prisoners in irons, to be
tried for mutiny and running away with the ship; the
consequence of which they must needs know, would
be the gallows : so that I could not tell which was best
for them, unless they had a mind to take their fate in
the island; if they desired that I did not care, as I had
libert to leave it. I had some inclination to give them
their ives if they could shift on shore. They seemed
very thankful for it; said they would much rather
venture to stay there, than to be carried to England to
be hanged: so I left it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some diffi-
culty of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon
this I seemed a little angry with the captain, and told
him that they were my prisoners, not his; and that
if he did not think fit to consent to it, I would set them
at liberty as I found them; and if he did not like that,
he might take them again, if he could catch them.

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I ac-
cordingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire
into the woods, to the place whence they came, and luonmsou 01211802. 235

would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition,
and some directions how they should live very well, if
they thought fit.

Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship; but
told the captain that I would stay that night to prepare
my things, and desired him to go on boar in the mean
time, and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat
on shore the next day for me; ordering him in the
mean time to cause the new captain who was killed, to
be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might see
him.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up
to me in my apartment, and entered seriously into dis-
course with them of their circumstances. I told them,
I thought they had mad'e' a right choice; that if the
captain carried them away, they would certainly be
hanged. I showed them the new captain hanging at
the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had no-
thinu>> less to ex ect.

"fhen they ad all declared their willingness to
stay, I then told them, I would let them into the story
of my living there, and put them into the way of mak-
ing it easy to them. Accordingly I gave them the
whole history of the place, and of my coming to it:
showed them my fortifications, the way I made my
bread, planted my corn, cured my rapes; and, in a
word all that was necessary to m e them easy. I
told them the story also of the sixteen Spaniards that
were to be eXpected ; for whom I left a letter, and
made them promise to treat them in common with
themselves.

I left them my fire-arms ; viz., five muskets, three
fowlinO-pieces, and three swords. I had about a bar-
rel and a half ,of powder left; for after the first year or
two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a
description of the way I managed the goats, and direc-
tions to milk and fatten them, to make both butter
and cheese.

In a word, I gave them every part of my own story;
and I told them I would prevail with the captain to
leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some
garden-seeds, which I told them I would have been
very glad of : also I gave them the bag of pease which
the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them be
sure to sow and increase them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board the ship. We prepared immediately to
sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morn-
ing early, two of the five men came swimming to the
ship's side, and making a most lamentable complaint
of the other three, be ged to be taken into the ship,
for God's sake, for t ey should be murdered; and
begged the captain to take them on board, though he
hanged them immediately.

Upon this, the captain pretended to have no power
without me; but after some difficulty, and after their
solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on
board, and were some time after soundly whipped and
pickled ; after which they proved very honest and quiet
fellows.

Some time after this, I went with the boat on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the
men, to which the captain at my intercession, caused
their chests and clothes to be added, which the took,
and were very thankful for. I also encourage them,
by telling them, that if it lay in my power to send any
vessel to take them in, I would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board,
for relics, the great goat-skin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not to
take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lien
by me so long useless, that it was grown rusty, or tar-
nished and could hardly pass for silver, till it had
been a little rubbed and handled; and also the money
I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.

And thus I left the island, the 19th of December,
as I found by the ship's account, in the year 1686,
after I had been upon it eight-and-twcnty years, two
months, and nineteen days; being delivered from the
second captivity the same day of the month that I first
made my escape in the barco-longo, from among the
Moors of Salle.

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
England the 11th of June, in the year 1687, having
been thirt -and-five years absent.

When came to England, I was as perfect a stran-
ger to all the world, as if I had never been known
there. My benefactor and faithful steward, whom I
left in trust with my money, was alive, but had had
great misfortunes in the world, was become a widow
the second time, and very low in the world. I made
her easy as to what she owed me, assuring her I would
give her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude
to her former care and faithfulness to me, I relieved
her as my little stock would afford, which at that time
would indeed allow me to do but little for her; but I
assured her I would never forget her former kindness
to me : nor did I forget her, when I had sufficient to
helf) her, as shall be observed in its place.

went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my fa-
ther was dead, and my mother, and all the family ex-
tinct, except that I found two sisters, and two of the
children of one of m brothers; and as I had been
long ago given over or dead, there had been no pro-
vision made for me, so that, in a word, I found no-
thing to relieve or assist me ; and that the little mo-
ney I had, would not do much for me, as to settling in
the world.
I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, whichI
did not expect; and this was, that the master of the
ship, whom I had so happily delivered, and, by the
same means, saved the ship and cargo, having given a
very handsome account to the owners of the manner
how I had saved the lives of the men, and the ship,

they invited me to meet them, and some other mer- ..

chants concerned, and altogether made me a very
handsome compliment upon the subject, and a present
of almost two hundred pounds sterling. -

But, after making several reflections upon the cir- ;

cumstances of my life, and how little way this would
go towards settling me in the world, I resolved to go
to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some infor-
mation of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and
of what was become of my partner, who, I had reason
to suppose, had some years now given me over for

dead.

With this view, I took shipping for Lisbon, where I
arrived in April following: my man Friday accom-
panying me very honestly in all these ramblings, and
proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions.

When I came to Lisbon, I found out by inquiry,
and to my particular satisfaction, my old friend, the
captain of the ship who first took me up at sea, off the
shore of Africa. He had now grown old, and had left
off the sea, having ut his son, who was far from a
{301mg man, into is ship, and who still used the

razil trade. The old man did not know me, and in-
deed I hardly knew him; but I soon brought myself
to his remembrance, when I told him who I was.

After some passionate expressions of our old ac-
quaintance, I inquired, you may be sure, after my
)lantation and my partner. The old man told me he

ad not been in the Brazils for about nine years; but
that he could assure me, that when he came away my

 

i

l
    

f. partner was living, but the trustees whom I had joined
" with him to take cognizance of my part, were both
' dead; that, however, he believed that I would have
' a very good account of the improvement of the plan-
1: tation, for that, in the general belief of my being cast
away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account
of the produce of my art of the plantation to the pro-
"i. curater fiscal, who ha ap ropriated it, in case I never
5 came to claim it, one-third3 to the king, and two-thirds
to the monastery of St. Augustine, 10 be expended for
" the benefit of the poor, and for the conversron of the
Indians to the Catholic faith; but that if I appeared,
or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it would
be restored; only that the improvement, or annual
production, being distributed to charitable uses, could
not be restored: but he assured me, that the steward
of the king's revenue (from lands), and the provedore.
or steward of the monastery, had taken great care all
along, and the incumbent, that is to say, my partner.
gave every year a faithful account of the produce, of
which they received duly my moiety.

I asked him if he knew to what height of im rove-
ment he had brought the plantation; and whet er he
thought it might be worth looking after; or whether,
on my going thither, I should meet with no obstruco
tron to my possessing my just right in the moiety.

He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree
the plantation was improved; but this he knew, that
my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the enjoy-
ing but one half of it : and that to the best of his re-
membrance, he had heard that the king's third of my
part, which was, it seems, granted away to some other
monastery, 0r religious house, amounted to above two
hundred moidores a year; that, as to my being re-
stored to a quiet possession of it, there was no question
to be made of that, my partner being alive to Witness
my title, and my name being also enrolled in the re.
gister of the country. Also he told me that the sur-
vivors of the two trustees were very fair, honest peo-
ple, and very wealthy: and he believed I would not
only have their assistance for dputting me in possession,
but would find a very consi erable sum of mone in
their hands, for my account, being the produce 0 the
farm, while their fathers held the trust, and before it
was given up, as above, which as he remembered, was
for about twelve years.

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasv at
this account, and required of the 01d captain how it
came to pass that the trustees should thus dispose of
my effects, when he knew that I had made my will,

and had made him, the Portuguese captain, my univer-

sal heir, &c.

He told me that was true, but as there was no proof
of my being dead, he could not act as executor, until
some certain account should come of my death: and
that, besides, he was not willing to intermeddle with a
thing so remote; that it was true, he had registered
my will, and put in his claim; and could he have given
any account of my being dead or alive, he would have
acted by procuration, and taken possession of the in-
genio (so they called the sugar-house), and had gchn
his son, who was now at the Brazils, order to do it.

" But," says the old man, 'I have one piece of news
to tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable to
you as the rest; and that is, that, believing you were
lost, and all the world believing so also, your partner
and trustees did offer to account to me, in your name,
for six or eight of the first years of profits, which I
received ; but there being at that time,' says he,
' great dispersements for increasing the works; build-
ing an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did not amount
to near so much as afterward it procured. However
says the old man, ' I shall give you a true account of
what I have received in all, and how I have disposed
of it.'

After a few days farther conference with this an-
cient friend, he brought me an account of the first six
years' income of my plantation, signed by my partner,
and the merchants' trustees, being always delivered in
goods; viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, be-
sides rum, molasses, &c. which is the consequence of
a sugar-work; and I found, by this account, that
every year the income considerably increased. But,
as above, the disbursement being large, the sum at
first was small. However, the old man let me see
that he was indebted to me four hundred and seventy
moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and
fifteen double rools of tobacco, which were lost in his
shi , he having been shipwrecked coming home to
Lis n, about eleven years after my leaving the place.

The good man then be an to complain of his mis-
fortunes, and how he had een obliged to make use of
my money to recover his losses, and buy him a share
in a new ship. ' However, my old friend; says be,
'you shall not want a supply in your necessity; and
as soon as my son returns, you shall be fully satisfied.'

Upon this he ulls out an old pouch, and gives me
one hundred-an -sixty Portugal moidores in gold; and
giving me the writings of his title to the ship which his
son was going to Brazils in, of which he was a quarter-
part owner, and his son another, he puts them both
mto my hands for security of the rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kind-
ness of the poor man, to be able to bear this ; and re-
membering what he had done for me, how he had
taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used
me on all occasions, and, particularly, how sincere a
friend he was now to me, I could hardly refrain weep.

3'
ing at what he said to me. Therefore, first I asked
him if his circumstances permitted him to spare so
much money at that time, and if it would not straiten
him. He told me he could not say but it might
straiten him a little; but, however, it was my money,
and I might want it more than he.

Everything the good man said was full of affection,
and I could hardly refrain from tears while he spoke.
In short, I took one hundred of the moidores, and
called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them;
then I returned him the rest, and told him, if ever I
had possession of the lantation, I would return the
other to him also, as im eed I afterwards did; and that,
as to the bill of sale of his part in his son's ship, I
would not take it by any means; but that, if I wanted
the money, I found he was honest enough to pay me;
and if I did not, but come to receive what he gave me
reasons to expect, I would never have a penny more
from him.

When this was passed, the old man began to ask me
if he should put me in a method to make my claim to
my plantation. I told him, I thought to go over to it
myself. He said, I might do so, if I pleased; but
that if I did not, there were ways enough to secure
my right, and immediately to appropriate the profits
to my use : and as there were ships in the river of
Lisbon, just ready to go away to Brazil, he made me
enter my name in a public register, with his affidavit.
affirming, upon oath, that I was alive, and that I was
the same person, who took up the land for the planting
the said plantation at first.

This being regularly attested by a notary, and a pro-
curation affixed, he directed me to send it with a letter
of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at
the place; and then proposed my staying with him till
an account came of the return.
Never anything was more honourable than the pro-
ceedings upon this procuration; for in less than seven
months, I received a large packet from the survivors of
my trustees, the merchants for whose account I went
to sea, in which were the following particular letters
and papers enclosed :--

First, there was the account current of the produce
of my farm, or plantation, from the year when their
fathers had balanced with my old Portugal captain
being for six years ; the balance appeared to be one
thousand one hundred and seventy-four moidores in
my favour.

Secondly, there was the account of four years more,
while they kept the effects in their hands, before
the government claimed the administration, as being
the effects of a person not to be found, which they call
civil death; and the balance of this, the value of the
plantation increasing, was to an amount in crusadoes,
which make three thousand two hundred and forty-one
moidores.

Thirdly, there was the rior of the Augustine's ac-
count, who had received t e profits for above fourteen
years; but not being able to account for what was dis-
posed to the hospital, very honestly declared he had
eight hundred and seventv-two moidores not distributed,
which he acknowledged to my account. As to the
king's part, that refunded nothing.

. There was also a letter of my partner's, congratulat-
ing me very affectionately upon my being alive, giving
me an account how the estate was improved, and what
it produced a year, with a particular of the number of
squares, or acres that it contained : how planted; how
many slaves there were upon it; and, making two-
and-twenty crosses, for blessings, told me he had said
so many " Ave Marias," to thank the Blessed Virgin
that I was alive; inviting me, very passionately, to

Y2
come over and take possession of my own; and, in
the mean time, to give him order to whom he should
deliver my effects, if I should not come myself; con-
cludin with a hearty tender of his friendship, and
that 0 his family; and sent me, as a present, seven
fine leopard's skins, which he had, it seems, received
from Africa, by some other ship, which he had sent
thither, and which, it seems, had made a better voyage
than I. He sent me, also, five chests of excellent sweet-
meats, and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite
so large as moidorcs.

By the same fleet, my two merchant trustees shipped
me twelve hundred chests of sugar, eight hundred
r0111: of tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in
go ( .

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end of
Job was better than the beginning. It is impossible
to ex ress the fluttering of my very heart, when I
lookeg over these letters, and especially when I found
all my wealth about me; for as the Brazil ships come
all in fleets, the same ships which brought my letters
brought my goods; and the effects were safe in the
Tagus before the letters came to my hand. In a word,
I turned pale, and grew sick; and had not the old
man run and fetched me a cordial, I believe the sudden
surprise of joy had overset nature, and I had died upon
the s ot.

Naly, after that, I continued very ill, and was so
some hours, till a physician being sent for, and some-
thing of the real cause of my illness bein known, he
ordered me to be bled: after which I ha relief, and
grew well: but I verily believe, if it had not been
eased by the vent given in that manner to the spirits,
I should have died.

I was now master, all on a sudden, of above five
thousand pounds sterling in money, and had an estate,
as I might well call it, in the Brazils, of above a thou-
sand pounds a year, as sure as an estate of. lands in
England; and, in a word, I was in a condition which
I scarce knew how to understand, or how to compose
myself for the enjoyment of.

The first thing I did was to recompense my original
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first
charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in the be-
ginning, and honest to me at the end. I showed him
all that was sent to me. I told him that, next to the
providence of Heaven, which disposes all things, it
was owing to him; and that it new lay on me to re-
ward him, which I would do a hundred fold. So I
first returned to him the hundred moidores I had re-
ceived of him' ; then I sent for a notary, and caused
him to draw up a general release, or discharge, for the
four hundred and seventy moidores, which he had ac-
knowledged he owed me, in the fullest and firmest
manner possible: after which, I caused a procuration
to be drawn, empowering him to be the receiver of the
annual profits of my plantation, and appointing my
partner to account to him, and make the returns by
the usual fleets to him, in my name. And a clause in
the end, being a grant of one hundred moidores a year
to him, during his life, out of the effects; and fifty
moidores a year to his son after him, for his life: and
thus I requited my old man.

I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next, and what to do with the estate that Providence
had thus put into my hands; and, indeed, I had more
care upon my head now, than I had in my silent state
of life in the island, where I wanted nothing but what
I had, and had nothing but what I wanted; whereas
I had now a great char e upon me, and my business
was now to secure it. had never a cave now to hide
my money in, or a place where it might lie without

Y3
lock or key, till it grew mouldy and tarnished before
anybody would meddle with it; on the contrary, I
knew not where to put it, or whom to trust with it;
my old patron the captain, indeed, was honest, and
that was the only refuge I had.

In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed
to summon me thither: but now I could not tell how
to think of going thither till I had settled my affairs,
and left my effects in some safe hands behind me. At
first, I thought of my old friend the widow, who I
knew was honest, and would be just to me ; but then
she was in years, and but poor, and, for aught I knew,
might be in debt; so that, in a word, I had no way
but to go back to England myself, and take my effects
with me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved
upon this: and therefore as I had rewarded the old
captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been my
former benefactor, so I be an to think of my poor
widow, whose husband had ieen my first benefactor,
and she, while it was in her power, my faithful steward
and instructor. So the first thing I did, I got a mer-
chant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in Lon-
don,--not only to pay a bill, but to go, find her out,
and carry her in money (a hundred pounds), from me,
and to talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty,
by telling her she would, if I lived, have a farther
supply. At the same time, I sent my two sisters in
the country, each of them a hundred pounds, they
being, though not in want, yet not in very good cir-
cumstances; one having been married, and left a
widow, and the other having a husband, not so kind to
her as he should be.

But among all my relations or acquaintances, I could
not yet pitch upon one, to whom I durst commit the
gross of my stock, that I might go away to the Brazils,
and leave things safe behind me; and this greatly per-
plexed me.

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and
have settled myself there: for I was, as it were,
naturalised to the place; but I had some little 'scruple
in my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me
back, of which I shall say more presently. However,
it was not religion that kept me from going thither for
the present; and as I had made no scruple of being
openly of the religion of the country all the while 1
was among them, so neither did I yet; only that now
and 'then having of late thought more of it than for-
merly, when I began to think of living and dying
among them, I began to regret my having professed
myself a pa ist, and thought it might not be the best
religion to ic with. -

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brazils, but that really 1 did
not know with whom to leave my efl'ects behind me;
so Iresolved at last to o to England with them, where
if I arrived, I concluded I should make some acquaint-
ance, or find same relations that would be faithful to
me: and accordingly I prepared to go to England with
all my wealth. '

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first
(the Brazil fleet being just going away) resolved to
give answers suitable to the just and faithful account of
things I had from thence. And first to the prior of
St. Augustine I wrote a letter full of thanks for his just
dealings, and the offer of the eioht hundred and
seventy-two moidores, which were undis osed of, which
I desired might be - given, five hundrer to the monas-
tery, and three hundred and seventy-two to the poor,
as the prior should direct; desiring the good padres'
prayers for me, and the like.

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees,
with all the acknowledgment that so much justice and
honesty called for: as for sending them a present, they
were far above having any occasion for it.

Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his
industry in the improving the plantation, and his in-
tegrity in increasing the stock of the works, giving him
instructions for his future government of my part, ac-
cordino- to the powers I had left with my old patron, to
whomI desired him to send whatever became due to
me, till he should hear from me more particularly; as-
suring him that it was my intention not only to come
to him, but to settle myself there for the remainder of
my life. To this I added a very handsome present of
some Italian silks for his wife and two daughters, for
such the captain's son informed me he had ; with two
pieces of fine English broad-cloth, the best I could get
in Lisbon, five pieces of black baize, and some Flanders
lace of a good value.

Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo, and
turned all my effects into good bills of exchange, my
next difficulty was which way to go to England. I had
been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had a
strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time;
and though I could give no reason for it, yet the diffi-
culty increased upon me so much, that though I had
once shipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered
my mind, and that not once, but two or three times.

It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and
this might be one of the reasons: but let no man
stake the strong impulse of his own thoughts in case of
such moment. Two of the ships which I had singled out
to go in, I mean more particularly singled out than any
other, that is to say, so as in one of them to put my
things, on board, and in the other to have agreed with
the captain ; I say two or three ships miscarried, viz"
one was taken by the Algerines, and the other was cast
away on the Start, near 'I'orbay, and all the people
drowned except three: so that in either of those ves-
sels I had been made miserable, and in which most, it
was hard to say.

Having been thus harrassed in my thoughts, my old
pilot, to whom I communicated everything, pressed me
eamestly not to go by sea: but either to go by land
to the Groyne, and cross over the Bay of Biscay to
Rochelle, from whence it was an easy and safe journey
by land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or to go
up to Madrid, and so all the way by land through
France.

In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going
by sea at all, except from Calais to Dover, that I re-
solved to travel all the way by land, which, as I was
not in haste, and did not value the charge, was by
much the pleasanter way; and to make it more so, my
old captain brought an English gentleman, the son of
a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with
me. After which, we picked u two more, who were
English, and merchants also, an two young Portugese
gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that we
were in all six of us, and five servants: the two mer-
chants, and the two Portuguese, contenting themselves
with one servant between two, to save the char e; and
as for me, I got an English sailor to travel wit me as
a servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much
a stranger to be capable of supplying the place of a
servant on the road.

In this manner I set out for Lisbon: and our
company being all very well mounted and armed, we
made a little troop, whereof they did me the honour
to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest
man, as because I had two servants, and indeed was
the original of the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea jour-
nals, so shall I trouble you with none of my land
joulnals, but some adventures that happenedy to us
in this tedious and difficult J'ourney, I must not omit.

When 11 e came to Mad11d11e being all of us strangers
to Spain, were willing to stay some time to see Dthe
comt of Spain, and to see what 11- as worth observing ,
but it being the latte1 part of the summer, we hastened
away, and set out from Mad1id about the middle of
October. But when we came to the edge of Nav ar1c,
we were alarmed at several towns on the way, with an
account that so much snow had fallen on the French
side of the mountains, that several travellers were
obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after having at-
tempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on

When we came to Pampelnna itself, 11c found it so
indeed; and to me, that had been always used to a hot
climate, and indeed to countries where we could scarce
bear any clothes on, the cold was insuffe1ahle.No1
indeed 11 as it more painful than it was surprising, to
come but ten days before out of the Old Castile, where
the 11 cathci 11 as not onlv warm, but very hot; and
immediately to feel a 11 111d f101n the Py renean moun-
tains so very keen, so severely cold, as to be intole1a-
ble, and to endanger benumhing or perishing of our
finge1s and toes.

Poor F1iday was really frightened when he saw the
mountains all co1ered with snow, and felt cold weather,
which he had 11c1 er seen or felt bcf01e 1n his life.

To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna,
it continued snowing with so much violence, and so
long, that the people said winte1 was come before its
time, and the loads, which were difficult before, were
now quite impassable , in a word, the snow layin
some laces too thick for us to travel, and being not
hard fiio ozen, as is the case in the northern countries,
there was no going without being in danger of being
buried alive every step. We stayed no .ess than twenty
" days at Pampeluna when (seeing the winter coming on,
. and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the
fa severest winter all over Europe that had been known
for many years) I proposed that we should all go away
2' to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bourdeaux,
which was a very little voyage.

But while we were consxdering this, there came in
four French gentlemen, who having been stopped on
the French side of the passes as we were on the Spa-
nish, had found out a guide, who, traversing the coun-
try near the head of Lanouedoc, had brought them
over the mountains by such ways, that they were not
much incommoded with the snow; and where they met
with snow in any quantity, they said it was frozen hard
enough to bear them and their horses.

We sent for this guide, who told us he would under-
take to carry us the same way, with no hazard from
the snow provided we were armed sulficiently to protect
us from wild beasts; for he said, upon these great
snows, it was frequent for some wolves to show them-
selves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous
for want of food, the ground beino' covered with snow.
We told him we were well enough prepared for such
creatures as they were, if he would ensure us from a
kind of two-legged wolves, which we were told we were
in most danger from, especially on the French side of
the mountains.

He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in
the way that we were to go. So we readily agreed to
follow him; as did also twelve other gentlemen, with
their servants, some French, some Spanish, who as I
said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come
back again.

Accordingly we all set out from Pampeluna, with
our guide, on the fifteenth of November, and indeed
I was surprised when, instead of going forward, he
came directly back with us, on the same road that we
came from Madrid, above twenty miles; when having
passed two rivers, and come into the plain country, we
found ourselves in a warm climate again, where the
country was pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but on
a sudden, turning to the left, he approached the
mountains another way; and though it is true, the
hills and the precipiccs looked dreadful, yet he made
so many tours, such meanders, and led us by such
winding ways, we had insensibly passed the height of
the mountains without being much encumbered with
the snow; and, all on a sudden he showed us the
pleasant fruitful provinces of Languedoc and Gascoigne,
all green and flourishing ; though indeed they were at a
great distance, and we had some rough way to pass yet.

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it
snowed one whole day, and at ni ht so fast that we
could not travel; but he bade us e easy, we should
soon be past it all. We found, indeed, that we began
to descend every day, and to come more north than
before; and so, depending upon our guide, we went on.

It was about two hours before night, when our guide
being something before us, and not just in sight, out
rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a bear,
out of a hollow way, adjoining to a thick wood. Two
of the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he been
half a mile before us he would have been devoured
indeed, before we could have helped him. One of
them fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked
the man with that violence, that he had not time, or
not presence of mind enough, to draw his pistol, but
hallooed and cried out to us most lustily. My man
Friday being next to me, I bade him ride up, and see
what was the matter. As soon as Friday came in sight
of the man, he hallooed as loud as the other, "0
master! 0 master!" but, like a bold fellow, rode
directly up to the man, and, with a pistol, shot the
wolf that attacked him into the head.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man
Friday; for he, having been used to that kind of
_ creature in his country, had no fear upon him, but
went up close to him, and shot him as above; whereas
_ any of us would have fired at a farther distance, and
have, perhaps, either missed the wolf, or endangered
shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a holder man
than I; and indeed it alarmed all our company, when,
with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on both sides
the most dismal howling of wolves, and the noise re-
doubled by the echo of the mountains, that it was to us
- as if there had been a prodigious multitude of them ;
and perhaps indeed there were not such a few, as that

we had no cause of apprehension.

. However, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other,
that had fastened upon his horse, left him immediately,
and fled, havin happily fastened upon his head, where
the bosses of t e bridle had stuck in his teeth, so that
_ he had not done him much hurt. The man, indeed, was
most hurt: for the raging creature had bit him twice,
once on the arm, and the other time a little above his
knee: and he was just, as it were, tumbling down by
the disorder of his horse, when Friday came up and
shot the wolf.

It is easy to suppose, that at 'the noise of Friday's
pistol we all mended our pace, and rode up, as fast as
the way (which was very difficult) would give us leave,
to see what was the matter. As soon as we came clear
of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw plainly
what had been the cause, and how Friday had disengaged
the poor guide; though we did not presently discern
what kind of creature it was he had killed,

Z
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in
such a surprising manner, as that which followed be-
tween Friday and the bear, which ve us all (thou h
at first we were surprised and aaid for him) he
greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is a heavy,
clumsy creature, and does not gallo as the wolf does,
which is swift and light ; so he lias two particular
qualities, which generally are the rule of his actions.
First, as to men, who are not his proper prey. I say,
not his proper prey, though I cannot say what excessive
hunger might do, which was now their case, the ground
being all covered with snow; yet, as to men, he does
not usually attack them, unless they first attack him:
on the contrary, if you meet him in the woods, though

if you do not meddle with him, he will not meddle with .
you; yet then you must take care to be very civil to 3

him and give him the road; for he is a very nice
gentleman, he will not go a step out of his way for a
prince; nay, if you are really afraid, your best way is
to look another way, and keep going on; for sometimes
if you stop and stand still, and look steadfastly at him,
he takes it for an affront, and sets all other business

aside to pursue his revenge ; for he will have satisfaction .

in point of honour: and this is his first quality. The
next is, that if he be once afi'ronted, he will never leave
you, night or day, till he has his revenge, but follow, at
a good round rate, till he overtakes you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when

we had come upl to him, he was helping him off from '

his horse; for t e man was both hurt and frighted, and
indeed the last more than the first; when, on a sudden,
we spied the bear come out of the wood, and a vast
monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw.
We were all a little surprised when we saw him; but
when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage
in the fellow's countenance. " O l, O! O ! " says Fri-
day, three times, pointin to him; " 0, master, you
give me te leave, me sha ee the hand With him, me
makee you good laug ."

I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. " You
fool you," said I, "he will eat you up!" " Eatee me
up; Eatee me up? " says Friday, twice over again.
"Me eatee him up: me make you good laugh. You
all stay here: me show you good laugh." So down he
sits, and gets his boots off in a moment, and put on a
pair of pumps (as we call the flat shoes they wear), and
which he had in his pocket, gives my other servant his
' horse, and with his gun away he flew, swift like the
wind.

The hear was walking softly on, and ofi'ered to med-
dle with nobody, till Friday, coming (pretty near, calls
to him, as if the bear could understan him, " Hark ye,
hark ye," says Friday, "me speakee wit you." We
' followed at a distance; for now being come down to
' the Gascoigne side of the mountains, we entered a vast

orest.

Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear,
came up with him quickly, and takes up a great stone,
and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head;
but did him no more harm, than if he had thrown it
against a wall: but it answered Friday's end; for the
rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make
the bear follow him, and " show us some laugh," as he
called it.

As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him, he
turns about, and comes after him, taking very long
strides, and shuflling along at a strange rate, so as
would put a horse to a middling gallop. Away runs
Friday, and takes his course, as if he ran towards us
for help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the
bear,.and deliver my man; though I was angry at him
heartily for bringing the hear back upon us, when he

22
was going about his own business another way; and
especially I was angry that he had turned t e bear
upon us, and then run away; and I called out, " You
dog," said I, "is this your making us laugh Z Come
away, and take your horse, that we may shoot the
creature." He hears me, and cries out, " No shoot,
no shoot! Stand still: you get much laugh." And
as the nimble creature ran two feet for the beast's one,
he turned on a sudden, on one side of us, and seeing
a great oak tree, fit for his purpose, he beckoned us to
follow, and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly up the
tree, laying his gun down on the ground, at about five
or six yards from the bottom of the tree.

The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at
a distance. The first thing he did he stopped at the
gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he scrambles into
the tree, climbing like a cat, though so monstrously
heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of
my man, and could not for my life see anything to
laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get upon the tree,
we all rode nearer to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out
to the small end of a large limb of the tree, and the
bear got half way to him; as soon as the bear got out
to that part where the limb of the tree was weaker.
" Ha," says he, to us, " now you see me teachee the
bear dance : " so he falls a jumping, and shaking the
bough, at which the bear began to totter, but stood still
and began to look behind him, to see how he should et
back: then indeed we did laugh heartily. But Fri y
had not done with him by a great deal : when he sees
him stand still, he calls out to him again, as if he had
supposed the bear could speak English, "What, you
no come farther ? Pray you come farther? " So he
left jumping and shaking the hon h: and the bear,
just as if he had understood what e said, did come a
little farther; then he fell a jumping again, and the
bear stopped again.

We thought now was a good time to knock him on
the head, and I called to Friday to stand still and we
would shoot the bear; but he cried out earnestly, " 0,
gay! 0, pray ! no shoot! Me shoot by and then."

e would have said, "by and by." However, to
shorten the story, Friday danced so much, and the

 

hear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing enough in-
deed, but still could not imagine what the fellow would
do; for first we thought he depended upon shaking

Z3
the bear off, and we found the hear was too cunning
for that too ; for he would not go out far enough to be
thrown down, but clings fast with his great, broad
claws and feet, so that we could not imagine what
would be the end of it, and where the jest would be at
last.

But Friday ut us out of doubt quickly; for seeing
the bear cling ast to the bough, and that he would not
be persuaded to come any further, " Well, well," says
Friday, " you no come farther, me go, me go; you no
come to me, me come to you." And upon this, he
goes out to the smallest end of the bou h, where it
should bend with his weight, and gently ets himself
down by it, sliding down the bough, till he came near
enough to jump down on his feet, and away he ran to
his gun, takes it up, and stands still.

" Well," said I to him, "Friday, what will you do
now? Why don't you shoot him? " " No shoot," says
Friday, " no yet, me shoot now, me no kill 2 me stay,
give you one more laugh." And, indeed, so he did, as
you will see presently; for when the bear saw his
enemy one, he comes back from the bough where he
stood; ut did it mighty leisurely, looking behind him
every step, and coming backwards till he got into the
body of the tree. Then with the same, hinder end
foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it with his
claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely:
at this juncture, and just before he could set his hind
feet upon the ground, Friday stepped close to him,
clipped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot
him dead as a stone.

Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not
laugh; and when he saw we were pleased, by our looks
he falls a laughing himself, very loud. " So we kill
bear in my count '," says Friday. " So you kill
them!" said I; "w y you have no guns." "No,"
says he: " no guns; but shoot great, much, long
arrow."
f This was, indeed, a good diversion to us; but we
were still in a wild place, and our guide very much
? hurt, and what to do we hardly knew : the howling of
wolves ran much in my head; and, indeed, exce t the
' noise I once heard on the shores of Africa, of w ich I
had said something already, I never heard anything
j that filled me with so much horror.

These things, and the approach of night, called us
off, or else, as Friday would have had us, we shOuld
have certainly taken the skin of this monstrous crea-
ture off, which was worth saving; but we had three
leagues to go, and our guide hastened us; so we left
him, and went forward to our journey.

The ground was still covered with snow, though not
so deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and the
ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards, were come
down into the forest and plain country, pressed by
hunger, to seek for food; and had done a great deal of
mischief in the villages, where they surprised the
country people, killed a great many of their sheep and
horses, and some peOple too.

We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our
guide told us, if there were any more wolves in the
country, we should find them there; and this was a
small plain, surrounded with woods on every side; and
a long, narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pass to
get through the wood, and then we should come to the
village where we were to lodge.

It was within half an hour of sunset, when we en-
tered the first wood; and a little after sunset when we
came into the plain. We met with nothing in the first
wood, except that, in a little plain, within the wood,
which was not above two furlon over, we saw five
great wolves cross the road, f 1 speed, one after
another, as if they had been in chase of some prey
and had it in view. They took no notice of us, am
were gone, and out of sight in a few moments.

Upon this, our guide, who, by the way, was a
wretched faint-hearted fellow, bade us keep in a ready
posture ; for he believed there were more wolves a
coming.

We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us;
but we saw no more wolves till we came through that
wood which was near half a league, and entered the
plain. As soon as we came into the plain, we had oc-
casion enough to look about us. The first object we
met with, was a dead horse; that is to say, a poor
horse, which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen
of them at work; we could not say, eating of him, but
picking of his bones, rather; for they had eaten up all
the flesh before.

We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast,
neither did they take much notice of us. Friday would
have let fly at them, but I would not suffer him by any
means: for I found we were like to have more business
upon our hands than we were aware of. We were not
gone half over the plain, but we began to hear the
wolves howl, in the wood on our left, in a frightful
manner; and presently after we saw about a hundred
coming on directly towards us, all in a body, and most
of them in a line, as regular as an army drawn up by
experienced officers. I scarce knew in what manner
to receive them ; but found, to draw ourselves in a
close line was the only way. So we formed in a mo-
ment. But that we might not have too much interval,
I ordered that only every other man should fire, and
that the others who had not fired, should stand ready
to give them a second volley immediately, if they con-
tinued to advance upon us; and that then, those who
had fired at first should not pretend to load their fusils
gain, but stand ready with every one a istol; for we
: etc all armed with a fusil, and a pair 0 pistols, each
is an: so we were, by this method, able to fire six
fit"; 'olleys, half of us at a time. However, at present, we
'1'. 1 ad no neeessit ; for, u n firing the first volley, the
. s. nemy made a I stop, ein terrified, as well with the
' noise as with the fire: four 0 them being shot into the
3 head, dropped; several others were wounded, and went
3"? leeding off, as we could see by the snow. I found
,- they stopped, but did not immediately retreat; where-
1;?" upon remembering that I had been told, that the
'ifzqfiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of man, I
caused all our company to halloo as loud as we could:
and I found the notion not altogether mistaken; for,
upon our shout, they began to retire, and turn about;
V then I ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear,
'i which put them to the gallop, and away they went to
the woods.
' This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again, and
that we mi ht lose no time, we ke t going; but we
-" had but litt e more than loaded our usils, and put our<<
selves into _a readiness, when we heard a terrible noise
'1' in the same wood on our left; only that it was farther
onward, the same way we were to go. '
The night was coming on, and the light began to be
dusky, which made it the worst on our side; but the
noise increasing, we could easily perceive that it was
the howling and yelling of those vile creatures;
and, on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of
wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one on
our front: so that we seemed to be surrounded with
them. However, as they did not fall upon us, we kept
our way forward, as fast as we could make our horses
, which, the way being very rough, was only a good
ge trot; and in this manner we only came in view
of the entrance of the wood, through which we were
to pass. at. the father side of the plain: but we were
greatly surprised. when. coming near the lane. or pass.
we saw a confused number of wolves standing just at.
the entrance.

On a sudden. at another 0 vening of the wood. we
heard the noise of a gun: am . looking that; way. out
rushed a horse. with a saddle and bridle on him. tlying
iihe the wind. and sixteen or seventeen wolves after
him. full speed. Indeed the horse had the heels of
them ; but. as we supposed that he could not. hold at;
that rate. we doubted not that. thev would get up with
him at last. ; and no question but they did.

Here we had a most. horrible sight. ; for. riding it i
to the entrance where the horse came out. we. fountll
the earease of another horse. and of two men devoured
by the ravenous creatures. aml one of the men was no
doubt. the same whom we heard tire the gun ; for there
lay the gun just. by him tired otl': but. as to the. man.
his head. and the upper part of his body, were. eaten
11".

This tilled us with horror. and we knew not what
coarse to take ; but. the creatures resolved as soon. for
they gathered about us presently. in ho ies of pr '5':
and I verily believe there were three hundred of them.
It happened very mueh to our advantage. that at the
entrance of the wood. but a little way from it. there
lay some large. timber trees. which had been cut down
the summer before. and I suppose. lay there for car-
riage. I drew my little troop in among these trees. I
advised them all to alight. and keeping that tree before
us. for a breastwoik. to stand in a triangle or three
fronts. enclosing our horses in the centre.

We did so; and it was well we did, for never was a
more furious charge than the creatures made upon us
in this place: they came on us with a growling kind of
noise, and mounted the piece of timber (which as I
said was our breastwork), as if the were only rushing
upon their prey; and this fury of t eirs, it seems, was

rincipally occasioned by their seeing our horses he-
hind us, which was the pre they aimed at. I
ordered our men to fire as be ore, every other man;
and they took their aim so sure, that indeed they
killed several wolves at the first volley; but there was
a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on
like devils, those behind pushing on those before.

When we had fired our second volle of our fusils,
we thought they stopped a little, an I hoped they
would have gone off, but it was but a moment, for
others came forward again: so we fired two volleys of
our istols, and I believe in these four firings, we
killed, seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed twice
as many : yet they came on again.

I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily : so I
called my servant, not my man Friday, for he was bet-
ter employed ; for, with the greatest dexterity imagin-
able, he charged my fusil, and his own, while we
were engaged; but, as I said, I called my other man ;
and given him a horn of wder, I bade him lay a
large train. He did so, ant had but just time to get
away, when the wolves came up to it, and some were
got upon it, when I snapped an unchar ed pistol close
to the owder, set it on fire. Those t at were upon
the tim )er were scorched with it, and seven of them
fell, or rather jumped in among us, with the force or
the fright of the fire. We dis atched these in an in-
stant, and the rest where so righted with the light.
wlnch the night, for now it was very nigh dark, made
more terrible, that they drew back a little.

. Upon which I ordered our last pastols to be fired off
mone volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon
this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately
upon near twenty lame ones, which we found strug-
gling on the ground. and fell a eutting them with our
words whieh answered our expeetation: for the. ery-
ing. and howling they made were better understood by
their fellows. so that they all lled and left us.

We had. first and last. killed about threeseore of
them ; and had it. been daylight. we had killed many
more. The field of battle being thus cleared. we. made
forward again. for we had still near a lea no to go.

We heard the ravenous ereatures howl anc yell in the
woods as we went. several times; and sometimes we
l'aneied we saw some of them. but the snow dazzling
our eyes. we were not eertain: so in about an hour.
more. we eame. to the town. where we were. to lodge
whieh we found in a terrible. fright. and all in arms;
for it seems that the night. before. the wolves and some
bears had broken into the. villia e and put them in a
terrible fright: and they were oliliged to keep guard.
night and. day. but es ieeially in the. night to preserve
their cattle. and indeed their people.

The. next morning our guide was so ill. and his
limbs so swelled with the rankling of his two wounds.
that he eould go no further: so we. were. obliged to
take another guide there. and go to 'I'onlouse. where.
we found a warm elimate, a fruitful pleasant eonntry.
and no snow. no wolves. nor anything like. them. lint
when we told our story at 'l'houlmise. they told us it.
was nothing but what was ordinary in the. great forest.
at the foot of the mountains, especially when the. snow
lay on the. ground. But they inquired mueh what.
kind of a guide. we had gotten. that would venture to
bring us that. way in sneh a severe. season: and told
us. it was very nmeh we were not all devoured : when
we told them how we. had )laeed ourselves. and the
horses in the. middle. they blunted us exeeedingly. and
told us it was til'ty to one. but we had all been des-
troyed; for it was the sight of the horses that made
the wolves so furious, seeing their prey, and that at
other times they are really afraid of a gun; but they
heing excessively hungry, and raging on that account,
a? the eagemess to come at the horses had made them
_>> senseless of the danger; and that if we had, not by
the continued tire, and at last by the stratagem of the
3'. train of powder. mastered them, it had been great odds
but that we had been torn in pieces ; whereas, bad we
f. been content to have sat still on horseback, and fired
'C'T: as horsemen they would not have taken the horses so
touch for their own, when men were on their backs, as
otherwise; and, withal, they told us, that, at last, if
_' we had stood all together, and left our horses, they
would have been so eager to have devoured them,

that we might have come off safe, especially having our

fire arms in our hands, and being so many in number.
For my part, I never was so sensible of danger in
3%my life; for seeing above three hundred wolves come
.- roaring and open-mouthed to devour us, and having
SS nother to shelter us, or retreat to. I gave myself over
3 for lost; and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to

 

3, cross those mountains again: I think I would much .
rather go a thousand leagues by sea, though I were
f sure to meet with a storm once a week.

' I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my
. passage through France; nothing but what other tra-
vellers have given an account of, with much more
5 .3 advantage than I can. I travelled from Toulouse
fifito Paris, and, without any considerable stay, came
{"1 to Calais, and landed safely at Dover, the fourteenth
gig of January, after having had a severely cold season to
travel in.

' I was now come to the centre of my travels, and
a bad, in a little time, all my new-discovered estate safe
about me, the bills of exchange which I brought with
me having been very currently paid,

AA

  

' 'Ju
  

My principal guide. and privy-counsellor, was my
end. ancient widow. who, in gratitude for the money
had sent her. thought no pains too much, or care
too great. to employ or me. and I trusted her so eu-
tirely with everything. that. l was perfectly easy as to
the security of my cll'eets: and. indeed. I was very
happy from the beginning, and now to the end, in the.
unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman.

And now I be an to think of leaving my effects with
this woman. andxsetting out for Lisbon, and so to the
Brazils. lint now another scrn ile came in mv way.
and that was religion; for as l tad entertained sonn-
donbts about the Roman religion, even while. I was
abroad. especially in my state of solitude: so I knew
there was no going to the llrazils for me, much less
going to settle there. unless I resolved to embrace the.
Roman Catholic religion. without any reserve; except.
on the other hand. I resolved to be a sacrifice to my
principles. he a martyr for religion, and die in the ln-
tpiisition : so I resolved to stay at home. and if I could
tind means for it. to dispose ot my plantation.

To this purpose. I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon.
who. in return. gave me notice. that he could easily
dispose of it there; but that. if I thought tit to give
him leave. to otl'er it in my name. to the two merchants,
the. survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils.
who must. fully understand the value of it, who lived
just. upon the. spot. and whom I knew to be very rich,
so that he believed they would be fond of buyln it ;
he. did not doubt, but. I should make four or five t on-
sand pieces of eight the. more. of it.

Accordingly I agreed. gave. him orders to other it to
them. and he did so; and in about eight months more.
the ship being then returned, he sent me an account.

that they llllt' accepted the offer, and had remitted
thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a correspon-
dent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.

In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my
old man, who sent me bills of exchange for thirty-two
thousand eight hundred pieces of eight, for the estate,
reserving the payment of one hundred moidores a year
to him, the old man, during his life, and fifty moiclorrs
afterward to his son for his life, which I had promised
them ; and which the plantation was to make good as
a rent charge.

And thus I have given the history of a life of for-
tune and adventure, a life of Providence's checker-
work, and of a variety which the world will seldom
show the like (if--beginning foolishly, but closing
much more happily than any part of it ever gave me
leave so much as to hope for.

Any one would think, that in this state of complicated
good fortune. l was ast running any more hazards;
and so indeed I had wen, if other circumstances had
concurred: but I was inured to a wandering life, had
no family. nor many relations, nor, however rich, had I
contracted much acquaintance; and though I had sold
my estate in the Brazils, yet I could not kee that
country out of my head, and had a eat min to be
upon the win again ; especially as flould not resist
the stron inc ination I had to see my island, and to
know if t e poor Spaniards were in being there, and
how the rogues [ had left there had used them.

My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded me
from it, and so far prevailed with me, that for almost
seven years she prevented my runnin abroad; during
which time I took my two nephews, t e children of one
of my brothers, into my care. The eldest having
something of his own, I 'bred up as a gentleman, and
gave him a settlement .of some addition to his estate

aa2268 . nonmsoN emlsolc.

aller my decease: the other I put out to a captain ot
a ship; and after the years. finding him a sensible.
hold. enterprisinw young fellow. I put him into a good
ship. and sent III" to sea. And this young l'ellow
afterward drew me in. old as I was. to further adven--
tnres myself.

In the meantime. I in part settled myself here: for
lirst of all I married. and that. not. either to my disad-
vantage or dissatisfaction; and had three children. two
sons and one daughter. Ilnt my wife dying. and
my nephew coming home. with good .-.u\('cus. from a
voyage to Spain. my inclination to go ahroad. and his
importnnity. prevailed. and cut-raged me to o in his
ship as a private. trader to the Iiiast Indies. 'his was
in the year ItiSH.

In this voyage. I visited my new colony in the Island,
saw my sin-cessors. the Spaniards; had the. whole story
of their lives. and of the villains I left there; how at
first they insulted the wee Spaniards; how they after-
ward agreed. disagreed. united. separated. and how at
last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with
them; how they were subjected to the Spaniards;
how honestly the Spaniards used them; a history. if
it were entered into. as full of variety and wonderful
incidents. as my own part: particularly also as to
their battles with the. (,arriheans. who hmded several
times upon the. island itself: and how tive of them
made. an attempt n It)" the main land. and brought
away eleven men tlllt live women prisoners, by which,
at my coming, I found about twenty young children on
the island.

Here I staid about twenty days. left them supplies
of all necessary things. and particularly of arms, pow-
der, shot, clothes. tools, and two workmen which I
brought from England with me: viz., a carpenter and
a smith.nonmaoN cannon. - 269

Besides this, I shared the inland into parts with
them, reserved to myself the property of the whole, but
gave them such parts reslmetivel as they a ecd on:
and having settled all things witi them, am engaged
them not to leave the )lace, i left them there.

From thence I touched at the llrazils, from whence
I sent a hark, which I bought there, with more people
to the island; and in it, besides other supplies, I sent
seven women, heiu such as I found proper for service,
or for wives to sue: on would take them. As to the
Englishmen I promised them to send them some women
from England. with a good cargo of necessaries, if they
would apply themselves to 'planting, which i afterward
could not perform. The allows proved ve honest
and diligent, after they were mastered, and lad their
iroperty set apart for them. I sent them also from the

lrnzils five cows, three of them with calves, some sheep,
and some hogs, which, when I came again, were con-
sideruhly increased.

After this, however, three hundred Carribees came
and invaded them, and mined their plantations, and
they fought with that whole number twice, and were
at first defeated, and one of them killed : but at last a
storm destroying their enemies' canoes, they famished
or destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and re-
covered the lmssession of their plantation, and still
lived upon the island. I had some very surprising in-
cidents, in some new adventures of my own, for several
years more; but now, having lived seventy-two years,
a life of infinite variety, and learned sufficiently to know
the value of retirement and the blessing of endin our
days in peace, I have resolved to harrass myself no

more, and am therefore preparing for a longer journey
than any I have yet undertaken.

THE END.