ku-251/727 kg./ '1 IMX'

Iv '
.I 'THE ADVENTURES QF
ROBINSON CRUSOE

By Daniel Defoe

 

WITH SIXTY-THREE. ILLUSTRATIONS

McLOUGHLIN BRO'S., INC.
.SPlyNGFIELD . MASSACHUSETTS>> fiwfituui
BROS. INC.

SPRINGFIELD
 

WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York, of a good family, though not
I of that country, my father being a foreigner, of Bremen, who settled first
at Hull: he got a good estate by merchandise, and leaving 03 his trade, lived
afterwards at York; from whence he had married my mother, whose relations
were named Robinson, a very good family in that country, and from whom I
was called Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by the usual corruption of words in Eng-
land, we are now called, nay, we call ourselves, and write our name, Crusoe;
and so my companions always called me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my head began
to be filled very early with rambling thoughts: my father had given me a com-
petent share of learning, and designed me for the law; but I would be satisfied
with nothing but going to sea; and ray-inclination to this led me so strongly
- against the will, nay, the commands, of my father, and against all the entreaties
and persuasions of my mother and other friends, that there seemed to be some-
thing fatal in that propension of nature, tending directly to the life of' misery
which was to befall me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me excellent counsel against what
he foresaw was my design. He called me one morning into his chamber, where
he was confined by the gout, and expostulated very warmly with me upon this
subject: he asked me what reasons, more thanamere wandering inclination,
I had for leaving my father's house and my native country, where I might be
well introduced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune by application and4 nonmsorx censor:

industry, With a life of ease and pleasure. He told me it was men of desperate
fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring, superior fortunes on the other, who went
abroad upon adventures, to make themselves famous in undertakings of a
nature out of the common road; that these things were all either too far above
me or too far below me; that mine was the middle state, or what might be called

the upper station of low life, which he had found by long experience was the
best state in the world, the most suited to human happiness, not exposed to the
misery and hardships,-the labor and sufferings of the mechanic part of man-
kind, and not embarrassed with pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the upper
part of mankind. He told me, I might judge of the happiness of this state by
this one thing, viz., that this was the state of life which all other people envied;
that kings have frequently lamented the miserable consequence of being born
to great things, and wished they had been placed in the middle of the two ex-
tremes, between the mean and the great; that the wise man gave his testimony
to this, as the just standard of true felicity, when he prayed tohave neither
poverty nor riches. .

After this he pressed me earnestly, and in the most affectionate manner, not
to play the young man, nor to precipitate myself into miseries which Naturea
and the station of life I was born in, seemed to have provided against; that I
was under no necessity of seeking my bread; that he would do well for me, and
endeavor to enter me fairly into the station of life which he had just been re-
commending to me; and that if I was not very easy and happy in the world, it
must be my mere fate or fault that must hinder it; and that he should have

nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his duty in warning me against
measures which he knew would be to my hurt.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed who could be other-
wise? and I resolved not to think of going abroad any more, but to settle at
'home according to my father's desire. But, alas! a few days wore it all off;
and, in short, to prevent any of my father's further importunties, in a few weeks d
after I resolved to run quite away frpm him. However, I did not act quite so
hastily as the first heat of my resolution prompted, but I took my mother at a
time when I thought her a' little more pleasant than ordinary, and told her that
my thoughts were so entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I should never
settle to anything with resolution enough to go through with it, and my father
had better give me his consent than force me to go'without it. This put my
mother into a great passion; she told me she knew it would be to no purpose
to speak to my father upon any such subjects; that for her part, she would not
have so much hand in my destruction; and I should never have it to say that my
mother was willing when my father was not.

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose. Being one day at
Hull, and one of my companions being going by sea to London in his father's
ship, and prompting me to go with them, I consulted neither father or mother
any more, nor so much as sent them word of, it; but leaving them to hear of it
as they might, without asking God's blessing, or my father's, without any con-
sideration of circumstances or consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows,
on the lst of September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for London.

Never any young adventurer's misfortunes began sooner or continued longer
than mine. The ship was no sooner got out of the Humber than the wind began
to blow, and the sea to rise in a most frightful manner; and, as I had never been
at sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body, and terrified in mind. In
this agony I made many vows and resolutions, that if it would please God to
spare my life in this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon dry land again,
I would go directly home to my father, and never set it into a ship again while
I lived.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm lasted, and
indeed some time after; but the next day the wind was abated, and the sea
calmer, and I began to be a little inured to it. A charming evening followed;
the sun went down perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning; and having
little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the sight was, as I
thought, the most delightful that ever I saw.6 nosmson causoa

I had slept well in the night, and was no more sea-sick; but very cheerful.
looking with wonder upon the sea that was so rough and terrible the day before.
and could be so calm and so pleasant in so little a time after. And now. lest
my good resolutions should continue, my companion who had enticed me away
comes to me.

" Well, Bob," says he, clapping me upon the shoulder, "how do you do after
it? I warrant you were frighted, wern't you, last night, when it blew but a
capful of wind?"

"A capful d'you call it P" said I; "'twas a terrible storm."

"A storm, you fool, you!" replies he; "do you call that a storm? why, it was
nothing at all; give us but a good ship and sear-room, and we think nothing of
such a squall of wind as that; but you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob. Come,
let us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that; d'ye see what charming
weather 'tis now 1'" h

To make short this sad part of my story, we went the way of all sailors; the
punch was made, and I was made half drunk with it; and in that one night's
wickedness I drowned all my reflections upon my past conduct, all my. resolu-
tions for the future.

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads. Here We
were obliged to come to anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary.
viz., at, south-west, for seven or eight days. The eighth day, in the morning,
the wind increased, and we had all hands at work to strike our top-masts, and
make everything snug and'close, that the ship might ride as easy as" possible.
By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rode forecastle in, shipped
several seas, and we thought once or twice our anchor had come home; upon
which our master ordered out the sheet-anchor, so that we rode with two anchors
ahead, and the cables veered out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to see terror
and amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves. Towards evening
the 'mate and boatswain begged the master of our ship to let them cut away the
foremast, which he was very unwilling to-do; but the boatswain protesting to
him that if he did not, the ship would founder, he consented; and when they had
cut away the foremast, the main-mast stood so loose, and shook the ship so
much, they were obliged to cut that away also, and make a clear deck.
And one must judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who was but a
young sailor, and who had been in such a flight before at but a little. In the
middle of the night, and underall the rest of our distresses, one of the men that
had been down to see, cried out we had sprung aleak; another said there was
four feet of water in the hold. Then all hands were called to the pump.
We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it was apparent that the
ship would founder; and though the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was
not possible she could swim till we might run into any port, so the master fired
guns for help; and a light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us, ventured a
boat out to help us. ' Our men cast. a rope over the stem with a buoy to it, and
then veered it out a great length, which they, after much labor and hazard,
took hold of, and we hauled them close under our stern, and got all into their
boat. It was to no purpose for them or us, after we were in the boat, to think
of reaching to their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her
in towards shore as much as we could. '
We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship till we saw .
her sink, and then I understood for the first time what was meant by a ship
foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look up when
the seamen_ told me she was sinking. While we were in this condition, the men
yet laboring at the oar to bring the boat near the shore, we could see a great
- many people running along the strand, to assist us when we should come near;

but we made but slow way towards the shore; nor were we able to reach the
' shore till being past the lighthouse at Winterton, the shore falls off to the west-
ward, towards Crome. Here we got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards
on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, were were used with great
humanity.
Had I now had-the sense to have gone back to Hull,and have gone home, I
had been happy. But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that
nothing could resist. Having some money in my pocket, I travelled to London
by land; and there, as well as on the road, had many struggles with myself what
course of life I should take, and whether I should go home or go to sea.

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good company in London, which
does not always happen to such loose and misguided young fellows as I then
was. I first got acquainted with the master of a ship who had been on the coast
of Guinea; and who having had very good success there, was resolved to go
again; this captain taking 'a fancy to my conversation, told me if I would go the
voyage with him, I should be at no expense; I should be his messmate and his
companion; and if I could carry anything with me, I should have all the ad-
vantage of it that the trade would admit.

I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict friendship with this captain,
who was an honest, plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and carried
about PS40 in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy. This PS40
I had mustered together by the assistance of some of my relations whom I cor-
responded with, and who, I believe, got my father, or at least my mother, to
contribute so much as that to my first adventure. _

This was the only voyage which I may say was successful in all my adventures,
and which I owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain; for I
brought home five pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for' my adventure, which
yielded me in London, atflmy return, almost PS800; and this filled me with those
aspiring thoughts which have since so completed my ruin.

I was now set up for 9, Guinea trader; and my friend, to my great misfortune,
dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again. I em-
barked in the same vessel with one who was his mat" in the former voyage, and
had now got the command of the ship. This was the unhappiest voyage that
ever man made; for though I did not carry quite PS100 of my new-gained wealth,
so that I had PS2001eft which I had lodged with my friend's widow, who was verynonmsox crimson 9

just to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was
this, viz., our ship making her course towards the Canary Islands, was surprised' ..
in the gray of the morning by a Moorish rover of Sallee, who gave chase to us
with all the sail he could make. About three in the afternoon he came up with

 

m MACK BY m mm ROVER

us, and to cut short this melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled,
and three of our men killed and eight wounded, we were obliged to yield,
and were carried all prisoners into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I apprehended; nor was
I carried up the country to the Emperor's court, as the rest of our men were,
but was kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize, and made his slave,
being young and nimble, and fit for his business. When he went to sea, he left
me on shore to look after his little garden, and do the common drudgery of10 aonmson causes

slaves about his house; and when he came home again from his cruise, he
ordered me to lie in the cabin to look after the ship;

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what method I might take to
effect it; but found no way that had the least probability in it. After about two
years, an odd circumstance presented itself, which put the thought of making
some attempt for my liberty, again in my head. My patron lying at home longer
than usual without fitting out his shipyhe used constantly to take the ship's
pinnace, and go out into the road a-fishing; and as he always took me and a
young Moresco with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and I
proved very dexterous in catching fish, insomuch that sometimes he would send
me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the Moresco, as they called
him, to catch a dish of fish for him. '

It happened one time that, going a-iishing with him in a calm morning, a fog
rose so thick, that though we were not half a league from the shore, we lost
sight of it; and rowing we knew not whither or which way, we labored all day
and all the next night; and when the morning came, we found we had pulled
out to sea instead of pulling in for the shore. However, we got well in again, .
though with a great deal of labor, and some danger.

But our patron resolved he would not go arfishing any more without a com-
pass and some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship to build a little
state-room or cabin, in the middle of the long-boat, which had in it room for
him to lie with a slave or two, and a table to eat on, with some lockers to put
in some bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink; and particularly his
bread, rice, and coffee.

It happened that be appointed to go out in this boat, with two or three Moors
of some distinction in that place, and he had provided a larger store of provi-
sions than usual; and had ordered me to get ready three fusils with powder
and shot, which were on board his ship, for that they designed some sport of
fowling as well as fishing. I got all things ready as he had directed; and waited
the next morning with the boat, when by-and--by my patron came on board
 

(1le A BMW

alone, and told me his guests had put off going, and ordered me, with the man
as usual, to go out with the boat and catch them some fish.

This moment, my former notions of deliverance darted into my thoughts,
' for now I found I was likely to have a little ship at my command; and my master
being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not for fishing business, but for a
voyage. My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak to the Moor,
to get something for our subsistence on board; for I told him we must not pre-
sume to eat of our patron's bread. He said, that was true; so he brought a
large basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind, and three jars with fresh water,
into the boat. I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood, and I conveyed
them into the boat while the Moor was on shore. I conveyed also a great lump
of beeswax into the boat, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet. a saw. and
a hammer, all of which were of great use to us afterwards, especia'lly the wax
to make candles. Thus furnished with everything needful we sailed out of
the port to fish.

After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for when I had fish on
my hook I would not pull them up, that 'he might not see them, I said to the
Moor, "This will not do; we must stand farther o ." He, thinking no harm,
agreed, and I ran the boat out near a league farther, and then brought her to
as if I would fish; when, giving the boy the helm, I stepped to where the Moor
was, and making as if I Etooped for something behind him, I took him by sur-
prise with my arm under his waist, and tossed him clear overboard into the sea.

U He rose immediately, for he swam like alcork, and called to me,- hegged to be
taken in, telling me he would go all over the world with me. He swam so strong
after the boat, that he would have reached me very quickly, there being but
little wind; upon which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of the fowl-
ing-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him I had done him no hurt, and if
he would be quiet I would do him none; "But," said I, "you swim well enough
to reach the shore, and the sea is calm; make the best of your way to shore, and
I will do you no harm; but if you come near the boat, I'll shoot you through the
head, for I am resloved to have my liberty." So he turned himself about,
and Swam for shore, and I make no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he
was an excellent swimmer.

When he was gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called "Xury," and said,
"Xury, if you will be faithful to me, I'll make you a great man; but if you will
not stroke your face to be true to me" (that is, swear by Mahomet and his
father's heard), "I must throw you into the sea too." The boy smiled in my
face, and spoke so innocently, that I could not mistrust him, and he swore to be
faithful to me, and go all over the world with me.

While I was in the view of the Moor thatsvas swimming, I stood directly out
to sea, that they might think me gone towards the Straits' mouth. But asMemos cnnson 13

soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed my course, that I might keep in
with the shore; and having a fair, fresh gale of wind, and a. smooth, quiet sea,
I made such sail that I believed by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon,
when I first made land. I could not be less than one hundred and fifty miles
beyond the Emperor oi Morocoo's dominions. I

 

030803 MAP?" WITH my

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, that I would not stop till
I had sailed in that manner five daysfand then, the wind shifting to the south-
ward, I concluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also
would now give over; so I ventured to make to the coast, and came to an anchor
in the mouth of a little river, I knew not what nor where. I neither saw nor
dmir'ed to see any people; the principal thing I wanted was fresh water. We'
came into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it14 nonmson 63050]

was dark, and discover the country. But as soon as it was quite dark, we heard
such dreadful noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of
we knew not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and
begged of me not to go on shore till day. " Well, Xury," said I, "then I won't.
but it may be we may see men by day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."
"Then we give them the shoot-gun," says Xury, laughing, "make them run
way."- Such English Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. However,
I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and as his advice was good, I took it. We
dropped our little anchor, and lay still all night. I say still, for we slept none;
for in two or three hours we saw vast, great creatures (we knew not what to call
them), of many sorts, come down to the sea-shore, and run into the water,
wallowing and washing themselves and they made such hideous howlings and
yellings that I never indeed heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I too; but we were both
more irighted when we heard one mighty creature come swimming towards our
boat. Xury cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away. "No," says I,
"Xury, we can slip our cable, with the buoy to it, and go to sea; they cannot
follow us far." I had no sooner said so but I perceived the creature, within two
oars' length. I immediately stepped to the cabin-door, and taking up my gun,
fired at him; upon which he turned about and swam towards the shore again.

But it is impossible to describe the horrid noises and hideous cries and how]-
ings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as higher within the
country, upon the noise or report of the gun. This convinced me that there
was no going on shore for us in the night upon that coast; and how to venture
on shore in the day was another question too; for to have fallen into the hands
of any of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into the pews of lions
and tigers. .

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or other for
water. Xury said, if I would let him go on shore with one of the jars, he would
find if therewas any water, and bring some to me. I asked him why he wouldaormson CRUIOE 15

go P why I should not go, and he stay in the boat? The boy answered with so
much afiection, that made me love him ever after. Says he, "If wild mans
come, they eat you, and go wey." "Well, Xury," said I, " we will both! go, and
if the wild men come, we will kill them, they shall eat neither of us."' So we
hauled the boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper. and waded on
shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, but the boy, seeing a low place
about a mile up the country, rambled to it, and by and by I saw him come run-
ning towards me. I thought he was pursued, and I ran forward towards him
to help him; but when I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over his
shoulders, which was a creature that 11deg had shot, like a hare, but difl'erent in
color. and longer legs; however, we were very glad of it, and it was very good
meat; but the great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell me he had found -
good water, and seen no wild mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains for water, for a
little higher up the creek where we were, we found the water freshwhen the
tide was out, so we filled our jars, and prepared to go on our way.

I knew very well that the Islands of the Canaries, and the Cape de Verd
Islands also,- lay not far off from the coast. But I knew not where to look for
them. Myhopewasthatiflstoodalongthiscoasttilllcametothatpart
where the English traded, I should find some of their vessels upon their usual
design of trade, that would relieve and take us in. .

Once or twice in the day-time, I thought I saw the Pico of Tenerifie, being
the high top of the mountain Tenerifie in the Canaries and had a great mind to
venture out, in hopes of reaching thither; but having failed twice, I was forced
in again by conkary winds, the sea also going too high for my little vessel; so I
resolved to pursue my first design; and keep along the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, and once in particular,
being early in the morning, we came to an anchor under a little point of land,
which was pretty high; and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther
in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him than it seems mine were, calls
softly to me, and tells me that we had best go farther off the shore; "for." says
he, "look, yonder lies a. dreadful monster on the side of that hillock, fast asleep."
I looked where he pointed, and saw a terrible great lion that lay on the side of
the shore. " Xury," says I, "you shall go on shore and kill him." Xury looked
frighted, and said, " Me kill! he eat me at one mouth;" one mouthful he meant.
However, I said no more to the boy, but bade him be still, and took our biggest
gun, and aimed as well as I could with the first piece to have shot him in the
head, but the slug hit his leg about the knee, and broke the bone. He started
up growling at first, but finding his leg broke, gave the most hideous roar that
ever I heard. I fired again, and shot him in the head, and had the pleasure
to see him drop. .

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food; and I was very sorry to lose
the charges of powder and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing to us.
I bethought myself, however, perhaps the skin of him might bevof some value
to us; and I resolved to take off his skin if I could. So Xury and I went to work
with him. It took us up both the whole day, but at last we got off the hide of
him, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the sun effectually dried it in two
days' time, and it afterwards served me to lie upon.

After this stop, we made on to the southward continually for ten or twelve
days. My design in this was to make the River Gambia or Senegal; that isto
say, anywhere about the Cape de Verd, where I was in hopes to meetwith
some European ship; and if I did not, I knew not what course I had to take,
but to seek for the islands, or perish there among the negroes. When I had
pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I have said, I began to see
that the land was inhabited; and in two or three places, we saw people stand
upon the shore to look at us; we could also perceive they were quite black, and
stark naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to them; but Xury said I
to me, "No, go, no go." However, I hauled in nearer the shore, and I found
they ran along the shore by me a good-way: they had no weapons in their hands.nosnvsou causon ' 1'?

except one, who had a long stick, which Xury said was a lance. and that they
could throw them a great way with good aim; so I kept at a distance, but talked
with them by signs as well as I could; and particularly made signs for something
to eat: they beckoned to me to stop my boat, and they would fetch me some
meat. Upon this, I lay by,.and two of them ran up into the country, and in
less than half an hour came back, and brought with them two pieces of dry
flesh and some corn, but how to come at it was our next dispute, for I would
not venture on shore to them, and they wereas much afraid of us, but they took
a safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore and laid it down, and went
and stood a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then came close to
us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make them amends;
but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige them wonderfully: for
while we were lying on the shore, came two mighty creatures, one pursuing the
other from the mountains towards the sea. The man that had the lance or dart
did not fly from them, but the rest did. The two creatures ran directly into the
water, and swam about; at last one of them began to come nearer our boat than
at first I expected; but I lay ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with all
possible expedition. As soon as he came fairly within my reach, I fired, and
shot him directly in the head: he immediately made to theshore; but between
the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the water, he died
just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor creatures at the
noise and fire of my gun. But when they saw the creature dead, and that I
made signs to them to come to the shore, they took heart, and came to the
shore, and began to search for the creature. I found him by hisblood staining
the water; and by the help of a rope, they dragged him on shore, and found that
it was a most curious leopard.

The other creature, frighted with the flash of fire and the noise of the gun,
swam to the shore, and ran up directly to the mountains from whence they came.18 nonmsow CRUBOE

I found quickly the negroes were for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was
willing to have them take it as a. favorfrom me; which, when I made signs to
them that they might take it, they were very thankful for. Then I made signs
to them for some water, and held out one of my jars to them, turning its bottom
upward, to show that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it filled. They
called immediately to some of their friends, and there came two women, and
brought a great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I suppose in the sun; this
they set down for me, as before, and I sent Xury on shore with my jars and filled
them all three.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and water; and leav-
ing my friendly negroes, I made forward for about eleven days more, tillI came
in sight of the Cape de Verd Islands. On'a sudden, Xury cried out, "Master,
master, a ship with a. sail!" and the foolish boy was frighted out of his wits,
thinking it must needs be some of his master's ships sent to pursue us. I
immediately saw that it was a Portuguese ship; upon which I stretched out to
the sea as much as I could, resolving to speak with them if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to come in their
way, but that they would be gone by before I could make any signal to them;
they, it seems, saw me by the help of their perspective glasses, so they shortened
sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with this, and as I had my patron's
ensign on board, I made a waft of it to them for a signal of distress, and fired.
a gun. Upon these signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by for me;
and in about three hours' time I came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish, and in French,
but I understood none of them; but at last a Scotch sailor, who was on board,
called to me; and I answered him, and told him I was an Englishman, that had
made my escape out of slavery from the Moors at Sallee; they then bade me
come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all my goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will believe, that I was thus '
delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable and almost helpless condition
as I was in; and I immediately oiiered all I had to the captain of the ship, as a
return for my deliverance; but he generously told me, he would take nothing
from me, but that all I hadvshould be delivered safe to me, when I came to the
Brazils. ' i

As he was charitable in this proposal, sohe was just in the performance to a
tittle; for he ordered the seamen that none should ofier to touch anything I had:
then he took everything into his own possession, and gave me back an exact
inventory of them, that I might have them, even to my three earthen jars.

As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that he saw, and'told me, he would
buy it of me for the ship's use. He ofiered me also sixty pieces of eight for my
boy Xury, buthas very loath to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted
me'so faithfufly in procuring my own. However, when I let him know my
' reason, he owned it to be just, and offered me this medium, that he would give
the boy an obligation to set him free in ten years, if he turned Christian: upon
this, and Xury saying he was willing to go to him, I let the captain have him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and I arrived in the Bay de Todos
los Santos, or All Saints Bay, in about twenty-two days after. The generous
treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough remember: he would take
nothing of me for my passage, and what I was willing to sell, he bought of me:
in a word. I made about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my
cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore in the Brazils .

I had not been long here, but being recommended to the house of a good,
honest planter, I lived with him some time, and acquainted myself, by that
means, with the manner of their planting and making of sugar; and seeing how
well the planters lived, and how they got rich suddenly, I resolved, I would turn
planter among them; resolving, in the meantime,_to find out some way to get
my money, which I had left in London, remitted to me. To this purpose, I
purchased as much land as my money would reach, and formed a plan for my
plantation and settlement. - '

I had a neighbor, a Portuguese of Lisbon. but born of English parents, whosePS0 ' ROBINSON causes:

name was Wells, and in much such circumstances as I was. My stock was
but low, as well as his; and we rather planted for food than anything else, for
about two years. However, we began to increase, so that the third year we
planted tobacco, and made each of us a large piece of ground ready for planting
canes in the year to come.

I was in some measure settled before the captain departed from the Brazils.
One day I went to him and told him what stock I had in London, desiring his
- help m getting it remitted; to which he readily consented, but would only have
me send for half of my money lest it should miscarry.

His kindness to me was great, for he not only procured the money I had
drawn for, but sent me over a servant, with a cargo of salable goods, together
with tools, iron work, and utensils necessary for my plantation. I found means
to sell the goods at a very great advantage, so that I was now infinitely beyond
my poor neighbor, and the first thing I did, I bought me a negro slave, and a.
European servant also: I mean another besides that the captain sent me.

I went on with great success in my plantation, and had I continued in the
station I was now in, I had room for all the happy things to have yet befallen
me, for which my father so earnestly recommended a quiet, retired life. But
I must go and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and thriving man in
my new plantation, only to pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising faster

than the nature of the thing admitted; and thus I cast myself down again into . '

the deepest gulf of human misery that ever man fell into.

Having lived almost four years in the Brazils, and beginning to thrive and
prosper very well upon my plantation, I had contracted acquaintance and
friendship among my fellow-planters. and, in my discourse among them, I
had frequently given them an account of my two voyages to the coast of Guinea,
the manner of trading with the negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase
upon the coast for trifles--such as beads, toys, knives, scissors, hatchets, bits
of glass, and the like--not only gold-dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, etc.,
but negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great numbers.
 

.', _ x. 3%

031730}: AND THE PM

It happened, being in company one day with some merchants and planters
of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly, three of them
came to me the next morning, and told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship
to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened
for nothing so much as servants; that they could not publicly sell the negroes
when they came home, so they desired to make but one voyage, to bring the
negroes on shore privately, and divide them among their own plantations; and
the question was, whether I would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage
the trading part; and they offered me that I should have my equal share of the22 msmson censor:

negroes, without providing any part of the stock. I could not resist the offer.
and told them I would go if they would look after my plantation in my ab-
sence, and would dispose of it as I should direct, if I miscarried. This they
all engaged to do. i

The ship being fitted out, I went on board in an evil hour again, the 1st of
September. 1659, being the same day eight years that I went from my father
and mother at Hull. The same day I went on board, we set sail, standing away
to the northward upon our own coasts, with design to stretch over for the
African coast. We had very good weather, all the way upon our own coast till
we came to the height of Cape St. Augustino; from whence, keeping farther 03
at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were bound for the isle Fer-
nando de Noronha. In this course we passed the line in about twelve days'
time, and were, by our last observation, in seven degrees twenty-two minutes
northern latitude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane, took us Quite out of
our knowledge. For twelve days together we could do nothing but drive, and
during these twelve days, I need not say that I expected every day to be swallow-
ed up; nor did any in the ship expect to save their lives.

About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master made an ob-
servation as well as he could, and found that he was in about eleven degress of
north latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees of longtitude difference west
from Cape St. Augustino; so that he found he was gotten upon the coast of
Guiana, and now he began to consult with me what course he should take, for
the ship was leaky, and very much disabled, and he was for going directly back
to the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that; and looking over the charts of the sea-coast of
America with, him, we resolved to stand away for Barbadoes; which we might
easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail; whereas we could not
possibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa without some assistance both
to our ship and to ourselves.

With this design we exchanged our course, in order to reach some of ournoamson causal . 28

English islands, where I hoped for relief; but our voyage was otherwise deter-
mined; for a second storm came upon us, which carried us away with the same
impetuosity westward, and drove us out of the way of all human commerce.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men early one
morning cried out, "Land!" and we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look
out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were, than the ship struck
upon a sand, and in a moment, the sea broke OVer her in such a manner that we
expected we should all have perished immediately.

We knew nothing where we were, and we could not so much as hope to have
the ship hold many minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the winds, by a
kind of miracle, should turn immediately about. '

In this dish-ass, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the ship's boat, and with ..

the help of the rest of the men, they got her flung over the side:and getting all
into her, let go, and committed ourselves, being eleven in number, to God's
mercy and the wild seas. .

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a. league and a half, a raging
wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern of us, and took us with such a fury
that it overset the boat at once. Though I swam very well, yet I could not deliver
myself from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or '
rather carried me, a vast way on towards the shore, and having spent itself,
. went back, and left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead with water I
tookin. Seeing myself nearer the mainland than I expected, I got upon my
feet, and endeavored to make on towards the land as fast as I could, before
another wave should return and take me up again; but I soon found it was im-
possible to avoid it; for I saw the sea come after me as high as a great hill.

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty or thirty feet
deep in its own body, and I could feel myself carried with a. mighty force and
swiftness towards the shore a very great way. I was covered with water a good
while, but not so long but I held it out, and felt ground again with my feet. I
stood still a few moments to recover breath, and then took to my heels. and ran
with what strength I had, farther towards the shore. But neither would this
deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me again; and
twice more I was lifted up by the waves and carried forwards as before. the
shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well-nigh been fatal to me; for the sea dashed
me against a piece of a rock, but I recovered a little, and resolved to hold fast by
the rock, till the wave went back. Now, as the waves were not so high as at
first, being nearer land, I held my hold till the waves abated, and then fetched
another run, which brought me so near the shore that the next run I took I got
to the mainland; where I clambered up the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down '
upon the grass, quite out of reach of the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up and thank God
that my life was saved, in a case wherein there was some minutes before scarce
any room to hope. ' I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and my
whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in a contemplation of my deliverance;
reflecting upon all my comrades that were drowned, and that there should not
be one soul saved but myself; for, as for them, I never saw them afterwards,
or any sign of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were
not fellows,

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable part of my condition, I
began to look round me, to'see what kind of place I was in, and what was next
to be done; and I soon found my comforts abate, for I was wet, had no clothes
to shift me, nor anything either to eat or drink, to comfort me; neither did I see
any prospect before me but that of perishing with hunger, or being devoured
by wild beasts. In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-
pipe, and a little tobacco in a box. Night coming upon me, I began, with a
heavy-heart, to consider what would be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts
in that country. All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that time, was
to get up into a thick, bushy tree, which grew near me, and where I resolved to
sit all night, and consider the next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw
no prospect of life. Being excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as
. comfortably as, I believe, few could "have done in my condition. .

When I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and the storm abated,
but that which surprised me most was, that the'ship was lifted off in the night
from the sand where she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up
almost as far as the rock which I at first mentioned, where I had been so bruised
by the wave dashing me against it.

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked about me again,
and the first thing I found was the boat, which lay about two miles off on
my right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to have got to her;
but found a. neck, or inlet, of water between me and the boat; so I came
back for the present, being more intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped
to find something for my present subsistence.

A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed' so far out,
that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship. I pulled off my clothes,
for the weather was hot to extremity, and took the water. When I came to
the ship, I espied a small piece of rope, hanging down, and by the help of that
rope got up into the forecastle of the ship. I found that all the ship's provisions
were dry, and being very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-room, and
filled my pockets with biscuit, and ate it as I went about other things.

Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself with many things I fore-
saw would be very necessary to me. .

We had several spare yards, and a spare topmast or two in the ship; and I
flung as many of them overboard as I could manage, tying every one with a
rope, that they might not drive away. When this was done I went down the
ship' s side, and tied four of them together at both ends, as in the form of a raft,
and laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them, crossways, I found I
could walk upon it very wellflout that it was not able to bear any great weight.
So I went to work, and with the carpenter's saw, I cut a spare top-mast into three
lengths, and added them to my raft, with a greal deal of labor and pains.

I26 , sonmsox causon

My next care was what to load it with, but I was not long considering this.
I first laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get, and three of the
seamen's chests, which I had broken open and emptied. The first of these I
filled with bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh,
and a little remainder of European com. I found several cases of bottles
' belonging to our skipper, in which were some cordial waters; and, in all, about
five or six gallons of arrack. These I stowed by themselves. While I was
doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though very calm; and I had the
mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore
upon the sand, swim away. As for my breeches, which were only linen, and
open--kneed, I swam (in board in them and my stockings. However, this put
me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found enough, but took no more
than I wanted for present use, for I had other things which my eye was more
upon; as, first, tools to work with on shore, and it was after long searching that
I found out the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were two very
good fo'wling pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols. Those I secured first,
with some powder-horns, a small bag of shot, and two old, rusty swords. I
knew there were three barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where our
gunner had stowed them; but with much search I found them.

Having found two or three broken oars, belonging to the boat, and besides
the tools which were in the chest, two saws, an axe, and a hammer, with this
cargo I put to sea. For a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that
I found it drive a little distant from the place where I had landed before.

Then there appeared before me a little opening of the land. 'I found a. strong
current of the tide set into it; so I guided my raft as well as I could, tokeepin
the middle of the stream. .

But here I had like to have suffered a second shipwreck, for, knowing nothing
of the coast, my raft ran aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not being
aground at the other end, it wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped
 

ofi towards the end that was afloat, but holding up the cheats with all my might,
I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time the rising of the water
brought me a little more upon a level; and a little after, the water still rising,
my raft floated again, and I thrust her 03, and then driving up higher, I at
length found myself in the mouth of'a little river. I looked on both sides for a
proper place to get to shore, and at length I spied a little cove on the right shore
of the creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty, I guidedvmy raft, near a
flat piece of ground, which I expected the water would flow over; and so it did.
As soon as I found water enough, I thrust her upon that flat piece of ground,
and there fastened or moored her, by sticking my two oars into the ground--
one on one side, near one end, and one on the other side, near the other end-
and thus I lay till the water ebbed away, and left my raft and all my cargo safe
on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek a proper place for my habita-
tion. There was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose up very steep and
high. I took out one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols, and a horn
of powder; and thus armed, I travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill,
where I saw that I was in an island environed every way with the sea; no land
to be seen except some rocks, which lay a great way ofi, and two small islands,
less than this, which lay abOut three leagues to the west.

I found also that the island I was in was barren, and uninhabited, except by
wild beasts. Yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their kinds; neither,
when I killed them, could I tell what was fit for food, and what not. At my
coming back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon a tree, on the side
of a great wood. I had no sooner fired but from all parts of the wood there
arose an innumerable number of fowls of many sorts, making a confused
screaming and crying, every one'according to his usual note', but not one of them
of any kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of
hawk. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing. I came back to my raft,
and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up the rest of the
day. What to do with myself at night I knew not. However, as well as I
could, I barricaded myself round with the chests and boards that I had brought
on shore, and made a kind of hut for that night's lodging.
I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many things out of the
ship which would be useful to me, and I resolved to make another voyage on
board the vessel, if possible.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a second raft; and brought
away several things very useful to me; as, first, in the carpenter's stores I found

- two or three bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack, a dozen or two of
hatchets, and, above all, that most useful thing called a. grindstone. Besides
these things, I took all the men's clothes that I could find, and a spare fore-top-
sail, a hammock, and some bedding; and with this I loaded my second raft,
and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great comfort.

I was under some apprehension during my absence from the land, that at
least my provisions might be devoured on shore; but when I came back I found
no sign of any visitor; only there sat a creature like a wild cat upon one of the
chests, which, when I came towards it, ran away a little distance, and stood
still. I presented my gun to her, but, as she did not understand it, she was
perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away; upon which I tessed
her a bit of biscuit, and she went to it, smelled at it, and ate it, and looked (as
pleased) for more; but I thanked her, and could spare no more; so she marched
off. r _

Having got my second cargo on shore, I went to work to make me a little
tent, with the sail, and some poles which I cut for that purpose; and into this
tent I brought everything that I knew would spoil either with rain or sun; and
I piled all the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify
it from any sudden attempt, either from man or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with some boards
within, and an empty chest set up on end without; and spreading one of the
beds upon the ground, I went to bed for the first time, and slept very quietly

.all night. I was very weary and heavy; for the night before I had slept little.
and had labored very hard all day.

While the ship sat upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get everything
out of her that I could; so every day, I went on board, and brought away some-
thing or other. After I had made five or six such voyages as those, and thought
I had nothing more to expect from the ship that was worth my meddling with
--I say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread, three large runlets of
rum, or spirits, a box of fine sugar, and a barrel of fine flour. I got all this "
safe on shore also, though at several times. I

The next day I made another voyage, and got two cables and a hawser on
shore,>>with all the iron-work I could get: and having cut down the spritsail
yard, and the mizzen yard, and everything I could to make a large raft, I loaded
it with all those heavy goods and came away. But my good luck began to leave
me, for this raft was so unwieldy, and so overladen, that after I was entered
the little cove, where I had landed the rest of my goods, it overset, and threw'
_ me and all my cargo into the water. However, when the tide was out, I got
most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite ,
labor. After this, I went every day on board, and brought away what I could
get. -
Preparing the twelfth time to go on ooaro, I found the wind began to rise.
However, at low water I went on board, and though I thought I had rummaged'
the cabin so effectually that nothing more could be found, yet I discovered a
locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or three razors, and one
pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozeh of good knives and forks; in
another I found about thirty-six pounds value in money. I smiled to myself
at the sight of this money. "0h, drug!" said I aloud, "what art thou good
for? Thou art not worth to inc-no, not the taking off the ground; one of
those knives is worth all this heap. However, upon second thoughts, I took it
away; and wrapping all in apiece of canvas, I began to think of making another
raft; but while I was preparing this. I found the sky overcast, and the wind
began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore.
It presently occurred to me that it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with
the wind off shore. Accordingly, I let myself down into the water, and swam
across the channel which lay between the ship and the sands, and even that with
.'difficulty enough, partly with the weight of the things I had about me. and
partly from the roughness of the water.

But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay with all my wealth about
me very secure. It blew very hard all that night, and' in the morning, when I
looked out, behold, no more ship was to be seen.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself against either
savages, or wild beasts, if any were in the island; and I had many thoughts of
the method how to do this, and whether I should make me a cave in the earth,
or a tent upon the earth; and, in short, I resolved upon both.

I found a little plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front'towards this little
plain was steep as a house-side, so that nothing could come down upon me from
the top. On the side of the rock there was a hollow space, worn a little way in,
like the entrance or door of a cave; but there was not really any cave, or way
into the rock, at all.

On the flat of the green, just below this hollow place, I resolved to pitch my
tent. Before I set up my tent, 'I drew a half-circle before the hollow place,
which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty
yards in its diameter from its beginning and ending.

In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving them into the
ground till they stood very firm like piles. Then I'took the pieces of cable
which I cut in the ship, and laid them in rows between these two rows of stakes,
up to the top, placing other stakes in the inside, leaning against them, about two
feet and a half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence was so strong that
neither man nor beast could get into it or over it.

The entrance into this place I made to be, not by a door, but by a short ladder
to go over the top; which ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me; and so
I was completely fenced in and fortified, as I thought, from all the world.

. Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labor, I carried all my riches, all my
provisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have the account above;{WBWAmmmwmAm

,
and I made me' a large tent also, to preserve me from the rains, that in one part
of the year are very violent there.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and everything that would spoil
by the wet; and having thus inclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance, and
as passed and re-passed, as I said, by a short ladder. -

When I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, and bringing all
the earth and stones that I dug down out through my tent, I laid them up within
my fence, in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the ground within about a
foot and a half; and thus I made me a cave, just behind my tent, which served
me like a cellar to my house.

While this was doing, I went out at least once every day with my gun, to see
if I could kill anything fit for food; and I presently discovered that there were
goats in the island. The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed a
she-goat, which had a little kid by her. When the old one fell, the kid stood
stock-still by her, till I came and took her up; and not only so, but when I
carried the old one with me upon my shoulders, the'kid followed me quite to
my inclosure; upon which I laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms,
and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred it up tame; but it would not
eat; so I was forced~ to kill it and eat it myself. These two supplied me with
flesh a great while.

It came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of
books, and pen, and ink, and should even forget the Sabbath-day from the
working-days; but to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a large post,
in capital letters; and making it into a great cross,'I set it up on the shore where

. I first landed, viz., "I'came on shore here on the 30th of September, 1659."

Upon the sides of this square post I cut every-day a notch with my knife, and
every seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and every first day of the
month as long again as that long one; and thus I kept my calendar.

In the next place, we are to observe that among the many things which I
brought from the ship in the several voyages which, as above mentioned, 1
made to it, I got several things of less value, but not at all less useful to me,
which I omitted setting down before; as, in particular, pens, ink, and paper;
several parcels in the captain's, mate's gunner's, and carpenter's keeping;
three or four compasses, some mathematical instruments, charts, and books of
navigation, three Bibles, and several other books; all which I carefully secured. _ -
And I must not forget that we had in the ship a dog and two cats, of whose
history I must have occasion to say something in its place, for I carried both
the cats with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, and
swam on shore to me the day after I went on shore with my first cargo, and was
a trusty servant to me many years. I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor
any company that he could make up to me.

The want of tools made every work I did go on heavily; and it was near a
whole year before I had entirely finished my little pale, or surrounded habita-
tion. But what need I have been concerned at the tediousness of anything I
had to do, seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor had I any other employ-
ment, except the ranging the island to seek for food. I have already described
this habitation, which was a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded ,with a
strong pale of posts and cables; but I might now rather call it by a wall, for I
raised a kind of wall up against it of turfs, about two feet thick, on the outside:
and after some time (I think it was a year and a half) I raised rafters from it, '
leaning to the rock, and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees, and such
things as I could get to keep out the rain, which I found at some times of the
year very violent. ~

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale, and into
the cave which I had made behind me. But I must observe, too, that at first
this was a confused heap of goods, which, as they lay in no order, so they took
up all my place; I had no room to turn myself: so I set myself to enlarge my
cave, and worked farther into the earth; for it was a loose,'sandy rock, which
yielded easily to the labor I bestowed on it: and so when I found I was pretty
safe as to beasts of prey, I worked sideways, to the right hand, into the rock.36 30131115011 causoz

and then turning to the right again, worked quite out; and made me a door to
come out on the outside of my paie or fortification.

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as I found
I most wanted, particularly a chair and a table. I had never handled a tool
in my life; and yet, in time, by labor, application, and contrivance, I found,
at last, that I wanted nothing but I could have made it, especially if I had had
tools. However, I made abundance of things even without tools; and some
with no more tools than an adze and hatchet, which, perhaps, were never made
that way before, and that with infinite labor. For_example, if I wanted a board,
I had no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hew
it flat on either side with my axe, till I had brought it to be asthin as a plank
and then dub' 1t smooth with my adze. '

I made me a table and a chair, as I observed above,.in the first place; and this
I did out of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft from theship.
But when I had wrought out some boards as above, I made large shelves, of
the breadth of a foot and an half, .one over another, all along one side'of my
cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron-Work 0n; and, .in a word, to separate
everything at large into their places, that I might come easily at them: also I
knocked pieces into the wall of the rock, to hang my guns and all things that
would hang up: so that had my cave been to be seen, it looked like a general
magazine of all necessary things; and I had everything so ready at my hand,
that it was a great pleasure to me to seed] my goods in such order, and especial!
ly to find my stock of all necessaries so great.

And now it was when I began to keep a journal of every day's employment;
for, indeed, at first, I was in too much hurry, and not only a hurry as to labor,
but in too much discomposure of mind; and my journal would have been full
of many dull things: for example, I must have said thus: "Sept. the 30th."
_ After I had got to shore, and had escaped drowning, instead of being thankful
to God for my-deliverance, having first vomited, with the great quantity of salt
water which was gotten into my stomach, and recovering myself a little, I ran' nonmsoN 03115013 87

 

030303 WRITING 818 JQURNAL

about the shore wringing my hands and beating my head and face, exclaiming
at my misery, and crying out I was undone, undone! till, tired and faint, I was
forced to lie down on the ground to repose, but durst not sleep, for fear of being
devoured."

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship, and had got all
I could out of her, yet I could "not forbear getting up to the top of a. little moun-
tain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing a. ship: then fancy at a vast
distance I spied a sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and then, after looking
steadily, till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and sit down and weep like a child,
and thus increase my misery by my folly.
But having gotten over these things in some measure, and having settled my
household stufi and habitation, made me a, table and a chair, and all as hand-
some about me as I could, I began I say to keep my journal, as long as it lasted;
for at last, having no more ink, I was forced to leave it off. , .

During this time I made rounds' in the woods for game every day, when the
rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveries in these walks, of something
or other to my advantage;.particularly I found a kind of wild pigeons, which
build, not as wood-pigeons in a tree, 'but rather as house-pigeons, in the holes
of the rocks; and taking some young ones, I endeavored to breed them up tame,
and did so; but when they grew older they flew all away, which perhaps was at
first for wantof feeding them,for I had nothing to give them. However, I fre-_
quently found their nests and got their young ones, which were,very good meat.

It happened that, rummaging my things, I found a little bag which had
been filled with corn for the feeding of poultry, I saw nothing in the bag
but husks and dust; and being willing to have the bag for some other use, I
shook the husks of corn out of it on one side of my fortification, under the rock.

I threw this stufi away, taking no notice of anything, and not so much as
remembering that I had thrown anything there, when, about a month after,

_' or thereabouts, I saw some few stalks of something green shooting upon the
ground, which I fancied might be some plant I had not seen; but I was sur-
1's, prised and perfectly astonished when, after a little longer time, I saw about ten
or twelve ears come out which were perfectly green barley, of the same kind as
our European--nay, as our English barley.

It' is impossible to express the astonishment and confusion of my thoughts
on this occasion, and I began to suggest that God had miraculously caused this
grain to grow without any help of seed sown, and that it was so directed purely
for my sustenance in that wild, miserable place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears out of my eyes, and I began
to bless myself that such a prodigy of Nature should happen upon my account;
and this was the more strange to me because I saw near it still, all along by the
 

came DISOOVm 'l'fll mm:

side of the rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved to be stalks of rice,
and which I knew, because I had seen it grow in Africa when I was ashore there.
Not doubting but that there was more in the place, I went all over that part of
the island, peering in every corner and under every rock, to see for more of it,
but I could not find any. At last it occurred to my thoughts that I had shaken
the bag of chickens' meat out in that place; and the wonder began to cease.

I carefully sawed the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in their season, which
was about the end of June; and laying up every com, I resolved to sow them
all again, hoping in time to have some quantity, suficient to supply me with
bread. But it was not till the fourth year that I would allow myself the least
grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly.

Besides this barley, there were, as' above, twenty or thirty stalks of rice,
which I preserved with the same care, and whose use was of the same kind, '
or to the same purpose, viz., to make me bread, or rather food; for I found ways
to cook it up without baking, though I did that also after some time.

Not long after the wall of my castle was finished, I had almost had all my
labor overthrown at once, and myself killed. The case was thus :--As I was
busy just in the entrance into my cave, I was terribly frightened with a most
dreadful surprising thing indeed: for, all on a sudden, I found the earth came
tumbling down from the roof of my cave, and two of the posts I had set up in
the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I ran forwards to my ladder, and not
thinking myself safe there either, I got over my wall. I was no sooner stepped
down upon the firm ground, than I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake;
for the ground I stood on shook three times at about eight minutes' distance,
with three such shocks as would have overturned the strongest building that
could be supposed to have stood upon the earth. I was like one dead or stupi-
fied; and the motion of the earth made my stomach sick like one that was tossed
at sea.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more for some time, I began to
take courage; and yet I had not heart enough to get over my wall again, but
still sat upon the ground, greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what
to do. While I sat thus, it grew cloudy, as if it would rain; soon after that,
the wind arose so that in less than half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurri-
cane of wind. This held about three hours, and then began to abate; and then
in two hours more it was calm, and began to rain very hard. All this while I
sat upon the ground very much terrified and dejected; when on a sudden it
came into my thought that these winds and rain being the consequences of the
earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over, and I might venture
into my cave again. I went in and sat down in my tent; but the rain was so
violent that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it; and I was forced to
go into my cave, though very much afraid it should fall on my head. It con-
tinued raining all that night, and great part of the next day, so.that I could not
stir abroad; but my mind being more composed, I began to think of what I had
best to do; concluding that I must consider of building me some little but in an
open place which I might surround with a wall. In the meantime it occurred
' to me that it would require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that I must
be contented to run the venture where I was, till I had formed a camp for myself,
and had secured it so as to remove it.

The next morning I began to consider of means to put this resolve-in execu-
tion; but I was at a great loss about my tools. I had three large axes, and
abundance of hatchets, but with much chopping and cutting knotty, hard wood,
they were all full of netches, and dull; and though I had a grindstone, I could
not turn it and grind my tools too. At length I contrived a wheel with a string
to turn it with my foot, that I might have both my hands at liberty.

On the morning of the first of May, I found a barrel of gunpowder and some
pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by the late hurri-
cane; and looking towards the wreck, I thought it seemed to lie higher out of
the water than it used to. I went out on the sands as near as I could to the
wreck, and found that the forecastle had parted from the stern, and that where- .
as before I could not come within a quarter of a mile of the wreck without
swimming, I could now walk quite up to her when the tide was out. As the
ship was more broken open than formerly, many things came daily on shore.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of moving my habitation,
and I busied myself in searching whether I could make any way into the ship;
but I found nothing was to be expected of that kind, for all the inside of it was
choked up with sand. However, as I had learned not to despair of anything,
I resolved to pull everything to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding that
everything I could get from her would he of some use or other to me.

I continued this work every day to the 15th of June, except the time necessary
to get food; and by this time I had gotten timber, and plank, and iron-work
enough to have built a good boat, if I had known how; and I also got, at several
times, and in several pieces, near one hundredweight of sheet lead.
One day during this time I went a-fishing, but caught not one fish that I
durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport; when, just going to leave ofi, I caught
a young dolphin. I had made me a long line of some rope-yam, but had no
hooks; yet frequently I caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all which
I dried in the sun, and ate them dry.

Going down to the sea--side on the 16th of June, I found a large tortoise or
turtle. This was the first I had seen. I'found in her three score eggs; and
her flesh was to me, at that time, the most savory and pleasant that ever I tasted

in my life.
The rain fell for some days, and I felt ill and shivering, as if the weather had

been cold. I had no rest all night; had violent pains in my head, and feverish.
The next day-I was very ill; frighted almost to death with the apprehensions
of my sad condition--to be sick and no help: prayed to God, for the first time
since the storm 03 Hull, but scarce knew what I said or why; my thoughts being
all confused.

The next day I was a little better,_but on the next day after that I was very
had again, and so it went, turn about, for several days. One day that I felt
somewhat better, having no victuals to eat, I took my gun, but found myself
very weak; however, I killed a she-goat, and with much difficulty, got it home,
and boiled some of it, and ate it. '

On June 27th, I had the ague again so'violent 'that _I lay abed all day and
neither ate nor drank. I was ready to perish for thirst; but so weak I had no
strength to stand up, or to get myself any water to drink. Prayed to God again,
but was light-headed; and when I was not, I was so ignorant that I knew not
what to say; only I lay and cried, "Lord, look upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord,
have mercy upon me!" I suppose I did nothing else for two, or three hours:
till the fit wearing ofi, I fell asleep, and did not awake/till far in the night.
When I awoke, I found myself much refreshed, but weak, and exceeding thirsty;
however, as I had no water in my whole habitation, I was forced to lie till morn-
ing, and went to sleep again. In this second sleep, I had this terrible dream:nbnmsox cannon: ' - 43

I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the outside of my wall, where I
sat when the storm blew after the earthquake, and that I saw a. man descend
' from a great black cloud, in a. bright flame of fire, and light upon the ground.
He was all over as bright as a flame, so that I could but just hear to look towards
him: his countenance was most inexprasibly dreadful, impossible for words to

 

cnvson nuns A rum-Ln '
describe; when he stepped upon the ground with his feet, I thought the earth
trembled, just as it had done before in the earthquake, and all the air looked,
to my apprehension, as if it had been filled with flashes of fire. He was no
sooner landed upon the earth but he moved forward towards me, with a long
spear or weapon in his hand to kill me; and when he came to a rising ground,
at some distance, he spoke to me--or I heard a voice so terrible that it is im-
possible to express the terror of it. All that I can say I understood was this:--
"Seeing all these things have not brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt
die;" at which words, I thought he lifted up the spear that was in his hand to
kill me. ' -

No one that shall ever read this account will expect that I should be able to
describe the horrors of my soul at this terrible vision. Nor is it any more
possible to describe the impression thatremained upon my mind when I awaked,
and found it was but a dream.

I had, alas! no divine knowledge. What I had received by the good instruc-
tion of my father was then worn out by an uninterrupted series, for eight years,
of searfaring wickedness, and a constant conversation with none but such as
were, like myself, wicked and profane to the last degree. I do not remember
that I had, in all that time, one thought that so much as tended either to looh
ing upwards towards God, or inwards towards a. reflection upon my own wa'. ';
but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire of good, or conscience of em],
had entirely overwhelmed me. I "

" Now," said I aloud, " my dear father's words are come to pass; God's justice
has overtaken me, and I have none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice
of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a posture or station of life where-
in I might have been happy and easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor
learn to know the blessing of it from my parents. _ I left them to mourn over
my folly; and now I am left to mourn under the consequences of it. I refused
their help and assistance, who would have lifted me into the world, and would
have made everything easy to me; and now I have difficulties to struggle with
too great for even nature itself to support, and no assistance, no help, no com-
fort, no advice." Then I cried out, "Lord, be my help, for I am in great dis--
tress." This was the first prayer, if I might call it so, that I had made for
many years.

Having been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had had, and the fit being
entirely olf, I got up; and though the fright and terror of my dream was very
great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague would return again the next day..nonne'son came: 45
' and now was my tune to get something to refresh and support myself when I
should be ill: and the first thing I did, I filled a large square casebottle with
water, and set it upon my table, in reach of my bed; and to take off the chill or
aguish disposition of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it,
and mixed them together. Then I got me a piece of the goat's flesh and
broiled it on the coals, but could eat very little, I walked about, but was very
weak, and withal very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable con-
dition, dreading the return of my distemper the next day.

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so weak that I could
hardly carry the gun, for I never went out without that; so I went out but a
little way, and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon the sea, which was
just before me, and very calm and smooth. As I sat there, some thoughts such
as these occurred to me:--" What is the earth and sea, of which I have seen so
much? Whenee is it produced? And' what am I, and all the other creatures,
wild and tame, human and brutal P Whence are we? Sure we are'all made
by some secret Power, who formed the earth and sea, and air and sky. And
who is that?". Then it followed most naturally--" It is God that has made it
all. Well, but then," it came on strongly, "if God has made all these things,
He guides and governs them all, and all things that concern them; for the Being
that could make all things must certainly have power to guide and direct them.
If so, nothing can happen, in the great circuit of his works, either without His
knowledge or appointment.

" And if nothing happens without His knowledge, He knows that I am here,
and am in this dreadful condition; and if nothing happens without His appoint,
ment, He has appointed all this to befall me." Immediately it followed--
"Why has God done this to me? What have I-done to be thus used?" My
conscience presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed, and
methought it spoke to me like a voice, "Wretch, dost thou ask what thou hast
done? Look back upon a dreadful mispent life, and ask thyself, what thou
hast not done? Ask. why is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed? Why
Wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads? killed in the fight, when the ship
was taken by the Sallee man--of-war? devoured by the wild beasts off the coast
of Africa? or drowned here, when all the crew perished but thyself? Dost
thou ask, 'What have I done ?"' I was struck dumb with these reflections, as
one astonished, and had not a word to say, but rose up pensive and sad, walked
back to my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if I had been going to bed;
but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep;
so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now,
as the apprehensions of the return of my distemper terrified me very much, it
occurred to my thought that the Brazilians take no physio but their tobacco for
almost all distempers, and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the chests.

I went, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this chest I found a cure both
for soul and body. I opened the chest, and found what I looked for, viz., the
tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there too, I took out one of the
Bibles which I mentioned before, and which to this time I had not found leisure,
or so much as inclination, to look into. Having opened the book casually, the
first words that occurred to me were these, " Call, upon Me'in the day of trouble,
and I will deliver thee, and. thou shalt glorify Me." These words were very
apt to my case, and made some impression upon my thought at the time of
reading them, though not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for being
delivered, the thing was so remote that I began to say, as the children of Israel
did when they were promised flash to eat, " Can God spread a table in the
wilderness ?" so I began to say, " Can God Himself deliver me from this place ?"
However, the words made a great impression upon me, and I mused upon them
very often.

It grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I said, dazed my head so much that
I inclined to sleep: so I went to bed. But before I lay down, I kneeled and
prayed to God tofulfill the promise to me, that if I called upon Him in the day
of trouble, He would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect prayer was
over, I drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco; immediately uponm m. READING m 11le
this I went to bed; and I found presently it flew up into my head violently; but I
fell into a sound sleep, and waked no more till, by the sun, it must necessarily
be near three o'clock in the afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour I am partly
of opinion that I slept all the next day and night, and till almost three the day
after; for otherwise I know not how I should lose a day, out of my reckoning
in the days of the week, as it appeared some years after I had done. When I
awaked I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheer-
ful; when I got up I was stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach
better, for I was hungry; and, in short, I had no fit the next day, but continued
much altered for the better.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months; all possibility of
deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely taken from me; and I
firmly believed that no human shape had ever set foot upon that place. Hav-
ing now secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a great
desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island, and to see what other
productions I might find, which yet I knew nothing of.

It was the 15th of July that I began a more particular survey of the island
itself. I went up the creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on
shore. I found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide did not flow any
higher; and that it was no more than a little brook of running water, and very
fresh and good. 0n the banks of this brook, I found many pleasant savannahs
or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with grass; and on the rising parts of
them, next to the higher grounds, where the water, as it might be supposed,
never overflowed, I.found a great deal of tobacco, green, and growing to a great
and very strong stalk; there were divers other plants, which I had no notion
of or understanding about, and might, perhaps, have virtues of their own,
which I could not find out. I searched for the cassava root, which the Indians
in all that climate made their bread of, but I could find none. I saw large
plants of aim, but did not then understand them. I saw several sugar--canes,
but wild and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with these
discoveries for this time, and came back.
The next day, I went up the same way again; and after going something
further than I had gone the day before, I found the country became more woody
than before. In this part I found different fruits, and particularly I found
melons upon the ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees: the
vines had spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters of grapes were just now
in their prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising discovery, and I found
an excellent use for these grapes: and that was, to cure or dry them in the sun,
and keep them as dried grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought would be,
as indeed they were, as wholesome and as agreeable to eat, when no grapes
might be had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back to my habitation, but took
my first contrivance, and got up into a tree, where I slept well; and the next
morning proceeded upon my discovery, travelling nearly four miles, as I might
judge by the length of the valley, keeping still due north. At the end of this
march I came to an opening, where the country seemed to descend to the west;
. and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the hill by me,
ran the other way, that is, due east; and the country appeared so fresh, so green,
so flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure, or flourish of spring,
that it looked like a planted garden. I descended a little on'the side of that
delicious valley, and I saw here abundance of cocoa-trees, orange and lemon,
and cih'on-trees; but all wild, and few bearing any fruit, at least, not then.
However, the green limes that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but very
wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which made it very
wholesome, and very cool and refreshing. I found now I had business enough
to gather and carry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes as
limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season, which I knew was ap-
proaching

I contemplated with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that valley, and the
pleasantness of the situation; the security from storm on that side of the water,
and the wood; and concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode

\50 p, . . nonmsorr causes

which was by far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I began to
consider of removing my habitation, and to look out for a place equally safe as
where now I was situate, if possible, in that pleasant, fruitful part of the island.

This thought ran along in my head, but when I came to a nearer view of it,
I considered that I was now by the seaside, where it was at least possible that
some thing might happen to my advantage; and that the same ill fate that
brought me hither, might bring some other unhappy wretches to the same
place; and to inclose myself among the hills and woods in the center of the
island was to anticipate my bondage, and to render such an affair not only
improbable but impossible; and that therefore I ought not by any means to
remove. However, I was so enamored with this place that I spent much of
my time there for the whole remaining part of the month of July; and though,
upon second thoughts, I resolved as above not to remove, yet I built me a
little kind of a bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong fence; and
here I lay very secure, sometimes two or three nights together.

I had but newly finished my fence, and began to enjoy my labor, but the
rains came on, and made me stick close to my first habitation; for though I
had made me a tent like the other, with a piece of a sail, and spread it very well,
yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me
to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.

On September 80th I cast up the notches on my post, and found I had been
on shore three hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast,
setting it apart for religious exercise, confessing my sins to God, and praying '
to Him to have .mercy on me through Jesus Christ; and not having tasted the
least refreshment for twelve hours, even till the going down of the sun, I then
ate a biscuit-cake and a bunch of grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day
as I began it.

I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears of barley and rice which I
had so surprisingly found spring up, and now I thought it a proper time to sow
it, after the rains. Accordingly, I. dug up a piece of ground as well as I could,
and dividing it into two parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was sowing, it casually
occurred to my thoughts that I would not sow it all at first, because I did not
know when was the proper time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed.
It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did so, for not one grain of that
I sowed this time came to anything; for the dry months following, it had no
moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the wet season had
come again, and then it grew as if it had been newly sown. Finding my first
seed did not grow, which I easily imagined was by the drought, I sought for a
moister piece of ground, to make another trial in, and I dug up a piece of
ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in February, a little
before the vernal equinox; and this, having the rainy months of March and
April to water it, sprang up very pleasantly, and yielded a very good crop; but
having part of the sad left only, and not daring to sow all that I had got, I had
but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not amounting to above half a peck
of each kind. But by this experiment I was made master of my business, and
knew exactly when the proper season was to sow, and that I might expect two
seed-times and two harvests every year. While this corn was growing I made
a little discovery, which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were
over, I made a visit up the country to my bower. The fence or double hedge
that I had made was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which I had cut
off of some trees that grew thereabouts were all shot out and grown with long
branches. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to see the young trees
grow; and I pruned them, and led them up to grow as much alike as I could;
and it is scarcely credible how beautiful a figure they grew into, in three years;
so that it was complete shade, suficient to lodge under all the dry season. 'This
made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and .make me a hedge like this in a_
semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which I did; and
placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about eight yards distance from
my first fence, they grew presently, and were at first a fine cover to my habita-
tion, and afterwards served for a defense also, as I shall observe in its order.
 

CBVSOB me m

I found now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided, not into

' summer and winter, as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the dry seasons.
After I had found, by experience, the ill consequence of being abroad in the
rain, I took care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand, that I might not
be obliged to go out, and I sat within dobrs as much as possible during the wet
months. In this time I found much employment, and very suitable also to
the time. I found great occasion of many things which I had no way to furnish
myself with but by hard labor and constant application; particularly, I tried
many ways to make myself a basket, but all the twigs I could get for the pur-
pose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It proved of excellent ad-
vantage to me now that when I was a boy I used to take great delight in64 - nosmsou CBUBOI

standing at a basket-maker's, in the town where my father lived, to see them
make their wicker-ware; and, I had by this means so full knowledge of the
methods of it, that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it came into my
mind that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my stakes that grew might
possibly be as tough as the osiers in England, and I resolved to try. Accord-
ingly, the next day I went to my country house, and cutting some of the
smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could desire, where-
upon I came the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut down a quantity,
which I soon found. These I set up to dry, and when they were fit for use, I
carried them to my cave; and here, during the next season, I employed myself
in making, as well as I could, a great many baskets, and though I did not
finish them very handsomely, yet I made them suficiently serviceable for
my purpose. -

I mentioned before that I had a great mind to see the whole island, and that
I had travelled up the brook, and so on to where I built my bower. I now
resolved to travel quite across to the sea-shore on that side; so, taking my gun,
a hatchet, and my dog, I began my journey. When I had passed the vale where
my bower stood, I came within view of the sea to the west, and it being a very
clear day, I fairly descried land--whether an island or a continent I could not
tell;but it lay very high, at a very great distance; by my guess, it could not be
less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.

I saw abundance of parrots ,on that side of the island where I now was, and
fain would I have caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and taught
it to speak to me. I did, after some painstaking, catch a young parrot, for I
[mocked it down with a stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home; but
it was some years before I could make him speak; however, at last, I taught him
to call me by name very familiarly.

I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in the low ground
' hares and foxes; but they differed greatly from all the other kinds I had met with.
nor could I satisfy myself to eat them. But I had no need to be venturous, for
I had no want of food and of that which was very good, too, especially these
three sorts, viz., goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise, which, added' to my
grapes, Leadenhall Market could not have furnished a table better than I in
proportion to the company. As soon as I came to the sea-shore I was surprised
to see that I had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island, for here, indeed,
'the shore was covered with innumerable turtles, whereas, on the other side I
had found but three in a year and a half. Here was also an infinite number
of fowls of many kinds, some of which I had not seen before, and many of them
very good meat, but such asI knew not the names of, except thOse called pen-

Although I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine;
yet I had not the least inclination to remove, for as I was fixed in my habitation,
it became natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was here to be as it were
upon a journey, and from home. However, I travelled along the shore of the
sea towards the east, I suppose about twelve miles, and then setting up a great
pole upon the shore for a mark, I concluded I would go home again, and that the
next journey I took should be on the other side of the island east from my
dwelling, and so round till I came to my post again.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized upon it, and I run-
ning in to take hold of it, caught, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a great
mind to bring it home if I could, for I had often been musing whether it might
not be possible to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame goats, which
might supply me when my powder and shot should be spent. I made a collar
for this little creams, and with a string, which I made of some rope-yarn,wh_ich
I always carried about me, I led him along, though with some difficulty, till
I came to my bower, and there I inclosed him and left him, for I was very im-
patient to be at home, from whence I had been absent above a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my old hutch,
and lie down in my hammock-bed. I reposed myself here a week, to rest
and regale myself after my long journey; during which, most of the time was'
 

CRUBOE LEADING m YOUNG KID

taken up in the weighty affair of making a cage for my Poll. Then I began to
think of the poor kid which I had pent in within my little circle, and molved to
go and fetch it home, or give it some food; accoi'dingly I went and found it was
almost starved PS35 want of food. Having fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead
it away; but it was so tame with being hungry that I had no need to have tied
it, for it followed me like a dog; and as I continually fed it, the creature became
so loving, so gentle, and so fond, that it became from that time one of my
domestiw also, and would never leave me afterwards.
My third crop of barley and rice was promising very well, when on a sudden
I found I was in danger of losing it all' again by enemies of several sorts, which
it was scarcely possible to keep from it; as, first, the goats and hares, which,
tasting the sweetness of the blade, ate it so close that it could get no time to shoot
up into stalk. This I saw no remedy for but by making an inclosure about it _
with a. hedge, which I did with a great deal of toil; and shooting some of the
creatures in the day time, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to
a stake at the gate, where he would stand and bark all night long; so in a little
time the enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and well,
and began to ripen space.

But as the beasts ruined before, while my corn was in the blade, so the birds
were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in the ear; for going along by the
place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop surrounded with (owls, of I know
not how many sorts, who stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone. I
immediately let fly among them, for I always had my gun with me. I had no
sooner shot but there rose up'a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen atall,
from among the corn itself.

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I was no sooner out of
their sight but the thieves dropped down one by one into the corn again. I fired
again, and killed three of them. This was what I wished for; so I took them
up, and served them as we serve notorious thieves in England, viz., hanged
them in chains, fora terror to others. It is impossible to. imagine almost that
this should have had such an efiect as it had, for the fowls would not only not
come at the corn, but, in short, they forsook all that part of the island. This I
was very glad of, and about the latter end of December, I reaped my com.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut it down, and all I could do
was to make one out of one of the broad-swords which I saved among the arms
out of the ship. However, I reaped it in my way, for I cut nothing off but the
ears, and carried it away in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed it
out with my hands;and at the gndof all myharvesting, I found that out of my
half-peck of seed I had near two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and a
half of barley.

It is a little wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought much
upon, viz., the strange multitude of little things necessary in providing the one
article of bread. I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to
my daily discouragement.

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no spade or shovel to dig it. Well,
this I conquered by making me a wooden spade, but this did my work but in a
wooden manner. When the corn was sown, I had no harrow, but was forced
to drag a great heavy bough of a tree over it. When it was growing, or grown,
I wanted many things to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it, cure and carry it
home, thrash, part it from the chad, and save it. Then I wanted a mill to grind
it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into bread, and an oven to bake it
in; and all these things I did without, as shall be observed; and yet the corn
was an inestimable comfort and advantage to me too. I had now seed enough
to sow above an acre of ground. I sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of
ground, and fenced them in with a good hedge. This work was not so little as
to take me up less than three months, because'a great part of that time was of
the wet season, when I could not go abroad. Within-door--that is, when it
rained and I could not go out--I had a great employment upon my hands, as
follows--viz., I had long studied, by some means or other, to make myself
some earthern vessels, which, indeed, I wanted sorely. However, considering
the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could find out any clay, I might
hotch up some such pot as might, being dried by the sun, be strong enough to
bear handling, and to hold anything that was dry and required to he kept so. ,

The clay I found, but it would make the reader laugh at me to see what odd,
misshapen, ugly things I made; how many cracked by the heat of the sun, and
fell in pieces when they were removed, so that with about two months' labor I
could not make above two large earthen ugly things (I cannot call them jars).

Although I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet I made several3031mm: causes 69

 

rmmcmmrmormmx>>

small things with better success, such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins, the sun baking them very hard. Getting a hint by finding a
broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a
stone, I afterwards managed to bake several pots so hard that I could boil
meatand make brothinth-n. - '

All the while I was at work, I diverted myself with talking to my parrot,
and teaching him to speak; and I quickly learnt him to know his own name.
and at last to speak it out pretty loud, "Poll," which was the first word 1
ever IRetard spoken in the island by any mouth but my own.
My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to beat some corn in, a mill
to grind it being out of the question. But all the stones of the island being of a
sandy, crumbling nature, I resolved to look out a great block of 'hard wood,
which having found I formed it with my axe and hatchet, and then with the
help of fire made a hollow in it. After this I made a heavy pestle of iron-wood, '
and then laid them by in readiness for my next crop of corn.

The next thing to be made was a sieve, to sift my meal. Linen I had none
left but what was mere rags. I had. goat's hair, but I could not weave or spin
it. At last I remembered that I had some neck-cloths of calico or muslin of
the sailors, which I had saved from the ship, and with these I made three sieves.
small, but proper enough for the work.

The want of an oven I supplied by making some earthen vessels very broad,
but not deep. When I wanted'to bake, I made a great fire upon the hearth,
and when the wood was burned into live coals, I drew them forward upon the
hearth so as to cover it all over till it became very hot; then, sweeping them
away, I set down my loaves, and turning down an earthen pot upon them, drew
the coals all around the outside of the pot to keep in and add to the heat-and in
this way I baked my barley loaves as well as if I had been a'complete pastry-
cook. I

These things took me up the most part of a year, and what intervals I had
were given to managing my now harvest; for I reaped my corn in season, and
carried it home, and laid it up in the ear in my large baskets, till I had time to
rub it out. '

All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my thoughts ran many
time: upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the other side of the
island; and I was not without secret wishes that I was on shore there, fancying
that, seeing the mainland and an inhabited country, I might find some way or
other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find some means of escape. '

Then I thought I would go and look at our ship's boat, which lay on the high
ridge of beachy rough sand, where it had been thrust by the stdrm, when we wereI
62 aosmson meson

first cast away. But it lay bottom upward, so I had to dig the sand from under
it and turn it over with the help of wooden levers. When I had done this, I
found it was all in vain, for I had not the strength to get it to the water to launch
it.

This at length set me upon thinking whether it was not possible for me to
make a canoe, such as the Indians make of the trunk of a tree. I found one
that was just fit for it which grew not far from the shore. Twenty days was I
hacking and hewing this tree at the bottom tofell it; I was fourteen more get-
ting the branches off, and a whole month shaping it like the bottom of a boat.
As for the inside I was three weeks with a mallet and chisel clearing it.

Nothing remained but to get it to the water, but all my devices to get it into
the water failed me. I first dug the ground to make a smooth declivity from
the boat to the sea, so astolet it slide down; but I could then no morestir this
boat than the other. Then I resolved to dig a canal to bring the water up to
the boat. I began the work, but on calculating how deep and broad it would
have to be, Ifound it would take me ten or twelve years to dig it, so I gave it'over,
seeing too late the folly of beginning a work before we count the cost.

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year in this place, and kept
my anniversary with even greater devotion than ever before, for now I had so
little hope of ever leaving the island, that I looked upon the world as a thing

' with which I had nothing to do. But I was separated from its wickedness, too;
I had nothing to covet; I might call myself king or emperor of the whole country
of which I had possession. I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships;
and I had grapes enough to have made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to
have loaded that fleet when it had been built.

But all that I could make use of was all that was valuable; I had enough to
eat and to supply my wants, and what was all the rest 'to me. The money, I
had lay by me as sorry, useless stuli, which I would have freely given for a hand-
ful of peas or beans.

My clothes began to decay mightily, and of linen I had had none for a good
while except some shirts which I found in the seamen's chests. There were
also several thick watch coats of the seamen's, but they were too hot to wear
till I make jackets out of them. ' I had saved all the skins of the four-footed
creatures that I killed, and out of these, I made, first, a great cap for my head,
with the hair on the outside to shoot off the rain, and afterwards I made me a
suit of clothes wholly of these skins--that it to say, a_ waistcoat, and breeches

 

m me A can
open at the knees, and both loose; for they were'rather wantihg to keep me cool
then to keep me warm. After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to
make an umbrella, coverine it with skins; which was amost useful thing to me,
as well for the heat of the sun as for the rain.

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any extraordinary thing happened
to me, but I lived on in the same course as before, My chief employment,
besides my yearly labor of planting my barley and rice and curing my raisins,
wastomakemeacanoe,thistimeofsuchasizethatbydiggingacanaltoitot
six feet wide and four feet deep, I brought it into the creek. ' I.

The design I had in view when I made the first boat was to venture over to
the other shore, but the size of this was not at all suitable to that purpose, so
my next design was to make a tour round the island. I put up a little mast in
my boat, and made a sail for it out of some of the ship's sails which I had in
store. Then I made lockers to hold food and keep it dry, and a rest for my
gun with a flap to hang down over it to keep it dry.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or my captivity,
that I set out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than I expected; for
though the island itself was not very large, yet when I came to the east side of it,
I found a great ridge of rockslie out about two leagues into the sea; and beyond
that a shoal of sand lying dry half a league more, so that I was obliged to go a
great way out to sea to double that point.

I am a warning to all rash and ignorant pilots, for I was no sooner come to

that point but I found myself in agreat depth of water, running like the sluice
of a mill. It hurried me farther and farther out, there was no wind stirring to
help me, and all I could do with my paddles signified nothing. I began to give
myself over for lost, and looked upon my solitary island as the most pleasant
place in the world, to be in which was all the happiness my heart could wish for.
However, I worked as hard as I could, and, to my joy, about noon, a breeze
sprang up. I spread my sail and stood away to the north as much as I could,
and in a few hours came within a mile of the shore, where soon after I got to
land. When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks for my
deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by boat.

I found a convenient harbor for my boat, and taking nothing but my gun
and umbrella, I began my march homeward. On my way I lay down to rest,
being quite spent with fatigue, and felhinto a deep sleep. But judge, if you
can, what a surprise I must have been in when a voice woke me out of my sleep,
and called my name several times, "Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe! poor Robin
 

CBUSOI SAKS OUT OF HIS Cl!!!"

Crusoe!" At first'I was dreadfully frightened, but as soon as I awoke tho-
roughly, I saw my Poll sitting at the top of the hedge, and I knew that it was he
that spoke, and did but say the words I had taught him. Calling him by name;
the sociable creature came to me, find sat on my thumb as he used to do, and
kept on talking to me as if he were overjoyed to see me; and so I carried him
home with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea, and for near a year I led a very86 ' ROBINSON 080803

f sedate. retired life, feeling resigned to the decrees of Providence, and wanting
nothing but society.

My powder beginning to fail, I set myself to study some art to trap and snare
the goats alive, for I saw that if I expected to supply myself with goat's 'flesh,
when I had no powder or shot left, brwding some up tame was my only way;
when, perhaps, I might have them about my house like a. flock of sheep. At _
last I had my desire, for making pitfalls and traps, baited with barley and rice,
I found one morning, in one of them, an old he-goat, and in another, three kids,
one male and two females. The old goat was much too fierce for me, so I let
him go; then I took the kids home. It was a. good while before they would
feed; but throwing them some sweet corn. it tempted them, and they began to
be tame.

I saw that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else they would always run
wild when they grew up, and that the only way for this was to have some in-
closed piece of ground well fenced. I began with the idea of inclosing such a
space that my fence must have been at least two miles about, but it struck me
that in so great a space, the kids would soon be as wild as if they had the whole
island to run in, so I inclosed a piece of ground about one hundred and fifty
yards in length, and one hundred in breadth, which would maintain as many
as I should have in any reasonable time. .

It took me three months to hedge in this piece. In about a year and a half
I had a flock of twelve goats, and in two years more I had three-and-forty, and
after that I inclosed five pieces of ground to feed them in, with gates and pens
to take them as I wanted them.

I had now not only goat's flesh to feed on, but milk too, for now I set up my
dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in aday. What a table was
here spread for me in a wilderness where I saw nothing at first but to perish
for hunger! How like a king I dined, too, attended by my servants! Poll, as
if he had been my favorite, was the only person permitted to talk to me; my dog,
old, but faithfpl, sat always at my right hanC/lhfle my two cats sat at each
side of the table, expecting a bit from my hand now and then as a mark of
special favor. With this attendance and in this plentiful manner I lived;
neither could I be said to want anything but society; and of that, in a short
time after this, I was likely to have too much.

I had now two plantations in the island, one my little fortification, under the
rock, with the cave behind it, and the wall about it. The piles with which I
had made the wall were grown so large that there was not the least appearance
of any habitation behind them. Besides this I had my country seat, or little
bower, as I called it, where my grapes flourished, and where I had my enclosures
for my goats.

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation and the place
where I had laid up my boat, I generally stayed and lay herein my way thither,
for I used frequently to visit my boat. Sometimes I went out in her to divert
myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, scarcely ever above a stone's
cast or two from the shore, I was so apprehensive of being. hurried out of my
knowledge again by the currents or winds, or any other accident. But now I
came to a new scene of my life. '

It happened one day, about noon, going towards my boat, I was exceedingly
surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on the shore, which was very
plain to be seen on the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck, or as if I had '
seen an apparition. I listened, I looked round me, but I could hear nothing
nor see anything; I went up to a rising ground, to look farther; I went up the
shore, and down the shore, but it Was all one: I could see no other impression
but that one. I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to observe
if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room for that, for there was ex-
actly the print of a foot--toes, heel, and every'part of a foot. How it came there I
knew not, nor could in the least imagine. But after innumerable fluttering
thoughts, like a man perfectly confused and out of myself, I came to my forti-
fication, terrified to the last degree.

When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after this), I fled into
it like one pursued. I had no sleep that night; and I formed nothing but dismal
imaginations to myself. Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil; and reason
joined in with me upon this supposition: for how should any other thing in
human shape come into the place? But then to think that Satan should take
' human shape upon him in such a place, where there could be no manner of
occasion for it, but to leave the print of his foot behind him, and that even forno
purpose too, for he could not be sure I should see it--this was an amazement
the other way. I easily argued myself out of all fear of its being the devil; and
I presently concluded then that it must be some more dangerous creature, viz.,
that it must be some of the savages oi the mainland over against me, w ho had
wandered out to sea in their canoes, and either driven by the currents or by con-
trary winds, had made the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away
again to sea; being as loath, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate island as I
would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very thankful in
my thought that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that
they did not see my boat, by which they would have concluded that some in-
habitants had been in the place, and perhaps have searched farther for me.
Then terrible thoughts racked my imagination about their, having found my
boat, and that there were people here; and that, if so, I should certame have
them come again in greater numbers, and devour me; that if it should happen
that they should not find me, yet they would find my inclosure, destroy all my
corn, and carry away all my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at last
for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope; all that former confidence in
God, which was founded upon such wonderful experience as I had had of His
goodness, now vanished; as if He that had fed me by miracle hitherto, could not
preserve by His power the provision which he had made for me by His goodness.

How strange a checkerhwork of Providence is the life of man! and by what
secret, difiering springs are the affections hurried about, as differing circum-
stances present! To-day we love what to-morrow we hate: to-day we seek
what to-morrow we shun; to-day we desire what to-morrow we fear, nay, even

. tremble at the apprehensions of. This was exemplified in me at this time in
the most. lively manner imaginable; for I, whose only affliction was, that I
seemed banished from human society, was now ready to sink into the ground
at but the shadow or silent appearance of a man having set his foot on the
island;

One morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts about my
danger from the appearance of savages, I found it discomposed me very much;
upon which those words of the Seripture came into my thoughts: "Call upon
Me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify Me." Upon
this, rising cheerfully out of bed, my heart was not only comforted, but I was
guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to God for deliverance: when I had
done praying, I took up my Bible, and opening it to read, the first words that
presented -to me were, "Wait on the Lord: be of good courage, and He shall I
s n thy heart: wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impossible to express
the comfort this gave me, and in return, I thankfufly laid down the book, and
was no more sad, at least, not on that occasion.

In the middle of these reflections, it came into my thoughts one day that this
foot might be the print of my own foot, when I came on shore from my boat.
I considered that I could by no means tell for certain where I had trod, and
where I had not; and that if, at last, this was only the print of my own foot, I
had played the part of those fools who try to make stories of specters and
appsritions, and then are themselves frighted at them more than anybody else.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad again, for I had not stirred
out of my castle for three days and nights, so that I began to starve for provision;
for I had little or nothing within doors but some barley-cakes and water. Then
I knew that my .goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening
diversion; and the poor creatures were in great pain and inconvenience for

' want of it. '
Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but the
print of-one of my own feet, I began to go abroad again, and went to my country-
house to milk my flock; and having 'seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder,
and to think there was really nothing in it but my own imagination; but I could
not persuade myself fully of this till I should go down to the shore again, and
see this print of a foot, and measure it by my own. But when I came to the
place-first, it appeared evidently to me that when I laid up my boat, I could
not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabouts; secondly, .when I came to
measure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not so large by a great
deal. Both these things filled my head with new imaginations, and I went
home again, filled with the belief that some man or men had been on shore
there; or, in short, that the island was inhabited, and I might be surprised be-
fore I was aware.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my cave so large asto bring a
door through again, which door, as I said, came out beyond where my fortifica-
tion joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering this, therefore, I resolved
to draw me a second fortification, in the same manner of a semicircle, at a
distance from my wall, just where I had planted a double row of trees about
twelve years before, these trees having been planted so thick before, there
wanted but few piles to be driven between them, that they should be thicker
and stronger, and my wall would be soon finished. Through seven holes in
this wall I contrived to plant muskets, of which I had got seven on shore out of
the ship; these, I say, I planted like cannon, so that I could fire all the seven
guns in two minutes' time.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for a great way,
full with sticks of the osier-like wood, which I found so apt to grow, leaving a
pretty large space between them and my wall, that I might have room to see
an enemy, and they might have no shelter from the young trees, if they at-
tempted to approach my outer wall. _

Thus, in two year's time, I had a thick grove; and'in five or six years' time
\'v.
t,
9'

mm

'4 "414'

LMaSS/, -

lEii.':ePSl-.j_\\-zd . v-

 

0317303 MILEINO HIS (BOATS

I had a wood before my dwelling grown so monstrous thick and strong that it
was indeed perfectly impassable: and no man, of what kind soever, would ever
imagine that there anything beyond it, much less a habitation.

Another measure of prudence that I took was to seek out some retired spots
on the island, where I might inclose a few of my goats, half a dozen in each
place, so that if any disaster happened to the flock in general, I might be able
to raise them again. I completed one such inclosure. and went about the
whole island, searching for another place to make such another deposit. when,
wandering more to the west point of the island than I had ever done yet, and
looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at-a great distance.
I had found a perspective glass or two in one of the seamen's chests, which I
saved out of our ship, but I had it not about me; and this was so remote that I
could not tell what to make of it, though I looked at it till eyes were not able
to hold to look any longer. I was presently convinced that the seeing the print
of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in the island as I imagined; and but
that it was a special providence that I was cast upon the side of the island where
the savages never came, I should easily have known that nothing was more
frequent than for the canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little
too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for harbor: likewise,
as they often met and fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken their
prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, according to their dread-
ful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and eat them; of which here
after.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, being the S. W.
point of the island, I was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it possible
for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread with skulls,
hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies; and particularly, I observed a
place where there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth, where I
supposed the savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman feastings upon the
bodies of their fellow-creatures. I could not bear to stay in the place a moment;
so I got up the hill again with all the speed I could, and walked on towards
my own habitation.

I continued pensive and sad, and kept close within my own circle for almost
two years after this: when I say my own circle, I mean by it my three planta-
tions, viz., my castle, my county-seat (which I called my bower), and my in-
closure in the woods. Time, however began to wear off my uneasiness, and I
began to live just in the same composed manner as before, only with this dif-
ference, that I used more caution, and kept my eyes more about me than I did
 

, 030303 IN ms F01?!
before, lost I should happen to be seen by any of those people; and particularly
I was more cautious in firing my gun, lest any of them, being on the island.
should happen to hear it; though I never went out without it, and carried in
addition two pistols and a broadst
The terror I had been 'in about the savages diverted my invention from my
own conveniences, and now my thoughts were all of how I might destroy some
of these cannibals when they were at their bloody entertainments, and if possible'
save the victims they should bring hither to destroy. To put my design into
execution, I. sought a place where unseen I might behold every action of the -
savages. I found such a place in the side of a hill, and here I bestowed two
muskets, each of which was loaded with a brace of slugs and four or five small
bullets; a fowling-piece, charged with a handful of the largest shot; and my
pistols, with about four bullets in each. Every morning I made a tour to the
top of the hill, which was about three miles from my castle, to see if I could
observe any boats on the sea. But after having watched in vain for two or
three months, I not only grew tired of this hard duty, but began to doubt that
I had a right to meditate the killing of the savages, and to fear that in attempting
it I might only bring upon myself certain destruction. Religion joined in with
this prudent consideration, and I concluded that I would be going quite beyond
my duty in destroying creatures who were innocent as to me, however guilty
they might be towards one another. This appeared so clear to me now, that
nothing was a greater satisfaction to me than that I had not been suffered to
do a thing which I now saw so much reason to believe would have been sinful
murder, and I gave most humble thanks to God that He had thus delivered
me from blood-guiltiness.

In this state of mind I continued for near a year after this. I removed my
boat which was on the other side of the island to a little cave under some high
rocks on the east end of the island, that there might not be near the place where
the savages landed any shadow of human presence. Besides this I kept my-
self more retired than ever, and seldom left my cell except when I went out to
milk my goats, and manage my little flock in the wood, which was quite out of
danger on the other side of the island.

I now cared not to drive a nail, chop a stick, fire a gun, or make a fire, lest
either the noise be heard, or the smoke betray me. For this reason I did all
 

 

 

 

 

CRVSOE ON THE WK'OUT ON THE HILL

the work requiring fire at my new apartment in the woods, when, after a while,
I found by accident a natural cave in the earth, which proved to be a great
convenience to me.

It was while I was cutting some wood to make charcoal that I discovered
this cave; and before I go on I must observe the reason for my making the
charcoal, which was that I could use it to bake and cook without making a.
smoke. While I was cutting wood one day, I perceived, behind a very thick
branch of brushwood, a kind of ,hollow place. I looked into the mouth of it,
and found it was so large that I could stand upright in it. But I made more
haste out than I did in, for I saw two shining eyes of some creature which
twinkled like stars. When I recovered a little from my surprise, I plucked up
courage, and taking a flaming firebrand, I rushed in again, and found there
was no cause for fear, for the eyes were those of an old goat, which was dying,
indeed, of old age. I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, but he
was not able to' raise himself, so I let him lie there.

I found the cave to be about twelve feet wide, but there was a place at the
farther side of it that went' in still farther, but so low that I had to creep on my
hands and feet to go in, I gave up my search for that time, but came the next
day provided with candles, and when I got to the end of the low passage, I
found the roof rose to the height of near twenty feet.

As the light of my two candles shone on the sides and roofs of this cave, it
made a most glorious sight, for the walls reflected a hundred thousand lights
to me, as if they had been made of diamonds and other precious stones. What
-was in the rock to cause this, I knew not. The place was a most delightful
grotto, and I resolved to bring here some of the things I was most anxious about
particularly my magazine of powder, and my spare arms. The old goat died
in the mouth of the cave the next day after I discovered it, and I found it easier
to bury him on the spot where he expired than to drag him out.

I was now in the twenty-third year of residence in this island, and was so
naturalized to the place and the manner of living that, could I but have enjoyed
the certainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb me, I could'have
been content to spend the rest of my time there. I had some little amusements,
which made the time pass more pleasantly with me a great deal than it did
before: first, I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to speak; and he did it so
familiarly, and talked so articulately and plain, that is was very pleasant to me.
My dog was a pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen years
of my time, and then died of mere old age. As for my cats, they multiplied to
that degree, that I was obliged to shoot or drive them into the woods, except
two or three favorites. Besides these I always kept two or three household kids
about me, whom I taught to feed out of my hand; and I had two more parrots,
which talked pretty well, and would all call "Robin Crusoe," but none like
my first. I had also several tame 'sea-fowls, that I caught upon the shore,
and cut their wings; and the little stakes which I had planted before my castle-
wall being now grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived among
these low trees, and bred there, which was very agreeable to me.

It may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with my story to make this
just observation from it: via, how frequently, in the course of our lives, the
evil which in itself we seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into,
is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverh
anee, by which alone we can be raised again from the affliction we are fallen
into. I could give many examples of this in the course of my unacountable
life, but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable than in the circum-
stances of my last years of solitary residence in this island.

It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-third year;
and this, being the southern solstice, was the particular time of my harvest,
and required me to be pretty much abroad in the fields, when, going out pretty
early in the morning, even before it was thorough daylight, I was surprised with
seeing a light of some fire upon the shore at a distance from me about two miles
towards the end of the island where I had observed some savages had been,
as before, and not on the other side, but, to my great affliction, it was on my
side of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised with the sight, and filled with my usual ap-
prehension that the savages would find my works and improvements. In this
extremity I returned directly to my castle and pulled the ladder after me, mak-
ing all things look as wild and natural as I possibly could.' Then I prepared
myself within for defense, loaded my muskets and pistols, and commended
myself to the Divine protection, resolved to defend myself to the last gasp.
Two hours after, impatient for intelligence, I mounted to the top of the hill,
where, laying myself down, with my perspective glass I perceived no less than
nine naked savages, sitting round a small fire, eating, as I supposed, human
flesh, with their two canoes hauled on shore, waiting for the flood of the tide
to carry them off again.

It is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight put me into, but when I
considered that their coming must always be with the current of the ebb, I
became more easy, being fully satisfied that I might go abroad with safety all
the time of the flood, if they were not before landed. Before they went off, I
could see by their postures and gestures that they were dancing, and they kept
this up for an hour or more.

When I saw them gone, I took two guns upon my shoulders, and placing a.
couple of pistols in my belt, with my great sword hanging by my side, I went
to the hill where I had discovered the first appearance of all, and then saw that
there had been three canoes more of the savages on shore at that place, which
with the rest were now making over to the mainland.

Going down to the shore, I could see the marks of horror which the dismal
work they had been about had left behind it;and so filled was I with indignation,
that I began again to premeditate taking revenge on the first that came there,
let them be as many soever. It then appeared to me that the visits they made
to this island are not very frequent, it being fifteen months before they came _
again; yet all this while I was very uneasy, lest they should come upon me by
surprise. _

It was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor
wooden calendar would reckon, that it blew a very great storm of wind all day,
with a great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night it was after it.
As I was reading in the Bible, and taken up withserious thoughts about my
present condition, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I thought, fired at
sea. I started up in the greatest haste imaginable; and, mounting my ladder,
got to the top of the hill the very moment that a flash of fire bade me listen for a
second gun, which, accordingly, in about a half a minute, I heard; and by the
sound knew that it was from that-part of the sea where I was driven out with
the current in my boat.- I immediately considered that this must be some
ship in distress. I had the presence of mind, at that minute, to think that
though I could not help them, it might help me; so I brought together all the
dry wood I could get at hand, and set it on fire upon the hill. As soon as
ever my fire blazed up, I heard another gun, and after that several others. I
piled my fire all night long, till daybreak; and, when the air cleared up, I saw
something at a great distance at sea, full east of the island, whether a sail or a
hull I could not distinguish. .

I looked frequently at it all that day, and presently concluded that it was a
ship at anchor; and being eager to be satisfied, I ran towards the south side of
the island, to the rocks where I had formerly been carried away with the current;
and getting up there, I could plainly see the wreck of a ship cast away in the
night upon those concealed rocks which I found when I was out in my boat.

It Was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my boat to this
wreck, not doubting but I might find something on board that might be useful
to me. But that did not altogether press me so much as the possibility that
there might be yet some living creature on board, whose life I might not only
save, but might, by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree; and this
thought clung so to my heart that I could not be quiet night or day, but I must
venture out in my boat on board this wreck; and committing the rest to God's
providence, I thought the impression was so strong upon my mind that it could
not be resisted. .

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle, and load-
ing myself with everything necessary, went down to my boat, got the water out
of her, got her afloat, and loaded all my cargo in her. Praying to God to direct
my voyage, I put out, and rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore, came
at last to the utmost point of the island on the north-east side. And now I was
to launch out into the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture. I looked
on the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides of the island at a
distance, and my heart began to fail me; for I foresaw that if I was driven into
either of those currents, I should be carried perhaps out of reach or sight of
the island again.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind that I began to give over my enterprise;
and having hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out, and .
sat down upon a rising bit of ground, very pensive and anxious. As I was
musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood came on; upon
which, my going was impracticable for many hours. Upon this, presently it
occurred to me that I should go up to the highest piece of ground I could find,
and observe, if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay. I cast my eye
upon a little hill from whence I had a clear view of the currents, or sets of the
tide, and which way I was to guide myself in my return. Here I found that as
the currentof ebb set out close. by the south point of the island, so the current
of the flood set in close by the shore of the north side; and that I had nothing to
do but to keep to the north of the island in my return, and I should do well
enough. ' '

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the next morning, to set out
with the first of the tide. I first made a little out to sea, full north, till I began
to feel the benefit of the current, which set eastward, and having a strong steer-
age with my paddle, I went, at a great rate, directly for the wreck, and in less
than two hours I came up to it. The ship, which was Spanish, stuck fast,
jammed in between two rocks: all the stern and quarter of her were beaten to
pieces by the sea; and her mainmast and foremast were broken short off; but
her head and bow appeared firm. Men I came close to her, a dog appeared
upon her, who, seeing me coming, yelpedand cried; and, as soon as I called him,
jumped into the sea to come to me; I took him into the boat, but found him
almost dead with hunger and thirst. I gaVe him a cake of my. bread, and he
devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had starved a fortnight in the snow; I
then gave the poor creature some fresh water, with which, if I would have let
him, he would have burst himself. After this I went on board; but the first
sight I met with was two men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of the
ship, with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, that when the ship
struck, the sea broke so continually over her, that the men were strangled with
the constant rushing in of the water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left
in the ship that had life. I saw several chests, which I believed belonged to
some of the seamen; and I got two of them into the boat, without examining
what was in them: Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore-part
broken OH, I am persuaded I might have made a good voyage; for, by what I
found in these two chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a great deal of
wealth on board.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, which I got into my
boat with much difficulty. There were several muskets in the cabin, and a
great powder-horn, with about four pounds of powder in it. As for the muskets,
I had no occasion for them, so I left them, but took the powder-horn. I took
a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted extremely, as also two little brass kettles,
a copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron; and with this cargo, and the
dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make home again; and the same even-
ing, about an hour within night, I reached the island again, weary and fatigued
to the last degree. I reposed that night in the boat; and in the morning I re-
solved to harbor what I had got in my new cave, and not carry it home to my
castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and began to
examine the particulars. '

When I came to open the chests, I found several things of great use to me:
for example, I found in one a fine case of bottles, filled with cordial waters. I
found some very good shirts, and about a dozen and a half of white linen hand-
kerchiefs and colored neck-cloths. Besides this, when, I came to the till in
the chest, I found there three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about
eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of them, wrapped up in a paper six
 

CRVBOE SLEEPING IN HIS BOAT

doubloons of gold, and some small bars or wedges of gold; I suppose they might
all weigh near a pound. In the other chest were some clothes, but of little
value; but, by the circumstances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate;3031mm: censor: 85

though there was no powder in it, except two pounds of fine glazed powder,
in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their fowling--piece on 00-.
casion. Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of any use
to me; for as to'the money, I had no manner of occasion for it; it was to me as
the dirt under my feet; however, I lugged this money home to my cave, and laid
it up, as I had done that before which I had brought from our own ship.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured them, I went back
to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the shore to her old harbor, where
I laid her up, and made the best of my way to my old habitation, where I found
everything safe and quiet. I never knew whether any were saved out of that
ship or no; and had only the afiliction, some days after, to see the corpse of a
drowned boy come on shore at the end of the island which was next to the
shipwreck. He had no clothes on but a seaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-
kneed linen drawers, and a'blue linen shirt; but nothing to direct me so much
as to guess what nation he was of.

I began now to repose myself, live after my old fashion, and take care of my
family affairs; and for a whileI lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant
than I used to be, looked out oftener, and did not go abroad so much; and if,
at any time, I did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east part of the
island, where I was pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where I
could go without so many precautions, and such a load of arms and ammunition
as I always carried with me if I went the other way. I lived in this condition
near two years more; but my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it
was born to make my body miserable, was all these two years filled with projects
and designs, how, if it were possible, I might get away from this island.

On one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the four-and-twentieth
year of my first setting foot in this island of solitude, I was lying in my bed or
hammock, awake, very well in health, but could by no means close my eyes, that
is, so asrto sleep. It is impossible and needless to set down the innumerable
crowd of thoughts that whirled through that great thoroughfare of the brain---86 nonunion causal:

the memory--in this night's time: I ran over the whole history of my life in
miniature, to my coming to this island, and also of that part of my life since I
came to this island. In my reflections upon the state of my case since I came
on shore on this island, I was comparing the happy posture of my affairs in the
first years of my habitation here, with the life of anxiety, fear, and care, which
I had lived in ever since I had seen the print of afoot in the sand. Then I came
to reflect seriously upon the real danger I had been in for so many years, and
how I had walked about in the greatest security, and with all possible tran-
quillity, even when perhaps nothing but the brow of a hill, a great tree, or the
casual approach of night, had been between me and the worst kind of des-
truction, viz., that of falling into the hands of cannibals and savages, who would
have seized on me with the same view as I would on a goat or a turtle.

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken up in
considering the nature of these savages; and it occurred to me to inquire what
part of the world these wretches lived in P how far ofl" the coast was from whence
they came? and why I might not order myself and my business so that I might
be as able to go over thither as they were to come to me? I never so much as -
troubled myself to consider what I should do with myself when I went thither;
but my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat
to the mainland. I looked upon my present condition as the most miserable
that could possibly be; that I was not able to throw myself into anything, but
death, that could be called worse; and if I reached the shore of the main, 1
might perhaps meet with relief; or I might coast along, as I did on the African
shore, till I came to some inhabited country, and where I might find some relief;
and, after all, perhaps I might fall in with some Christian ship that might take
me in; and if the worst came to the worst, I could but die, which would put an _
end to all these miseries at once. I was agitated greatly by these thoughts;
all my calm of mind seemed to be suspended;and I had, as it were, no power to
turn my thoughts to anything but the project of a voyage to the main.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with such violence
that it set my very blood into a ferment, Nature, as if I had been fatigued and
exhausted with the very thoughts of it, threw me into a sound sleep. One
would have thought I should have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of anything
relating to it: but I dreamed that as I was going out in the morning as usual,
from my castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages, coming to
land, and that they brought with them another savage, whom they were going
to kill, in order to eat him; when, on a sudden, the savage that they were
going tokill jumped away, and ran for his life; then I thought, in my sleep,
that he came running into my little grove before my fortification, to hide'him-
self; and that I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the others sought him
that way, showed myself to him, and smiling upon him encouraged him: that
he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist him; upon which I showed -
him my ladder, made him go up it, and carried him into my cave, and he be-
came my servant; and that as soon as I had got this man, I said to myself,
"Now I may certamly venture to the mainland, for this fellow will serve me as
a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to go for provisions, and whither
not to go for fear of being devoured; what places to venture into, and what to
escape. I waked with this thought: and was under such inexpressible im-
pressions of joy at the prospect of my escape in my dream, that the disappoint-
ments which I felt upon coming to myself, and finding that it was no more than
a'dream, were equally extravagant the other way. and threw me into a deep
dejection of spirits.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion. that my only way .to go about
an attempt for an escape was, if possible, to get a savage into my possession;
and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners, whom they had condemned
to be eaten, and should bring hither to kill. I resolved, if possible, to get one of
these savages into my hands, cost what it would. My next thing was to con-
trive how to do it, and this indeed was very difiicult to resolve on; but as I could
pitch upon no probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch,
to see them when they came on shore, and leave the rest to the event; taking
such measures as the opportunity should present.
About a year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by long musing
had, as it were, resolved them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put
them in execution), I was surprised one morning early by seeing no less than
five canoes all on shore together on my side of the island, and the people who
belonged to them all landed and out of my sight. Seeing so many, and know-
ing that they always came four or six, or' sometimes more, in a boat, I could
not tell how to take my measures, to attack twenty or thirty men single-handed;
so lay still in my castle, perplexed and discomforted. However, I put myself
into all the same postures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was
just ready for action, if anything had presented; Having waited a good while,
at length, being very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my ladder, and
clambered up to the top of the hill; standing so, however, that my head did not
appear above the bill, so that they could not perceive me. Here I observed,
by the help of my perspective glass, that they were no less than thirty' 1n number;
that they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed. How they had
cooked it, I knew not, or what it was, but they were all dancing round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my perspective, two miser-
able wretches dragged from the boats. I perceived one of them immediately
fall; being knocked down, I suppose, with a club, or wooden sword, for that
was their way; and two or three others were at work immediately, preparing
him for their cookery, while the other victim was left standing by himself,
till they should be ready for him. In that very moment, this poor wretch, see-
ing himself a little at liberty, started away from them, and ran with incredible
swiftness along the sands, directly towards me. I was dreadfully frightened,
that I must acknowledge, when I perceived him run my way; and especially
when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the whole body. However, I kept
my station, and my spirits began to recover when I found that not above three
men followed him; and still more was I encouraged when I found that he out-
stripped them exceedingly in running, and gained ground on them.

There was between them and my castle, the creek, which I mentioned often
in the first part of my story, where I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this
I saw plainly he must necessarily swim over; but when the savage escaping
came thither, he made nothing of it; but, plunging in, swam through in about
thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran with exceeding strength and
swiftness. When the three persons came to the creek, I found that two of them
could swim, but the third could not, and that, standing on the other side, he
looked at the others, but went no farther, and soon after went softly back again.
I observed that the two who swam were yet more than twice as long swimming
over the creek than the fellow was that fled from them. It came very warmly
upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was the time to get me a
servant, and perhaps a companion or assistant; and that I was plainly called
by Providence to save this poor creature's life. I immediately ran down the
ladder with all possible expedition, fetched my two guns, and getting up again,
I crossed towards the sea; and having aver-y short cut, and all down hill, clapped
myself in the way between the pursuers and the pursued, hollooing aloud to
him that fled, who, looking back, Was at first perhaps as much frightened at
me as at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to come back; and, in the
meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that followed; then rushing at
. once upon the foremost, I knocked him down with the stock of my piece. I
was loath tofire, because I wouldvpot have the rest hear; though, at that distance,
it would not have been easily heard. Having knocked this fellow down, the
other who pursued him stopped, as if he had been frightened, and I advanced
towards him ;' but asI came nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow and
arrow, and 'was fitting it to shoot at me; so I was then obliged to shoot at him
first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor savage who fled
was so frightened with the fire and noise of my piece that he stood stock still. '
I made signs to come forward, which he easily understood, and came a little
way; then stopped again, and then a little farther, and stopped again; and I
could then perceive that he stood trembling. I smiled at him,. and looked
pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer; at length, he came close
to me; and then he kneeled down, laid his head upon the ground, and, taking
me by the foot, set my foot upon his head; this, it seems, was in token of swear-
ing to be my slave forever. I took him up, and made much of him, and en-
couraged him all I could. But there was more work to do yet; for I perceived
the savage whom I had knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the
blow, and began to come to himself; so I pointed to him, and showed him the
savage, that he was not dead; upon this he spoke some words to me and though
I could not understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to hear; for they
were the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for
above twenty-five years. But there was no time for such reflections now; the
savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit up on the
ground, and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid. He made a motion
to me to lend him my sword, which I did. He no sooner had it but he runs to
his enemy, and at one blow cut off his head as cleverly, no executioner in Ger-
many could have done it sooner or better; which I thought very strange for one
who, I had reason to believe, never saw a sword in his life before, except their
own wooden swords: however, it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their
wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is so hard, that they will even
cut off heads with them. When he had done this, he comes laughing to me in
sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and laid it down, with the
head of the savage that he had killed, just before me. But that which as-
tonished him most was to know how I killed the other Indian so far off; so
pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him; and I bade him go,
as well as I could. When he came to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at
him, turning him first on one side, then on the other. He took up his bow
and arrows, and came back; so I turned to go away, and beckoned him to follow
me, making signs to him that more might come after them.

Upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them with sand, that they
might not be seen by the rest, if they followed; and so I made signs to him again
to do so. He fell to work; and in an instant he had scraped a hole in the sand
with his hands, big enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him into it,
and covered him; and did so by the other also. I believe he had buried them
both in a quarter of an hour.

I carried him, not to my castle, but quite away to my cave. on the farther
part of the island; so I did not let my dream come to pass in that part, that he
came into my grove for shelter. Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins
to eat, and a draught of water, which I found he was indeed in great distress
for from his running; and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go and
lie down to sleep. '

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well made, with straight, strong
limbs, not too large, tall and well shaped; and, as I reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. He had a very good countenancefiiot a fierce and surly aspect,
but seemed to have something very manly in his face; and yet he had all the
' sweetness and softness of a European in his countenance, too, especially when
he smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled like wool; his forehead
very high and large; and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes.
The color of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny. _

After he had slumbered about half an hour, he awoke and came out of the
cave to me; for I had been milking my goats, which I had in the inclosure just
by: when he espied me, he came running to me, laying himself down upon the
ground, with all the possible signs of an humble, thankful disposition. making
>> a great many gestures to show it. I understood him in many things, and let
him know I was very well pleased with him. In a little time I began to speak
to him, and teach him'to speak to me; and, first, I let him know his name should
be FRIDAY, which was the day I saved his life: I called him so for the memory
of the time. I likewise taught him to say Master, and then let him know that
was to be my name; I likewise taught him to say Yes and No, and to know the
meaning of them. I gave him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see
me drink it before him, and sop my bread in it;'and gave him a cake of bread.
to do the like, which he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very
 

FRIDAY EWING THE DEAD'

good for him. I kept there with him all that night; but, as soon as it was day.
I beckoned to him to come with me, and let him know I would give him some
clothes; at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. I then led him

'up to the top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone, and, pulling out my
glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where they had been, but no appear-
ance of them 'or their canoes; so that it was plain they were gone, and had left
their two comrades behind them, without any search after them.

i We came back to our castle, and there I fell to work for my man Friday; and,
first of all. I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had out of the poor
gunner's chest I mentioned, which I found in the wreck, and which, with a little
alteration, fitted him very well; and then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin,
as well as my skill would allow (for I was now grown a tolerably good tailor);
and I gave him a cap which I made of here's skin, very convenient, and fashion-
able enough; and thus he was clothed, for the present, tolerably well.
The next day, I began to consider where I should lodge him; and, that I
might do well for him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for
him in the vacant place between my two fortifications. As there was a door
or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal framed door-case, and a door
to open in the inside, which I barred up in the night, taking in my ladders, too;
so that Friday could no way come at me in the inside of my innermost wall,
without making so much noise in getting over that it must needs awaken me.
But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more faithful,
loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me; without passion, sullenness, or
design, his affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a father.

I was greatly delighted with my new companion, and made it my business
to teach him everything that was proper to make him useful, handy, and helpful;
but especially to make him speak, and understand me when I spoke; and he
was the aptest scholar that ever was; and particularly was so merry, so con-
stantly diligent, andso pleased when he could but understand me, or make me
understand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. And now my I
life began to be so easy that I began to say to myself, that could I but have been
safe from more savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from the place

while I lived.
One morning I took him out with me to the woods. I went, indeed, intend-

ing to kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it home and dress it; but as I
was going, I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting
by her. I caught hold of Friday: "Hold" said I, "stand still; " and made
signs to him not to stir: immediately I presented my piece, shot, and killed one
of the kids. The poor creature was sensibly surprised; trembled and, shook,

and looked so amazed that I thought he would have sunk down. He did not
see the kid I shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat, to
feel whether he was not wounded; and, as I found, presently, thought I was
resolved to kill him; for he came 'and kneeled down to me, and embracing my
knees, said a great many things I did not understand; but I could easily see
the meaning was to pray me not to kill him.1230803 AND FRIDAY OUT W
I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no harm; and tak-
ing him up by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I had
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did.

He would not so much as touch the gun for several days after; but he would
speak to it and talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was by himself;
which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to kill him. I brought
home the kid, and the same evening I took the skin off, and stewed some of
the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had begun to eat some, I
gave some to my man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well. I-Iav-
ing thus fed him with broiled meat and broth, I was resolved to feast him the
next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I did by hanging it before the fire
on a string, setting two poles up, one on each side of the fire, and one across
on the top, and tying the string to the cross-stick, letting the meat turn con-
tinually. This Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste the
flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he liked it. that I could not but
understand him.

The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and sifting it in
the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and he soon understood how to
do it as well as I. After that I let him see me make my bread, and bake it, too;
and in a little time Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well as I could
do it myself.

I began now to consider that, having two mouths to feed instead of one I
must plant a largewquantity of corn than I used to do; so I marked out a larger
piece of land, and began the fence in the same manner as before, in which Friday
worked very willingly and very hard; and I told him that it was for corn to make
more bread, because he was now with me, and that I might have enough for
him and myself too. He let me know that he thought I had much more labor
upon me on his account than I had for myself; and that he would work the
harder for me, if I would tell him what to do.

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place. Friday began

/
to talk pretty well, and understand the names of almost everything I had occa-
siontocall for, andofevery placeIhadtosendhimto, and talkagreatdeal
to me; so that, in short, I began to have some use for my tongue again, which,
indeed, I had very little occasion for before; that is to say, about speech. Be-
sides the pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow I
himself: his simple, unfeig'ned honesty appeared to me more and more every
day, and I began really to-love the creature; and on his side I believe he loved
me more than it was possible for him ever to love anything before. I

I once asked him if the nation he be onged to never conquered in battle, and
when he told me that they did, I asked whether they ate the men they took.
"Yes, my nation eat mans too," he answered. He told me then that be had
been among the savages who used to come on shore on the farther part of the'
island. I asked him how far it was from our island to the shore, and whether
the canoes were not often lost. He told me there was no danger; no canoes were
ever lost. He told me that up a great way beyond the moon (that was, beyond
the setting of the moon) there dwelt white bearded men, like me; by whichI
understood he meant the Spaniards.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this island, and get
among those white men. He told me, "Yes, yes, you may go in two canoe."
I could not understand what he meant by "two canoe," till at last, with
great difliculty, I found he meant it must be in a large, great boat, as big as

' two canoes. This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me very well;
and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one time or other, I might
find an opportunity to make my escape from this place, and that this poor
savage might be a means to help me to do it.

During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that he began
to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of
religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him one time who made

. him. The poor creature did not understand me, but thought I had asked who

was his father: but I took it by another handle, and asked him who made the
sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and woods. He told me, "It was
one Benamuckee, that lived beyond all. " He could describe nothing of this great
person, but that he was very old, "much older," he said, "than the sea or the
land, than the moon or the stars." I asked him, then, if this old person had
made all things, why did not all things worship him? He ooked very grave,
and, with a perfect look of innocence, said, "All things said '0!' to him." I
asked him if the people who die in his country went away anywhere. He said,
"Yes; they all go to Benamuckee." Then I asked him whether those they
ate up went thither too. He said, "Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the true God:
I told him that the great Maker of all thing's lived there, pointing up towards
heaven; that He governed the world by the same power and providence by
which He made it; that He was omnipotent, and could do everything for us, give
everything to us, take everything from us; and thus, by degrees, I opened his
eyes. He listened with great attention, and received with pleasure the notion
of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making our
prayers to God, and His being able to hear us, even into heaven.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the methods I took
for this poor creature's instruction, and must acknowledge, what I believe all
that act upon the same principle will find, that, in laying things open to him, I
really informed and instructed myself in many things that I either did not
know, or had not fully considered before, but which occurred naturally in my
mind upon searching into them, for the information of this poor savage. The
conversation which employed the hours between Friday and me was such as
made the three years which we lived there together perfectly and completely
happy, if any such thing as complete happiness can be found in a sublunary
state. This savage became a good Christian, a much better than I; though
I have reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we were equally penitent, and
comforted, restored penitents. We had here the Word of God to read, and were
no farther 03 from His Spirit to instruct than- if we had been in England.
 

03030! MUM!) FRIDAY

I also acquainted Friday iwith niy own story, or at least so much of it as'
i'elated to my coming into this place; how I had lived there, and how long. I
let him into the mystery, for such it was to him, of gunp'owder and bullet, and,
taught him how to shoot. I gave mm a knife, with which he was wonderfufly
delighted; and I made him a belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in England
we wear hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet,
which was not only as good a weapon in some cases, but much more useful upon
many occasions.

I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been on board of, and showed
him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we escaped, and which was now
fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing a great
while, and said nothing. i I asked him what it was he studied upon. At last,
says he, ".Me see such boat like come to place at my nation." I did not under-
stand him for a good while; but at last I understood by him thataboat, such as
that had been, came on shore upon the country where he lived. I presently
imagined that some European ship must have been cast away. upon their coast,
and the boat might get loose and drive ashore; but I never once thought of
men making their escape from a wreck thither, so I only inquired after the des-

'cription of the boat. .

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but brought me better to under-
stand him when he added with some warmth, "We save the white mans from
drown." Then I presently asked if there were any white mans, as he called
them, in the boat. "Yes," he said; " the boat full of white mansi": I asked
him how many. He told upon his fingers seventeen. I asked him then what
became of them. He told me that they lived there still; that they had been
there about four years; that the savages let them alone, and gave them victuals
to live. I asked him how it came to pass that they did not kill them and eat
them. He said, "No,-they make brother with them." That is, as I understood
him, a truce; and then he added, "They no eat mans but when make the war-
fight." That is to say, they nevereat any men butsuchascome to fight with them,
and are taken in battle. _

It was after this some considerable time, that being upon the top of the hill, '
at the east side of the island, from whence, as I have said, I had, in a clear day,
discovered the main or continent of America, Friday, the weather being very
serene, looks very earnestly towards the mainland, and, in a kind of surprise,
falls a-jumping and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some distance
from him. I asked him what wasthe matter. " Oh, joy!" says he; "oh, glad!
there see my country, there my nation!" I observed an extraordinary sense of
pleasure appeared in his face, as if he had a mind to be in his own country
again. This observation of mine made me, at first, not so easy about my new
man Friday as I was before; and I made no doubt but that, if Friday could get
back to his own nation again, he would not only forget all his religion, but all
his obligation to me, and would be forward enough to give his countrymen an
account of me, and come back, perhaps, with a hundred or two of them, and
make a feast upon me. But I wronged the poor, honest creature very much,
{or which I was very sorry afterwards. While my jealousy of him lasted you
may be sure I was every day pumping him, to see if he would discover any of
the new thoughts which I suspected were in him; but I found everything he
said was so honest and so innocent, that I could find nothing to nourish my
suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his own.

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy at sea, so that
we could not see the continent, I called to him, and said, "Friday, do not you
wish yourself in your own country, your own nation?" "Yes," he said, "I be
much 0 glad to beat my own nation." "What would you do there?" said I.
"Would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh again, and be a savage, as you
were before?" He looked full of concern, and shaking his head, said, "No,
no; Friday tell them to live good; tell them pray God; tell them to eat com-
bread, cattle-flesh, milk; no eat man again." "Why, then," said I to him,
"they will kill you." He looked grave at that, and then said, "No, no, they
no kill me, they willing love learn." He meant by this, they would be willing
to learn. He added, they learned much of the "bearded mans" that came in
the boat. Then I asked him if he would go back to them. He smiled at that,
and told me he could not swim so far. [told him I would make a canoe for
him. He told me he would go, if I would go with him. "I go!" says I. "Why,
they will eat me if I come there." "No, no," says he, "me make them no eat
you; me make them much love you." Then he told me, as well as he could,
how kind they were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he called them,
who came on shore in distress.

From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over, and see if I could
possibly join with those bearded men, who, I made no doubt; were Spaniards
or Portuguese. 'So, after some days, I took Friday to work again, by way of
discourse, and told him I would give him a boat to go back to his own nation;
and I, accordingly, carried him to my frigate, and showed it him, and we both

'went into it. I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it, and

I would make it go almost as swift and fast again as I oould. So when he was in,
'I said to him, "Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation P" He looked
very dull at my saying so; which it seems was because he thought the boat too
smallto go so far. I then told him I had a bigger; so the next day I went to
the place where the first boat lay which I had made, but which I could not get
into the water. He said that was big enough; but then, as I had taken no
care of it, and it had lain two or three and twenty years there, the sun had split
and dried it, so that it was rotten.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of going over with
him to the continent, that I told him we would go and make one as big as that,
and he should go home in it. He answered not one word, but looked very
grave and sad. I asked him what was the matter with him. He asked me
again, " Why you angry mad with Friday P--what me done ?" I asked him what
he meant. I told him I was not angry with him at all. "No angry!" says he, '
repeating the words several times; "why send Friday home away to my na-
nation P" "Why," says I, "Friday, did not you say you wished you were
there?" "Yes, yes," says he, "wish we both there; no wish Friday there,
no master there." In a word, he would not think of going there without me.
"I go there, Friday P" says I. " What shall I do there?" He turned very quickly
 

011080] AND FRIDAY 0" TH! BILL

upon me at this. "You do great deal much good," says he; "you teach wild
mans be good, sober, tame mans; you tell them know God, pray God, and
live new life." "Alas, Friday!" says I, "thou knowest not what thou gayest;
' I am but an ignorant man myself." "Yes, yes," says he, "you teachee me good.
you teachee them good."

So I found all the foundation of his desire to go to his own country was laid
in his ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my doing them good; a
thing which I had no notion of myself. But still I found a strong inclination
to my attempting an escape, founded on the supposition that there were seven-
teen bearded men there; and therefore, without any more delay, I went to work
with Friday to find out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or
canoe, to undertake the voyage. At last, Friday pitched upon a tree, for I
found he knew much better than I what kind of wood was fittest for it. Friday
was for burning the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it into a boat, but
I showed him how rather to cut it with tools; which, after I had showed him
how to use, he did very handily, and in about a month's hard labor, we finished
it and made it very handsome. After this, however, it cost us near a fort-
night's time to get her along, as it were, inch by inch, upon great rollers into
the water.

When she was in the water, though she was so big, it amazed me to see with
what dexterity and how swift my man Friday could manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along. So I asked him if he would, and if we might venture over
in her. "Yes," he said; "we venture over in her very well, though great'blow
wind." However, I had a farther design that he knew nothing of, and that
was to make a mast and a sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable. I was
near two months rigging and fitting my mast and sail, and a rudder to the
stern of her to steer with. After all this was done, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for, though he knew
very well how to paddle the canoe, he knew nothing of what belonged to a sail
and a rudder; and was amazed when he saw, me work the boat to and again in
the sea. However, with a little use, I made all these things familiar to him,
and he became an expert sailor.

I was now entered on the seven-and-twentieth year of my captivity in this

o

' omam-on causal 105

. place, and I kept the anniversary of my landing here with the samejhankfulness
to God for His mercies as at first. The rainy season was in the meantime upon
me, when I kept more within doors than at other times. I had stowed our new
vessel as secure as I could, bringing her up into the creek, where I made my

. man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold her, and when the tide was
out, we made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the water out. Thus
we waited for the months of November and December, in which I designed to
make my adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, I was preparing daily for the
voyage, and the first thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions,
being the stores for our voyage; and intended, in a week or a fortnight's time,
to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon
something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore,
and see if he could find a turtle or'a tortoise, a thing which we generally got
once a week, for the sake of the eggs, as well as the flesh. Friday had not been
gone long when he came running back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence,
like one that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet'on'; and before I had
time to speak to him, he cries out to me, "0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow!
0 bad!" "What's the matter, Friday?" said I. -"Oh! yonder, there," says
he; "one two, three canoes; one, two, three!" "Well, Friday," says I, "do
not be frighten ." I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared, for nothing
ran in his head but that they were come back to look for him, and would cut him

' in pieces, and eat him. Said I, "Friday, we must resolve to fight them. Can
you fight, Friday P" " Me shoot," says he; " but there come many great number."
" N o matter for that," said I, again; "our guns will fright those we do not kill."
So I asked him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me, and
stand by me, and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me die, when you bid die,
master." I made him take the two fowling-pieces and load them with large
swan-shot as big as small pistol-bullets. Then I took four muskets, and loaded
them with two slugs and five small bullets each; and my two pistols I loaded

' \
I

s
with a brace of bullets each. I hung my great sword by my side, and gave
Friday his hatchet. When I had thus prepared myself, I took my persepective
glass, and went up to the side of the hill, to see what I could discover; and I
found quickly by my glass that there were one-and;twenty savages, three
prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole business seemed to be the
triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies. I observed also that they
landed not where they hidden when Friday made-his escape, but nearer to
my creek, where the shore was low, and where a thick wood came close almoat
down to the sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these
wretchas came about, filled me with such indignation that I resolved to go
down to them, and kill them all.

In this bit of fury I took first and divided the arms, which I had charged, be-
tween us. I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and threeguns upon I
his shoulder, and I took one pistol, and the other three myself; and in this
posture we marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave
Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets. I made acircle to my right
hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, so that
I might come within shot of them before I should be discovered.

While I was making this march, my former thoughts returning, I began to
ask myself what occasion, much less what necessity, I was in to go and dip my
hands in blood, to attack people who, as to me, were innocent, and whose bar-
barous customs were their own disaster, being in them a token, indeed, of God's
having left them to such inhuman courses, but did not call me to take upon me '
to be a judge of their actions, much less an executioner of His justice. These
things were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that I
resolved I would only go and place myself near them that I'might observe their
barbarous feast, and that I would act then as. God should direct.

With this resolution I entered the wood, and marched till I came to the skirt
of the wood on the side which was next to them. Here I called softly to Friday,
and showing him a great tree which was just at the corner of the wood, I bade
him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could see there plainly what they
were doing. He did so, and came immediately back to me, and told me that
they were all about their fire eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that
another lay bound upon the sand 9. little from them, whom he said they would
kill next. He told me he was not one of their nation, but one of the bearded
men whom he had told me of, that came to their country in the boat, and this
fired the very soul Vwithin me. ,

There was another tree, which, by going a little way about, I saw I might
come at undiscovered, and that then I should be within half a shot 'of them.
So going back about twenty paces, I got behind some bushes,'which held all the
way till I came to the other tree, and then came to a little rising ground, which
gave me a full view of them at the distance of about eighty yards.

I had now "not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful wretches sat on
the ground, all closehuddled together, and had just sent the other two to butcher
the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to their fire, and they
were stooping down to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday; "Now,
Friday," said I, " do exactly as you see me do; fail in nothing." So I set down
one of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did the
like by his, and with the other musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding
him do the like; then, asking him if he was ready, he said, '"Yes." 'fThen
fire at them," said I; and at the same moment I fired also.

Friday killed two of; them, and wounded three more; and I killed one, and
wounded two. They were you may be sure, in a dreadful consternation. I
threw down the piece, and took up the fowling piece, and Friday did the like.
"Are you' ready, Friday?" said I. "Yes," says he. "Let fly, then," said I,
" in the name of God!" and with that I fired again among the amazed wretches,
and so did Friday; and so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling and
screaming like mad creatures. .

I rushed out of the wood and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot.
I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too, and running- as fast as
I could, I made directly towards the poor victim, who was lying upon the beach.
The two butchers who were just going to work with him had jumped into a
canoe, and three more of the rest made the'same way. I turned to Friday,
and bade him step forwards and fire at them.

While Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife and cut the rushes that
bound the poor victim; and loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up He
was so weak and faint he could scarcely stand or speak. I took my bottle out
of my pocket, and gave it him, making signs that he should drink, which he did;
and I gave him a piece of bread, which he ate. Then Iasked him what coun- >>
tryman he was, and he said Espagnole ; and being a, little recovered, let me know,
by all the signs he could possibly make, how much he was in debt for his de-
liverance. "Seignior," said I, with as much Spanish as I could make up, "we
will talk afterwards, but we must fight now; if you have any strength left, take
' this pistol and sword, and lay about you." He took them very thankfully;
and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigor
into him, he flew upon his murderers like a_ fury, and had out two of them in
pieces in an instant. 7

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, and called to Friday, and
bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms
which lay there that had been discharged, which he did with great swiftness;
and then giving him my musket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again,
and bade them come to me when they wanted. While I was loading these
pieces, there happened a fierce engagement between the Spaniard and one of
the savages, who made at him with one of their great wooden swords. The
Spaniard had fought this Indian 9. good while, but the savage being a stout,
lusty fellow, had thrown him down, being faint, and'was wringing my sword
out of his hand; when the Spaniard wisely quitted the sword, drew the pistol
from his girdle, shot the savage through the body, and killed him upon the

spot.
Friday, being now left his liberty, pursued the flying wretches, with no weapon

'c ,
in his hand but his hatchet; and with that he dispatched all he could come up
with; and the Spaniard coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling--
pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and wounded them both;
but, one of them plunged himself into the sea, and swam with all his might off
to the two who were in the canoe; which three in the canoe, with one wounded,
that we knew not whether he died or no, were all that escaped our hands, of
one-and-twenty. '

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gunshot, and Friday
would fain have had me take one of their canoes, and pursue them; and, indeed,
I was very anxious about their escape, lest;carrying the news home to their
people, they should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of the canoes,
and devour us by mere multitude; so I consented to pursue them by sea, and
running to one of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me; but
when I was in the canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature lie
there,'bound hand and foot.

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had bound him with,
and would have helped him up; but he could not stand or speak. When Friday
came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and
pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a dram; which, with the
news of his being delivered, revived him, and he sat .up in the boat. But when
Friday came to hear him speak, and look in his face, it would have moved any
one to tears to see, how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried,
laughed, hallooed, and jumped about like a distracted creature. It was a good
while before I could make him tell me what was the matter, but when he
came a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what filial affection
had worked in this poor savage at the sight of his'father, and of his being de-
livered from death; nor, indeed, can I describe half the extravagance of his

. afiection after this; for he went into the boat, and out of the boat,.a great many
times: when he went in to him, he would sit down by him, open his breast, and
hold his father's head. close to his bosom half an hour together, to nourish it;
then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed and'stiff with the bind-
ing and chafed and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving what the
case was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with, which did them
a great deal of good.

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other savages,
and it was happy for us that it did, for it blew so hard within two hours after,
that I could not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached their
own coast. '

But to return to Friday. I asked him iflhe had given his father any" bread.
He shook his head, and said, "None; ugly dog eat all up self." I then gave
him a cake of bread, out of a little pouch I carried on purpose. I had in my
pocket two or three bunches of raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his
' father. He had no sooner given his father these raisins, but I saw him come

out'of the boat, and run away as if he had been bewitched. In a quarter of an
hour I saw him come back again, though not so fast as he went; and,' as he
came nearer, I found he had been quite home for on earthen jug, or pot, to bring
his father some fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes of bread: the
bread he gave me, but,the water he carried to his father.
When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was any water
_ left; he said "Yes;" and I bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, and I sent one
of the cakes, that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very
weak, and was reposing himself upon a green place under the shade of a tree;
and whose limbs were also very stiff. I went to him and gave him a handful of
, raisins: he looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulmss
that could appear in any countenance; but was so weak, that he could not stand
upon his feet; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles with
rum, as he had done his father's. '
I then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could, and lead
him to the boat, and then he should carry him to-our dwelling, where I would
. take care of him. But Friday, a lusty young fellow, took the Spaniard quite
up on his back, and carried him away to the boat, and then lifted him quite in,
and set him, close to his father; and presently stepping out again, launched the
boat OE, and paddled it along the shore till he brought them both safe into our
creek, and leaving them in the boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. He
had itin the creek aliiiostas soon as Igotto itbyland,andthen I madeakind
of hand-barrow to lay our guests on, and Friday and I carried them up both
together upon it between us.

But when we got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, it was im-
possible to get them over; so I set to work, and Friday and I, in about two hours'
time, made a tent, covered with old sails, in the space without our outward
fence; and here we made them two beds. As soon as I had given my two weak,
rescued prisoners a place to rest them upon, I began to think of making some
provision for them. I ordered Friday to kill a yearling goat, and cutting off
the hinder quarter, and chopping it.into small pieces, I made them a very good
dish of flesh and broth. I carried it all into the new tent, and having set a

' table there for them, I sat down, and ate my own dinner also with them, and,

as well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them. Friday was my inter-

preter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard
spoke the language of the savages pretty well.

I set Friday to inquire of his father what he thought of the escape of the
savages in that canoe, and whether we might expect a return of them, witha
power too great to resist. His first opinion was, that the savages in the boat
never could live out the atom which blew that night they went off; but as to
what they would do if they came on shore, it was his opinion that they were so
dreadfully frightened with the manner of their being attacked, the noise and
the fire, that he believed they would tell the people they were all killed by thun-
der and lightning, not by the hand of man. And this old savage was in the
right; for, as I understood since, by other hands, the savages never attempted
to go over to the island afterwards; they were so terrified with the accounts
given by those four men (for it seems they did escape the see), that they believed
whoever went to that enchanted island would be destroyed with fire from the
gods. (_ .

In a little time, I began to take my former thoughts of a voyage to the main
into consideration; being assured, by Friday's father, that I might depend upon '
good usage from their nation, on his account, if I would go. But my thoughts
were a little suspended when I had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and
when I understood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen and Portu-
guese. who, having been cast away and made their escape to that side, lived
there at peace, indeed, with the savages, but were very sore put to it for neces-
saries, and, indeed, for life.

I asked him if they had formed no design of making any escape. He said
they had many consultations about it; but having neither vessel, nor tools to
build one, nor provisions of any kind, their councils always ended in tears and
despair. I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal from me,
which might tend towards an escape; and whether, if they were all here, it
might not be done. I was persuaded, I said, that we might, with so many
hands, build a bark large enough to carry us-all away. I told him with free-
dom, I feared mostly their treachery and ill-usuage of me, if I put my life in
their hands; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor
did men always square their dealings by the obligations they had received, so
much as they did by the advantages they expected.

He answered that their condition was so miserable, and that they were so
sensible of it, that he believed they would abhor the thought of using any man
unkindly that should contribute to their deliverance; and that, if I pleased,
he would go to them, with the old man, and discourse with them about it and
return again, and bring me their answer; that he would make conditions with
them upon their solemn oath, that they they should be absolutely under my
direction, as their commander and captain; and be guided wholly and absolutely
by my orders, till they were landed safely in such'country as I intended; and that
 

(""7502 00)"!!!an WITH THE SPANIABD

he would bring a contract from them, under their hands, for that purpose.
Upon those assurances, I resolved to venture to relieve them, if possible, and
to send the' old savage and this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when we
had got all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started an objection
which had so much prudence in it that I could not but be very well satisfied
in it; and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half114 seamsoN cannon

a year. The case was thus: he saw what stock of corn and rice I had laid up;
which was not sufficient, without good husbandry, for my family, now it was
increased to four; and much less would it be suficient if his countrymen should
come over. So he told me he thought it would be more advisable to let him
and the other two dig and cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare
seed to sow, and that we should wait another harvest, that we might have a
supply of corn for. his countrymen, when they should come.

His advice was so good, that I could not but be Very well pleased with his
proposal, as well as satisfied with his fidelity; so we fell to digging, all four of
us, and in about a month's time, we had got as much land cured and trimmed
up as we sowed twcraud-twenty bushels of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice.

While waiting for the harvest, I marked out several trees which I thought fit
for our work, and I set Friday. and his father to cut them down. I showed
them with what pains I had hewed a large tree into a single plank, and I caused
them to do the like, till they had made about a dozen large planks of good oak.
At the same time, I contrived to increase my little stock of tame goats as much as
I could; and the season for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such a pro-
digious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that we could have filled sixty or
eighty barrels.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it was not the most plentiful
increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was enough to answer our end,
though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me. So now, having
a full supply of food for all the guests expected, the Spaniard and the old savage
went away in one of the canoes which they were brought in, when they came
as prisoners to be devoured by the savages. I gave them provisions of bread,
. and of dried grapes, sufficient for themselves for many days, and suficient for
all the Spaniards for about eight days' time; and wishing them a good voyage, .
I saw them go, agreeing with them about a signal they should hang out at their
return, by which I should know them again when they came back, at a distance,
before they came on shore.
It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a strange and
unforseen accident intervened. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning,
when Friday came running into me, and called aloud, " Master, master, they are
come, they are come!" Upon' which, regardless of danger, I jumped up, put
on my clothes, and hurried through my little grove; when, looking toward the
sea, I saw a boat about a league and a half distant, standing n for the shore,
with the wind fair. I observed that they did not come from the side on which
the land lay, but from the southernmost end of the island. I bade Friday to
lie still, for these were not the people we looked for. Then I climbedtothe
top of the hill to take a better view. With the help of my perspective glass, I
plainly discovered a ship lying at anchor at about two leagues and a half distance
from me. It seemed to be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an Eng-
lish long-boat.

The' Joy of seeing a ship was such as I cannot describe, and yet some secret .
doubts hung about me--I cannot tell from whence they came--bidding me
keep on my guard. It was not long before I saw the boat draw near the shore,
as if they looked for a. place where they might conveniently land; and at last
they ran their boat on shore upon the beach at about a half a mile from me.
Now I was fully satisfied they were Englishmen, in all eleven men, three of
whom were unarmed and 'bound. When the first four or five jumped on shore,
they took these three out of the boat as prisoners; and one of the three, I could
perceive, used the most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and despair,
while the other two showed great concern.

I knew not the meaning of this'sight, and was greatly perplexed. Friday
called out to me, "0 master! you see English mans eat prisoner as well as
savage mans." " Why, Friday," says I, "do you think-they are going to eat
them then ?" "Yes," says Friday, "they will eat them." "No, no," says I,
"Friday; I am afraid they will murder them, indeed; but you may be sure they
will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, but stood tremb-
ling with the horror of the sight, expecting every moment when the three prison-
ers should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains lift up his arm with a
great sword, to strike one of the poor men. After I had, observed the out-
rageous usage of the three men by the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows
run scattering about the land, as if they wanted to see theicountry. I observed
also that the other men had liberty to go where they pleased; but they sat down
all three upon the ground very pensive, and looked like men in despair.

It was at the top of high water when these people came on shore; and while
they rambled about, the water ebbed considerably away, leaving their boat
aground. When they attempted to launch her, they found it past their strength,
and I heard one of them say aloud to another, calling them ofi' from the boat,
"Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you P she'll float next tide." I knew it was
no less than ten hours before the boat could float again, and by that time it
would be dark, and I might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear
their discourse, if they had any. In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a
battle, as before, though with more caution, knowing that I had to do with
another kind of enemy than I had at first. i

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt till it was
dark; but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found they were all
gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, were all lain down to sleep.
The three poor distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get any sleep,
had, however, sat down under the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of
a mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any ofgthe rest. Upon this
I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn something of their condition;
immediately I marched, my man Friday at a good distance behind me. I came,
. as near them undiscovered as I could, and then, before any of them saw me, I
called aloud to them in'Spanish, i" What are ye, gentlemen?" They started
up at the noise, but were ten times more confounded when they saw me, and the
uncouth figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but I thought I
perceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them in English:honmsoN cannon: I i 117

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Gentlemen," said I, "do not be surprised at me; perhaps you may have a
friend near, when you did not expect it." "He must be sent directly from
heaven, then,"' said one of them very gravely to me, "for our condition in put
the help of man." "All help is from heaven, sir," said I: "but can you put a
stranger in the way to help you? for you seem to be in some great distress. I
saw you when you' landed; and when you seemed to make application to the
brutea' that came with you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you."
The poor man looked like one astonished, and returned, "Am I talking to
God, or man P Is it a real man, or an angel?" "Be in no fear about that,
sir," said I; " if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come better
clothed, and armed after another manner than you see me in; pray lay aside
your fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you; you see I
have one serVant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we
serve you? What is your case?" "Our case, sir," said he,."is too long to
i tell you, while our murderers are so near us; but, in short, sir, I was commander
of that ship; my men have mutinied against me; they have been hardly prevailed
on not to murder me, and, at last, have set me on shore in this desolate place,
with these two men with me--one my mate, the other a passengerfwhere we
expected to peris ." "Where are your enemies?" said I; "do you notiknow
where they are gone P" "There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of
trees; "my heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and heard you speak; if
they have, they will certainly murder us all. "Have they any fire-arms ?" said
I. He answered, "They had only two pieces, one of which they left'in theboa "
"Well then," said I, "leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep; it is an easy
thing to kill them all; but shall we rather take them prisoners P" He told me
there were two desperate villains among them that it was scarce safe to show
any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the rest would return to
their duty. I asked him which they were. He told me he could not at that
distance distinguish them, but he would obey my orders in anything I would
direct. "Well," says I, "let us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they
awake, and we will resolve further." So they willingly went back with me till
the woods covered us from them. .

" Look you, sir," said I; " if I venture upon your deliverance, are you willing
to make two conditions with me?" He anticipated my proposals by telling
me that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly directed and com-
, manded by me in'everything. "Well," said I, "my conditions are but two:

first--that while you stay on this island with me, you will not pretend to any
authority here; secondly,----that if the ship is recovered, you will carry me and
my man to England passage free."

He gave me all the assurance that a man could devise that he'would comply
with those most reasonable demands. "Well, then," said I, "here are three
muskets for you, with powder and ball; tell me next what you think is proper
to he done." He offered to be wholly guided by me, and I told him I thought
the best method was to fire on them at once as they lay, and if any were not
. killed at the first volley, and offered to submit, we might save them. He said
that he was loath to kill them, if he could help it; but that those two were incor-
rigible villains, and if they escaped, we should be undone still, for they would
go on board and bring the whole ship's company, and destroy us all.

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, and soon after
we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him if either of them were the men
who he had said were the heads of the mutiny. He said," No. " " Well, then,"
said'I, "you may- -let them escape. Now, if the rest escape you, it' Is your fault."
The two men who were with him then made some noise, at which one of the
_ seamen, who was awake, turned about, and seeing them coming, cried out to

. the restgbut it was too late then, for the moment he cried out, they fired--I mean
the two men, the captain wisely reservinghis piece. They had so well aimed
their shot at the men they knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and
the other very much wounded; but not being dead, he started up on his'feet,
and called eagerly for help to the other; but the captain, stepping to him, told
him it was too late to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive his villainy,
and with that word knocked him down with the stock of his musket, so that
he never spoke more: there were three more in the company, and one of them
was slightly wounded. By this time I was come; and when they saw their
danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged for mercy. The captain
told them he would spare their lives if they would swear to be faithful to him
in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from
whence they came. They gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that
could be desired; and he was willing to believe them, and spare their lives,
which I was not against. only I obliged him to keep them bound hand and
foot while they were upon the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's mate to the boat, with
orders to secure her, and bring away the oars and sails, which they did; and by
and by three straggling men, that were (happily for them) parted from the rest.
came back upon hearing the guns fired; and seeing the captain, who before
was their prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be bound also; and
so our victory was complete. ~

It now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one another's
circumstances. I began first, and told him my whole history, which he heard
with an attention even to amazement. After this communication was at an
end, I carried him and his two men into my apartments, where I refreshed him
with such provision as I had, and showed them all the contrivances I had
made during my long, long inhabiting that place.

I told him this was my castle and my residence, but that I had a seat in the
country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I
would show him that too another time; but at present our business was to con-
sider how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that,'but told me he was
perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there were still six-and-twenty
hands on board, who, having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which they
had all forfeited their lives to the law, would be'hardened in it now by despera-
tion, and would carry it on, knowing that if they were subdued they should be
brought to the gallows as soon as they came to England, or to any of the English
colonies, and that, therefore, there would be no attacking them with so small a
number as we were. '

I mused for some time upon what he said, and found it was a very rational
conclusion, and that therefore something was to be resolved on' very speedily,
as well to draw the men on board into some snare for their surprise, as to prevent
their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon this, it presently occurred
to me that in a little while the ship's crew, wondering what was become of their
comrades and of the boat, would certainly come on shore in their other boat to
look for them, and that then, perhaps, they might come armed, and be too
strong for us: this he allowed to be rational. Upon this, I told him the first
thing we had to do was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that
they might not carry her off, and taking everything out of her, leave her so far
useless as not to be fit to swim. Accordingly we went on board, took the arms
which were left on board out 'of her, and knocked a great hole in her bottom.
Then we heaved the boat upon the beach, so high that the tide would not float
her off at high water mark. Presently we heard the ship fire a gun, and make-
a waft with her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on-board; but no boat
stirred; and they fired several times, making other signals for the boat. At
last, when all their signals and firing proved fruitless, and they found the boat
did not stir, we saw them, by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out, and
row towardsthe shore; and we found, as they approached, that there were no
less than ten men in her, and that they had fire-arms with them.

The captain lmew the persons and characters of all the men in the boat, 'of
whom, he said, there were three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led
into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as
for the boatswain, who it seems was the chief oflicer among them, and all the
rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew.

We had, upon the first appearance of the boats coming from the ship, con-
sidered of separating our prisoners; and had, indeed, secured them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary, I sent with
Friday and one of the three delivered men to my cave, where they left them'
bound. The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept pinioned,
indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them; but the other two were
taken into my service, upon the captain's reeominendation, and upon their
solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so with them and the three honest
men we were seven men, well armed; and I made no doubt we should be able
to deal well enough with the ten that were coming, considering that the captain
had said there were three or four honest men among them also. As soon as
they got to the place where their other boat lay, they ran their boat into the
beach and came all on shore, hauling the boat up after them.

Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their other boat; and
it was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find her stripped, as above.
of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom. After they had mused
a while upon this, they set up two or three shouts, hallooing with all their might.
to try if, they could make their companions hear; but all was to no purpose:
then they fired a volley of their small anns. They were so astonished at re-
ceiving no answer to this, that, as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go
all on board again to their ship, and let them know that the men were all mur-
dered, and the long-boat staved; accordingly, they immediately launched their .
boat again, and got all of them on board.

They had not been long put ofi with the boat, when we perceived them all
coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their conduct, which it
seems they consulted together upon, viz., to leave three men in the boat, and the
rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to look for their fellows. The
seven men came on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her 03
to a good distance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so
that it was impossible for us to come at them in the boat. Those that came
on shore kept close together, marching towards the top of the little hill under
which my habitation lay. When they were come to the brow of the hill where
they could see a. great way into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the
north-east part, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed
till they were weary: and not caring, it seems, to venture far from the shore, they
sat down together, under a tree, to consider of it. -

At length, we saw them all start up, and march down towards the seal: it
seems they had such dreadful apprehensions of the danger of the place, that
they resolved to go on board the ship again, give their companions over for lost,
and so go on with their intended voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I imagined it to be as it
really was, that they were for going back again; and the captain, as soon as I
told him my thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehension of it: but I present-
ly thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and which answered my
end to a tittle. I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little
creek Westward, and halloo out, as loud as they could, and that as soon as they
heard the seamen answer them, they should return it again; and, then keeping
out of sight, take a round, always answering when the others hallooed, to draw
them far into the island, and then wheel about again to me by such ways as I

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate hallooed; and
they presently heard them, and, answering; ran along the shore towards the
voice they heard, when they were presently stopped by the creek, where, the
water being up, they could not get over, and called for the boat to come up and
set them over; as, indeed, I expected. When they had set themselves over, I
observed that they took one of the three men out of her, to go along with them,
and left only two in the boat. This was what I wished for; and I took the rest
with me, and crossing the creek, we surprised the two men before they were
aware. One of them was not so hearty in the mutiny as the rest of the crew;
and, therefore, was easily persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to join
very sincerely with us. In the meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so well
managed their business with the rest that they drew them on till they left them,
where they could not reach back to the boat before it was dark.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in the dark, and to fall
upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It was several hours after
Friday came back to me before they came back to their boat; and we could hear
the foremost of them complain how lame and tired they were; which was very
welcome news to us. At length they came up to the boat; but it was impossible
to express their confusion when they found their boats fast aground in the creek,
the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. We could hear them call to one
another in the most lamentable manner, telling one another they were got into
an enchanted island; that they should all be murdered, or else carried away
and devoured. After some time, we could see them by the little light there was,
running about, wringing their hands like men in despair. My men would'fain
have had me give them leave to fall upon them at once in the dark; but to make
sure of them, Iordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their hands and
feet, as close as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.

They had not been long in that posture, when the hoatswain, who was the
principal ringleader of the mutiny, came walking towards them, with two more
of the crew; and the-captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly at them.
The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man was shot in the body,
and fell just by him, though he did not die till an hour or two after; and the"
third ran for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my
whole army, and I made the man they had left in the boat, and who was now
one of us, call them by name, to try if I could bring them to a parley. So he
calls out as loud as he could to one of them, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom
Smith answered immediately, " Who's that? Robinson?" for it seems he knew
the voice, The other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw
down your arms and yield, or you are all dead men this momen ." " Who
must we yield to? Where'are they ?" says Smith again. "Here they are,"

' says he; "here's our captain and fifty men with him, have been hunting you
these two hours; the boatswain is killed, Will Frye is wounded, and I am a
prisoner; and if you do not yield, you are all lost." "Will they give us quarter
then P" says Tom Smith, "and we will yield." "I'll go and ask, if you promise
to yield," said Robinson: so he asked the captain; and the captain himself calls
out, " You, Smith, you know my voice; if you lay down your arms immediately,
and submit, you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins."

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, captain, give me quarter;
what have I done? They have been all as bad as 1:" which, by the way, was
not true; for, it seems, this Will Atkins was the first man that laid hold of the
captain, when they first mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying his hands
and giving him injurious language. However, the captain told him he must
lay down his arms at discretion, and trust to the governor's mercy: by which
he meant me, for they called me governor. In a word, they all laid down their
arms, and begged their lives; and I sent the man that had parleyed with them,126 ROBINSON 0313503

and two more, who bound them all; and then my great army of fifty men, which,
with those three, were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them, and upon
their boat: only that I kept myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of
state.

I ordered Atkins and two more of the worst of them to be confined separately
from the others, and in the morning the captain entered into a parley with these
latter, saying that though the governor had given them quarter for the present,
yet if they were sent to England they would all be hanged; but that if they would
join in an attempt to recover the ship, he would have the governor's engagement
for their pardon.

Any one may guess how such a proposal would be received by men in their
position; they fell down on their knees to the captain, and promised, with the
deepest imprecations, that they would be faithful to him to the last drop, and
would go with him all over the world.

We now made our arrangements for the expedition. The captain furnished
his two boats, stopped the breach of one, and manned them. That we might
be very secure, I told him to choose out five of the seven men of the gang last
captured, and tell them that the governor would keep the other two and the
three already confined, as hotages for the fidelity of the others, and that if they
proved unfaithful, the five hostages should be hanged in chains ashore. Friday
and I remained ashore to take charge of the prisoners, while the captain put his
passenger in command of one boat, with four men under him; and himself,
his mate, and five more, went in the other. The attack was made at midnight.
As soon as they came within call of the ship, the captain made Robinson hail
them, holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's side; when they entered
her, and completely surprised those on board. The rebel captain was shot
through the head, so that he never spoke a word more; upon which the rest
yielded, and the ship was taken effectually without any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven guns to be

' fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success.
Having heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it having been a day of
great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was something surprised with the
noise of a gun; and presently starting up, I heard a man calling me bythe name
of'" Governor! Governor!" and presently I lmew the captain's voice; when
climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and, pointing to the ship, he
embraced me in his arms.- "My dear friend and deliverer," says he, "there's
your ship; for she is'all yours, and so are we, and all that belongs to her." I
cast my eyes to the ship, and there she rode, within little more than half a mile
of the shore. I was at first ready to sink down with surprise; for I saw my
deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands, all things easy, and a large ship
just ready to carry me away whither I pleased to go. At first, for some time, I
was not able to answer one word; but as he had taken me in his arms, I held
fast by him, or I should have fallen to the ground. 'In a little while after, I
recovered my speech; then I took my turn, and embraced him as my deliverer.

Nothing remained now but to determine what to do with the prisoners, for
I found that the captain was uneasy about taking them on board, even bound
in irons as malefactors. I told him that I would undertake to bring them to
make it their own request that he should leave them upon the island. "I should
"be very glad of that," said he.

So I dressed myself in one of the captain's suits of clothes, and caused the
prisoners to be brought before me. I told them I'had got a full account of
their villainous behavior, and pointed out to them how Providence had ensnared
them in their own ways; that they thought that they had set the captain on
shore in a barren, uninhabited island, but it had pleased God so to direct them
that it was inhabited, and that the governor was an Englishman. I asked them
what they had to say why I should not execute them as pirates, as they could
not doubt I had authority to do. They said they had nothing to say but that
the captain had promised them their lives when they were taken, and they
implored for mercy. I told them I had resolved to take passage with the
captain to go to England; and as for him, he could carry them only as prisoners
 

TEE CAPTAIN HUNG A'l' TH? YARD-ARI

to be tried for mutiny, the penalty for which would be the gallows. The only
way that I'could see by which they might escape thisfate was for them to remain
on the island. If they desired that, I had some inclination to give them their
lives, it they thought they could shift on shore. They said they would much
rather venture to remain there than be carried to England to be hanged, and
seemed thankful to have the liberty of choosing.

I told the captain I would stay that night to prepare my things, and desired
him to go on board the ship; telling him to cause the new captain, who was
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might see him.
When this had been done, I sent again for the men, and talked with them
seriously of their circumstances. I showed them the new captain hangingat
the yard-arm, and told them that they had nothing less than that to expect if
they were carried to England. When they had all declared their willingness
to stay, I told them my whole story, charging them to be kind to the Spaniards
that were expected, giving them all my arms and informing them of everything
necessary for their subsistence.

Having done all this, I went on board ship the next day, Friday going with
me." We prepared to sail, but did not weigh anchor that night. The next '
morning early, two of the five men came swimming to the ship's side, desiring
the captain to take them on board, even though he hanged them afterwards,
so barbarously had the other three used them. Upon which I prevailed upon
the captain to take them in, and being severely whipped, they proved more
honest for the future. Thus I bade farewell to this island, carrying along with
me my money, my parrot, umbrella, and goat's skin cap; setting sail December
the 19th, 1686, after ,twenty eight years, two months, and nineteen days'
residence, that same day and month that I escaped from Sallee. I landed in Eng-
land, June 11, 1687, after five-and-thirty years absence from my country,
which rendered me altogether a stranger there.

I found my first captain's widow alive, but in very poor circumstances. Soon
after, I went down to Yorkshire, where I found that all of my family had died,
except two sisters, and two of the children. of one of my brothers. I learned
that no provision had been made for me, as it was concluded that I had long
, since been dead. Thus it appeared that my circumstances would be very poor.
for the little money I had would not do much for me as to settling me in the
world. _

I resolved to go to Lisbon, to see if I might not come by some information
of the state of my plantation in the Brazils. Taking shipping for that port, .
I arrived there in April following, my man Friday accompanying me, and
proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions.
When I came to Lisbon, I found out my old friend, the ship captain who-
first took me up at sea OR the coast of Africa. When I inquired after my plant-
ation and former partner, the old man told me that my partner was living, and
that he believed I would have a very good account of the plantation, as my
partner had grown exceedingly rich upon enjoying but one-half of it.

My old friend put me in the way of a method of making my claim to my
plantation without going overto it myself. My partner had conducted affairs
in the most honorable mannerduring my absence, and I found myself pos-
sessed of PS50,000, besides an income of PS1,000 a year.

Having settled my affairs, and shown my gratitude to my excellent friend
the captain by settling on him a yearly allowance of money suflicient to support
him, I was ready to return to England. I had a strong aversion to going by
sea at that time, and resolved to travel all the way by land, except from Calais
to Dover.

I met an English gentleman who was willing to travel with me, and we picked
up two more English merchants, and two young Portuguese gentlemen, so that
in all there were six of us. besides five servants, including Friday. '

When we came to the mountains between Spain and France, so much snow
had fallen that it appeared hazardous to pass over. We found a guide, however,
who told us that he could take us by such ways that there would be no danger
from the snow, although there might be from wild beasts, unless we were armed
suficiently to protect ourselves. We were well enough prepared for such
creahrres, and readily agrmd to follow him.

Our guide led us by such winding roads that we insensibly passed the height
of the mountains without being much encumbered with snow, and beginning
to descend upon the other side, we saw the green and flourishing provinces of
Languedoc and Gascony, though, indeed, at a great distance, and we had some
rough way to pass still.

It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being something before
us, and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after them a
hear, from a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood. Two of the wolves flew
upon the guide; one of .them fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked
the' man with such violence that he had not time or presence of mind enough to
draw his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday
being next me, I bade him ride up, and see what was the matter. As soon as
Friday came in sight of the man, he hallooed out as loud as the other, "0h,
master! Oh, master!" but like a bold fellow, rode directly up to the man. and
with his pistol shot the wolf, that attacked him, in the head.

When Friday had killed this wolf, the other that had fastened upon the horse
left him immediately, and fled. But the man was hurt; for the raging creature
had bitten him twice. It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we
all mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very difficult,
would give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon as we came clear of
the trees, which blinded us before, we saw plainly what had been the case, and
how Friday had disengaged the poor guide.

But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a surprising manner,
as that which followed between Friday and the bear, which gave us all, though
at first we were surprised and afraid for him, the greatest diversion imaginable.
Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to him, he was helping
him off from his horse, when on a sudden we aspied the bear come out of the
wood, and a vast, monstrous one it was, the biggest by far that ever I saw.
When Friday saw' him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's coun-
tenance. " Oh, oh, oh!" says Friday, three times, pointing to him; "Oh, master!
you give me te leave, me shakee te hand with him; me makee you good laugh."

I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased: " You fool," said I, "he will eat
you up.",--"Eatee me up! eatee me up!" says hiday, twice over again; "me
eatee him up; me makee you good laugh; you all stay here, me show you good
laugh." So down he sits, and gets his boots off in a moment, and puts on apair
of pumps (as we call the flat shoes they wear, and which he had in his pocket),

' gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun away he flew, like the Wind.Contains
unnumbered
and
misnumbered
pages
The bear was walking softly on, and ofl'ered to meddle with nobody, till
Friday came pretty near, calls to him, as if the bear could understand him.
" Hark ye, hark ye," says Friday, "me speakee with you." We followed at a
distance, for now being come down to the Gascony side of the mountains,
we were entered a vast, great forest, where the country was plain and pretty ,
open, though it had many trees in it scattered here and there. Friday, who had,
as we say, the heels of the bear, came up with him quickly, and took up a great
stone, and threw it at him, and hit him just on the head, but did him no more
harm than if he had thrown it against a wall; but it answered Friday's end, for;
the rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely to make the bear follow him,

' and show us some laughras he called it. As soon as the bear felt the stone,
and saw him, he turns about, and comes after him. Away runs Friday, and takes
his course as if he ran towards us for help. So we all resolved to fire
upon the bear, and deliver my man. Though I Was angry at him heartily for
bringing the bear back upon us, I called out, "Is this your making us laugh?
Come away, and take your horse, that we may shoot the creature." He heard
me, and cried out, "No shoot, no shoot; stand still, you get much laugh;" and
as the nimble creature ran two feet for the beast's one, he turned on a sudden

I on one side of us, and seeing a great oak-tree fit for his purpose, he beckoned

'us to follow, and doubling his pace, he got nimbly up the tree, laying his gun
down upon the grounds The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a
distance. The first thing he did, he stopped at the gun, smelled at it, but let it
lie, and up he scrambles into the tree.

Friday got out to thesmall end of a large limb of the tree, and the bear'gotabout
half way to him. As soon as the bear got out to that part where the limb of
the tree was weaker--"Ha!" says he to us, " now you see me teachee the bear
dance;" so he began jumping and shaking the bough, at which the bear began
to hotter, but stood still, and began to look behind him, to see how he should
get back; then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. We thought now was a good time
to knock the bear on the head. and called to Friday to stand still, and we would
shoot; but he cried out earnestly, "0h, pray! oh, pray! no shoot, me shoot by
and then;" he would have said by-aiid-by. However, to shorten the story,
Friday danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing
enough indeed, but still could not imagine what the fellow would do. But
Friday put us out of doubt quickly: for he went out to the smaller end of the
bough where it would bend with his weight, and gently let himself down by it,
sliding down the bough till he came near enough to jump down on his feet, and
away he ran to his gun, took it up, and stood still. "Well," said I to him,
"Friday, what will you do now? Why don't you shoot him ?"----"No shoot,"
says Friday, "no yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you one more
laugh i" and, indeed, so he did, as you will see presently; for when the bear saw
his enemy gone, he came back from the bough where he stood, but did it very
cautiously, looking behind him every step, and coming backward till he got
into the body of the tree; then, with the same hinder end foremost, he came down
the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time, very leisurely.
At this juncture, and just before he could set his ~hind feet upon the ground,
Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear,
and shot him dead as a stone. Then the rogue turned about to see if we did
not laugh; and when he saw we were pleased, by our looks, he began to laugh
very loud.

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through France--
nothing but what other travellers have given an account of with much more
advantage than I can. I travelled to Paris, and without any considerable stay
came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the 14th of January, after having a
severe cold season to travel in.
. In a short time I had all my newly discovered estate safe about me, the bills

of exchange which I brought with me being very promptly paid. I took my
two nephews, the children of one of my brothers, into my care. The eldest,
having something of his own, I bred up as a gentleman; the other I placed with
the captain of a ship, and after five years, finding him a sensible, enterprising"080E MARRIED

young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent him to sea. This young
I fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures myself.
In the mean time, I married, and that neither to my disadvantage or dis-
satisfaction, and had three children, two sons and one daughter. I bought a
little farm in the county hof Bedford, and removed myself thither. It had a

convenient house upon it, and the land about it, I found, was capable of great
improvement.

Here I setttled down with my family, and led the life of a country gentleman.
My thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my servants, cultivating themaniac>>: mason

ground, enclosing, planting, and so forth; and I lived, as I thought, the most
agreeable life that nature was capable of affording.

But in the midst of this my happiness, I was suddenly plunged into the
greatest sorrow by the loss of my dear wife. She had been the stay of all my
affairs, and the centre of all my enterprises, and I was to the last degree deso-
late in the world by the loss of her. I was like a ship without a pilot that could
only run before the wind; my country delights had no longer a relish, and were
like music to one that has no ear, or food to one that has no taste. In a word,
I left my farm, and in a few months returned to London.

,When I came to London I was still as uneasy as I was before. I had nothing
to do but saunter about like an idleperson, and thiswas the sort of life which
was most specially my aversion. It was now the beginning of the year 1694;
and at this time one of my nephews who had been brought up to the sea,
and for whom I had obtained command of a ship, was returned from a voyage
to Bilboa. He came to me one morning, telling me that some merchants of his
acquaintance had proposed to him to go on a voyage for them to the East Indies
and China, in the manner of private traders, "and now, uncle," said he, " if
you'll go thither with me, I'll engage to land you upon your own island to see
the state of your little kingdom."

I had an irresistible desire for the voyage, and the scheme hit so exactly with
my temper, that I told him I would go with him. He was ready to sail about
the beginning of January 1694; and I, with my man Friday, went on board
on the 8th. We took along a considerable cargo of all kinds of things necessary
for my colony, and some workmen whom I proposed to place there as inhabi-
tants: viz., two carpenters, a smith, a tailor, and a very handy, Ingenious fellow
who was a general mechanic, whom we called our chk- of-all-Trades.

When we set sail we had a fair wind for some time, but one night the mate,
having the watch, told us he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun fired. At this
we all ran on deck, from whence we saw a great light, and as there was no land
that way, we knew it must be some ship on fire at sea, which could not be far
03, as we had heard the sound of the gun.
 

mama's rm A'l' WWII)

The wind being fair, we stood toward it, and in half an hour we could plainly
see that it was a great ship on fire in the middle of the sea. I immediately
' ordered that five guns should be fired, and we then lay by, waiting for daylight.
On a sudden,to our great terror,the ship blew upin the air;and in a few minutes
all the fire was out, and the resigpf the ship sunk. I caused lights to be hung
out, and we kept firing guns all night, to let the survivors, if there should be any,
know that help was not far off. At eight o'clock the next morning, we found
by the aid of our glasses, that two of the ship's boats were out at sea, both
thronged with people. They had seen us, and had done their utmost to make
us see them, and in half an hour we came up with them. We took them all
aboard, sixty-four persons in all.

On inquiry we found that it was a French ship. It would be hard to describe
the scene that took place when these poor people came on board. There were
some in tears, some raving like lunatics; some ran about stamping their feet,
others wringing their hands; some were singing and laughing, many quite dumb;
several were swooning, and others ready' to faint; a few were crossing them-
selves, and giving God thanks. . '

Among them there was a young French priest who labored to compose those
around him; persuaded, entreated, argued with them, and did him utmostto
keep them within the exercise of their reason; and with some he had success,
though others were for a time out of all control of themselves.

The next day they had calmed, and were quite another sort of people. We
began to consult with their captain what had best be done with them, and after
considering different plans, it was at last settled that we should take them to
Newfoundland. It was about a week after this that we made the banks of
Newfoundland, where, to shorten my story, we put the French people on board
a bark, which they hired there to carry them to France; that is, all except five
who, with the priest, wished to join me.

We had not set sail long, when we fell in with a ship that had been blown out
to sea by a storm, and had lost her masts, and worse than all, her crew were al-
most starved for want of provisions. The mate, who was in command, came
on board our ship, and brought six men with him. The poor wretches were so
weak that they could hardly sit to their cars. I ordered food to be given them,
and they rather devoured than ate it. I also forgot not the starving crew that
were left on board but sent them a supply of bread and meat.
 

mmmwonmnmorceuson'sm

There were a youth and a young girl, passengers in the ship, who, the mate '
said, he thought must be dead; but he had not had the heart to go near them,
E for he had nothing to relieve them with. I went aboard their ship, and found
they were faint for the want of PS000; and' at the very brink of death, but on being
fed carefully they soon recovered. At their own request, I took them on board
with us, so that now we had eight more on board than when we set out.

In three months from the time when I left home, I came fair on the south
side of my island, and brought the ship safe to an anchor, broadside with the
little creek where my old habitation was.

I called Friday and asked him if he knew where he was. He looked about a
little, and presently, clapping his hands, cried, "Oh, yes;oh, there--oh, yes; oh,
there!" and fell dancing and capering like a mad fellow;and I had much ado
to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim ashore to the place.

"Well, Friday," says I, "do you think we shall find anybody here P Do you
think we shall see your father ?" When I named his father, the poor affection-
ate creature looked dejected. "No, no; said he, shaking his head, "he long ago
die, long ago; he much old man." "But shall we see anyone else then?" I
said. He had better eyes than I, it seems, for he .pointed to the hill above my
house, and cried; "Yes, yes, me see much man there and there!" Ilooked, but
I saw nobody, but the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day;
and there were five or six men all together, who stood to look at the ship, not
knowing what to think of us.

As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused three guns to be fired,
to give them notice we were friends, and soon we perceived a smoke arise from
the side of the creek. I then went .on shore in a boat, with the priest and
Friday, and hung out a white flag of peace. The first man I fixed my eye upon
was the Spaniard whose life I had saved. I ordered nobody to leave the boat at
first but myself, but there was no keeping Friday on it, for he had spied his
father at a distance. It would have made any man shed tears to have seen this
poor fellow's joy when he came to his father. He kissed him, took him up in
his arms, sethim down by a tree, then stood and looked at him, as one would
look at a picture, and all the while he would be talking to him, and telling him
one story or another of his travels.
 

0317803 WW3!) B! THE SPANIABD

As to my friend, the Spaniard, whose life I had saved, he came attended by
one more. carrying a flag of truce also. He had no' notion of its being me till
I spoke to him. "Seignior," said I, "do you not know me?" Then he came
forward and embraced me, and took me to my old habitation; I could no
more have found the place than if I had never been there; for they had planted
so many bees, and these had grown so big, that the place was inacessible, except
by such winding as they themselves only, who made them, could find.

I inquired the reason for all these fortifications, _and he told me I would say
there was need enough of it, when they had given me an accountof how they
had passed their time since their arriving in the island.

He had sent the man who attended him to call his comrades, and thisman
now came with eleven more. My friend, pointing to them, said, "These gentle-
men, sir, all owe their lives to you ;" upon which they all came up to me, one by
one, not as if they had been sailors, and the like, but as if they had been noble-
men, and I a monarch receiving their homage.

Then there was along story to hear of all that had been done in the island
since I left it. But I must first tell of something that happened at the time of
my departure which I omitted in my previous account. When we were on the
point to set sail there happened a quarrel on board of our ship, which could not
be suppressed till we laid two of the most refractory fellows in irons. The next
day these two men stole each of them a musket and some other weapons, and
took the ship's pinnace and ran away with it to join their companion rogues
ashore. As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-boat on shore with twelve
men and-the mate, and away they went to seek the rogues; but they could find
neither them nor any of the rest, for they all fled into the woods when they saw
the boat. These two men made their number five; but the other three villains
were so much more wicked than they, that in two or three days they turned the
new-comers out of doors, nor could they, for a good while, be persuaded to give
them any food.

When the Spaniards came, the three gave them provisions, and other relief,
as I had ordered them to do, and they agreed very well for some time. The
Spaniards had to do all the work, however, while the Englishmen did nothing
but ramble about the island, shooting parrots and catching tortoises. The
 

TEE PIRATE FIRING THE m

Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the others but let them alone;
but like the dog in the manger, they would not eat themselves, neither would
they let others eat. Their differences were at first trivial, but at last it broke
out into open war, and went beyond the bounds of reason and conunon sense.
The Spaniards, when they first came, would have persuaded the three English
brutes to take their countrymen in again,'but they would not hear of it; so the
two lived by themselves, in huts which they built on the north shore of the
island. The Spaniards gave them some corn for seed, and some of the peas
I'had left them; and they dug, planted, and inclosed after the pattern I had set
for them all, and began to live pretty well.
But when the three rogues saw this, they came, in more bad humor, to insult '
and bully them. They said that the island was theirs, and that they should
build no houses on their land unless they would pay rent. The two men, think-
ing they were jesting at first, asked them to come in and sit down, and see what
fine houses they had built, and tell them what rent they demanded. But one
of the three said they should see they were not in jest, and taking a firebrand he
putit to the side of their hut, and would have set it on fire if one of the honest
man, as I shall call him for distinction, had not trod it out with his feet. The
fellow was in such a rage at this, that he ran at him with a pole he had in his
hand, and would have killed him if he had not run into the hut. His comrade
followed, and both seized their muskets and came out again. Before the other
two could help him, the fellow that began the quarrel was knocked down with
the stock of a musket, and then the two honest men stood together, and pre-
senting their pieces, bade the others stand 03. Then the others began to parley,
and at last consented to take their wounded man and begone.

They afterwards came back-and trod- down the corn, and shot the goats and
kids, and plagued them night and day in this manner. . One day, when the
two men were out, they- came and pulled down both huts, and tore up all their
household stuff, and, in a word, sacked and plundered everything as completely
as a. horde of Tartars would have done. Then they came back to the Spaniards,
and told them what they had done, and one of them, stepping up to one of the
Spaniards, insulted him grossly. ' The Spaniard was a brave man, and a strong
one as well, and having no weapon, knocked him down with a blow of his fist.
Therest of the Spaniards then interfered, secured the other two, and took the
arms from them. Then the fellows began to cool, and gave the Spaniards '
better words, but the Spaniards told them that if they would live peaceably they
would do them no harm, but that they could not have their arms again.

The fellows went raving away, and for five days wandered about the woods.
But at the end of that time, the vagrants came back almost starved, and begged
to be received again into the family. They were told that they must first gomonmson 'CBUSOB - 147

 

m VAGRAN'N'XN THE WOODS

and rebuild the huts they had destroyed, and repair as far as possible the other
damage they had done. They submitted to this, and were orderly for a while.
After a month or two, the Spaniards gave them arms again, and it was not above
a week after they had these arrhs before they were as insolent and troublesome
as ever. An accident happened presently, however, which endangered the
safety of all, and they were obliged to lay aside private grudges and look to the
preservation of their lives.
It happened one night that the Spanish governor, as I shall call him--that
is, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and who was now leader of the rest--
found himself uneasy and could get no sleep; though he was perfectly well in
health. He lay still for some time, but as he did not feel at ease, he got up and
took a look out. But as it was too dark to see far, and he heard no noise, he
returned and laid him down again; but it was all one, he could not sleep; his
thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and he knew not for what.

The noise he made waked up another of them, whom the governor told how

- it had been with him. "Say you so P" said he. "What if some mischief were
brewing near us! Let us go and look abroad." They then set off to the top
of the hill where I used to go, and from thence were surprised with seeing a
light as of fire, and hearing the voices of a great number of men.

The governor and the man with him, surprised at this sight, ran back im-
mediately and raised their fellows, and when they heard the news, they could not
be persuaded to stay within, but must all run out to see how things. stood. They
were in great perplexity what to do, but at last resolved to send the old savage,
Friday's father, out as a spy, while it, was still dark, to learn who they were and

-what they meant to do. After he had been gone an hour or two, he brought
word that he had been among them undiscovered; that they were of two nations,
who were at war with one another, and had had a battle in their own country;
and that both sides had come, by mere chance, with their prisoners, whom they
intended to devour, to the same place. He believed that they would have
another battle as soon as it was daylight; and so it was, for in a short time we
could perceive, by the noise, that the two little armies were engaged in a bloody
fight.

The battle went on for two hours; and then that party which was nearest our
people's habitation began to appear weakest, and some of them took to flight.
This put our men into great consternation, lest any of them should discover
their place. It fell out as they feared, for three of the routed army ran directly
into the grove in front of the wall. Our men observed, to their great satisfac-
tion, that the conquerors had not pursued them. Upon this, the Spaniard.
governor, a. man of humanity, would not suffer them to kill the three fugitives;
but ordered them to take them prisoners, which was done. The remainder
of the conquered people fled to their canoes and got off to sea. The victors
made little pursuit, but drawing themselves into a body gave two great scream-
ing shouts by way of triumph. The same day, about three o'clock in the after-
noon,-they also marched to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had the island
again free to themselves, their fright was over, and they saw no savages for
several years after.

The three savages that had been taken prisoners, being lusty, stout young
fellows, were made servants, and taught to work. As slaves they did well
enough, but measures were not taken with them such as I took with my man
Friday, to civilize them by kind usage and affectionate arguments. Some
time after they had been captured, one of them was the occasion of another
broil with the three Englishmen; one of whom,lbeing in a rage at the fellow
because he had not done something right which he bid him do, fell upon the
poor savage with a hatchet, not to correct'him, but to kill him. One of the
Spaniards, who was by, placed himself between the Englishman and the savage
to prevent mischief, which enraged the fellow the more, and he struck at the
Spaniard with his hatchet. This fray set the whole family in an uproar, and
the result was that the three turbulent Englishmen were disarmed and turned
out of the society to live where they would and how they could, by themselves.

About three quarters of a year after this separation, a whim took the three
reprobates that they would go over to the main land, whence the savages came,
to seek their fortunes. The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them,
and let them take one of the boats, and gave them arms, and provisions enough
for a. month. When they bade them "Ban veyajol" no man ever thought of
seeing them any more. But behold, after twenty-two days' absence, one of
the two honest Englishmen, being engaged in his planting work, sees three
strange men coming towards him with guns upon their shoulders. They proved
 

THE SPANIABD PRUI'MLNG THE SAVAGE

to be the three Wanderers, and gave an account of their voyage in a few words.
They said they had reached land in two days, and that the savages were very
courteous and friendly to them and that they gave them roots and dried fish
to eat, and were so kind as to press on them a gift of some prisoners whom
they Were feeding to make them-fat for the next feast. The Englishmen, bar-
barous as they were, did not care for a feast of this sort, but dared not refuse
the gift for fear of offending the savages, so they brought the prisoners back
with them--three men and five women.

The governor asked them what they intended to do with the women, and
how they intended to use them, whether as servants or wives. They answered
that they would use them as both, and the end of the matter was that the
, Englishmen, the two more honest ones included, took them every one a wife,
and the savage men were kept as slaves to do the harder kinds of work. To
avoid quarrelling, the Englishmen drew lots among them to decide which
should have first choice of the women for his wife. '

When they had settled this business, the men went to work, and the Spaniards
came and helped them; and in a few hours they had built them every one a new
hut or tent for their lodging apart; for those they had already were crowded
with their tools, household stuffs, and provisions. The three wicked ones had
pitched farthest off, and the two honest ones nearer, but both on the north shore
of the island, so that they continued separated as before: and thus my island
was peopled in three places.

As often happens in the world, the two honest fellows had the two worst wives;
and the three reprobates had three clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious wives;
not that the first two were bad wives, as to their temper or humor, for all the five
were most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather like slaves
than wives; but mymeaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious, or in-
dustrious, or alike cleanly and neat.

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they were much
civilized by their settlement compared to- what they were before, and were not
so quarrelsome, having not the same opportunity, yet one of the certain com-
panions of a profligate mind never left them, and that was their idleness. It is
true, they planted corn, and made fences; but Solomon's words were never
better verified than in them--"I went by the vineyard of the slothful, and it was
all'overgrown with thorns;" for when the Spaniards came to view their crop,
they could not see it in some places for weeds, the hedge had several gaps in it,
where the wild goats had got in and eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there
a dead bush was crammed in, to stop them out for the present, but it was only
shutting the stable door after the steed was stolen: whereas, when they looked
on the colony of the other two, there was the very face of industry and success
upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn, or a gap in
any of their hedges; and they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's words in
another place, that "the diligent hand maketh rich; " for everything grew and
thrived, and they had plenty within and without.

Some time after this, there came on shore, early one morning, five or six
canoes full of savages. Our men all kept within doors, as was prudent, till
after the canoes had gone off. Then some of them peeped abroad again, and
going to the place where the savages had been, they found three savages left
behind, and lying fast asleep on the ground. This was a surprise, and what
to do with them was a troublesome question, but the governor's advice was to
keep them as prisoners, and set them at labor, although there was little for
them to do. This was done, but through negligence in guarding them, one
ran away to the woods, and they could never hear of him any more.

They had good reason to believe he found his 'way home, in the canoe of
some savages who came to the island in a few days, and after carrying on their
revels as usual, went away. So they might Well fear that if this fellow got home
safe, he would certainly give his comrades an account that there were people
in the island, and where they might be found. .And so it came to pass, for in
less than two months, six canoes full of savages, with seven or eight men in a
canoe, came to the north side of the island, where they never used tocome
before. They landed about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about
a mile from the habitation of the Englishmen, where this escaped man had been
kept. By good luck they had never let him see any of the other habitations,
and he did not know that there were so many people on the island. The two
Englishmen saw the canoes while they were a long way 011', so that it was above
an hour before they landed. Now, having great reason to believe they were
betrayed, the first thing they did was to bind the two slaves,which were left,
and cause two of the three men whom they brought with the women (who; it
seems, proved very faithful to them) to lead them, with their two wives, and
 

5mm 01! THE SLEEPING SAVAGE

whatever they could carry with them, to a retired place in the woods. Then
they opened the fences, leaving their goats to struggle in the woods whither
they pleased, and sent the other slave they had of the three who came with the
women, away to the Spaniards to give them the alarm and ask for help. In
the meantime, they took their arms and retreated towards the place in the wood
where their wives were, but keeping a watch on the savages to see which way
they went. They'had not gone far, when they could see from a rising ground
the army of their enemies come on directly to their habitation, and in a moment
more, could see all their huts and household stuff flaming up together, to their
great grief and mortification. They kept their station for a while, till they found
the savages spread themselves all over the place, like wild beasts looking for
prey. Then they went on and did not halt till they came to a' thick-grown part
of the wood, where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and large,
and in this tree they both took their post.

They had not been there long when two of the savages ran that way, and a
little way farther they espied three more coming after them, and five more beyond
them, all running as if they knew where they stood. The poor men made up
their minds to let the first two pass, and then take the three and the five in line,
as they came up, but to fire only one at a time, as perhaps the first shot might
hit them all three.

So the man who was to fire put three or four bullets into his piece, and from
a hole in the tree took a sure aim, and waited till thethreesavages cameso near
that he could not miss them. They soon saw that one of the three was the
runaway savage, and they resolved that he should not escape. At the first
shot two of the savages fell dead, and the third had a scratch in the shoulder,
and being dreadfully frightened, though not so much hurt, sat down upon the
ground, screaming and yelling. When the five men that were behind heard
the sound of the gun, and the savage's cries, they stood still at first, as if bewil-
dered. So our two men both shot off their guns into the midst of them, and
then ran up, and finding only one of them alive, bound him with rope to a
tree.

They then ran to the place where their wives and slaves were, to see if all was
well there, and found that though the savages had been quite near that place,
they had not found it. While they were here, seven of the Spaniards came to
their assistance, and told them that the others were gone in a body to defend
their bower, in case the savages should have roved over to that side of the
country. They then went back, with all possible caution, to their ruined
plantation; but when they came in sight of the whore, they found the savages
 

THE HOME!!!" BIND m3 SAVAGE '10 A rm

all embarked and gone to sea. The savage whom they had bound had escaped,
having probably been freed by his comrades.

They set to work to rebuild their huts, and as all the rest helped them, they
were soon in a. way to thrive once more. For five or six months they saw no
more of the savages. But one day a fleet appeared of no less than eight-and-
twenty canoes, full of savages armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden
swords, and such like implements of war, and our people were put into the
utmost consternation.

As they came on shore in the evening, and at the easternmost side of the
island, our men had that night to consult and consider what to do. And as they
knew that their being concealed was their only safety, they resolved first of all
to take down the huts which were built for the two Englishmen, and drive away
their goats to the-old cave, for they supposed the savages would go straight
there as soonas it was day, to play the old game over again.

The next morning they posted themselves near the plantation of the .two
men, to await for their coming. As they guessed, so it happened: these new
invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of the island, came ranging along
the shore, directly to the place. Our army was small indeed, and, what was
worse, had not arms for all of their members either. The Spaniard governor
commanded the whole, and Will Atkins, one of the Englishmen, who, though
a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a most daring bold fellow, commanded
under him. When the savages came within range of the guns, our men let
fly among the thickest of the crowd, with six or seven bullets in each charge.
'The surprise among the savages was inexpressible; they were frightened to the
last degree to hear such a dreadful noise,,and see their men killed and hurt,
butseenobody that did it. '

Our men then fell on them in three bodies, using the butt-ends of their '

muskets, their swords, armed staves, and hatchets, and laid about them so well
that their foes set up a. dismal screaming, and fled to save their lives which way
soever they could. As our men did not care to pursue them, they all got to-
gether to the seaside, where they landed, and where their canoes lay.

But their disaster was not yet at an end, for it blew a terrible storm that even-
ing from the-sea, so that it was impossible for them to go off; nay, the storm
continuing all night, their canoes were most of them driven so high upon the

shore that .it required infinite toil to get them ofi ; and some of them were even.

dashed to pieces.

At daybreak our men went forth to find them, and when they saw the state
of affairs. they got some dry wood together and set fire to the boats. At the
sight of this the savages raised a hideous cry, after which they ran about the
island like distracted men, so that our men did not know what at first to do with
them, for they trod all the corn under foot, tore up the vines and grapes, which
were then almost ripe, and did our men an immense amount of damage.

we .
 

030303 AND THE SPANIARDB comma <<ooh-am

At last they brought old Friday to them, who told them how kind the others
would be to them; that they would spare their lives, and give them part of the ,
island to live in, if they would keep in their own bounds; and that they should
have corn to plant and make it grow for their bread. The poor wretches closed
with the proposal at once, and were the most faithful fellows to their words that
could be thought of; for except when they came to beg victuals and directions,
they never came out of their bounds, and were the most subjected, innocent
creatures that ever were heard of. '

From this time the colony enjoyed perfect tranquillity till I came to visit
them. After hearing the governor's account of all these occurrences, I told
them that I had not come to carry any of them 03, but to establish them there;
and that I had brought a supply of all things necessary, as well for their con-
venience as their defense; and that persons were with me who could assist them
in those things in which at present they were in want.

They were all together when I talked thus to them; and before I delivered
to them the stores I had brought, I asked them if they had entirely forgot and
buried the animosities that had been among them, and would shake hands,
and engage in a strict friendship and union of interest.

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humor, said they had met
with affliction enough to make them all sober, and enemies enough to make
them all friends; and that for his part he was desirous of living on terms of
entire friendship and union with the rest of the company.

The Spaniards said that they had disarmed and excluded Will Atkins and his
two countrymen for their ill-conduct, but that Will Atkins had behaved himself
so bravely in the great fight they had with the savages, and had since shown
himself so faithful to the general interest, that they had forgotten all that had
passed, and were glad to give an assurance that they would never have any
interest separate one from another.

Upon these frank declarations of friendship, we appointed the next day to
dine alltogether; and we made a splendid feast. The ship's cook and his mate
came on shore to dress it. We brought on shore our salt beef and pork, some
French claret, and some English beer; and the Spaniards added to our feast
fiVe whole kids, which the cooks roasted; and three of them were sent to the
seamen that they might feast on fresh meat as we did on salt.

I brought my cargo of goods, and divided equally among them the goods for
wearing that I had brought; among them a large quantity of linen to make shirts,
 

0110903 AND THE mum

and

his concern for them,

light coat.

went to work at once, and made them every one a
In the way of tools, I gave every man a spade,

the two carpenters,

to show

r

a. shovel, and a rake, and to

which I judged fittest for the heat of
the smith

or,

tail

stuffs for coats,

ish
Then I presented the

.

thin Engl

and some
the climate.
above all my Jack-of--all-Tradec. The tailor,
each separate place a pickaxe, a crow, a broad axe, and a saw. Besides these
there were general stores of all sorts of ironwork, which they were to use as
they were required.

I carried on shore with me the young man and the maid whom we had brought
from the ship where they were near starving; and when they saw things so well
ordered, both of them desired to be left on the island. The girl had been well .
brought up, and every one on the ship gave her a good word. They had a
little plot of ground allotted to them, on which they had habitations built. .

One day the French priest that I had brought with me out of the ship's crew
whom I took up at sea, came to me and expressed his great concern over some
of the conditions which existed among the people of my colony. The things
which grieved him were, first, that the Englishmen had taken women from
among the savages as wives, and' yet were not married to them in any legal
manner, as the laws of God and man require; second, that neither these women
nor any of the conquered savages had been taught anything of the Christian
religion, or even so much as that there was a God whom men ought to worship

~ and serve. He said that he would be glad to remain on the island, and en-
deavor to be the instrument of saving the souls of these poor creatures, but that
he could do nothing without an interpreter, and he asked if I would leave my
man Friday to serve in this oflice.

I was troubled at his requesting Friday, because, for many reasons, I could
not think of parting with him. A sudden thought relieved me of this difficulty.
I told him that even if I were willingto part with Friday, I was quite sure that
Friday would by no means agree to part with me, and I could not force him to

it against his wish without manifest injustice.
' He seemed very much concerned at this, for he had no rational access to these
poor people, seeing he did not understand one word of their language, nor they
one of his. To remove this difficulty, I told him Friday's father had learned
Spanish, which I found he also understood, and he should serve him as inter-
preter. So he was much better satisfied, and nothing could persuade him but
IDIINEON CLONE

 

630608 ammo I'm: new

he would stay and endeavor to convert them; but Providence gave another
happy turn to all this. '

To deal with the first of the evils to which the priest had made objection, I
sent for the Englishmen all together, and after giving some account of what I
had done for them, I began to talk to them of the scandalous life they led, and
gave them a full account of the notice the clergyman had taken of it.

They all gave me the answer I had expected, which was that there was no-
body w marry them, and that as they had agreed before the governor to main-
tain the women as their wives, they thought they were as legally married as if
they had been united with all the formalities in the world.

They told me, especially Will Atkins, who now seemed to speak for the rest,
that they loved their wives, and would not leave them on any account whatever.
and that if there were a clergyman on the ship, they would be perfectly willing
to be married at once. '

This was just as I would have it, and I told the clergyman what answer the '
men had given me. He was very ready to perform the ceremony, and it was
appointed to take place the next morning, >>

The matter was explained to the women, and they were very well satisfied;
so they failed not to attend at my apartment next morning, where I brought
out my clergyman, for whom I acted as interpreter. Before he would marry
them, he insisted on talking to the men, urging them to be better Christians,
and endeavoring to exact a promise from them that they would strive to per-
suade their wives also to be Christians.' _ .

Atkins looked very serious all the while, and we could easily perceive that he
was much affected by the words of the clergyman. He asked leave to go and
have some private talk with his wife, so he went awhile, and we talked to the
rest. I found that they were very ignorant of religion, and yet there were none
of them backward to hear what had been said, and all seriously promised to
talk to their wives about it, and do all they could to persuade them to turn
Christians. .

The clergyman smiled when I interpreted their answers, and said with a
shake of his head, "I will not despair of them, but I greatly fear that the man
you call Will Atkins is the only sincere convert among them. That man is
apparently struck with the sense of his past life, and I doubt not, when he comes
to talk religion to his wife, he will talk himself efl'ectually into it; for attempting
to teach others is sometimes the best way of teaching ourselves."

Upon this discourse, however, and their promising, as above, to endeavor
to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he married the other couples,
but Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this, my clergyman
waiting awhile, was curious to know where Atkins was gone, and turning to
me, said, "I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of your labyrinth here, and look.
I daresay we shall find this poor man somewhere or other talking seriously to
his wife, and teaching her already something of religion." I began to be of
the same mind; so we went out together, and I carried him a way which none
knew but myself, and coming to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins and his
tawny wife sitting under the shade of a bush, very eager in discourse. We stood
and looked very steadily at them a good while. We observed him very earnest
with her, pointing up to the sun, and to every quarter of the heavens, and then
down to the earth, then out to sea, then to himself, then to her, to the woods,
to the trees. " Now," says the clergyman," you see my words are made good,
the man preaches to her; mark him now, he is telling her that our God has made
him and her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods, the trees, etc." "I
believe he is," said I. Immediately, we perceived Will Atkins start upon his
feet, fall down on his knees, and lift up both his hands. He did not continue
kneeling half a minute, but comes and sits down again by his wife, and talks
to her again; we perceived then the women very attentive, but whether she said
anything to him we could not tell. While the poor fellow was upon hisknees,
I could see the tears run plentiquy down my clergyman's cheeks, and I could
hardly forbear myself: but it was a great afi'lictionto us both that we were not
near enough to hear anything that passed between them; Well, however, we
could come no nearer for fear of disturbing them; so we resolved to see an end
of this piece of still conversation, and it spoke loud enough for us without the
help of voice. He sat down again, as I have said, close by her, and talked again
earnestly to her, and two or three times we could see him embrace her most
passionately; another time we saw him take out his handkerchief and wipe
her eyes, and then we saw him on a sudden jump up again, and lend her his
hand to help her up, when immediately leading her by the hand a step or two,
they both kneeled down together, and continued so about two minutes.

My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, "St. Paul! St. Pauli
behold, he prayeth!" After the poor man and his wife were risen again from
their knees, we observed he stood talking still eagerly to her, and we observed
by her motions that she was greatly afiected with what he said, by her frequentlym ATKINS, cannon, AND m
lifting up her hands, laying her hands to her breast, and Such other postures an
express the greatut seriousness and attention; this continued about half a

quarter of an hour; and then they walked away, so we could see no more of them
in that situation.
As Will _Atkins and his wife were gone, our business there was over, so we
Went back to our own way; and when we came back, we found them waiting to
be called in: observing this, I asked my clergyman if we should discover to him
that we had seen him under the bush or not; and it was his opinion we should
not, but that we should talk to him first, and hear what he would say to us;
so we called him in alone, nobody being in the place but ourselves. When I
began to question him, he said to me, "Sir, you have set me about a work that
has struck a dart through my very soul. I have been talking about God and
religion to my wife, in order, as'you directed me, to make a Christian of her,
and she has preached such a sermon to me as I shall never forget while I live." _

Then he gave us an account of what had passed between him and his wife,
which was very affecting but too long to be set down here. The poor woman
had shown a great readiness to receive the saving knowledge of God and of
Jesus Christ, and he had been so moved to observe a poor, untaught creature
so eager to learn that which he was so unfit to teach, that he had resolved to
amend and reform his life, if it were not already too late to do so.

When I laid this before the young clergyman, he told me he believed there
must be more to do with this woman than to marry her. I did not understand
him at first, but at length he explained that he meant she should be baptized.
I agreed with him, and wished it to be done directly, but he desired first that
she should receive some more adequate instruction in the elements of the
Christian faith than her husband had been able to give her.

Accordingly, I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter between my
religious priest and the woman, I entreated him to begin with her; and sure
such a sermon was never preached in these latter ages of the world. In a word,
he brought the poor woman to embrace the knowledge of Christ, and of re-
demption by Him, not with wonder and astonishment only, as she did the first
notions of a God, but with joy and faith; with an affection, and a surprising
degree of understanding, scarce to be imagined, much less to be expressed;
and, at her own request, she was baptized.
As soon as this was over, he married them; and after the marriage was over,
he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very afiectionate manner exhorted him, not
only to persevere in that' good disposition he was in, but to support the con-
victions that were upon him by a resolution to reform his life, and represented
to him how God had honored him with being the instrument of bringing his
wife to the knowledge of the Christian religion. He said a great many good
things to them both; and then, recommending them to God's goodness, gave
them the benediction again, and thus ended the ceremony.' I think it was the
most pleasant and agreeable day that ever I passed in my whole life.

But my clergyman had not done yet: his thoughts hung continually upon the
conversion of the thirty-seven savages, and fain he would have stayed upon the
island to have undertaken it; but I convinced him, first, that his undertaking
was impracticable in itself; and, secondly, that perhaps I would put it into a
way of being done in his absence to his satisfaction. -

Having brought the affairs of the island into good order, I was preparing to
depart, when one day the young man I had taken out of the famished ship's
company came to me and said that if it would not be objectionable to me, he
desired to have the clergyman perform a marriage ceremony before I went
away. I guessed that it was the wish of the young man to wed the maid who
had been saved along with himself from the ship, and I began to persuade him
not to do anything of the kind rashly, as the girl was not in the same rank of
_ life as he had been brought up in, and was considerably older than he. But he
told me with a smile that I was mistaken in my guess, for it was the Jack-of-all-
Trades that wished to wed the maid. I was pleased when he named the match,
for I thought highly of the man, and the maid was an excellent young woman.
We married them the same day, and I appointed her and her husband a hand-
some, large space of ground for their plantation.

The island was now allotted in this manner: The Spaniards had my original
habitation, with its plantations along the side of the creek; the English lived in '
the north-east part; while all the extreme east end of the island was left unin-
 

omwormm-mm

habited, so that if the savages should land on it, they might come and go without
disturbing anybody; and if they were ever afterward ashore, they went away
again, for I never heard that the planters were attacked or disturbed any more.

It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my friend the clergyman.
that the work of converting the savages might perhaps be set on foot in his
absence to his satisfaction, and I told him that now I thought that it was put
in a fair way; for the savages; beihg divided among the Christians, if they would
but-every one of them do their part with. those who came under their hands,
I hoped it might have a very good efiect. .

He agreed presently in that, if they did their part. "But how," says he,
"shall we obtain that of them ?" .

I told him we would call them all together, and leave it in charge with them,
or go to them, one by one, which he thought best; so we divided it,--he to speak
to the Spaniards, and I speak to the English, and we recommended it earnestly
to them, and made them promise to exhort the savages to turn Christians,
and to teach them the general knowledge of the true God, and of their Saviour
Jesus Christ. '

When I came to Will Atkins's house, there I found the young woman I have
mentioned above and Will Atkins's wife were become intimates; and thisprudent,
religious woman had perfected the work Will Atkins had begun; and though
it was not above four days after what I have related, yet the new-baptized sav-
'age woman was made such a Christian as I have seldom heard of in all my
observation or conversation in the world.

It came into my mind. in themorning before I went to them, that amongst
all the needful things I had to leave with them, I had not left them a Bible, so
I took one in my pocket. .When I came to Will Atkins's house, and found the
young woman and Atkins's baptized 'wife had been discoursing of religion
togethehfor Will Atkins told it me with a great deal of joy--I asked ifthey
were together now, and he said, yes; so I went into the house and he with me,
and we found them together very earnest in discourse.

We talked a little, and I did not perceive that they had any book among them,
though I did not ask; but I put my hand into my pocket, and pulled out my
Bible. "Here," said I to Atkins, "I have brought you an assistant that perhaps
you had not before."

Surely no man was ever more thankful in the world for anything of its kind
than Will Atkins was for the Bible. Though he had been a desperately wicked
man, he was the son of a good father, who had sought earnestly to instruct him

~
in religion; and he remembered how this father used to insist so much on the .
inexpressible value of the Bible, and the privilege and blessing of it to nations,
families, and persons; but he never entertained the least notion of the worth of
it till now, when having to talk to heathens, savages, and barbarians, he wanted
the help of the written oracle for his assistance.

Having now done with the island, I left them all in a flourishing condition,
and went on board my ship again on the 6th of May; and as they were all re-
solved to stay on the island, I promised to send them further relief when I could
find an opportunity.

The next day, giving them a salute of five gun at parting, we set sail, and
arrived at the bay of All Saints in the Brazils in about twenty-two days, meeting
nothing remarkable in our passage but this: that about three days after we had
sailed, we were driven something out of our course, and'once or twice our men
cried out, "Land to the eastward!" but whether it was the continent or islands
we could not tell by any means. But the third day, towards evening, we saw
the sea, as it were, covered towards the land with something very black; not
being able to discover what it was, till after some time, our chief mate, going
up the mainshrouds a little way, and looking at them with a perspective, cried
out it was an army. I could not imagine what he meant by an army, and
thwarted him a little hastily. "Nay, sir," says he, "don't be angry, for 'tis
an army, and a fleet too; for I believe there are a thousand canoes."

We were becalmed and the current was bearing us toward them; so I. gave
orders to come to an anchor and furl all our sails. As for the savages, I told
them they had nothing to fear but fire, and therefore they should get their boats
out, and fasten them, one close by the head, and the other by. the stern, and
man them both well, and wait the issue in that posture; this I did, that the men '
in the boats might be ready with sheets and buckets to pht out any fire these
savages might endeavor to fix to the outside of the ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came up with
us. When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with wonder and
 

030503 own ATKINS A BIBLE

astonishment, and seemed to intend to row round us; but we called to our men
in the boats not to l'et them come too near them. This very order brought us
to an engagement with them, without our designing it; for five or six of the
large canm came so near our long-boat, that our men beckoned with their
hands to keep them back, which they understood very well, and went back;
but at their retreat about fifty arrows came on board ,us from those boats, and
one of our men in the long-boat was very much wounded. However, I called
to them not to fire by any means; but we handed down some'deal boards into
the boat, and the "carpenter presently set up a kind of fence, like waste boards,
to cover them from the arrows of the savages, if they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards they all came up in a body astern of us, and.
so near that I easily found they were some of my old friends, the same sort of
savages that I had been used to engage with; and in a short time more they
rowed a little farther out to sea, till they came directly broadside with us, and
then rowed down straight upon us, till they came so near that they could hear
us speak; upon this I ordered all my men to keep close, lest they should shoot
any more arrows, and made all our guns ready; butbeing so near as to be within
hearing, I made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud to them in his
' language, to know what they meant; which accordingly he did. Whether they
understood him or not, that I knew not; but as soon as he had called to them,
six of them, who were in the foremost or nighest boat to us, turned their canoes
from us, and stooping down, showed us their naked backs. Whether this was
a defiance or challenge we knew not, or whether it was done in mere eon--
tempt, or as a signal to the rest: but immediately Friday cried out they _
were going to shoot, and, unhappily, for him, poor fellow, they let fly about
three hundred of their arrows, and, to my inexprassible grief, killed poor Friday,
no other man being' in their sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than
three arrows, and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky marksnfien
they were!

I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and companion, that I
immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with small shot, and four with great,
and gave them such a broadside as they had never heard in their lives before,
to be sure. -

I can neither tell how many we killed nor how many we wounded at this
 

broadside, but sure such {5 fright and hurry never were seen among such a_ mul-
titude; there were thirteen or fourteen of'their canoes split and over-set in all,
and the men all set mwimming: the rest, frightened out of their wits, scoured
- away as fast as they could, taking but little care to save those whose boats were
split or spoiled with our shot; so I suppose that many of them were lost; and
our men took up one poor fellow swimming for his life, above an hour after
they were all gone.

A breeue soon springing up, we weighed anchor, and set sail for the'Brhzils.
The prisoner whom we took on board would not eat or speak at first, and we
all fancied he would starve himself to death.

But when we had taught him to say a few words, he told us that the savages
had come out with their king to have a great battle, and all they wished was to
have us look at the grand" sight. And it was for this that Friday was killed!
Now that I name the poor fellow once more, I must take leave of him, the most
graceful, faithful, and affectionate servant that man ever had!

We went on with a fair wind to All Saints' Bay. Here I had a sloop set up
which I had brought with me from England, in order to send to my island the
further relief I had promised.

One of our seamen offered to go with the sloop and settle there if the governor
would give him land for a plantation. I encouraged him to go, and gave him
the prisoner for his slave. I found another man, too, who would like to go, hav-
ing been unjustly presecuted by the authorities of this place. I put him on board,
with his wife, two daughters, and his small stock of goods. Along with them,
besides stores and tools, I sent three milch cows, five calves, two mares, and a
horse, all of which, as I' heard, arrived safe and sound.

I have now no more to say of my island, as I had left it for the last time,
but my travels were not yet at an end. From the Brazils we went directly to
the Cape of Good Hope, and from there sailed for the coast of India. On the
way we touched at the'island of Madagascar, to furnish ourselves with provi-
sions. The people were fierce and treacherous, yet we fared well enough with
them for a while. But it happened one evening, when some of our men were
on shore, that one of them was rude to a native woman. An outcry was raised,
and a swarm of natives gathered for an attack on our men, who escaped to their
boats, all except the fellow who was the cause of the mischief.

_ Although the wind was favorable, we did not leave the next day, but sailed
up shore and down shore several leagues, hoping that the missing man might
present himself, but we saw nothing of him. Late at night, under cover of
darkness, a stout force of our men went on shore, and made their way to the
native village, where they found the people all asleep, and discovered the body
of their missing comrade hanging up with his throat cut. The sight so mad-
dened them, that they swore they would be revenged, and started at once to
set fire to the village. As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor frightened
creatures began to rush out to save their lives, but met their fate in the attempt;" ' nosmson cameos: 177

 

m GAP! 0' GOOD non

for the men were in such a fury that they slaughtered them without mercy.
The people were so surprised and frightened that they made little defense; nor
did any of our men receive the least hurt, except one that sprained his foot,
and another that had one of his hands burned.

The next day we set sail, and never heard any more of the matter. How-
ever just our men thought this action, I was against them in it, and looked upon
what they had done that night to be unjustifiable murder. ,

When we reached the Bay of Bengal, I parted from the ship in which I came.
and with two of the crew for servants remained on land. Here I made the
acquaintance of several merchants, some French, two Italians, or rather Jews,
and one Englishman. I had some English goods with me of value, which I
'disposed of to advantage.

When I had been here about nine months, my English friend made a proposal
to me to hire a ship, and go on a trading-voyage to the Spice Islands and Cochin
China. I agreed and we got a ship and men to work her, and set out. ~ When
we had exchanged our wares we came back, and soon made another voyage,

'which also turned out very profitably. '

A little while after this there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia,,)of about two
hundred tons burden. The men, as they pretended, having been so sickly that
the captain had not hands enough to go to sea with, he lay by at Bengal; and
having, it seems, got money enough, or being willing, for other reasons, to go
to Europe, he gave public notice that he would sell his ship. .This came to my
ears before my partner heard of it, and I had a great mind to buy it;.so I went to
him and I told him of it. He considered awhile, for he was'no rash man either;
but musing some time, he replied, "She is a little too big: but, however, we will
have her." Accordingly, ive bought the ship, and agreeing with the master,
we paid for her, and took possession. When we had done so, we resolved to
engage the men, if we could, to join 'with those we had, for the pursuing our
business; but, on a sudden, they having received not-their wages, but their
share of the money, as we afterwards learned, not one of them was to be found.
A few days after, I learned that the man they called captain was gunner only,
not the commander; that they had been a trading voyage, in which they had
been attacked on shore by some of the Malays, who had killed the captain and .
three of his men; and that, after the captain was killed, these men, eleven in
number, had resolved to run away with the ship, which they did, and brought
her to Bengal, leaving the mate and five men more on shore.

Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by her, as we
thought, though "we did not, I confess, examine into things so exactly as we
 

BURNING THE VILLAGE

ought. We picked up some English sailors and some Dutch; and now we re-
solved on a second voyage to the south-east for cloves, etc; that is to say, among
the Philippine and Molucca isles; and, in short, not to fill up this part of my
story with trifles, when what is to come is so remarkable, I spent, from first to
last, six years in this country, trading from port to port, backward and forward,
and with very good success, and was now the last year with my new partner, '
going in the ship above mentioned, on a voyage to China, but designing first
to go to Siam, to buy rice

In this voyage, being by contrary winds obliged to beat up and down a great
while in the Straits of Malacca, and among the islands, we were no sooner got
clear of those difiicult seas, than we found our ship had sprung a leak, and we
were not able, by all our industry, to find out where it was. This forced us to
make some port; and my partner, who knew the country better than I did,
directed the captain to put into the river Cambodia; While we were here, and
going often on shore for refreshment, there came to me one day an Englishman,
and he was, it seems, a gunner's mate on board an English East India. ship,
which rode in the same river. "Sir," says he, "you are a stranger to me, and I
I to you; but I have something to tell you that very nearly concerns you." I

The short of his story was that we had been preceded to this place by a report
that the ship was still in the possession of those who had run away with her,
and that they had turned pirates. So we were in danger of being seized as
pirates, and executed with little ceremony, for there were several merchant
ships in the port, and it was well known that they showed but little law to
pirates if they got them in their power.

I immediately went on board, and finding that the leak had been stopped, '
I ordered the anchor to be got up, and we stood-out to sea. While I was in
the cabin relating to my partner what I had heard, a seamen came to the door
to tell us we were being chased by five boats. I ordered all our men to be called
up, and told them there was a design to seize the ship and take us as pirates,
and asked them if they would stand by us and by one another. The men
answered cheerfully, one and all, that they would live and die with us.

We made ready for fighting, but all the while kept out to sea, with wind
enough, and could see the boats at a distance following with all the sail they
could make. Two of them gained upon the others, and came so near that we
 

mama T330170! "I WIT OP IMMCCA

fired a gun without ball, and put out a flag of truce as a signal for parley; but
they crowded after us till they came within shot, when we took in our white flag,
they having made no answer to it, and hung out a. red flag, and fired at them with
a shot. They still crowded after us, and gave no answer to our calls for parley,
so we bro'ught the ship to, and began to fire broadsidu at them. It was not
long before the foremost boat was almost split to pieces, and the second quite
disabled. When the other three boats came up to the first two, they had full
occupation picking up the men in the water to save them from drowning, and '
had to give over the chase, while we crowded all sail, and stood far out to sea.

I must confess I was now very uneasy, and did not know what port or place
we should go to. My partner thought we had better put in on thereoast of
Cochin China, to obtain provisions, and from thence sail to some port in the
north of China, where European vessels seldom came. This course was settled '
upon, and after a tedious sail, we came in sight of the coast, and put into a
small river. The place was wild, the people thievish, and except getting a few
provisions, we cared not hon; little we had to do with them.

I have observed already that our ship sprung a leak, and although we had
i stopped it after a fashion, we did not find the ship so perfectly tight as we de-
sired. In order to diswver where the leaks were, we thought we would examine
the ship's bottom while at this place. Accordingly we laid her in shallow
water, and shifted all our guns and. other movables, so as to bring her down
and expose the other side. The inhabitants, who-had never beheld such a sight,
came wandering down the shore to look at us; and seeing the ship lie down on
one side in such a manner, and not seeing our men, who were at work on her
bottom with stages, and with their boats on the off-side, they presently con-
cluded that the ship was cast away, and lay fast on the ground. On this sup-
position, they all came about us in two or three hours', time, with ten or twelve
large boats, having some of them eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no
doubt, to come on board and plunder the ship, and if they found us there, to
carry us away for slaves to their king, for such is their barbarous custom when
any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecked on their coast.

When they came up to the ship, and began to row round her, they discovered
us all hard at work on the outside of the ship's bottom and side, washing, and
graving, and stopping, as every seafaring man knows how. They stood for -
awhile gazing at us, and we could not imagine what their design was! but being
willing to be sure, we took this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and '
o others to hand down arms and ammunition to those that were at work, to de-
 

momma-slam

fend themselves with, if there should be occasion; and it was no more than need
---for in loss than a quarter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that
the ship was really a wreck, and that we were all at work endeavoring to save
her, or to save our lives by the help of our boats; and when we handed our arms
into the boat, they concluded by that motion, that we were endeavoring to save
some of our goods; upon this, they took it for granted we all belonged to them,
and away they come directly upon our men, as it it had been in a line of battle. '
Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, 'for we lay but in
an ill posture to fight, and cried out to us to know what they should do. I
immediately called to the men that worked upon the stages, to slip down them,
and get up the side into the ship, and bade those in the' boat to row round and
come on board; and the few who Were on board worked with all the strength
and hands we had to bring the ship to rights; but, however, neither the men
upon the stages nor those in the boats could do as they were ordered before
the Cochin-Chinese were upon them; and two of their boats boarded our long-
boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their prisoners.

The first man they laid hold of was an English seamen, a stout, strong fellow,
who grappled the pagan, end dragged him by main force out of their boat into
ours, where, taking him by the ears, he beat his head so against the boat's
gunnel, that the fellow died in his hands; and, in the meantime, a Dutchman
with the butt-end of a musket so laid about him, that he knocked down five '
_ of them who attempted to enter the boat. But this was doing little towards

resisting thirty or forty men, who, fearless because ignorant of their danger,
began to throw themselves into the long boat where we had but five men in all .
to defend it; however, the following accident, which'deserved our laughter,
gave our men a complete victory.

Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, as well as to
pay the seams where he had caulked her to stop the leaks, had got two kettles
just led down into the boat, one filled with boiling pitch, and the other with
resin, tallowrand oil; and such stufi as the shipwrights use for that work; and
the man that attended the'carpenter had a. great iron ladle in his hand, with
which he supplied the men that were at work with the hot stuff. Two of the
enemy's men entered the boat just where this fellow stood; he immediately
saluted them with a ladleiul of the stuff, boiling hot, which so burned and
scalded them, being half-naked, that they roared out like bulls, and, enraged
with the fire, leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out,
"Well done, Jack! give them seine more of it:" and stepping forward himself,
takes one of the mops, and dipping it into the pitch-pot, he and his men threw
it among them so plentifully that, in short, of all the men in the three boats.
there was not one who escaped being scalded and burned with it, in a most
frightful, pitiful manner, and made such a howling and crying that I never

heard a worse noise. All the while this was doing, my partner and I, who

managed the rest of the men'on board, had with great dexterity brought the '
ship almost to rights. The enemy was so terrified with what they had met -
with in their first attack, that they would not come on again; and some of them
who were farthest off, seeing the ship swim, as it were, upright, began, as we
suppose, to see their mistake, and gave over the enterprise, finding it was not
as they expected. Thus we got clear of [this merry fight. We got all our
things on board the same evening, and the next morning, having finished our
work within board, and finding our ship was perfectly healed of all her leaks,
we set sail.

We took a course to the north, keeping well away from the coasts till we were
beyond all the ports of China usually visited by English or Dutch ships. Hav-
ing come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we went into the next trading port. Here
an old Portuguese pilot came on board to offer his services, and on the informa-
tion obtained from him, we decided to sail ior Nanquin. After about thirteen
days' sail we came to anchor at the south-west point of the great Gulf of Nan-
quin, where we were alarmed to learn that two Dutch ships had arrived just
in advance of us. I asked our old pilot if there was no harbor which we might
put into and pursue our business with the Chinese privately. He told us of
a little port which he called Quinchang, where at certain times they had a kind
of fair, when the merchants of Japan came over thither to buy Chinese goods.

We all agreed to go to this place, and at once weighed anchor. When we ar-
rived in the little port, the fair had been over for some time, but we found that
there were three or four junks in the river, and two ships from Japan, having
some Japanese merchants on board. ' One of these we found to be a willing
customer for our cargo, and he paid us a good price for it. While we_ were
dealing with him for our goods, it came into my head that he might'perhaps
deal for the ship too. He shrunk up his shoulders at it, when it was first pro-
posedtohim, butinafewdayshecameafterme,andintheendthematter

was arranged very satisfactorily. '

We were now on shore in China, about a thousand leagues farther 03 from
home than I had been at Bengal; where indeed I had thought myself banished.
As there was no immediate prospect of return, we resolved to divert ourselves
by taking journeys into the interior of the country. We went first to the city
of N anquin, which is well worth seeing indeed. It is regularly built and they
say it has a million of people in it. After returning from Nanquin we went to
Pekin, the journey taking twenty-five days. Here we had an opportunity to
join a large caravan of traders who were going to make a journey overland to
'Moscow in Russia. As we could readily make our way thence to England,
and by laying in a stock of Chinese goods to take with us could make the journey
very profitable, the project suited us well, and we decided to go.

It was the beginning of February when we set out. Our cargo loaded
eighteen camels, and we had six horses- besides. The company numbered
upward of one hundred and twenty men, well armed to protect themselves
from the Tartar hordes who pillage defenseless travellers in those regions.
Some of our party were Scots, whose company we were -very glad to have, as
they were men of large experience in this business.

Our guides were five in number, and we put all our money in a common
stock, to pay the expenses of the road. We named officers to draw us all up,
and give the word of command in case of an attack, and this we found needful
when the time came.

The road on this side of the country is full of potters, and clay-makers--that
is people who temper the clay for the China ware. One of our guides said he
would show me one thing which was not to be seen in all the world beside. I
wished to know what it was, and he told me it was a gentleman's house built
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of China ware. "How big is it P" said I. "Can we carry it in a box upon a
camel?" "Upon a camel!" said he; "why there is a. family of thirty people
livesinit." '

I was curious to see it, and when I came to it I found that it was a timber
house, but was plastered with the clay that makes China were. The outside
upon which the sun shone, was gla'zed, and painted with blue figures on a white
gonad, and looked very well. The inside walls were lined. with tiles of the
finest China, painted handsomely in a variety of colors. The floors were of
the same composition, and the roof also was covered with tiles, but these were
of a. deep shining black. I should have been glad to see more of this house if I
had not been on the journey, for there were fountains and fish-ponds in the
garden, all paved with the same, and porcelain statues-set up on the walks.
This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan, for which the leader made V
me pay a fine. .

In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a fortification
against the Tartars; and a very great work it is, going over hills and mountains
in a needless track, where the rocks are impassable, and the precipiees such as
no enemy could possibly enter, or indeed climb up, or where, if they did, no
wall could hinder them. They tell us its length is near a thousand English
miles, but that the country is five hundred in alstraight measured line, which
the wall bounds, without measuring the windings and turnings it takes; it is
about four fathoms high, and as many thick in some places.

I stood still about an hour or so, (without trespassing our orders, for the
caravan was that long in passing the gate), to look well at it,- and the guide of
the caravan, who had been extolling it for the wonder of the world, was eager
to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was an excellent thing to keep out the
Tartars; which he happened not to understand as I meant it, and to took it for
a compliment. What I really meant was that it was good for nothing but to
keep out Tartars; for an army of our people, with a good train of artillery,
would batter it down in ten days.

A few days further travel brought us to a more thinly populated part of the
country, and here I began to see the need of the caravan keeping together, for
we observed troops of the Tartar robbers roving about. We first caught sight

. of them one day that our leader gave some of us leave to go hunting--or what
they call hunting in this country, which is really but driving off sheep. The
creatures go in large flocks, and are wild and swift of foot, but will not run far.

In pursuit otthis game, it was our hap to meet with about forty of the Tar-tars.
 

was GREAT Wm OF CHINA

and we found they were a mere horde of wild fellows. on poor, lean horses and
with little skill in fighting. As soon as they saw us, one of them blew a horn
very loud. It seeined that this was to call their friends about them, for another
troop of the same size appeared.

One of the Scots was with us, and he said that we had nothing. to do but'
190 _ ROBINSON CBUBOE

charge on them at once. We told him to lead, and we would follow. The
Tartars stood gazing at us like a mere mob; but as soon as they saw usadv'ance,
they let fly their arrows at us, which fell short. We halted and fired, and then
galloped up at full speed with swords in hand. As soon as we came up to them,
they fled in great confusion. The only stand was made by three of them on eur
right, who did all they could by signs to call to the rest of them to come back.
The brave Scot, our leader, galloped up close to the three, and with his gun
knocked one of them from his horse, lulled the second with his pistol, and the
third ran away; and thus endeed our fight. We had not a man hurt; but as
for the Tartars, five of them were killed, several wounded, and the rest driven
off simply by the noise of bur guns. '

Thus we went on our way, now and then meeting other hordes of Tartars,
with whom we had to fight, and whom we always overcamewith little difl'iculty.
When we reached Tobolski, the capital of Siberia, my partner and I concluded
to winter there, instead of going on with the rest of the caravan to Moscow.

Late in the following spring, we made our way to Archangel, on the White
Sea. We were obliged to wait at this place six weeks for the arrival of a ship,
The first that sailed was bound for Hamburg, and we took passage for that

. port. There we found a good sale for our goods, and had a large sum of money
to divide between us.

To conclude: having stayed near four months in Hamburg, I came from
thence by land to the Hague, where I embarked in the packet, and arrived in
London the 10th of January, 1705, having been absent from England ten years
and nine months. And here I resolved to prepare for a longer journey than all
these, having lived a life of infinite variety seventy-two years, and learned
sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending our
days in peace. '

.u