ROBINSON CRUSOE.

-*-_

VOL. I.THE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

OF YORK, MARINER.

\VITH AN ACCOUNT OF ,

HIS TRAVELS ROUND THREE PARTS OF THE GLOBE.

*--
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

*

IN TWO VOLUMES.
' VOL. I.

 

lBtinten at the QIIJismicI: 19:22:54,
BY C. WHITTINGHAM;

FOR Jo CARPENTER, OLD BOND STREET; J. HOOKER, NE"! BOND
STREET; SHARPE AND HAILES, MUSEUM, PICCADILLY; AND
GALE, CURTIS, AND FENNER, PATERNOSTER ROW; LONDON.

 

1812.. ,1 I i'>>3PSbC/.flmw)au.firw~;SS ("n ..;4'.'_- , .' ._.,N <1

  

THE

LIFE

OF

DANIEL DE FOE.

 

DANIEL DE FOE was descended from a respect.
able family in the county of Northampton, and born
in London, about the year 1663. His father, James
Foe, was a butcher, in the parish of St. Giles's,
Cripplegate, and a protestant dissenter. Why the
subject of this memoir prefixed the De to his family
name cannot now be ascertained, nor did he at any
period of his life think it necessary to give his rea-
sons to the public. The political scribblers of the
day, however, thought proper to remedy this lack
of information, and accused him of possessing so
little of the amor patrice, as to make the addition in
order that he might not be taken for an Englishman;
though this idea could have had no other foundation

than the circumstance of his having, in consequence
of his zeal for King William, attacked the prejudices

of his countrymen in his " Trueborn Englishman."
hvi LIFE OF DE FOE.

After receiving a good education at an academy
at Newington, young De Foe, before he had attained
his twentyvfirst year, commenced his career as an
author, by writing a pamphlet against a very pre-
vailing sentiment in favour of the Turks, who were
at that time laying siege to Vienna. This produc-
tion, being very inferior to those of his maturer
years, was very little read, and the indignant author,
despairing of success with his pen, had recourse to
the sword; or, as he termed it, when boasting of the
exploit in his latter years, " displayed his attach-
ment to liberty and protestanism," by joining the
ill-advised insurrection under the Duke of Mon-
mouth, in the west. On the failure of that unfor-
tunate enterprise, he returned again to the metro-
polis; and it is not improbable, but that the circum~
stance of his being a native of London, and his per.
son not much known in that part of the kingdom
where the rebellion took place, might facilitate his
escape, and be the means of preventing his being
brought to trial for his share in the transaction.
With the professions of a writer and a soldier, Mr.
De Foe, in the year 1685, joined that of a trader;
he was first engaged as a hosier, in Cornhill, and
afterwards as a maker of bricks and pantiles, near
Tilbury Fort, in Essex; but in consequence of spend-
ing those hours in the hilarity of the tavern which
he ought to have employed in the calculations of
the counting-house, his commercial schemes proved
unsuccessful; and in 1694 he was obliged to abscond
from his creditors, not failing to attribute those
misfortunes to the war and the severity of the times,
which were doubtless owing to his own misconduct.
It is much to his credit, however, that after having
been freed from his debts by composition, and being
in prosperous circumstances from King William's
favour, he voluntarily paid most of his creditors
both the principal and interest of their claims. This
is such an example of honesty as it would be unjust
to De Foe and to the world to conceal. The amount
of the sums thus paid must have been very con-
siderable, as he afterwards feelingly mentions to
Lord Haversham, who had reproached him with
covetousness; " With a numerous family, and no
helps but my own industry, I have forced my way
through a sea of misfortunes, and reduced my debts,
exclusive of composition, from seventeen thousand
to less than five thousand pounds."

At the beginning of the year 1700, Mr. De Foe
published a satire in verse, which excited very con-
siderable attention, called the " Trueborn English-
man." Its purpose was to furnish a reply to those
who were continually abusing King William and
some of his friends as foreigners, by showing that
the present race of Englishmen was a mixed and
heterogeneous brood, scarcely any of which could
lay claim to native purity of blood. The satire
was in many parts very severe; and though it gave
high offence, it claimed a considerable share of the
public attention. The reader will perhaps be grati-
fied by a specimen of this production, wherein he

endeavours to account for--

" What makes this discontented land appear

Less happy now in times of peace, than war;
Why civil feuds disturb the nation more,

Than all our bloody wars had done before:

Fools out of favour grudge at knaves in place,
And men are always honest in disgrace:

The court preferments make men knaves in course,
But they, who would be in them, would be worse.
'Tis not at foreigners that we repine,

Would foreigners their perquisites resign:

The grand contention's plainly to be seen,

To get some men put out, and some put in."

It will be immediately perceived that De Foe could
have no pretensions to the character of a poet ; but
he has, notwithstanding, some nervous and well-ver-
sified lines, and in choice of subject and moral he
is in general excellent. The Trueborn Englishman
concludes thus:

Could but our ancestors retrieve their fate,
And see their ofi'spring thus degenerate;

How we contend for birth and names unknown,
And build on their past actions, not our own;
They'd cancel records, and their tombs deface,
And openly disown the vile degenerate race.

For fame of families is all a' cheat;
'TIS PERSONAL VIRTUE ONLY MAKES US
GREAT.
For this defence of foreigners De Foe was amply
rewarded by King William, who not only ordered
him a pension, but, as his opponents denominated it,
appointed him pamphlet-writer general to the court ;
an office for which he was peculiarly well calculated,
possessing, with a strong mind and a ready wit, that
kind of yielding conscience which allowed him to
support the measures of his benefactors, though con--
vinced they were injurious to his country. De Foe
now retired to Newington with his family, and for a
short time lived at ease; but the death of his royal
patron deprived him of a generous protector, and
opened a scene of sorrow which probably embittered
his future life.

He had always discovered a great inclination to
engage in religious controversy, and the furious con-
test, civil and ecclesiastical, which ensued on the
accession of Queen Anne, gave him an opportunity
of gratifying his favourite passion. He therefore
published a tract, entitled " The shortest Way with
the Dissenters, or Proposals for the Establishment
of the Church," which contained an ironical recom-
mendation of persecution, but written in so serious
a strain, that many persons, particularly Dissenters,
at first mistook its real intention. The high church
party however saw, and felt the ridicule, and, by
their influence, a prosecution was commenced against

him, and a proclamation published in the Gazette,
b 2
offering a reward for his apprehension 3*. When Do
Foe found with how much' rigour himself and his
pamphlet were about to be treated, he at first
secreted himself; but his printer and bookseller
being taken into custody, he surrendered, being re-
solved, as he expresses it, " to throw himself upon
the favour of government, rather than that others
should be ruined for his mistakes." In July, 1703,
he was brought to trial, found guilty, and sentenced
to be imprisoned, to stand in the pillory, and to pay
a fine of two hundred marks. He underwent the
infamous part of the punishment with great forti-
tude, and it seems to have been generally thought
that he was treated with unreasonable severity. So

" St. James's, January 10, 1702-3.

* " Whereas Daniel De Foe, alias De Fooe, is charged
with writing a scandalous and seditious pamphlet, entitled
' The shortest Way with the Dissentersz' he is a middle-
sized spare man, about 40 years old, of a brown complexion,
and dark-brown coloured hair, but wears a wig, a hooked
nose, a sharp chin, grey eyes, and a large mole near his
mouth, was born in London, and for many years was a hose-
factor, in Freeman's Yard, in Cornhill, and now is owner of
the brick and pantile works near Tilbury Fort, in Essex;
whoever shall discover the said Daniel De Foe, to one of
her Majesty's Principal Secretaries of State, or any of her
Majesty's Justices of Peace, so as he may be apprehended,
shall have a reward of PS50, which her Majesty has ordered
immediately to be paid upon such discovery."

London Gas. No. 3879..5."

 

LIFE or DE roe. xi

far was he from being ashamed of his fate himself,

that he wrote a hymn to the pillory, which thus
ends, alluding to his accusers:

Tell them, the mcn that plac'd him here
Are scandals to the times;

Are at a loss to find his guilt,

And can't commit his crimes.

Pope, who has thought fit to introduce him in his
Dunciad, (probably from no other reason than party
difference) characterizes him in the following line:

Earless on high stood unabash'd De Foe.

This is one of those instances of injustice and malig--
nity which so frequently occur in the Dunciad, and
which reflect more dishonour on the author than on
the parties traduced. De Foe lay friendless and
distressed in Newgate, his family ruined, and him-
self without hopes of deliverance, till Sir Robert
Harley, who approved of his principles, and foresaw
that during a factions age such a genius could be

converted to many uses, represented his unmerited
sufl'erings to the Queen, and at length procured his
release. The treasurer, Lord Godolphin, also sent
a considerable sum to his wife and family, and to
him money to pay his fine and the expense of his
discharge. Gratitude and fidelity are inseparable
from an honest man; and it was this benevolent act
that prompted De Foe to support Harley, with his
able and ingenious pen, when Anne lay lifeless, and
his benefactor in the vicissitude of party was perse-
cuted by faction, and overpowered, though not con-
quered, by violence.

The talents and perseverance of De Foe began
now to be properly estimated, and as a firm sup-
porter of the administration, he was sent by Lord
Godolphin to Scotland, on an errand which, as he
says, was far from being unfit for a sovereign to
direct, or an honest man to perform. His know-
ledge of commerce and revenue, his powers of in-
sinuation, and, above all, his readiness of pen, were
deemed of no small utility in promoting the union
of the two kingdoms; of which he wrote an able
history in 1709, with two dedications, one to the
Queen, and another to the Duke of Queensbury.
Soon afterwards he unhappily, by some equivocal
writings, rendered himself suspected by both parties,
so that he once more retired to Newington, in hopes
of spending the remainder of his days in peace.
His pension being withdrawn, and wearied with
politics, he began to compose works of a different
kind--The year 1715 may therefore be regarded
as the period of De Foe's political life. Faction
henceforth found other advocates, and parties pro;
cured other writers to disseminate their suggestions,
and to propagate their falsehoods.
In 1715 De Foe published the " Family Instruc-
tor ;" a work inculcating the domestic duties in a
lively manner, by narration and dialogue, and dis-
playing much knowledge of life in the middle ranks
of society. " Religious Courtship" also appeared
soon after, which, like the " Family Instructor," is
eminently religious and moral in its tendency, and
strongly impresses on the mind that spirit of sobriety
and private devotion for which the dissenters have
generally been distinguished. The most celebrated
of all his works, " The Life and Adventures of
Robinson Crusoe, " appeared in 1719. This work has
passed through numerous editions, and been trans-
lated into almost all modern languages. The great
invention which is displayed in it, the variety of in-
cidents and circumstances which it contains, related
in the most easy and natural manner, together with
the excellency of the moral and religious reflections,
render it a performance of very superior and uncom-
mon merit, and one of the most interesting works
that ever appeared. It is strongly recommended

by Rosseau as a book admirably calculated to pro-
mote the purposes of natural education; and Dr.
Blair says, " No fiction, in any language, was ever
better supported than the Adventures of Robinson
Crusoe. While it is carried on with that appear-
ance of truth and simplicity, which takes a strong
hold of the imagination of all readers, it suggests,
at the same time, very useful instruction; by showing
how much the native powers of man may be exerted
for surmounting the difficulties of any external situ-
ation." It has been pretended, that De Foe sur-
reptitiously appropriated the papers of Alexander
Selkirk, a Scotch mariner, who lived four years
alone on the island of Juan Fernandez, and a sketch
of whose story had before appeared in the voyage
of Captain Woodes Rogers. But this charge, though
repeatedly and confidently brought, appears to be
totally destitute of any foundation. De Foe pro-
bably took some general hints for his work from the
story of Selkirk, but there exists no proof whatever,
nor is it reasonable to suppose that he possessed
any of his papers or memoirs, which had been pub
lished seven years before the appearance of Robin-
son Crusoe. As a farther proof of De Foe's inno-
cence, Captain Rogers' Account of Selkirk may be
produced, in which it is said that the latter had
neither preserved pen, ink, or paper, and had, in a
great measure, lost his language; consequently De

Foe could not have received any written assistance,
and we have only the assertion of his enemies to
prove that he had any verbal.

The great success of Robinson Crusoe induced
its author to write a number of other lives and
adventures, some of which were popular in their
times, though at present nearly forgotten. One of
his latest publications was " A Tour through the
Island of Great Britain," a performance of very
inferior merit; but De Foe was now the garrulous
old man, and his spirit (to use the words of an in-
genious biographer) " like a candle struggling in
the socket, blazed and sunk, blazed and sunk, till
it disappeared at length in total darkness." His
laborious and unfortunate life was finished on the
26th of April, 1731, in' the parish of St. Giles's,
Cripplegate.

Daniel De Foe possessed very extraordinary ta--
lents; as a commercial writer, he is fairly entitled
to stand in the foremost rank among his contempo-
raries, whatever may be their performances or their
fame. His distinguishing characteristics are origi-
nality, spirit, and a profound knowledge of his sub-
ject, and in these particulars he has seldom been
surpassed. As the author of Robinson Crusoe he
has a claim, not only to the admiration, but to the
gratitude of his why-men; and so long as we

have a regard for supereminent merit, and take an
interest in the welfare of the rising generation, that

gratitude will not cease to exist. But the opinion
of the learned and ingenious Dr. Beattie will be
the best eulogium that can be pronounced on that
celebrated romance: " Robinson Crusoe," says the
Doctor, " must be allowed, by the most rigid moral-
ist, to be one of those novels which one may read,
not only with pleasure, but also with profit. It
breathes throughout a spirit of piety and benevo-
lence; it sets in a very striking light the importance
of the mechanic arts, which they, who know not
what it is to be without them, are so apt to under-
value; it fixes in the mind a lively idea of the hor-
rors of solitude, and, consequently, of the sweets
of social life, and of the blessings we derive from
conversation and mutual aid; and it shows how,
by labouring with one's own hands, one may secure
independence, and open for one's self many sources
of health and amusement. I agree, therefore, with
Rosseau, that it is one of the best books that can
be put into the hands of children."LIFE AND ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

<1 .

\4

_4 M.

%
e

//

7
SS\
/

 

I WAS born in the year 1632, in the city of York,

of a good family, though not of that country, my

father being a foreigner of Bremen, who settled first

at Hull: he got a good estate by merchandise, and

leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York; from

whence he had married my mother, whose relations
VOL. I. B
were named Robinson, a very good family in that
country, and from whom I was called Robinson
Kreutznaer; but, by the usual corruption of words
in England, we are now called, nay we call our--
selves, and write. our name Crusoe; and so my com-
panions always called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieute-
nant-colonel to an English regiment of foot in Plan--
ders, formerly commanded by the famous Colonel
Lockhart, and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk
against the Spaniards. What became of my second
brother I never knew, any more than my father or
mother did know what was become of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to
any trade, my head began to be filled very early with
rambling thoughts: my father, who was very ancient,
had given me a competent share of learning, as far
as house-education and a country free-school gene-
rally go, and designed me for the law; bu [I would
be satisfied with nothing but going to sea; and my
inclination to this led me so strongly against the will,
nay, the commands of my father, and against all the
entreaties and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in

that propension of nature, tending directly to the
life of misery which was to befall me. 7K,

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent counsel against what he foresaw was
my design. He called me one morning into his
chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and
expostulated very warme with me upon this subject:
he asked me what reasons more than a mere wander-
ing inclination I had for leaving my father's houseif
i
S
b
,5
I
i
s!
3

 

0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 3
and my native country, where I might be well intro-
duced, and had a prospect of raising my fortune by
application and industry, with a life of ease and
pleasure. He told me it was for men of desperate
fortunes on one hand, or of aspiring, superior for-
tunes on the other, who went abroad upon adven-
tures, to rise by enterprise, and make themselves
famous in undertakings of a nature out of the com-
mon road; that these things were all either too far
above me, or too far below me; that mine was the
middle state, or what might be called the upper
station of low life, which he had found, by long ex-
perience, was the best state in the world, the most

suited to human happiness, not exposed to the mise-

ries and hardships, the labour and sufferings of the
mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed
with the pride, luxury, ambition, and envy of the
upper part of mankind. He told me, I might judge

of the happiness of this state by one thing, viz.

that this was the state of life which all other people
envied; that kings have frequently lamented the
miserable consequences of being born to great things,
and wish they had been placed in the middle-of the
two extremes, between the mean and the great; that
the wise man gave his testimony to this, as the just
standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have
neither poverty nor riches.

He bid me observe it, and I should always find,
that the calamities of life were shared among the
upper and lower part of mankind; but that the mid-
dle station had the fewest disasters, and was not ex-
posed to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower
part of mankind; nay, they .were not subjected to
so many distempers and uneasinesses, either of body
or mind, as those were, who, by vicious living, luxury ,
and extravagances, on one hand, or by hard labour,
want of necessaries, and mean and insufficient diet,
on the other hand, bring distempers upon themselves
by the natural consequencesmf their way of living;
that the middle station of life was calculated for all
kind of virtues and all kind of enjoyments; that
peace and plenty were the handmaids of a middle
fortune; that temperance, moderation, quietness,
health, society, all agreeable diversions, and all de-
sirable pleasures, were the blessings attending the
middle station of life; that this way men went silently
and smoothly through the world, and comfortably
out of it, not embarrassed with the labours of the
hands or of the head, not sold to the life of slavery
for daily bread, or harassed with perplexed circum-
stances, which rob the'soul of peace, and the body
of rest; not enraged with the passion of envy, or
secret burning lust of ambition for great things; but,
in easy circumstances, sliding gently through the
world, and sensibly tasting the sweets of living,
without the bitter, feeling that they are happy, and
learning by every day's experience to know it more
sensibly.

After this, be pressed me earnestly, and in the
most affectionate manner, not to play the young
man, not to precipitate myself into miseries which
nature, and the station of life I was born in, seemed
to have provided against; that I was under no neces-
sity of seeking my bread; that he would do well
for me, and endeavour to enter me fairly into the
station of life which he had been just recommending- I-(1-Jw'vfib-u. .4'....-..-u..",.v '. ,'.' x - ~ A

' 754M911 -..A-. uh'fi'x.) -<<

 

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 5

to me; and that if Iwas not very easy and happy
in the world, it must be my mere fate or fault that
must hinder it; and that he should have nothing to
answer for, having thus discharged his duty in warn-
ing me against measures which he knew would be
to my hurt: in a word, that as he would do very
kind things for me if I would stay and settle at
home as he directed, so he would not have so much

' hand in my misfortunes, as to give me any encou-

ragement to go away: and to close all, he told me
I had my elder brother for an example, to whom he
had used the same earnest persuasions to keep him
from going into the Low Country wars, but could
not prevail, his young desires prompting him to run
into the army, where he was killed; and though he

said he would not cease to pray for me, yet he would
venture to say to me, that if I did take this foolish

step, God would not bless me, and I would have
leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected
his counsel, when there might be none to assist in ,
my recovery. -

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which
was truly prophetic, though I suppose my father did
not know it to be so himself; I say, I observed the
tears run down his face very plentifully, and espe-
cially when he spoke of my brother who was killed:
and that when he spoke of my having leisure to re-
pent, and none to assist me, he was so moved, that
he broke off the discourse, and told me, his heart
was so full he could say no more to me.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as
indeed who could be otherwise? and I resolved not
to think of going abroad any more, but to settle at

n 2
home according to my father's desire. But, alas!
a few days wore it all off; and, in short, to prevent
any of my father's further importunities, in a few
weeks after I resolved to run quite away from him.
However, I did not act so hastily neither as my first
heat of resolution prompted, but I took my mother,
at a time when I thought her a little pleasanter than
ordinary, and told her, that my thoughts were so
entirely bent upon seeing the world, that I should
never settle to any thing with resolution enough to
go through with it, and my father had better give
me his consent than force me to go without it; that
I was now eighteen years old, which was too late to
go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney;
that I was sure, if I did, I should never serve out my
time, and I should certainly run away from my
master before my time was out, and go to sea; and
if she would speak to my father to let me go one
voyage abroad, if I came home again, and did not
like it, I would go no more, and I would promise,
by a double diligence, to recover that time I had
lost.

This put my mother into a great passion: she
told me, she knew it would be to no purpose to
speak to my father upon any such subject; that he
knew too well what was my interest to give his con-
sent to any such thing so much for my hurt; and
that she wondered how I could think of any such
thing after such a discourse as I had had with my
father, and such kind and tender expressions as she
knew my father had used to me; and that, in short,
if Iwould ruin myself, there was no help for me;
but I might depend I should never have their con-
or ROBINSON 01117503. 7

sent to it: that for her part, she would not have So
much hand in my destruction; and I should never

have it to say, that my mother was willing when my
father was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to my
father, yet, as I have heard afterwards, she reported
all the discourse to him, and that my father, after
showing a great concern at it, said to her with a
sigh, " That boy might be happy if he would stay
at home; but if he goes abroad, he will be the most
miserable wretch that was ever born; I can give no
consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though, in the mean time, I continued obsti-
nately deaf to all proposals of settling to business,
and frequently expostulating with my father and
mother about their being so positively determined
against what they knew my inclinations prompted
me to. But being one day at Hull, whereI went
casually, and without any purpose of making an
elopement at that time; but, I say, being there, and
one of my companions then going by sea to London,
in his father's ship, and prompting me to go with
them, with the common allurement of sea-faring
men, viz. that it should cost me nothing for my
passage, I consulted neither father or mother any
more, not so much as sent them word of it; but
leaving them to hear of it as they might, without
asking God's blessing, or my father's, without any
consideration of circumstances or consequences, and
in an ill hour, God knows, on the first of Septem-
ber, 1651, I went on board a ship bound for London.
Never any young adventurer's misfortunes, I believe,u

8 LIFE AND ADVENTURES

began sooner, or continued longer than mine. The
ship was no sooner gotten out of the Humber, but
the wind began to blow, and the waves to rise in a
most frightful manner; and, as I had never been at
sea before, I was most inexpressibly sick in body,
and terrified in mind. I began now seriously to
- reflect upon what I had done, and how justly I was
overtaken by the judgment of Heaven for wickedly
leaving my father's house, and abandoning my duty.
All the good counsel of my parents, my father's tears
and my mother's entreaties, came now fresh into my
mind; and my conscience, which was not yet come
to the pitch of hardness to which it has been since,
reproached me with the contempt of advice, and the
breach of my duty to God and my father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea,
which I had never been upon before, went very
high, though nothing like what I have seen many
times since; no, nor like what I saw a few days
after: but it was enough to affect me then, who was
but a young sailor, and had never known any thing
of the matter. I expected every wave would have
swallowed us up, and that every time the ship fell
down, as I thought, in the trough or hollow of the
sea, we should never rise more; and in this agony
of mind I made many vows and resolutions, that if
it would please God here to spare my life this one
voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon dry land
again, I would go directly home to my father, and
never set it into a ship again while I lived; that I
would take his advice, and never run myself into
such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly
the goodness of his observations about the middleu'!v:ru\EURbh.'w.ar "urn--u>>- -. A ..

fiw'hw . '1. .s'

7ka :nuwibu

 

OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 9

station of life, how easy, how comfortably he had
lived all his days, and never had been exposed to
tempests at sea, or troubles on shore; and I resolved
that I would, like a true repenting prodigal, go
home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued during
the storm, and indeed some time after; but the next
day, as the wind was abated, and the sea calmer, I
began to be a little inured to it: however, I was
very grave for all that day, being also a little sea-sick
still; but towards night the weather cleared up, the
wind was quite over, and a charming fine evening
followed; the sun went down perfectly clear, and
rose so the next morning; and having little or no
wind, and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it, the
sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that I
ever saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more
sea-sick, but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon
the sea that was so rough and terrible the day before,
and could be so calm and so pleasant in a little
time after. And now, lest my good resolutions
should continue, my companion, who had indeed
enticed me away, came to me and said, " Well,
Bob," clapping me on the shoulder, " how do you
do after it"! I warrant you were frightened, wa'n't
you, last night, when it blew but a cap-full of wind "l"
---" A cap-full do you call it?" said I; " it was a ter-
rible storm."--" A storm, you fool you," replied he,
" do you call that a storm? why it was nothing at
all; give us but a good ship and sea-room, and we
think nothing of such a squall of wind as that; but
you're but a fresh-water sailor, Bob. Come, let us
make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that; do
you see what charming weather it is now 2" To make
short this sad part of my story, we went the old way
of all sailors; the punch was made, and I was made
drunk with it; and in that one night's wickedness I
drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon
my past conduct, and all my resolutions for my
future. In a word, as the sea was returned to its
Smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the
abatement of that storm, so the hurry of my thoughts
being over, my fears and apprehensions of being
swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and the
current of my former desires returned, I entirely
forgot the vows and promises that I made in my
distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of reflec-
tion; and serious thoughts did, as it were, endea-
vour to return again sometimes; but I shook them
ofi', and roused myself from them as it were from a
distemper, and applying myself to drinking and
company, soon mastered the return of those fits, for
so I called them; and I had in five or six days got
as complete a victory over conscience, as any young
fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it, could
desire: but I was to have another trial for it still;
and Providence, as in such cases generally it does,
resolved to leave me entirely without excuse: for if
I would not take this for a deliverance, the next was
to be such a one as the worst and most hardened

wretch among us would confess both the danger and
the mercy of.

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into
Yarmouth Roads; the wind having been contrary,
and the weather calm, we had made but little wayor ROBINSON cnuson. 11

since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to
anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing con~
trary, viz. at south-west, for seven or eight days,
during which time a great many ships from New-
castle came into the same roads, as the common har~
bour where the ships might wait for a wind for the
River.

W e had not, however, rid here so long, but should
have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too
fresh; and, after we had lain four or five days, blew
very hard. However, the roads being reckoned 'as
good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our
ground tackle very strong, our men were uncon--
cerned, and not in the least apprehensive of danger,
but spent the time in rest and mirth, after the manner
of the sea; but the eighth day in the morning the
wind increased, and we had all hands at work to
strike our top-masts, and make every thing snug and
close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible.
By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship
rode forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we
thought once or twice our anchor had come home;
upon which our master ordered out the sheet anchor;
so that we rode with two anchors a-head, and the
cables veered out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and
110va began to see terror and amazement in the faces
even of the seamen themselves. The master, though
vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, yet
as he went in and out of his cabin by me, I could
hear him softly say to himself several times, " Lord,
be merciful to us! we shall be all lost; we shall
be all undone!" and the like. During these first
hurries I was stupid, lying still in my cabin, which was
in the steerage, and cannot describe my temper: I
could ill reassume the first penitence which I had
so apparently trampled upon, and hardened myself
against: I thought the bitterness of death had been
past, and that this would be nothing like the first:
but when the master himself came by me, as I said
just now, and said we should be all l'ost, I was
dreadfully frighted: I got up out of my cabin, and
looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw;
the sea went mountains high, and broke upon us
every three or four minutes: when I could look
about, I could see nothing but distress around us:
two ships that rid near us, we found, had cut their
masts by the board, being deep laden; and our
men cried out, that a ship which rid about a mile
a--head of us was foundered. Two more ships being
driven from their anchors, were run out of the roads
to sea, at all adventures, and that with not a mast
standing. The light ships fared the best, as not so
much labouring in the sea; but two or three of ,
them drove, and came close by us, running away
with only their spritsail out before the wind.

Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged g
the master of our ship _to let them cut away the
fore-mast, which he was very unwilling to do: but
the boatswain protesting to him, that if he did not,
the ship would founder, he consented; and when i
they had cut away the fore-mast, the main-mast .
stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, they '
were obliged to cut her away also, and make a clear
deck.

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in
at all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had
been in such a fright before at but a little. But if
I can express at this distance the thoughts that I
had about me at that time, I was in tenfold more
horror of mind upon account of my former convic-
tions, and the having returned from them to the
resolutions 1 had wickedly taken at first, than I was
at death itself; and these, added to the terror of
the storm, put me in such a condition, that I can by
no words describe it. But the worst was not come
yet; the storm continued with such fury, that the
seamen themselves acknowledged they had, never
known a worse. We had a good ship, but she was
deep laden, and wallowed in the sea, that the
seamen every now and then cried out, she would
founder. It was my advantage in one respect, that
I did not know what they meant by founder, till I

inquired. However, the storm was so violent, that
I saw what is not often seen, the master, the boat-

swaiu, and some others more sensible than the rest,
at their prayers, and expecting every moment when
the ship would go to the bottom. In the middle of
the night, and under all the rest of our distresses,
one of the men that had been down on purpose to
see, cried out, we had sprung a leak, another said,

there was four foot water in the hold. Then all
hands were called to the pump. At that very word
my heart, as I thought, died within me, and I fell
backwards upon the side of my bed where I sat,
into the cabin. However, the men roused me, and
told me, that I, that was able to do nothing before,
was as well able to pump as another; at which I
stirred up, and went to the pump and worked very

VOL. I. c
heartily. While this was doing, the master seeing
some light colliers, who, not able to ride out the
storm, were obliged to slip and run away to sea, and
would not come near us, ordered us to fire a gun as
a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing what that
meant, was so surprised, that I thought the ship had
broke, or some dreadful thing had happened. In a
word, I was so surprised, that I fell down in a swoon.
As this was a time when every body had his own
life to think of, nobody minded me, or what was
become of me; but another man stept up to the
pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me
lie, thinking I had been dead; and it was a great
while before I came to myself.

We worked on; but the water increasing in the
hold, it was apparent that the ship would founder;
and though the storm began to abate a little, yet as
it was not possible she could swim till we might run
into a port, so the master continued firing guns for
help; and a light ship, who had rid it outjust ahead
of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with
the utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was
impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to
lie near the ship's side, till at last the men rowing
very heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours,
our men cast them a rope over the stem with a buoy
to it, and then veered it out a great length, which
they, after great labour and hazard, took hold of, and
we hauled them close under our stern, and got all
into their boat. It was to no purpose for them or
us, after we were in the boat, to think of reaching
to their own ship; so all agreed to let her drive, and
only to pull her in towards shore as- much as we
could; and our master promised them, that if the
boat was staved upon shore he would make it good
to their master: so partly rowing and partly driving,
our boat went away to the northward, sloping towards
the shore almost as far as Winterton Ness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an
hour out of our ship but we saw her sink, and then
I understood for the first time what was meant by a

ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge I
had hardly eyes to look up when the seamen told
me she was sinking; for from that moment they
rather put me into the boat, than that I might be
said to go in; my heart was, as it were, dead within
me, partly with fright, partly with horror of mind,
and the thoughts of what was yet before me.

While we were in this condition, the men yet
labouring at the oar to bring the boat near the shore,
we could see (when, our boat mounting the waves,
we were able to see the shore) a great many people
running along the strand to assist us when we should
come near; but we made but slow way towards
the shore; nor were we able to reach it, till,
being past the light-house at Winterton, the shore
falls off to the westward, towards Cromer, and so the
land broke 03 a little the violence of the wind.
Here we got in, and, though not without much ditii-
culty, got all safe on shore, and walked afterwards
on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men,
we were used with great humanity, as well by the
magistrates of the town, who assigned us good
quarters, as by particular merchants and owners of
ships, and had money given us sufficient to carry us

either to London or back to Hull, as we thought
tit.
Had I now had the sense to have gone back to
Hull, and have gone home, I had been happy, and
my father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's para-
ble, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for
hearing the ship I went away in was cast away in
Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before he
had any assurance that I was not drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obsti~
nacy that nothing could resist; and though I had
several times loud calls from my reason, and my
more composed judgment, to go home, yet I had no
power to do it. I know not what to call this, nor
will I urge that it is a secret overruling decree that
hurries us on to be the instruments of our own
destruction, even though it be before us, and that
we rush upon it with our eyes open. Certainly,
nothing but some such decreed unavoidable misery
attending, and which it was impossible for me to
escape, could have pushed me forward against the
calm reasonings and persuasions of my most retired
thoughts, and against two such visible instructions
as I had met with in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before,
and who was the master's son, was now less forward
than I. The first time he spoke to me after we were
at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days,
for we were separated in the town to several quar-
ters; I say, the first time he saw me, it appeared his
tone was altered, and looking very melancholy, and
shaking his head, asked me how I did, and telling
his father who I was, and how I had come this voy-
age only for a. trial, in order to go farther abroad:
his father turning to me with a very grave and
concerned tone, " Young man," says he, " you
ought never to go to sea any more; you ought to
take this for a plain and visible token that you are
not to be a seafaring man."---" Why, Sir," said I,
" will you go to sea no more 2" " That is another
case," said he; " it is my calling, and therefore my
duty; but as you made this voyage for a trial, you
see what a taste Heaven has given you of what you
are to expect if you persist. Perhaps this has all
befallen us on your account, like Jonah in the ship
of Tarshish. Pray," continues he, " what are you;
and on what account did you go to sea 1" Upon that
I told him some of my story; at the end of which
he burst out with a strange kind of passion; " What
had I done," says he, " that such an unhappy
wretch should come into my ship? I would not set
my foot in the same ship with thee again for a thou-
sand pounds." This indeed was, as I said, an excur-
sion of his spirits, which were yet agitated by the
sense of his loss, and was farther than he could
have authority to go. However, he afterwards
talked very gravely to me, exhorting me to go back
to my father, and not tempt Providence to my ruin;
told me I might see a visible hand of Heaven against
me. " And young man," said he, " depend upon
it, if you do not go back, wherever you go, you will
meet with nothing but disasters and disappointments,
till your father's words are fulfilled upon you."

We parted soon after; for I made him little '
answer, and I saw him no more: which way he went,
I know not. As for me, having some money in my
pocket, I travelled to London by land; and there, as

well as on the road, had many struggles with myself.
C 2
v hat course of life I should take, and whether I
should go home, or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best notions
that offered to my thoughts; and it immediately
occurred to me how I should be laughed at among
the neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not
my father and mother only, but even every body
else; from whence I have since often observed, how
incongruous and irrational the common temper of
mankind is, especially of youth, to that reason which
ought to guide them in such cases, viz. that they are
not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent;
nor ashamed of the action for which they ought
justly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the
returninw which only can make them be esteemed

a:
wise men.

In this state of life, however, I remained some
time, uncertain what measures to take, and what
course of life to lead. An irresistible reluctance
continued to going home; and as I stayed a while,
the remembrance of the distress I had been in wore
off; and as that abated, the little notion I had in my
desires to a return wore off with it, till at last I

quite laid aside the thoughts of it, and looked out
for a voyage.

That evil influence which carried me first away
from my father's house, that hurried me into the
wild and indigested notion of raising my fortune;
and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon
me, as to make me deaf to all good advice, and to
the entreaties and even the commands of my father:
I say, the same influence, whatever it was, presented' .Dnda'uI-r' mfdfi'ifie;ilY=vli.u v " , . l. 1 263' >>.v;-. . . , ;

 

0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 19

the most unfortunate of all enterprises to my view;
and I went on board a vessel bound to the coast of
Africa; or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage
to Guinea.

It was my great misfortune that in all these adven-
tures I did not ship myself as a sailor; whereby,
though I might indeed have worked a little harder
than ordinary, yet at the same time I had learnt the
duty and ofiice of a foremast-man; and in time might
have qualified myself for a mate or lieutenant, if not
for a master. But as it was always my fate to choose
for the worse, so I did here; for having money in
my pocket, and good clothes upon my back, I would
always go on board in the habit of a gentleman;
and so I neither had any business in the ship, or
learnt to do any.

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good
company in London, which does not always happen
to such loose and unguided young fellows as I then
was; the devil generally not omitting to lay some
snare for them very early: but it was not so with
me. I first fell acquainted with the master of a ship
who had been on the coast of Guinea; and who,
having had very good success there, was resolved to
go again; and who taking a fancy to my conver-
sation, which was not at all disagreeable at that
time, hearing me say I had a mind to see the world,
told me if I would go the voyage with him I should
be at no expense; I should be his messmate and his
companion; and if I could carry any thing with me,
I should have all the advantage of it that the trade
would admit; and perhaps I might meet with some
encouragement.
I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict
friendship with this captain, who was an honest and
plain-dealing man, 1 went the voyage with him, and
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the
disinterested honesty of my friend the captain, I
increased very considerably; for I carried about
PS40 in such toys and trifles as the captain directed
me to buy. This PS40 1 had mustered together by
the assistance of some of my relations whom I cor-
responded with, and who, I believe, got my father,
or at least my mother, to contribute so much as that
to my first adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say I was
successful in all my adventures, and which I owe to
the integrity and honesty of my friend the captain;
under whom also I got a competent knowledge of
the mathematics and the rules of navigation, learnt
how to keep an account of the ship's course, take an
observation, and, in slmrt, to understand some things
that were needful to be understood by a sailor: for,
as he took delight to instruct me, I took delight to
learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me both a
sailor and a merchant: for I brought home five
pounds nine ounces of gold-dust for my adventure,

which yielded me in London at my return almost
PS300, and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts
which have so completed my ruin.

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too;
particularly, that I was continually sick, being
thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive heat
of the climate; our principal trading being upon
the coast, from the latitude of 15 degrees north '
even to the line itself.
I was now set up for a Guinea trader; and my
friend, to my great. misfortune, dying soon after his
arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage again, and
I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his
mate in his former voyage, and had now got the
command of the ship. This was the unhappiest
voyage that ever man made; for though I did not
carry quite PS100 of my new-gained wealth, so that
1 had PS200 left, and which I lodged with my friend's
widow, who was very just to me, yetI fell into terri-
ble misfortunes in this voyage; and the first was
this, viz. our ship making her course towards the
Canary Islands, or rather between those islands and
the African shore, was surprised in the grey of the
morning by a Turkish rover, of Sallee, who gave
chase to us with all the sail she could make. We
crowded also as much canvass as our yards would
spread, or our masts carry to have got clear; but
finding the pirate gained upon us, and would cer-
tainly come up with us in a few hours, we prepared
to fight; our ship having twelve guns, and the rover
eighteen. About three in the afternoon he came up
with us, and bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our
quarter, instead of athwart our stern, as he intended,
we brought eight of our guns to bear on that side,
and poured in a broadside upon him, which made
him sheer off again, after returning our fire, and
pouring in also his small-shot from near 200 men
which he had on board. However, we had not a
man touched, all our men keeping close. He pre-
pared to attack us again, and we to defend ourselves;
but laying us on board the next time upon our other
quarter, he entered sixty men upon our decks, who
immediately fell to cutting and hacking the sails
and rigging. We. plied them with small-shot, half-
pikes, powder--chests, and such like, and cleared our
deck of them twice. However, to cut. short this me-
lancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled,
and three of our men killed and eight wounded, we
were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners
into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at
first I apprehended; nor was I carried up the coun-
try to the emperor's court, as the rest of our men
were, but was kept by the captain of the rover as
his proper prize, and made his slave, being young
and nimble, and fit for his business. At this sur-
prising change of my circumstances, from a mer--
chant to a miserable slave, I was perfectly over--
whelmed; and now I looked back upon my father's
prophetic discourse to me, that I should be mise-
rable, and have none to relieve me, which I thought
was now so effectually brought to pass, that I could
not be worse; that now the hand of Heaven had
overtaken me, and I was undone without redemp-
tion: but, alas! this was but a taste of the misery
I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of
this story.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home
to his house, so I was in hopes that he would take
me with him when he went to sea again, believing
that it would sometime or other be his fate to be
taken by a Spanish or Portugal man of war; and
that then I should be set at liberty. But this hope
of mine was soon taken away; for when he went to 1
sea, he left me on shore to look after his little gar--

' l
den, and do the common drudgery of slaves about
his house; and when he came home again from his

cruise, he ordered me to lie in the cabin to look
after the ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and
what method I might take to effect it, but found no
way that had the least probability in it: nothing
presented to make the supposition of it rational;
for I had nobody to communicate it to that would
embark with me, no fellow slave, no Englishman,
Irishman, or Scotchman there but myself; so that for
two years, though I often pleased myself with the
imagination, yet I never had the least encouraging
prospect of putting it in practice.

After about two years an odd circumstance pre-
sented itself, which put the old thought of making
some attempt for my liberty again in my head. My
patron lying at home longer than usual without tit-
ting out his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of
money, he used constantly, once or twice a week,
sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to take
the ship's pinnace, and go out into the road a-fishiug;
and as he always took me and a young Moresco
with him to row the boat, we made him very merry,
and I proved very dexterous in catching fish; inso-
much that sometimes he would send me with a Moor,
one of his kinsmen, and the youth of Moresco, as
they called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time, that going a--fishing in a
stark calm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though
we were not half a league from the shore we lost
sight of it; and rowing we knew not whither or
which way, we laboured all day, and all the next
night, and when the morning came we found we had
pulled off to sea instead of pulling in for the shore;
and that we were at least two leagues from the
shore: however, we got well in again, though with
a great deal of labour and some danger; for the
wind began to blow pretty fresh in the morning;
but particularly we were all very hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved
to take more care of himself for the future; and
having lying by him the long-boat of our English
ship he had taken, he resolved he would not go
a-fishing any more without a compass and some pro-
vision; so he ordered the carpenter of his ship,
who also was an English slave, to build a little state-
room, or cabin, in the middle of the long-boat, like
that of a barge, with a place to stand behind it to
steer and haul home the main-sheet; and room be--
fore for a hand or two to stand and work the sails:
she sailed with what we call a shoulder of mutton
sail; and the boom gibbed over the top of the cabin,
which lay very snug and low, and had in it room
for him to lie, with a slave or two, and a table to
eat on, with some small lockers to put in some
bottles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink;
and particularly his bread, rice, and coffee.

We went frequently out with this boat a--fishing,
and as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him,
he never went without me. It happened that he had
appointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure
or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinc-
tion in that place, and for whom he had provided
extraordinarily, and had therefore sent on board the
boat over-night a larger store of provisions than or.
dinary; and had ordered me to get ready thrcc
t'uzees with powder and shot, which were on board
his ship; for that they designed some sport of fowl-
ing as well as fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed, and
waited the next morning with the boat washed clean,
her ensign and pendants out, and every thing to
accommodate his guests; when by and by my patron
came on board alone, and told me his guests had
put off going, upon some business that fell out, and
ordered me with the man and boy, as usual, to go
out with the boat and catch them some fish, for that
his friends were to sup at his house; and commanded
that as soon as I got some fish I should bring it home
to his house; all which I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was like
to have a little ship at my command; and my master
being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not for
fishing business, but for a voyage; though I knew
not, neither did I so much as consider, whither I
should steer; for any where, to get out of that
place, was my way.

My first contrivance was to make a pretence to
speak to this Moor, to get something for our subsist--
ence on board; for I told him We must not presume
to eat of our patron's bread; he said, that was true:
so he brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit of
their kind, and three jars with fresh water, into the
boat. I knew where my patron's case of bottles
stood, which it was evident, by the make, were taken
out of some English prize, and I conveyed them into
the boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they had
been there before for our master: I conveyed also
a great lump of bees-wax into the boat, which

VOL. I. D
weighed above half a hundred weight, with a parcel
of twine or thread, a hatchet, a saw, and a hammer,
all which were of great use to us afterwards, espe-
cially the wax to make candles. Another trick I
tried upon him, which he innocently came into also;
his name was Ismael, whom they call Muley, or
Moley; so I called him: " Moley," said I, " our
patron's guns are on board the boat; can you not
get a little powder and shot? it may be we may kill
some alcamies (a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves,
for I know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship."
---" Yes," says he, " I'll bring some ;" and accord-
ingly he brought a great leather pouch which held
about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more;
and another with shot, that had five or six pounds,
with some bullets, and put all into the boat: at the
same time I had found some powder of my master's
in the great cabin, with which I filled one of the
large bottles in the case, which was almost empty,
pouring what was in it into another; and thus fur-
nished with every thing needful, we sailed out of the
port to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance
of the port, knew who we were, and took no notice
of us: and we were not above a mile out of the port
before we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish.
The wind blew from the N.N.E. which was contrary
to my desire; for had it blown southerly, I had been
sure to have made the coast of Spain, and at least
reached to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions
were, blow which way it would, I would be gone
from that horrid place where Iwas, and leave the.
rest to fate.

After we had fished some time and catched
nothing, for when I had fish on my hook I would
not pull them up, that he might not see them, I said
to the Moor, " This will not do; our master will
not be thus served; we must stand farther off." He,
thinking no harm, agreed, and being in the head of
the boat set the sails; and as I had the helm I run
the boat out near a league farther, and then brought
her to as if I would fish; when giving the boy the
helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor was,
and making as if I stooped for something behind
him, I took him by surprise with my arm under his
waist, and tossed him clear overboard into the sea.
He rose immediately, for he swam like a cork, and
cailed to me, begged to be taken in, told me he
would go all over the world with me. He swam so
strong after the boat, that he would have reached
me very quickly, there being but little wind; upon
which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one of
the fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told
him, I had done him no hurt, and if he would be
quiet I would do him none: " But," said I, " you
swim well enough to reach to the shore, and the sea
is calm; make the best of your way to shore, and I
will do you no. harm; but if you come near the boat
I'll shoot you through the head, for I am resolved
to have my libertyz" so he turned himself about,
and swam for the shore, and'I make no doubt but
he reached it with ease, for he was an excellent
swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was
no venturing to trust him. When he was gone I
turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said
to him, " Xury, if you will be faithful to me I'll
make you a great man; but if you will not stroke
your face to be true to me," that is, swear by Maho-
met and his father's beard, " I must throw you into
the sea too." The boy smiled in my face, and spoke
so innocently, that I could not mistrust him; and
swore to be faithful to me, and go all over the world
with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swim-
ming, I stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather
stretching to windward, that they might think me
gone towards the Straits' mouth; (as indeed any one
that had been in their wits must have been supposed
to do) for who would have supposed we were sailed
on to the southward to the truly Barbarian coast,
where whole nations of Negroes were sure to sur-
round us with the canoes, and destroy us; where we
could never once go on shore but we should be de-
voured by savage beasts, or more merciless savages
of human kind?

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I
changed my course, and steered directly south and
by east, bending my course a little toward the east,
that I might keep in with the shore; and having a
fair, fresh gale of wind, and a smooth, quiet sea, I
made such sail that I believe by the next day at
three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made the
land, I could not be less than 150 miles south of
Sallee; quite beyond the Emperor of Morocco's
dominious, or indeed of any other king thereabout,
for we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
ii
1
e
".4
i
.I
-t
l
I

 

OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. '29

their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore,
or come to an anchor; the wind continuing fair till
I had sailed in that manner five days; and then the
wind shifting to the southward, I concluded also that
if any of our vessels were in chase of me, they also
would now give over; so I ventured to make to the
coast, and come to an anchor in the mouth of a little
river, I knew not what, or where; neither what lati-
tude, what country, what nation, or what river: I
neither saw, or desired to see any people; the prin-
cipal thing I wanted was fresh water. We came into
this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore
as soon as it was dark, and discover the country; but,
as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dread-
ful noises of the barking, roaring, and howling of '
wild creatures, of we knew not what kinds, that the
poor boy was ready to die with fear, and begged of
me not to go on shore till day. " Well, Xury," said
I, " then I won't; but it may be we may see men by
day, who will be as bad to us as those lions."--
" Then we give them the shoot gun," says Xury,
laughing, " make them run wey." Such English
Xury spoke by conversing among us slaves. How-
ever I was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave
him a dram (out of our patron's case of bottles) to
cheer him up. After all, Xury's advice was good,
and I took it; we'aropped our little anchor, and lay
still all night; I say still, for we slept none; for in
two or three hours we saw vast great creatures (we
knew not what to call them) of many sorts, come
down to the sea-shore and run into the water, wal-
lowing and washing themselves for the pleasure of

cooling themselves; and they made such hideous
D 2
howlings and yellings, thatI never indeed heard the
like.

Xury was dreadfully frightened, and indeed so was
1 too; but we were both more frightened when we
heard one of these mighty creatures come swimming
towards our boat; we could not see him, but we
might hear him by his blowing to be a monstrous
huge and furious beast; Xury said it was a lion, and
it might be so for aught I know; but poor Xury
cried to me to weigh the anchor and row away:
" No," says I, " Xury; we can slip our cable with
the buoy to it, and go off to sea; they cannot follow
us far." I had no sooner said so, but I perceived the
creature (whatever it was) within two oars' length,
which something surprised me; however, I immedi-
ately stepped to the cabin-door, and taking up my
gun, fired at him; upon which he immediately
turned about, and swam towards the shore again.

But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises,
and hideous cries and howlings, that were raised, as
well upon the edge of the shore as higher within the
country, upon the noise or report of the gun, a thing
1 have some reason to believe those creatures had
never heard before: this convinced me that there
was no going on shore for us in the night upon that
coast, and how to venture on shore in the day was
another question too; for to have fallen into the
hands of any of the savages, had been as bad as to
have fallen into the hands of lions and tigers; at least
we were equally apprehensive of the danger of it.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on
shore somewhere or other for water, for we had not
a pint left in the boat; when or where to get it, was' <<1:43

 

0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. :3!

the point: Xury said, if I would let him go on shore
with one of the jars, he would find if there was any
water, and bring some to me. I asked him why he
would go? why I should not go, and he stay in the
boat '2 The boy answered with so much affection, that
made me love him ever after. Says he, "If wild
mans come, they eat me, you go wey."-----" Well,
Xury," said I, " we will both go, and if the wild
mans come, we will kill them, they shall eat neither
of us." So I gave Xury a piece of rash bread to
eat, and a dram out of our patron's case of bottles
which I mentioned before; and we hauled the boat in
as near the shore as we thought was proper, and
so waded to shore; carrying nothing but our arms,
and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fear-
ing the coming of canoes with savages down the
river: but the boy seeing a low place about a mile
up the country, rambled to it; and by and by I saw
him come running towards me. I thought he was
pursued by some savage, or frighted with some wild
beast, and I run forward towards him to help him,
but when I came nearer to him, I saw something
hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature
that he had shot, like a hare, but different in
colour, and longer legs; however, we were very
glad of it, and TE was very good meat; but the
great joy that poor Xury came with, was to tell
me he had found good water, and seen no wild
mans. '

But we found afterwards that we need not take
such pains for water, for a little higher up the creek
where we were, we found the water fresh when the
ride was out, which flows but a little way up; so we
tilled our jars, and feasted on the hare we had killed,
and prepared to go on our way, having seen no foot--
steps of any human 'ercature in that part of the
country.

As 1 had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verd islands also, lay not far of? from
the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation to know what latitude we were in, and
not exactly knowing, or at. least remembering what
latitude they were in, and knew not where to look
for them, or when to stand off to sea towards them;
otherwise I might now easily have found some of
these islands. But mv hope was, that if I stood
along this coast till I came to that part where the
English traded, I should find some of their vessels

upon thei n usual design of trade, that would relieve
and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where
I now was, must be that country, which, lying be-
tween the emperor of Morocco's dominions and the
Negroes, lies waste, and uninhabited, except by wild
beasts; the Negroes having abandoned it, and gone
farther south for fear of the Moors; and the Moors
not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its
barrenness; and indeed both forsaking it because of
the prodigious numbers of tigers, lions, and leopards,
and other furious creatures which harbour there; so
that the Moors use it for their hunting only, where
they go like an army, two or three thousand men at
a time; and indeed for near an hundred miles toge-
ther upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste,
uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing but
howlings and roaring of wild beasts by night.
Once .or twice .in the day-time I thought I saw the
l'ico of Teneritfe, being the high top of the Moun-
tain Tenerifi'e in the Canaries; and had a great mind
to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither; but
having tried twice, 1 was forced in again by contrary
winds, the sea also going too high for my little
vessel; so I resolved to pursue my first design, and
keep along the shore.

Several times 1 was obliged to land for fresh
water, after we had left this place; and once in par-
ticular, being early in the morning, we came to an
anchor under a little point of land which was pretty
high; and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still to
go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were more about
him than it seems mine were, calls softly to me, and
tells me that we had best go farther off the shore;
" for," says he, " look yonder lies a dreadful mon-
ster on the side of that hillock fast asleep." I
looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster
indeed, for it was a terrible great lion that lay on
the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of
the hill that hung as it were a little over him.
" Xury," says I, " you shall go on shore and kill
him." Xury looked frightened, and said, " Me kill!
he. eat me at one mouth ;" one mouthful he meant:
however, I said no more to the boy, but had him lie
still, and I took our biggest. gun, which was almost
musket-bore, and loaded it with a good charge of
powder, and with two slugs, and laid it down; then
I loaded another gun with two bullets; and the
third (for we had three pieces) I loaded with five
smaller bullets. I took the best aim I could with
the first piece to have shot him in the head, but
he lay so with his leg raised a little above his nose,
that the slugs hit his leg about the knee, and broke
the bone. Ile started up, growling at first, but
finding his leg broke, fell down again, and then got
up upon three legs, and gave the most hideous roar
that ever I heard. I was a little surprised that I
had not hit him on the head; however, I took up
the second piece immediately, and, though he began
to move off, fired again, and shot him in the head,
and had the pleasure to see him drop, and make but
little noise, but lie struggling for life. Then Xury
took heart, and would have me let him go on shore;
" Well, go," said I; so the boy jumped into the
water, and taking a little gun in one hand, swam to
shore with the other hand, and coming close to the.
creature, put the muzzle of the piece to his ear, and
shot him in the head again, which dispatched him
quite.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food;
and l was very sorry to lose three charges of powder
and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing
to us. However, Xury said he would have some of
him; so he comes on board, and asked me to give
him the hatchet. " For what, Xury ?" said I, " Me
cut 05 his head," said he. However, Xury could not
cut off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought
it with him, and it was a monstrous great one.

I bethought myself however, that perhaps the.
skin of him might one way or other be of some
value to us; and I resolved to take off his skin if I
could. So Xury and I went to work with him; but
Xuryr was much the better workman at it, for I knew
very ill how to do it. Indeed it took us both up
the whole day, but at last we got off the hide of
him, and spreading it on the top of our cabin, the
sun effectually dried it in two (lays' time, and it
afterwards served me to lie upon.

After this stop, we made on to the southward
continually for ten or twelve days, living very sparing
on our provisions, which began to abate very much,
and going no oftener into the shore than we were
obliged to for fresh water: my design in this was,
to make the river Gambia or Senegal, that is to say,
my where about the Cape de Verd, where I was in
hopes to meet with some. European ship; and if I
did not, I knew not what course I had to take, but
to seek for the islands, or perish there among the
Negroes. I knew that all the ships from Europe,
which sailed either to the coast of Guinea or to
Brazil, or to the East Indies, made this Cape, or
those islands; and in a word, I put the whole of my
fortune upon this single point, either that I must
meet with some ship, or nrust. perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about ten
days longer, as I have said, I began to see that the
land was inhabited; and in two or three places, as
we sailed by, we saw people stand upon the shore
to look at us; we could also perceive they were
quite black, and stark naked. I was once inclined
to have gone on'shore to them; but Xury was my
better counsellor, and said to me, " No go, no go."
However, I hauled in nearer the shore that I might
talk to them, and I found they run along the shore
by me a good way: I observed they had no weapons
in their hands, except one, who had a long slender
stick, which Xury said was a lance, and that they
would throw them a great way with a good aim; so
I kept at a distance, but talked with them by signs
as well as I could; and particularly made signs for
something to eat; they beckoned to me to stop my
boat, and they would fetch me some meat. Upon
this I lowered the top of my sail, and lay by, and
two of them ran up into the country, and in less
than half an hour came back, and brought with
them two pieces of dry flesh and some corn, such
as is the produce of their country; but we neither
knew what. the one or the other was: however, we.
were willing to accept it, but how to come at it was
our next dispute, for l was not for venturing on
shore to them, and they were as much afraid of us:
but they took a safe way for us all, for they brought
it to the shore and laid it down, and went and stood
a great way off till we fetched it on board, and then

came close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had
nothing to make them amends; but an Opportunity
offered that very instant to oblige them wonderfully;
for while we were lying by the shore came two
mighty creatures, one pursuing the other (as we took
it) with great fury from the mountains towards the
sea; whether it was the male pursuing the female,
or whether they were in sport or in rage, we could
not tell, any more than we could tell whether it was
usual or strange, but I believe it was the latter; be-
cause, in the first place, those ravenous creatures
seldom appear but in the night; and in the second
place, we found the peeple terribly frightened, espe-
cially the women. The man that had the lance or
dart did not fly from them, but the rest did; hou-K
I
l

0F ROBINSON cnvsos. 37

ever, as the two creatures ran directly into the
water, they did not seem to offer to fall upon any
of the Negroes, but plunged themselves into the
sea, and swam about, as if they had come for their
diversion: at last, one of them began to come
nearer our boat than I at first expected; but I lay
ready for him, for I had loaded my gun with all
possible expedition, and bade Xury load both the
others. As soon as he came fairly within my reach,
I fired, and shot him directly in the head: imme-
diately he sunk down into the water, but rose
instantly, and plunged up and down, as if he was
struggling for life, and so indeed he was: he imme-
diately made to the shore; but between the wound,
which was his mortal hurt, and the strangling of the
water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of
these poor creatures, at the noise and tire of my
gun; some of them were even ready to die for fear,
and fell down as dead with the very terror; but
when they saw the creature dead, and sunk in the
water, and that I made signs to them to come to the
shore, they took heart and came to the shore, and
began to search for the creature. I found him by
his blood staining the water; and by the help of a
rope, which I slung round him, and gave the Negroes
to haul, they-dragged him on shore, and found that
it was a most curious leopard, spotted, and fine to
an admirable degree; and the Negroes held up their
hands with admiration, to think what it was I had
killed him with.

The other creature, frightened with the flash of
tire and the noise of the gun, swam on shore, and

VOL. I. r:36 Lll-'E AM) AD\'E;\'I'URES

ran up directly to the mountains from whence they
came; nor could I, at that distance, know what it
was. I found quickly the Negroes were for eating
the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to have
them take it as a favour from me; which, when I
made signs to them that they might take him, they
were very thankful for. Immediately they fell to
work with him; and though they had no knife, yet,
with a sharpened piece of wood, they took off his
skin as readily, and much more readily, than we
could have done with a knife. They offered me
some of the flesh, which I declined, making as if 1
would give it them, but made signs for the skin,
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a
great deal more of their provisions, which, though
1 did not understand, yet I accepted. I then made
signs to them for some water, and held out one of
my jars to them, turning it bottom upward, to show
that it was empty, and that I wanted to have it
tilled. They called immediately to some of their
friends, and there came two women, and brought a
great vessel made of earth, and burnt, as I suppose,
in the sun; this they set down to me, as before, and
I sent Xury on shore with my jars, and filled them
all three. The women were as stark naked as the
men.

1 was now furnished with roots and corn, such as
it was, and water; and leaving my friendly Negroes,
I made forward for about eleven days more, without
offering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run
out a great length into the sea, at about the distance
of four or five leagues before me; and the sea
being very calm, I kept a large oiling, to make thisWoof :3

or ROBINSON cnusoa. 39
point. At length, doubling the point, at about two
leagues from the land, I saw plainly land on the
other side, to seaward: then I concluded, as it was
most certain indeed, that this was the Cape de
Verd, and those the islands, called, from thence,
Cape de Verd Islands. However, they were at a
great distance, and I could not well tell what I had
best. to do; for if I should be taken with a gale of
wind, I might neither reach one. nor the other.

In this dilemma, as l was very pensive, I stepped
into the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the
helm; when, on a sudden, the boy cried out,
Master, master, a ship with a sail! and the foolish
boy was frightened out of his wits, thinking it must
needs be some of his master's ships sent to pursue
us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out of
their reach. [jumped out of the cabin, and imme-
diately saw, not only the ship, but what she was,
\ iz. that it was a Portuguese ship, and, as I thought,
was bound to the coast of Guinea, for Negroes.
But, when I observed the course she steered, I was
soon convinced they were bound some other way,
and did not design to come any nearer to the shore:
upon which, I stretched out to sea as much as 1
could, resolving to speak with them, if possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should
not be able-to come in their way, but that they
would be gone by before I could make any signal
to them: but after I had crowded to the utmost,
and began to despair, they, it seems, saw me, by
the help of their perspective glasses, and that it

was some European boat, which, they supposed,
must belong to some ship that was lost; so they
shortened sail, to let me come up. I was eticouraged
with this, and as I had my patron's ensign on board,
I made a waft of it to them, for a signal of distress,
and fired a gun, both which they saw; for they told
me they saw the smoke, though they did not hear
the gun. Upon these signals, they very kindly
brought to, and lay by for me; and in about three
hours' time I came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and
in Spanish, and in French, but I understood none of
them; but, at last, a Scotch sailor, who was on
board, called to me, and I answered him, and told
him I was an Englishman, that 1 had made my
escape out of slavery from the Moors, at Sallee:
they then bade me come on board, and very kindly
took me in, and all my goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one
will believe, that I was thus delivered, as l esteemed
it, from such a miserable, and almost hopeless, con-
dition as I was in; and I immediately ofl'ered all I
had to the captain of the ship, as a return for my
deliverance; but he generously told me, he would
take nothing from me, but. that all I had should be.
delivered safe to me, when I came to the Brazils.
" For," says he, " I have saved your life on no other
terms than I would be glad to be saved myself;
and it may, one time or other, be my lot to be taken
up in the same condition. Besides," continued he,
" when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a way from
your own country, it' [should take from you what
you have, you will be starved there, and then I only
take away that life I have given. No, no, Seignior
laglese," (Mr. Englislnnan,) says he; " I will carry youIf--,'.L"I" <. x ,

0F ROBINSON CRUSOI'T. -'ll

thither in charity, and these things will help to
buy your subsistence. there, and your passage home
again."

As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was
just in the pertbriuance, to a tittle; for he ordered
the seamen, that none should olfer to touch any
thing I had: then he took every thing into his own
possession, and gave me back an exact inventory of
them, that I might have them, even so much as my
three earthen jars.

As to my boat, it was a very good one; and that
he saw, and told me he would buy it of me. for the
ship's use; and asked me what I would have for
it! I told him, he had been so generous to me in
every thing, that 1 could not ofl'er to make any
price of the boat, but left it entirely to him: upon
which, he told me he would give me a note of hand
to pay me. eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil;
and when it came theta, if any one offered to give
more, he would make it up. He ott'ered me also
sixty pieces of eight more for my boy Xury, which
I was loth to take; not that l was not willing to let
the captain have him, but I was very loth to sell
the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted me so
faithfully in procuring my own. However, when
I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just,
and ofl'eredyme this medium, that. he would give
the, boy an obligation to set him free in ten years,
if he turned Christian: upon this, and Xury saying
he was willing to go to him, I let the captain have.
him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and

arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All
l", 21'2 LIFE AND ADvEX'rrmas

Saints' Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And
now I was once more delivered from the most
miserable of all conditions of life; and what to
do next with myself, I was now to consider. '

The generous treatment. the captain gave me, I
can never enough remember: he would take nothing
of me for my passage, gave me twenty ducats for
the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin,
which I had in my boat, and caused every thing I
had in the ship to be punctually delivered to me;

and what I was willing to sell, he bought of me;
such as the case of bottles, two of my guns, and a
piece of the lump of bees-wax,----for I had made.
candles of the rest: in a word, I made about two

hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my
cargo; and with this stock, I went on shore in the

Brazils.

I had not been long here, before I was recom-
mended to the house of a'good honest man, like
himself, who had an ingeino as they call it, (that is,
a plantation and a sugar-house.) I lived with him
some time, and acquainted myself, by that means,
with the manner of planting and making of sugar:
and seeing how well the planters lived, and hmv
they got rich suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a
licence to settle there, I would turn planter among
them: endeavouring, in the mean time, to find out
some way to get my money, which 1 had left. in
London, remitted to me. T 0 this purpose, getting
a kind of a letter of naturalization, I purchased as
much land that was uncured as my money would
reach, and formed a plan for my plantation: and
settlement; such a one as might be suitable to the
stock which I proposed to myself to receive from
England.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but
horn of English parents, whose name was Wells,
and in much such circumstances as I was. I call
him my neighbour, because his plantation lay next
to mine, and we went on very sociably together.
My stock was but low, as well as his; and we
rather planted for food than any thing else, for
about two years. However, we began to increase,
and our land began to come into order; so that the
third year we planted some tobacco, and made each
of us a large piece of ground ready for planting
canes in the year to come: but we both wanted
help; and now I found, more than before, I had
done wrong in parting with my boy Xury.

But, alas! for me to do wrong, that never did
right, was no great wonder. I had no remedy, but.
to go on: I had got into an employment quite
remote to my genius, and directly contrary to the
life I delighted in, and for which I forsook my
father's house, and broke through all his good ad-
vice: nay, I was coming into the very middle sta-
tion, or upper degree of low life, which my father
advised me to before; and which, if I resolved to
go on with, I might as well have staid at home, and
never have fatigued myself in the world, as I had
done: and I used often to say to myself, I could
have done this as well in England, among my friends,
as have gone five thousand miles off to do it among
strangers and savages, in a wilderness, and at such
a distance as never to hear from any part of the
world that had the least knowledge of me.
In this manner, I used to look upon my condition
with the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse
with, but now and then this neighbour; no work
to be done, but by the labour of my hands: and I
used to say, I lived just like a man cast away upon
some desolate island, that had nobody there but
himself. But how just has it been! and how should
all men reflect, that when they compare their present
conditions with others that are worse, Heaven may
oblige them to make the exchange, and be convinced
of their former felicity by their experience: I say,
how just has it been, that the truly solitary life I
reflected on, in an island of mere desolation, should
be my lot, who had so often unjustly compared it
with the life which I then led, in which, had I con-
tinued, I had, in all probability, been exceeding
prosperous and rich.

I was, in some degree, settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation, before my kind friend,
the captain of the ship that took me up at sea, went
back; for the ship remained there, in providing his
lading, and preparing for his voyage, near three
months; when, telling him what little stock I had
left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly
and sincere advice: " Seignior Inglese," says he, for
so he always called me, " if you will give me letters,
and a procuration here in form to me, with orders
to the person who has your money in London, to
send your effects to Lisbon, to such persons as I
shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for
this country, I will bring you the produce of them,
God willing, at my return; but, since human affairs
are all subject to changes and disasters, I would
have you give orders for but one hundred pounds
sterling, which, you say, is half your stock, and let
the hazard be run for the first, so that if it come
safe, you may order the rest the same way; and, if
it miscarry, you may have the other half to have
recourse to for your supply."

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so
friendly, that I could not but be convinced it was
the best course I could take; so I accordingly pre-
pared letters to the gentlewoman with whom I left
my money, and a proeuration to the Portuguese cap-
tain, as he desired me.

I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures; my slavery, escape, and how
I had met with the Portuguese captain at sea, the
humanity of his behaviour, and what condition I
was now in, with all other necessary directions for
my supply; and when this honest captain came to
Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English
merchants there, to send over, not the order only,
but a full account of my story to a merchant at Lon-
don, who represented it effectually to her: where-
upon she not only delivered the money, but, out of
her own pocket, sent the Portuguese captain a very
handsome present for his humanity and charity to
me.

The merchant in London, vesting this hundred
pounds in English goods, such as the captain had
wrote for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and
he brought them all safe to me at the Brazils:
among which, without my direction, (for I was too
young in my business to think of them,) he had
taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron work, and
utensils, necessary for my plantation, and which
were of great use. to me.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, for I was surprised with the joy of it; and
my good steward, the captain, had laid out. the five
pounds, which my friend had sent him as a present
for himself, to purchase and bring me over a ser~
vant, under bond for six years' service, and would

not accept of any consideration, except a little to~
bacco, which I would have him accept, being of my
own produce.

Neither was this all: but my goods being all
English manufactures, such as cloths, stufl's, baize,
and things particularly valuable and desirable in
the country, I found means to sell them to a very
great advantage; so that I might say, I had more
than four times the value of my first cargo, and was
now infinitely beyond my poor neighbour, I mean in
the advancement of my plantation: for the first
thing I did, I bought me a Negro slave, and an
European servant also; I mean another besides that
which the captain brought me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of our adversity, so was it with me. I
went on the next year with great success in my plan-
tation; I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my
own ground, more than I had disposed of for neces-
saries among my neighbours; and these fifty rolls,
being each of above a hundred weight, were well
cured, and laid by against the return of the fleet from
Lisbon: and now, increasing in business and in wealth,
my head began to be full of projects and undertak-
ings beyond my reach; such as are. indeed. often
the ruin of the best heads in business. Had I con-
tinued in the station I was now in, I had room for
all the happy things to have yet befallen me, for
which my father so earnestly reconnnended a quiet,
retired life, and which he had so sensibly described
the middle station of life to be full of : but other
things attended me, and I was still to be the wilful
agent of all my own miseries; and, particularly, to
increase my fault, and double the reflections upon
myself, which in my future sorrows I should have
leisure to make, all these miscarriages were pro-
cured by my apparent obstinate adhering to my
foolish inclination, of wandering about, and pursu-
ing that inclination, in contradiction to the clearest
\'lCWS of doing myself good in a fair and plain pur-
suit of those prospects, and those measures of life,
which nature and Providence concurred to present

me with, and to make my duty.

As I had once done thus in breaking away from
my parents, so I could not be content now, but I
must go and leave the happy view I had of being a
rich and thriving man in my new plantation, only to
pursue a rash and immoderate desire of rising faster
than the nature of the thing admitted; and thus I
a-ast myself down again into the deepest gulph of
human misery that ever man fell into, or perhaps
could be consistent with life, and a state of health
in the world.

To come, then, by just degrees, to the particulars
of this part of my story :----You may suppose, that
having now lived almost four years in the Brazils,
and beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon
my plantation, I had not only learned the language.
but had contracted an acquaintance and friendship
among my fellow-planters, as well as among the mer-
chants at St. Salvador, which was our port; and that,
in my discourses among them, I had frequently given
them an account of my two voyages to the coast of
Guinea, the manner of trading with the Negroes
there, and how easy it was to purchase on the coast
for trifles--such as beads, toys, knives, scissars,
liatchets, bits of glass, and the like--not only gold
dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, &c. but Ne-
groes, for the service of the Brazils, in great num-

bers.

They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads, but especially to that part
which related to the buying Negroes; which was a
trade, at that time, not only not far entered into,
but, as far as it was, had been carried on by the
assientos, or permission of the kings of Spain and
Portugal, and engrossed from the public; so that
few Negroes were bought, and those excessive dear.

It happened, being in company with some mer--
chants and planters of my acquaintance, and talking
of those things very earnestly, three of them came
to me. the next morning, and told me they had been
musing very much upon what I had discoursed with
them of the last night, and they came to make a
secret proposal to me: and, after enjoining me to
secrecy, they told me that they had a mind to fit out
a ship to go to Guinea; that they had all plantations
as well as I, and were straitened for nothing so
much as servants; that as it was a trade that could
not be carried on, because they could not publicly

sell the Negroes when they came home, so they de~
sired to make but one voyage, to bring the Negroes
on shore privately, and divide them among their own
plantations: and, in a word, the question was, whe-
ther I would go their supercargo in the ship, to
manage the trading part upon the coast of Guinea;
and they offered me that I should have an equal
share of the Negroes, without providing any part
of the stock.

This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed,
had it been made to any one that had not a settle.
ment and plantation of his own to look after, which
was in a fair way of coming to be very considerable, -
and with a good stock upon it. But for me, that
was thus entered and established, and had nothing

to do but go on as I had begun, for three or four
years more, and to have sent for the other hundred
pounds from England; and who, in that time, and
with that little addition, could scarce have failed of
being worth three or four thousand pounds sterling,
and that increasing too; for me to think of such a
voyage, was the most preposterous thing that ever
man, in such circumstances, could be guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer,
could no more resist the offer, than I could restrain
my first rambling designs, when my father's good
counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them
I would PS0 with all my heart, if they would under-
take to look after my plantation in my absence, and
would dispose of it to such as I should direct, if I
miscarried. This they all engaged to do, and en.
tered into writings or covenants to do so: and I
made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and
effects, in case of my death; making the captain of

VOL. I. F
the ship that had saved my life, as before, my uni-
versal heir; but obliging him to dispose of my effects
as I had directed in my will; one half of the pro-
duce being to himself, and the other to be shipped
to England.

In short, 1 took all possible caution to preserve
my effects, and to keep up my plantation: had I
used half as much prudence to have looked into my
own interest, and have made a judgment of what I
ought to have done and not to have don'e'gifl had
certainly never gone away from so prosperous an
undertaking, leaving all the probable. views of a
thriving circumstance, and gone a voyage to sea,
attended with all its common hazards, to say nothing
of the reasons 1 had to expect particular misfortunes
to myself.

' But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dic-

tates of my fancy, rather than my reason: and ac-
cordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the cargo
furnished, and all things done as by agreement, by
my partners in the voyage, I went on board in an
evil hour again, the lst of September, 1659, being
the same day eight years that I went from my father
and mother at Hull, in order to act the rebel to
their authority, and the fool to my own interest.

Our ship was about one hundred and twenty tons
burden, carried six guns, and fourteen men, besides
the master, his boy, and myself; we had on board
no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as
were fit for our trade with the Negroes, such as
beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifles, especially
little looking-glasses, knives, scissars, hatchets, and
the like.
The same day I went on board we set sail, stand-
ing away to the northward upon our own coast, with
design to stretch 'over for the African coast. When
they came about ten or twelve degrees of northern
latitude, which, it seems, was the manner of their
course in those days, we had very good weather,
only excessive hot all the way upon our own coast,
till we came to the height of Cape St. Augustine;
from whence, keeping farther off at sea, we lost sight
of land, and steered as if we were bound for the isle
Fernando de Norouha, holding our course N.E. by
N. and leaving those isles on the cast. In this course-V- '
we passed the line in about twelve days' time, and
were by our last observation, in 7 degrees 22 mi-
nutes northern latitude, when a violent tornado, or
hurricane, took us quite out of our knowledge: it
began from the south-east, came about to the north-
west, and then settled in the north-east; from whence
it blew in such a terrible manner, that for twelve
days together we could do nothing but drive, and,
scndding away before it, let it carry us whither ever
fate and the fury of the winds directed; and, during
these twelve days, I need not say that I expected
every day to be swalloWed up; nor, indeed, did any
in the ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress, we had, besides the terror of the
storm, o'fie of our men died of the calenture, and
one man and a boy washed overboard. About the
twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master
made an observation as well as he could, and found
that he was in about 11 degrees north latitude, but
that he was 22 degrees of longitude difference, west
from Cape St. Augustino; so that he found he was
got upon the coast of Guiana, or the north part of
Brazil, beyond the river Amazons, toward that of
the river Oroonoque, commonly called the Great
River; and began to consult with me what course
he should take, for the ship was leaky and very
much disabled, and he was going directly back to
the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that; and looking over
the charts of the sea-coast of America with him, we
concluded there was no inhabited country for us to
have recourse to, till we came within the circle of
the Caribbee islands, and therefore resolved to stand
away for Barbadoes; which by keeping ml to sea,
to avoid the iii-draft of the bay or gulf of Mexico,
we might easily perform, as we hoped, in about titL
teen days' sail; whereas we could not possibly make.
our voyage to the coast of Africa without some
assistance, both to our ship and ourselves.

With this design, we changed our course, and
steered away N.W. by W. in order to reach some of
our English islands, where I hoped for relief: but
our voyage was otherwise detennined; for being in
the latitude of 12- degrces 18 minutes, a second
storm came upon us, which carried us away with
the same impetuosity westward, and drove us so
out of the very way of all human commerce, that
had all our lives been saved, as to the sea, we were
rather in danger of being devoured by savages than
ever returning to our own country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard,
one of our men early in the morning cried out,
Land! and we had no sooner run out of the cabin
to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the
world we were, but the ship struck upon a sand,
and in a moment, her motion being so stopped, the
sea broke over her in such a manner, that we ex-
pected we should all have perished immediately;
and we were immediately driven into our close quar-
ters, to shelter us from the very foam and spray ot
the sea.

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in
the like. condition, to describe or conceive the con-
sternation of men in such circumstances; we knew
nothing where we were, or upon what land it was
we were driven, whether an island or the main,
whether inhabited or not inhabited; and as the rage
of the wind was still great, though rather less than
at first, we could not so much as hope to have the
ship hold many minutes, without breaking in pieces,
unless the wind, by a kind of miracle, should imme-
diately turn about. In a word, we sat looking upon
one another, and expecting death every moment.
and every man acting accordingly, as preparing for
another world; for there was little or nothing more
for us to do in this: that which was our present
comfort, and all the comfort we had, was, that,
contrary to our expectation, the ship did not break
yet, and that the master said the wind began to

abate. .-
Now, though we thought that the wind did a little

abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the
sand, and sticking too fast for us to expect her get-
ting off, we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and
had nothing to do but to think of saving our lives
as well as we could. We had a boat at our stern

just before the storm, but she was first staved by
r 2
dashing against the ship's rudder, and, in the next
place, she broke away, and either sunk, or was
driven off to sea; so there was no hope from her:
we had another boat. on board, but how to get her
off into the sea was a doubtful thing; however,
there was no room to debate, for we fancied the
ship would break in pieces every minute, and some
told us she was actually broken already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel laid hold
of the boat, and with the help of the rest of the
men, they got her flung over the ship's side; and
getting all into her, let her go, and committed our--
selves, being eleven in number, to God's mercy, and
the wild sea: for though the storm was abated con-
siderably, yet the sea went dreadful high upon the
shore, and might be well called den wild zee, as the
Dutch call the sea in a storm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for
we all saw plainly, that the sea went so high, that
the boat could not live, and that we should be
inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we had
none; nor, if we had, could we have done any thing
with it; so we worked at the oar towards the land,
though with heavy hearts, like men going to execu-
tion; for we all knew that when the boat came
nearer to the shore, she would be dashed in a thou-
sand pieces by the breach of the sea. However,
we committed our souls to God in the most earnest
manner; and the wind driving us towards the shore,
we hastened our destruction with our own hands,
pulling as well as we could towards land.

What the shore was--whether rock or sand, whe-
ther steep or shoal--we knew not; the only hopeMina..." .

0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 55

that could rationally give us the least shadow of
expectation, was, if we might happen into some bay
or gulf, or the mouth of some river, where by great
chance we might have r1111 our boat in, or got under
the lee of the land, and perhaps made smooth water.
But there was nothing of this appeared; and as we
made nearer and nearer the shore, the land looked
more frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a
league and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave,
mountain- like, came rolling astern of us, and plainly
bade us expect the coup de grace. In a word, it
took us with such a fury, that it. overset the boat. at.
once; and separating us, as well from the boat as
from one another, gave us not. time hardly to
say, " O God !" for we were all swallowed up in a
moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought
which I felt, when I sunk into the water; for though
I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself
from the waves so as to draw my breath, till that.
wave having driven me, or rather carried me, a vast
way on towards the shore, and having spent itself,
went back, and left me upon the land almost dry,
but half dead with the water I took in. I had so
much presence of mind, as well as breath left, that
seeing myself nearer the main land than I expected,
I got upon my feet, and endeavoured to make 011
towards the land as fast as I could, before another
wave should return and take me up again; but I
soon found it was impossible to avoid it; for I saw
the sea come after me as high as a great hill, and as
furious as an enemy, which I had no means or
strength to contend with: my business was to hold
my breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I
could; and so, by swimming, to preserve my breath-
ing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible:
my greatest concern now being, that the wave, as it
would carry me a great way towards the shore when
it came on, might not carry me back again with it
when it gave back towards the sea.

The wave that came. upon me again, buried
me at once twenty or thirty feet deep in its own
body; and I could feel myself carried with a mighty
force and swiftness towards the shore a very
great way; but I held my breath, and assisted my-
self to swim still forward with all my might. I
was ready to burst with holding my breath, when,
as I felt myself rising up, so, to my immediate relief,
I found my head and hands shoot out above the
surface of the water; and though it was not two
seconds of time that I could keep myself so, yet
it relieved me greatly, gave me breath, and new
courage. I was covered again with water a good
while, but not so long but I held it out; and finding
the water had spent itself, and began to return, I
struck forward against the return of the waves,
and felt ground again with my feet. I stood still
a few moments, to recover breath, and till the water
went from me, and then took to my heels, and
ran with what strength I had farther towards the
shore. But neither would this deliver me from the
fury of the sea, which came pouring in after me
again; and twice more I was lifted up by the waves
and carried forwards as before, the shore being
very flat.

I
 

The last time of these two had well nigh been
fatal to me; for the sea having hurried me along, as
before, landed me, or rather dashed me, against a
piece of a rock, and that with such force, that it
left me senseless, and indeed helpless, as to my own
deliverance; for the blow taking my side and breast,
beat the breath, as it were, quite out of my body;
and had it returned again immediately, I must have
been strangled in the water: but I recovered a little
before the return of the waves, and seeing I should
again be covered with the water, I resolved to hold
fast by a piece of the rock, and so to hold my breath,
if possible, till the wave went back. Now as the
waves were not so high as the first, being nearer
land, I held my hold till the wave abated, and their
fetched another run, which brought me so near the
shore, that the next wave, though it went over
me, yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me
away; and the next run I took, I got to the main
land; where, to my great comfort, I clambered up
the cliffs of the shore, and sat me down upon the
grass, free from danger, and quite out of 'the reach
of the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began
to look up and thank God that my life was saved,
in a case wherein there were, some minutes before,
scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impossible
to express, to the life, what the ecstasies and trans--
ports of the soul are, when it is so saved, as I may
say, out of the grave: and I did not wonder now at
the custom, viz. that when a malefactor, who has
the halter about his neck, is tied up, and just going
to be turned OH, and has a reprieve brought to him;
I say, I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon
with it, to let him blood that very moment they tell
him of it, that the surprise may not drive the animal
spirits from the heart, and overwhelm him.

For sudden joys, like griefs, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,
and my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the
contemplation of my deliverance; making a thou-
sand gestures and motions, which I cannot describe;
reflecting upon my comrades that were drowned,
and that there should not be one soul saved but
myself; for, as for them, I never saw them after-
wards, or any sign of them, except three of their
hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not fellows.<<A

OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. ' 59

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel--when the
breach and froth of the sea being so big I could
hardly see it, it lay so far off--and considered,
Lord! how was it possible I could get on shore?

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look round me, to
see what kind of a place I was in, and what was
next to be done; and I soon found my comforts
abate, and that, in a word, I had a dreadful deliver-
ance: for I was wet, had no clothes to shift me, nor
any thing either to eat or drink, to comfort me;
neither did I see any prospect before me, but that
of perishing with hunger, or being devoured by wild
beasts: and that which was particularly afflicting to
me was, that I had no weapon, either to hunt and
kill any creature for my sustenance, or to defend
myself against any other creature that might desire
to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had nothing
about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a little
tobacco in a box. This was all my provision; and
this threw me into such terrible agonies of mind,
that, for a while, I ran about like a madman. Night
coming upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to
consider what would be my lot if there were any
ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night they
always come abroad for their prey.

All th! remedy that offered to my thoughts; at
that time, was, to get up into a thick bushy tree,
like a fir, but thorny--which grew near me, and
where I resolved to sit all night--and consider the
next day what death I should die, for as yet I saw
no prospect of life. I walked about a furlong from
the shore, to see if I could find any fresh water to
drink, which I did, to my great joy; and having
drank, and put a little tobacco into my mouth to
prevent hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up
into it, endeavoured to place myself so, as that if I
should fall asleep, I might not fall; and having cut
me a short stick, like a tru'ncheon, for my defence,
I took up my lodging; and having been excessively
fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably
as, I believe, few could have done in my condition;
and found myself the most refreshed with it that I
think I ever was on such an occasion.

When I waked it was broad day, the weather
clear, and the storm abated, so that the sea did not
rage and swell as before; but that which surprised
me most was, that the ship was lifted off in the
night from the sand where she lay, by the swelling
of the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the
rock which I at first mentioned, where I had been
so bruised by the wave dashing me against it. This
being within about a mile from the shore where!
was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I
wished myself on board, that at least I might save
some necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my apartment in the
tree, I looked about me again, and the first thing I
found was the boat; which lay, as the wind and the
sea had tossed her up, upon the land, about two
miles on my right hand. I walked as far as I could
upon the shore to have got to her; but found a
neck, or inlet, of water between me and the boat,
which was about half a mile broad; so I came back
for the present, being more intent upon getting at
the ship, where I hoped to find something for my
present subsistence.

A little after noon, 1 found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed so far out, that I could come within
a quarter of a mile of the ship: and here I found a
fresh renewing of my grief; for I saw evidently, that
if we had kept on board, we had been all safe; that
is to say, we had all got safe on shore, and I had
not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute
of all comfort and company, as I now was, This
forced tears from my eyes again; but as there was
little relief in that, I resolved, if possible, to get to
the ship; so I pulled off my clothes, for the wea-
ther was hot to extremity, and took the water; but
"hen I came to the ship, my difficulty was still
greater to know how to get on board; for as she
lay aground, and high out'of the water, there was
nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam
round her twice, and the second time I spied a small
piece of a rope, which I wondered I did not see at:
first, hang down by the fore-chains so low, as that
with great difficulty, I got hold of it, and by the
help of that rope got into the forecastle of the ship.
Here I found that the ship was bulged, and had a
great deal of water in her hold; but that she lay so
on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth,
that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her
head low, almost to the water. By this means all
her quarter was free, and all that was in that part
was dry ;"for you may be sure my first work was to
search and to see what was spoiled and what was
free: and, first, I found that all the ship's provisions
were dry and untouched by the water; and, being
Very well disposed to eat, I went to the bread-room,
and filled my pockets with biscuit, and eat it as I
"cut about other things, for I had no time to lose.
W) L. I. G
I also found some rum in the great cabin, of which
I took a large dram, and which I had indeed need
enough of, to spirit me for what was before me.
Now I wanted nothing but a boat, to furnish myself
with many things which I foresaw would be very
necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was
not to be had, and this extremity roused my appli-
cation: we had several spare yards, and two or
three large spars of wood, and a spare tOp-mast or
two in the ship; I resolved to fall to work with

these, and flung as many overboard as I could
manage for their weight, tying every one with a
rope, that they might not drive away. When this
was done, I went down the ship's side, and pulling
them to me, I tied four of them fast together at both
ends, as well as I could, in the form of a raft, and
laying two or three short pieces of plank upon them,
crossways, I found I could walk upon it very well,
but that it was not able to bear any great weight,
the pieces being too light: so I went to work, and
with the carpenter's saw I cut a spare top-mast into
three lengths, and added them to my raft, with a
great deal of labour and pains. But the hope of
furnishing myself with necessaries, encouraged me
to go beyond what I should have been able to have
done upon another occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any rea-
sonable weight. My next care was what to load it
with, and how to preserve what I laid upon it from
the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering
this. I first laid all the planks or boards upon it
that I could get, and having considered well what IWW..- . a. .

.___7 T1"-

 

OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 63

most wanted, I got three of the seamen's chests,
which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered
them down upon my raft; these I filled with pro-
visions, viz. bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five
pieces of dried goats' flesh, (which we lived much
upon,) and a little remainder of European corn,
which had been laid by for some fowls which we had
brought to sea with us, but the fowls were killed.
There had been some barley and wheat together,
but, to my great disappointment, I found afterwards
that the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As for
liquors, I found several cases of bottles belonging
to our skipper, in which were some cordial waters;
and, in all, about five or six gallons of rack. These
1 stowed by themselves, there being no need to put
them into the chests, nor any room for them.
While I was doing this, 1 found the tide began to
flow, though very calm; and I had the mortification
to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had
left on shore, upon the sand, swim away; as for my
breeches, which were only linen, and open-knee'd, I
swam on board in them, and my stockings. How.
ever, this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of
which I found enough, but took no more than I
wanted for present use, for I had other things which
my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work with
on shore? and it was after long searching that I
found the carpenter's chest, which was indeed a very
useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a
ship--lading of gold would have been at that time.
I got it down to my raft, even whole as it was, with-
out losing time to look into it, for I knew in general
What it contained.
My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two very good fowling--pieces in the
great cabin, and two pistols; these I secured first.
with some powder-horns and a small bag of shot,
and two old rusty swords. I knew there were three
barrels of powder in the ship, but knew not where
our gunner had stowed them; but with much search
I found them, two of them dry and good, the third
had taken water. Those two I got to my raft, with
the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well
freighted, and began to think how I should get to
shore with them, having neither sail, oar, nor rud-
der; and the least cap-full of wind would haw
merset all my navigation,

 

I had three encouragements: 1st, A smooth, calm
sea: 2dly, The tide rising, and setting in to the
shore: 3dly, What little wind there was, blew me
towards the land. And thus, having found two or
three broken oars belonging to the boat, and besides
the tools which were in the chest, I found two saws,
an axe, and a hammer; and with this cargo I put to
sea. For a mile, or thereabouts, my raft went very
well, only that I found it drive a little distant from
the place where I had landed before; by which I
perceived that there was some indraft of the water,
and consequently I hoped to find some creek or
river there, which I might make use of as a port to
get to land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was: there appeared before
me a little opening of the land, and I found a strong
current of the tide set into it; so I guided my raft,
as well as I could, to get into the middle of the
stream. But here I had like to have suffered a se-
cond shipwreck, which, if I had, I think verily would
have broken my heart; for knowing nothing of the
coast, my raft ran aground at one end of it upon a
shoal, and not being aground at the other end, it
wanted but a little that all my cargo had slipped off
towards that end that was afloat, and so fallen into
the water. I did my utmost, by setting my back
against the chests, to keep them in their places, but
could not thrust of the raft with all my strength;
neither durst I stir from the posture I was in, but
holding up the chests with all my might, I stood in
that manner near half an hour, in which time the
rising of the water brought me a little more upon a
level; and a little after, the water still rising, my
raft floated again, and I thrust her 011' with the oar I
had into the channel, and then driving up higher, I
at length found myself in the mouth of a little river,
with land on both sides, and a strong current or tide
running up. I looked on both sides for a proper

G 2
place to get to shore, for I was not willing to be
driven too high up the river; hoping, in time, to see
some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place
myself as near the coast as I could.

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore

of the creek, to which, with great pain and difficulty,
I guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that
reaching ground with my car, I could thrust her
directly in; but here I had like to have dipped all
my cargo into the sea again; for that shore lying
pretty steep, that is to say, sloping, there was no
place to land, but where one end of my float, if it
ran on shore, would lie so high, and the other sink
lower, as before, that it would endanger my cargo
again. All that I could do, was to wait till the tide
was at the highest, keeping the raft with my oar like
an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore,
near a flat piece of ground, which I expected the
water would flow over; and so it did. As soon asI
found water enough, for my raft drew about a foot
of water, I thrust her upon that flat piece of ground,
and there fastened or moored her, by sticking my
two broken oars into the ground; one on one side,
near one end, and one on the other side, near the
other end: and thus I lay till the water ebbed away,
and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country, and seek
a proper place for my habitation, and where to stow
my goods, to secure them from whatever might
happen. Where I was, 1 yet knew not; whether
on the continent, or- on an island; whether inha-
bited, or not inhabited; whether in danger of wild
beasts, or not. There was a hill, not above a milenu ' u Axfiw'vv ---...'...

magma-4.1)., -, -.-.:.:::.-.. -:.,v. w.- .-w-

 

or ROBINSON censor. 67

from me, which rose up very steep and high, and
which seemed to overtop some other hills, which
lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took out
one of the fowling-pieces, and one of the pistols,
and a horn of powder; and thus armed, I travelled
for discovery up to the top of that hill; where, after
I had, with great labour and difficulty, got up to
the top, I saw my fate, to my great affliction, viz.
that I was in an island, environed every way with
the sea, no land to be seen, except some rocks,
which lay a great way ofl', and two small islands,
less than this, which lay about three leagues to the
west.

I found also that the island I was in was barren,
and, as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited,
except by wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw
none; yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not
their kinds; neither, when I killed them, could I tell
what was fit for food, and what not. At my com-
ing back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting
upon a tree, on the side of a great wood. I believe
it was the first gun that had been fired there since
the creation of the world: I had no sooner fired,
but from all the parts of the wood there arose an
innumerable number of fowls, of many sorts, making
a confused screaming, and crying, every one accord-
ing to 'his'usual note; but not one of them of any
kind that I knew. As for the creature I killed, I
took it to be a kind of a hawk, its colour and beak
resembling it, but had no talons or claws more than

common. Its flesh was carrion, and fit for nothing.
Contented with this discovery, I came back. to my
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore,
which took me up the. rest of that day: what to do
with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed where
to rest: for I was afraid to lie down on the ground,
not knowing but some wild beast might devour me;
though, as I afterwards found, there was really no
need for those fears.

However, as well as I could, I barricadoed myself
round with the chests and boards that I had brought
on shore, and made a kind of a hut for that night's
lodging. As for food, I yet saw not which way to
supply myself, except that I had seen two or three

creatures, like hares, run out of the wood where I
shot the fowl.

I now began to consider, that I might yet get a
great many things out of the ship, which would be
useful to me, and particularly some of the riggingr
and sails, and such other things as might come to
land; and I resolved to make another voyage on
board the vessel, if possible. And as I knew that
the first storm that blew must necessarily break her
all in pieces, I resolved to set all other things apart,
till I got every thing out of the ship that I could
get. Then I called a council, that is to say, in my
thoughts, whether I should take back the raft; but

this appeared impracticable: so I resolved to go as
before, when the tide was down; and I did so, only

that I stripped before I went from my hut; having
nothing on but a chequered shirt, a pair of linen
drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a
second raft; and having had experience of the first,
I neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so
hard, but yet I brought away several things very
useful to me: as, first, in the carpenter's stores, l
found two or three bags of nails and spikes, a great
screw-jack, a dozen or two of hatchets; and, above
all, that most useful thing called a grind-stone. All
these I secured together, with several things belong-
ing to the gunner; particularly two or three iron
crows, and two barrels of musket bullets, seven
muskets, and another fowling-piece, with some small
quantity of powder more; alarge bag-full of small
shot, and a great roll of sheet-lead; but this last
was so heavy, I could not hoist it up to get it over
the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes
that I could find, and a spare fore-top sail, a ham-
mock, and some bedding; and with this I loaded my
second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to
my- very great comfort.

I was under some apprehensions, during my ab-
<<ence from the land, that at least my provisions
might be devoured on shore: but when I came back,
l found no sign of any visitor; only there sat a
ereature like a wild cat, upon one of the chests,
which, when I came towards it, ran away a little
distance, and then stood still. She sat very com~
posed and unconcerned, and looked full in my face,
as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me. I
presentedpmy gun to her, but, as she did not under~
stand it, she was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor
did she offer to stir away; upon which I tossed her
a bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was not very
free of it, for my store was not great: however, I
spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled
of it, and ate it, and looked (as pleased) for more:
butI thanked her, and could spare no more: so she
marched off.

Having got my second cargo on shore-- though I
was faint, to open the barrel: of powder, and bring
them by parcels, for they were too heavy, being
large casks---I went to work to make me a little
tent, with the sail, and some poles, which I cut for
that purpose; and into this tent I brought every
thing that I knew would spoil either with rain or
sun; and I piled all the empty chests and casks up
in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from any
sudden attempt either from man or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked 'up the door of
the tent with some boards within, and an empty
chest set up on end without; and spreading one of
the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols
just at my head, and my gun at length by me,I
went to bed for the first time, and slept very quietly
all night, for I was very weary and heavy; for the
night cbefore I had slept little, and had laboured
very hard all day, as well to fetch all those things
from the ship, as to get them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that
ever was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was
not satisfied still: for while the ship sat upright in
that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing
out of her that I could: so every day, at low water,
I went on board, and brought away something or
other; but particularly the third time I went, I
brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as
also all the small ropes and rope-twine I could get,
with a piece of spare canvass, which was to mend
the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet gun-
powder. In a word, I brought away all the sails
first and last; only that I was fain to cut them in

pieces, and bring as much at a time as I could; for
they were no more useful to be sails, but as mere
canvass only.

But that which comforted me still more, was, that,
last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages
as these, and thought I had nothing more to expect
from the ship that was worth my meddling with; I
say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread,
and three large runlets of rum or spirits, and a box
of sugar, and a barrel of fine flour; this was sur~
prising to me, because I had given over expecting
any more provisions, except what was spoiled by the
water. I soon emptied the hogshead of that bread,
and wrapped it up, parcel by parcel, in pieces of
the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word, I got all
this safe on shore also.

The next day I made another voyage, and now
having plundered the ship of what was portable and
fit to hand out, I began with the cables, and cutting
the great cable into pieces, such as I could move, I
got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the
iron-work I could get; and having cut down the
spritsail-yard, and the mizen-yard, and every thing '
I could, to make a large raft, I loaded it with all
those heavy goods; and came away; but my good
luck began now to leave me; for this raft was so
unwieldy, and so overladen, that after I was entered
the little cove, where I had landed the rest of my
goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I did
the other, it overset, and threw me and all my cargo
into the water: as for myself, it was no great harm,
for I was near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was
a great part of it lost, especially the iron, which i
expected would have been of great useto me: how--
ever, when the tide was out, I got most of the pieces
of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with
infinite labour; for I was fain to dip for it into the
water, a work which fatigued me very much. After
this I went every day on board, and brought away
what I could get.

I had- been now thirteen days ashore, and had
been eleven times on board the ship; in which time
I had brought away all that one pair of hands could
well be supposed capable to bring; though I believe
verily, had the calm weather held, I should have
brought away the whole ship, piece by piece; but
preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I found
the wind began to rise: however, at low water, I
went on board; and though I thought I had rum:
maged the cabin so effectually, as that nothing could
be found, yet I discovered a locker with drawers in
it, m one of which I found two or three razors, and
one pair of large scissars, with some ten or a dozen
of good knives and forks; in another I found about
thirty--six pounds value in money, some European
coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold,
and some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money:
" 0 drug!" said I aloud, " what art thou good for?
Thou art not worth to me, no, not the taking off
the ground; one of those knives is worth all this
heap: I have no manner of use for thee; e'en re--
main where thou art, and go to the bottom, as a
creature whose life. is not worth saving." However.
upon second thoughts, I took it away; and wrapping
all this in a piece of canvass, I began to think of
making another raft; but while I was preparing this,
I found the sky over-cast, and the wind began to
rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh gale
from the shore. It presently occurred to me, that
it was in vain to pretend to make a raft with the wind
off shore; and that it was my business to be gone
before the tide of flood began, or otherwise. I might
not be able to reach the shore at all. Accordingly
I let myself down into the water, and swam across
the channel which lay between the ship and the
sands, and even that with difficulty enough, partly
with the weight of the things I had about me, and
partly the roughness of the water; for the wind rose
very hastily, and before it was quite high water it
blew a storm.

But I was got home to my little tent, where I lay,
with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew
very hard all that night, and in the morning, when I
looked out, behold, no more ship was to be seen! I
was a little surprised, but recovered myself with
this satisfactory reflection, viz. that I had lost no
time, nor abated no diligence, to get every thing out
of her that could be useful to me, and that, indeed,
there was little left in her that I was able to bring
away, if Lhad had more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship,
or of any thing out of her, except what might drive
on shore, from her wreck; as, indeed, divers pieces
of her afterwards did; but those things were of
small use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about
'01.. I. n
securing myself against either. savages, if any should
appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island;
and I had many thoughts of the method how to do
this, and what kind of dwelling to make, whether I
should make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon
the earth: and in short, I resolved upon both; the
manner and description of which, it may not be in:-
proper to give an account of.

I soon found the place I was in was not for my
settlement, particularly because it was upon a low,
moorish ground, near the sea, and I believed it
would not he wholesome; and more particularly
because there was no fresh water near it: so I re-
solved to find a more healthy and more convenient
spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation, which
I found would be proper for me: lst, Health and
fresh water, I just now mentioned: 2dly, Shelter
from the heat of the sun: 3dly, Security from ra-
venous creatures, whether men or beasts: 4thly, A
view to the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight,
I might not lose any advantage for my deliverance,
of which I was not willing to banish all my expecta-
tion yet.

In search for a place proper for this, I found a
little plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front
towards this little plain was steep as a house.side,
so that nothing could come down upon me from the
top. On the side of this rock there was a hollow
place, worn a little way in, like the entrance or door
of a cave; but there was not really any cave, or
way into the rock, at all.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow
place, I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was
not above a hundred yards broad, and about twice
as long, and lay like a green before my door; and,
at the end of it, descended irregularly every way
down into the low ground by the sea side. It was
on the N.N.W. side of the hill; so that it was shel-
tered from the heat every day, till it came to a W.
and by S. sun, or thereabouts, which, in those coun-
tries, is near the setting.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle be-
fore the hollow place, which took in about ten yards
in its semi--diameter from the rock, and twenty yards
in its diameter, from its beginning and ending.

In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong
stakes, driving them into the ground till they stood
very firm like piles, the biggest end being out of the
ground about five feet and a half and sharpened on
the top. The two rows did not stand above six

inches from one another.
Then I took the pieces of cable which I cut in

the ship, and laid them in rows, one upon an-
other, within the circle, between these two rows of
stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the
inside, leaning against them, about two feet and a
half high, like a spur to a post; and this fence was
so strong, that neither man nor beast could get into
it or over, it. This cost me a great deal of time
and labour, especially to cut the piles in the woods,
bring them to the place, and drive them into the
earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be not by
a door, but by a short ladder to go over the t0p;
which ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me;
and so I was completely fenced in and fortified, as I
thought, from all the world, and consequently slept
secure in the night, which otherwise I could not
have done; though, as it appeared afterwards, there
was no need of all this caution from the enemies
that I apprehended danger from.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I
carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition,
and stores, of which you have the account above;
and I made a large tent, which, to preserve me from
the rains, that in one part of the year are very
violent there, I made double, viz. one smaller tent
within, and one larger tent above it, and covered
the uppermost with a large tarpaulin, whichI had
saved among the sails.

And now I lay no more for a while in the bed
which I had brought on shore, but in a hammock,
which was indeed a very good one, and belonged to
the mate of the ship.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and
every thing that would spoil by the wet; and having
thus enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance
which till now I had left open, and so passed and
repassed, as I said, by a short ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way
into the rock, and bringing all the earth and stones
that I dug down out through my tent, I laid them
up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, so
that it raised the ground within about a foot and an
half; and thus I made me a cave, just behind my
tent, which served me like a cellar to my house.
or ROBINSON causon. '77

It cost me much labour and many days, before all
these things were brought to perfection; and there-
fore I must go back to some other things which
took up some of my thoughts. At the same time
it happened, after I had laid my scheme for the set-
ting up my tent, and making the cave, that a storm
of rain falling from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden
flash of lightning happened, and after that, a great
clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect of it. I
was not so much surprised with the lightning, as I
was with a thought, which darted into my mind as
swift as the lightning itself: 0 my powder! My
very heart sunk within me when I thought, that at
one blast, all my powder might be destroyed; on
which, not my defence only, but the providing me
food, as I thought, entirely depended. I was nothing
near so anxious about my own danger, though, had
the powder took fire, I had never known who had
hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that
after the storm was over, I laid aside all my works,
my building and fortifying, and applied myself to
make bags and boxes, to separate the powder, and
to keep it a little and a little in a parcel, in hOpe
that whatever might come, it might not all take fire
at once; and to keep it so apart, that it should not
be possible to make one part fire another. I finished
this work in about a fortnight; and I think my
powder, which in all was about 240 lb. weight, was
divided in not less than a hundred parcels. As to
the barrel that had been wet, I did not apprehend
any danger from that; so I placed it in my new
cave, which, in my fancy, I called my kitchen, and

H 2
the rest I hid up and down in holes among the
rocks, so that no wet might come to it, marking
very carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I
went out at least once every day with my gun, as
well to divert myself, as to see if I could kill any
thing fit for food; and, as near as I could, to ac-
quaint myself with what the island produced. The
first. time I went out, I presently discovered that
there were goats upon the island, which was a great
satisfaction to me; but then it was attended with
this misfortune to me, viz. that they were so shy,
so subtle, and so swift of foot, that it was the most
difficult thing in the world to come at them: but I
was not discouraged at this, not doubting but 1
might now and then shoot one, as it soon happened;
for after I had found their hauntsa little, I laid
wait in this manner for them: I observed, if they
saw me in the valleys, though they were upon the
rocks, they would run away as in a terrible fright;
but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was
upon the rocks, they took no notice of me; from
whence I concluded, that by the position of their
optics, their sight was so directed downward, that
they did not readily see objects that were above
them: so, afterwards, I took this method--I always
climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and then
had frequently a fair mark. The first shot I made
among these creatures, I killed a she-goat, which
had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to,
which grieved me heartily; but when the old one
fell, the kid stood stock still by her, till I came and
took her up; and not only so, but when I carried
the old one with me, upon my shoulders, the kid
followed me quite to my enclosure; upon which, I

 

laid down the dam, and took the kid in my arms,
and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have bred
it up tame; but it would not eat; so I was forced
to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied
me with flesh a great while, for I ate sparingly, and
preserved my provisions (my bread especially) as
much as possibly I could.

Having now fixed my habitation, I found it abso-
lutely necessary to provide a place to make a fire in,
and fuel to burn; and what I did for that, as also
howl enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I
made, I shall give a full account of in its proper
place: but I must first give some little account of
myself, and of my thoughts about living, which, it
may well be supposed, were not a few.
I had a dismal prospect of my condition; for as
I was not cast away upon that island without being
driven, as is said, by a violent storm, quite out of
the course of our intended voyage; and a great way,
viz. some hundreds of leagues, out of the ordinary
course of the trade of mankind, I had great reason
to consider it as a determination of Heaven, that
in this desolate place, and in this desolate manner,
I should end my life. The tears would run plenti-
fully down my face when I made these reflections;
and sometimes I would expostulate with myself why
Providence should thus completely ruin its crea-
tures, and render them so absolutely miserable; so
abandoned without help, so entirely depressed, that
it could hardly be rational to be thankful for such
a life.

But something always returned swift upon me to
check these thoughts, and to reprove me: and par-
ticularly, one day, walking with my gun in my
hand, by the sea side,'I was very pensive upon the
subject of my present condition, when reason, as it
were, expostulated with me the other way, thus:
" Well, you are in a desolate condition, it is true;
but, pray remember, where are the rest of you?
Did not you come eleven of you into the boat?
Where are the ten? Why were not they saved, and
you lost? Why were you singled out? Is it better
to be here or there 'l" And then I pointed to the sea.
All evils are to be considered with the good that is
in them, and with what worse attends them.

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was
furnished for my subsistence, and what would have
been my case if it had not happened (which was a

hundred thousand to one) that the ship floated from
the place where she first struck, and was driven so
near to the shore, that I had time to get all these
things out of her: what would have been my case,
if I had been to have lived in the condition in which
I at first came on shore, without necessaries of life,
or necessaries to supply and procure them'l " Par-
ticularly, said I aloud (though to myself,) what
should I have done without a gun, without ammuni-
tion, without any tools to make any thing, or to
work with, without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any
manner of covering?" and that now I had all these
to a sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way to
provide myself in such a manner as to live without
my gun, when my ammunition was spent: so that
I had a tolerable view of subsisting, without any
want, as long as I lived; for I c'onsirlered, from the
beginning, how I should provide for the accidents
that might happen, and for the time that was to
come, not only after my ammunition should be
spent, but even after my health or strength should
decay.

I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my
ammunition being destroyed at one blast, I mean
my powder being blown up by lightning; and this
made the thoughts of it so surprising to me, when
it lightened and thundered, as I observed inst now.

And now being to enter into a melancholy rela-
tion of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was
never heard of m the world before, I shall take it
from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It
"'35, by my account, the 30th of September, when,
in the manner as above said, I first set foot upon'
this horrid island; when the sun being to us in its
autumnal equinox, was almost just over my head:
for I reckoned myself, by observation, to be in the
latitude of 9 degrees 22 minutes north of the Line.
After I had been there about ten or twelve days,
it came into my thoughts that I should lose my
reckoning of time for want of books, and pen and
ink, and should even forget the sabbath days from
the working days: but, to prevent this, I cut it with
my knife upon a large post, in capital letters; and
making it into a great cross, I set it up on the shore
where I first landed, viz. " I came on shore here
on the 30th of September, 1659." Upon the sides

of this square post I cut every day a notch with
my knife, and every seventh notch was as long

again as the rest, and every first (lay of the month
as long again as that long one: and thus I kept
my calendar, or weekly, monthly, and yearly reckon-
ing of time.

But it happened, that among the many things
which I brought out of the ship, in the several
voyages which, as above mentioned, 1 made to it, I
got several things of less value, but not at all less
useful to me, which I found, some time after, in
rummaging the chests; as, in particular, pens, ink,
and paper; several parcels in the captain's, mate's,
gunner's, and carpenter's keeping; three or four
compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials,
perspectives, charts, and books of navigation; all
which I huddled together, whether I might want

them or no: also I found three very good bibles,
which came to me in my cargo from England, and
which I had packed up among my things; some
Portuguese books also, and, among them, two or
three popish prayer books, and several other books,
all which I carefully secured. And I must not for-
get, that we had in the ship a dog, and two cats, of
whose eminent history I may have occasion to say
something, in its place: for I carried both the cats
with me; and as for the dog, he jumped out of the
ship himself, and swam on shore to me the day after
I went on shore with my first cargo, and was a
trusty servant to me for many years: I wanted
nothing that he could fetch me, nor any company
that he could make up to me, I only wanted to
have him talk to me, but that would not do. As I
observed before, I found pens, ink, and paper, and
l husbanded them to the utmost; and I shall show
that while my ink lasted, I kept things very exact,
but after that was gone I could not; for I could
not make any ink, by any means that I could de-
rise.

And this put me in mind that I wanted many
things, notwithstanding all that I had amassed
together; and of these, this of ink was one; as
also a spade, pick-axe, and shovel, to dig or remove
the earth; needles, pins, and thread: as for linen, I
soon learned to want that without much difliculty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily; and it was near a whole year before I had
entirely finished my little pale, or surrounded my
habitation." The piles or stakes, which were as
heavy as I could well lift, were a long time in cut-
ting and preparing in the woods, and more, by far,
in bringing home; so that I spent sometimes two
days in cutting and bringing home one of those
posts, and a third day in driving it into the ground;
for which purpose, I got a heavy piece of wood at
first, but at last bethought myself of one of the iron
crows; which, however, though I found it, yet it
made driving these posts or piles very laborious and
tedious work. But what need I have been cou~
cerned at the tediousness of any thing I had to do,
seeing I had time enough to do it in? nor had 1
any other employment, if that had been over, at
least that I could foresee, except the ranging the
island to seek for food; which I did, more or less,
every day.

I now began to consider seriously my condition,
and the circumstance I was reduced to; and I drew
up the state of my affairs in writing, not so much
to leave them to any that were to come after me
(for I was like to have but few heirs,) as to deliver
my thoughts from daily poring upon them, and af-
flicting my mind: and as my reason began now to
master my despoudeucy, I began to comfort myself
as well as I could, and to set the good against the
evil, that I might have something to distinguish my
case from worse; and I stated very impartially, like
debtor and creditor, the comforts I enjoyed against
the miseries I suffered, thus:

Eer. Goon.

I am cast upon a horrible, But I am alive; and not
desolate island, void of all drowned,as all my ship'scom-

hope of recovery. pany were.

I am singled out and sepa- But I am singled out too
rated, as it Were, from all the from all the ship's crew, to be
world, to be miserable. Spared from death; and he

that miraculously saved me
from death, can deliver me
from this condition.
I am divided from man-
kind, a solitaire; one banish-
ed from human society.

I have no clothes to cover
Inc.

I am without any defence,
m-means to resist any violence

87)
But I am not starved, and

perishing in a barren place,

afl'ording no sustenance.

But I am in a hot climate,
where, if Ihad clothes,'I could
hardly wear them.

But I am cast on an island
where I see no wild beast to

at" man 01' beast. hurt me, as I saw on the coast

of Africa: and what if I had
been shipwrecked there?

But God wonderfully sent
the ship in near enough to the.
shore, that I have got out so
many necessary things as will
either supply my wants, or
enable me to supply myself,
even as long as I live.

Upon the whole, here was an undoubted testi-
mony, that there was scarce any condition in the
world so miserable, but there was something nega-
tive, or something positive, to be thankful for in. it:
and let this stand as a direction, from the experi-
mce of the most miserable of all conditions in this
world, that we may always find in it something to
comfort ourselves from, and to set, in the descrip-
tion of good and evil, on the credit side of the ac-
count.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish
my condition, and given over looking out to sea, to
see if I could spy a ship;I say, giving over these
things, I began to apply myself to accommodate my

way of living, and to make things as easy to me as
I could.

I have already described my habitation, which was
a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a
VOL. I. 1

I have no soul to speak to,
vr relieve me.
strong pale of posts and cables; but I might now
rather call it a wall, for I raised a kind of wall
against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the out-
side: and after some time (I think it was a year and
a half) I raised rafters from it, leaning to the rock,
and thatched or covered it with boughs of trees,
and such things as I could get, to keep out the
rain; which I found, at some times of the year,
rely violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my
goods into this pale, and into the cave which I had
made behind me. But I must observe, too, that at
first this was a confused heap of goods, which, as
they lay in no order, so they took up all my place;
I had no room to turn myself: so I set myself to
enlarge my cave, and w0rk farther into the earth;
for it was a loose, sandy rock, which yielded easily
to the labour I bestowed on it: and when I found I
was pretty safe as to the beasts of prey, I worked
sideways, to the right hand, into the rock, and then
turning to the right again, worked quite out, and
made me a door to come out in the outside of my
pale or fortification.

This gave me not only egress and regress, as it
were, a back-way to my tent and to my storehouse,
but gave me room to stow my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, particu-
larly a chair and a table; for without these I was
not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the
world; I could not write, or eat, or do several
things with so much pleasure, without a table: so
I went to work. And here I must needs observe,
that as reason is the substance and original of the
mathematics, so by stating and squaring every thing
by reason, and by making the most rational judg~
ment of things, every man may be, in time, master
of every mechanic art. I had never handled a tool
in my life; and yet, in time, by labour, application,
and contrivance, I found, at last, that I wanted
nothing but I could have made, especially if I had
had tools. However, I made abundance of things,
even without tools; and some with no more tools
than an adze and a hatchet, which perhaps were
never made that way before, and that with infinite
labour. For example, if I wanted a board, I had
no other way but to cut down a tree, set it on an
edge before me, and hew it flat on either side with
my axe, till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank,
and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is true,
by this methodI could make but one board of a
whole tree; but this I had no remedy for but pati-
ence, any more than I had for a prodigious deal of
time and labour which it took me up to make a
plank or board: but my time or labour was little
worth, and so it was as well employed one way as
another.

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I ob-
served above, in the first place; and this I did out'
of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my
raft from'fhe ship. But when I wrought out some
boards, as above, I made large shelves, of the
breadth of a foot and a half, one over another, all
along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails,
and iron-work on; and, in a word, to separate every
thing at large in their places, that I might easily
come at them. I knocked pieces into the wall
of the rock, to hang-my guns, and all things that
would hang up: so that had my cave been seen, it
looked like a general magazine of all necessary
things; and I had every thing so ready at my hand,
that it was a great pleasure to me to see all my
goods in such order, and especially to find my stock
of all necessaries so great.

And now it was that I began to keep ajoumal of

every day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was
in too much hurry, and not only hurry as to labour,
but in much discomposure of mind; and my journal
would, too, have been full of many dull things: for
example, I must have said thus--" Sept. 30th.
After I had got to shore, and had escaped drowning,
instead of being thankful to God for my deliver-
ance, having first vomited, with the great quantity
of salt water which was gotten into my stomach,
and recovering myself a little, I ran about the shore,
wringing my hands, and beating my head and face,
exclaiming at my misery, and crying out, ~' Iw-as
undone, undone!' till, tired and faint, I was forced
to lie down on the ground to repose; but durst not
sleep, for fear of being devoured."

Some days after this, and after I had been on
board the ship, and got all that I could out of her,
I could not forbear getting up to the top of a little
mountain, and looking out to sea, in hopes of seeing
a ship: then fancy that, at a vast distance, I spied
a sail, please myself with the hopes of it, and, after
looking steadily, till I was almost blind, lose it
quite, and sit down and weep like a child, and thus
increase my misery by my folly.
But, having gotten over these things in some mea-
sure, and having settled my household-stuff and
habitation, made me a table and a chair, and all as
handsome about me as I could, I began to keep my
joumal: of which I shall here give you the copy
(though in it will be told all these particulars over
again) as long as it lasted; for, having no more ink,
I was forced to leave it off.

 

THE JOURNAL.

September 30th, 1659. I, poor miserable Robin-
son Crusoe, being shipwrecked, during a dreadful
storm, in the oiling, came on shore on this dismal
unfortunate island, which I called the ISLAND 0F
DESPAIR; all the rest of the ship's company being
drowned, and myself almost dead.

All the rest of that day I spent in afllicting my-
self at the dismal circumstances I was brought to,
viz. I had neither food, house, clothes, weapon, nor
place to fly to: and, in despair of any relief, saw
nothing but death before me; that I should either
be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by savages,
or starved to death for want of food. At the ap-
proach of night I slept in a tree, for fear of wild
creatures; but slept soundly, though it rained all
night.

October 1. In the morning I saw, to my great
surprise, the ship had floated with the high tide, and
was driven on shore again much nearer the island;
which, as it was some comfort on one hand (for see-
ing her sit upright, and not broken in pieces, I
hoped, if the wind abated, I might get on board,

I '2
and get some food and necessaries out of her for my
reliet',) so, on the other hand, it renewed my grief
at the loss of my comrades, who, I imagined, if we
had all staid on board, might have saved the ship,
or, at least, that they would not have been all
drowned, as they were; and that, had the men been
saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat, out
of the ruins of the ship, to have carried us to some
other part of the world. I spent great part of this
day in perplexing myself on these things; but, at
length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the
sand as near as I could, and then swam on board.
This day also it continued raining, though with no
wind at all. _

From the lst of October to the 24th. All these
days entirely spent in many several voyages to get
all I could out of the ship; which I brought on
shore, every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rain
also in these days, though with some intervals of
fair weather: but, it seems, this was the rainy sea-
son.

Oct. 20. I overset my raft, and all the goods I
had got upon it; but being in shoal water, and the
things being chiefly heavy, I recovered many of
them when the tide was out.

Oct. 25. It rained all night and all day, with
some gusts of wind; during which time the ship
broke in pieces (the wind blowing a little harder
than before) and was no more to be seen, except the
wreck of her, and that only at low water. I spent
this day in covering and securing the goods which I
had saved, that the rain might not spoil them.

Oct. 26. I walked about the shore almost all
<<lay, to find out a place to fix my habitation; greatly
concerned to secure myself from any attack in the
night, either from wild beasts or men. Towards
night I fixed upon a proper place, under a rock,
and marked out a semi-circle for my encampment;
which I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall, or
fortification, made .of double piles, lined within with
cables, and without with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th,I worked very hard in
carrying all my goods to my new habitation, though
some part of the time it rained exceedingly hard.

The 3lst, in the morning, I went out into the
island with my gun, to see for some food, and dis-

cover the country; when I killed a she-goat, and
her kid followed me home, which I afterwards killed
also, because it would not feed.

Norember ] . I set up my tent under a rock, and
lay there for the first night; making it as large as I
could, with stakes driven in to swing my hammock
IIPOII.

Nov. 2. I set up all my chests and boards, and
the pieces of timber which made my rafts; and with
them formed a fence round me, a little within the
place I had marked out for my fortification.

Nov. 3. I went out with my gun, and killed two
fowls like ducks, which were very good food. In
the afternoon I went to work to make me a table.

Nov. 4. This morning I began to order my times
of work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep,
and time of diversion; viz. every morning Iwalked
out with my gun for two or three hours, if it did
not rain; then employed myself to work till about
eleven o'clock; then ate what I had to live on; and
from twelve to two I lay down to sleep, the weather
being excessive hot; and then, in the evening, to
work again. The working part of this day and
the next was wholly employed in making my table,
for I was yet but a very sorry workman: though
time and necessity made me a complete natural
mechanic soon after, as I believe they would any
one else.

Nov. 5. This day went abroad with my gun and
dog, and killed a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but
her flesh good for nothing: of every creature that I
killed I took off the skins, and preserved them.
Coming back by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of
sea-fowl which I did not understand: but was sur-
prised, and almost frightened, with two or three
seals; which, while I was gazing at them (not well
knowing what they were) got into the sea, and
escaped me for that time.

'0v. 6. After my morning walk, I went to work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to
my liking: nor was it long before I learned to
mend it.

'0v. 7. Now it began to be settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, and part of the 12th (for
the 11th was Sunday, according to my reckoning) I
took wholly up to make me a chair, and with much
ado, brought it to a tolerable shape, but never to
please me; and, even in the making, I pulled it in
pieces several times.

Note. I soon neglected my keeping Sundays;
"for, omitting my mark for them on my post, I for-
3 got which was which.

Nov. l3. This day it rained; which refreshed
me exceedingly, and cooled the earth: but it was
accompanied with terrible thunder and lightning,
which frightened me dreadfully, for fear of my
powder. As soon as it was over, I resolved to
separate my stock of powder into as many little
parcels as possible, that it might not be in danger.
Nov. 14, 15, 1('. These three days I spent in
making little square chests or boxes, which might
hold about a pound, or two pounds at most, of pow-
der: and so, putting the powder in, l stowed it in
places as secure and as remote from one another as

possible. On one .of these three days I killed a
large bird that was good to eat; but I knew not
what to call it.

Nov. 17. This day I began to dig behind my
tent, into the rock, to make room for my farther
convenience.

Note. Three things I wanted exceedingly for this
work, viz. a pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheel-barrow,
or basket; so I desisted from my work, and began
to consider how to supply these wants, and make
me some tools. As for a pick-axe, I made use of
the iron crows, which were proper enough, though
heavy: but the next thing was a shovel or spade;
this was so absolutely necessary, that, indeed, I
could do nothing effectually without it; but what
kind of one to make I knew not.

'02). 18. The next day, in searching the woods,
I found a tree of that wood, or like it, which, in the
Brazils, they call the iron tree, from its exceeding
hardness: of this, with great labour, and almost
Spoiling my axe, I cut a piece; and brought it home,
too, with difficulty enough, for it was exceeding
heavy. The excessive hardness of the wood, and
my having no other way, made me a long while
upon this machine; for I worked it effectually, by
little and little, into the form of a shovel or spade;
the handle exactly shaped like ours in England, only
that the broad part having no iron shod upon it at
bottom, it would not last me so long: however, it
served well enough for the uses which I had occa-
sion to put it to; but never was a shovel, I believe,
made after that fashion, or so long a-making.

I was still deficient: for I wanted a basket, or a
wheel-barrow. A basket I could not make by any
means, having no such things as twigs that would
bend to make wicker-ware ; at least, none yet found
out: and as to the wheel-barrow, I fancied I could
make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion
of ; neither did I know how to go about it: besides,
I had no possible way to make iron gudgeons for
the spindle or axis of the wheel to run in; so I gave
it over: and, for carrying away the earth which I
dug out of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod,
which the labourers carry mortar in for the brick-
layers. This was not so difiicult to me as the mak-
ing the shovel: and yet this and the shovel, and the
attempt which I made in vain to make a wheel-bar-
row, took me up no less than four days; I mean,
always excepting my morning walk with my gun,
which I seldom omitted, and very seldom failed also
bringing home something fit to eat.

Nov. 23. My other work having now stood still,
because of my making these tools, when they were
finished I went on; and working every day, as my
strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen daysentirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it
might hold my goods commodiously.

Note. During all this time, I worked to make
this room, or cave, spacious enough to accommo-
date me as a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a
dining-room, and a cellar. As for a lodging, I kept
to the tent; except that sometimes, in the wet sea-
son of the year, it rained so hard that I could not
keep myself dry; which caused me afterwards to
cover all my place within my pale with long poles,
in the form of rafters, leaning against the rock, and
load them with flags and large leaves of trees, like a
thatch.

December 10. I began now to think my cave or
vault finished; when on a sudden (it seems I had
made it too large) a great quantity of earth fell
down from the top and one side: so much, that, in
short, it frightened me, and not without reason too;
for if 1 had been under it, I should never have
wanted a gravedigger. Upon this disaster, I had a
great deal of work to do over again, for I had the
loose earth to carry out; and, which was of more
importance, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I
might be sure no more would come down.

Dec. 11. This day I went to work with it ac-
cordingly; and got two shores or posts pitched up-
right to the top, with two pieces of board across
over each post; this I finished the next day; and
setting more posts up with boards, in about a week
more I had the roof secured; and the posts, stand-
ing in rows, served me for partitions to part 011' my
house.

Dec. 17. From this day to the 30th, I placed
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts, to hang
every thing up that could be hung up: and now I
began to be in some order within doors.

Dec. 20. I carried every thing into the cave, and
began to furnish my house, and set up some pieces
of boards, like a dresser, to order my victuals upon;
but boards began to be very scarce with me: also I
made me another table.

Dec. 24. Much rain all night and all day: no
stirring out.

Dec. 25. Rain all day.

Dec. 26. No rain; and the earth much cooler
than before, and pleasanter.

Dec. 27. Killed a young goat; and lamed an-
other, so that I catched it, and led it home in a
string: when I had it home, I bound and splintered
up its leg, which was broke.

N. B. I took such care of it that it lived; and
the leg grew well, and as strong as ever: but, by
nursing it so long, it grew tame, and fed upon the
little green at my door, and would not go away.
This was the first time that I entertained a thought
of breeding up some tame creatures, that I might
have food when my powder and shot was all spent.

Dec. 28, 29, 30, 31. Great heats, and no breeze;
so that there was no stirring abroad, except in the
evening, for food: this time I spent in putting all
my things in order within doors.

January 1. Very hot still; but. I went abroad
early and late with my gun, and lay still in the
middle of the day. This evening, going farther
into the vallies which lay towards the .centre of the
island, I found there was plenty of goats, though
exceeding shy, and hard to come at; however, I re-
solved to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt
them down. Accordingly, the next day, I went out
with my dog, and s_et him upon the goats: but I
was mistaken, 'for they all faced about upon the
dog: and he knew his danger too well, for he would
not come near them.

Jan. 3. I began my fence or wall; which, being
still jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I
resolved to make very thick and strong.

N. B. This wall being described before, I pur-
posely omit what was said in the journal: it is suf-
ficient to observe, that I was no less time than from
the 3d of January to the 14th of April, working,
finishing, and perfecting this wall; though it was
no more than about 25 yards in length, being a
half-circle, from one place in the rock to another
place, about twelve yards from it, the door of the
cave being in the centre, behind it.

All this time I worked very hard; the rains hin-
dering me many days, nay, sometimes weeks to-
gether: but I thought] should never be perfectly
secure till this wall was finished; and it is scarce
credible what inexpressible labour every thing was
done with, especially the bringing piles out of the
woods, and driving them into the ground; for I made
them much bigger than I needed to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside
double-fenced, with a turf-wall raised up close to it,
I persuaded myself that if any people were to come
on shore there they would not perceive any thing
like a habitation: and it was very well I did so, as
may be observed hereafter, upon a very remarkable
occasron.

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods
\'oL. I. K
for game every day, when the rain permitted me,
and made frequent discoveries, in these walks, of
something or other to my advantage; particularly,
Ifound a kind of wild pigeons, who build, not as
wood-pigeons, in a tree, but rather as house-pigeons,
in the holes of the rocks: and, taking some young
ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and
did so; but when they grew older, they flew all
away; which, perhaps, was at first for want of
feeding them, for I had nothing to give them: how-
ever, I frequently found their nests, and got their
young ones, which were very good meat. And
now, in the managing my household affairs, I found
myself wanting in many things, which I thought at
first it was impossible for me to make; as indeed,
as to some of them, it was: for instance, I could
never make a cask to be hooped. I had a small
runlet or two, as I observed before; but I could
never arrive to the capacity of making one by them,
though I spent many weeks about it: I could nei-
ther put in the heads, nor join the staves so true to
one another as to make them hold water; so I gave
that also over. In the next place, I was at a great
loss for candle; so that as soon as it was dark,
which was generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged
to go to bed. I remember the lump of bees-wax
with which I made candles in my African adven-
ture; butI had none of that now; the onlyxemedy
I had was, that when I had killed a goat, I saved
the tallov; and with a little dish made of clay,
which I baked in the sun, to which I added a wick
of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and this gave
me light, though not a clear steady light like a can<<
dle. In the middle of all my labours it happened,
that in rummaging my things, I found a little bag;
which, as I hinted before, had been filled with corn,
for the feeding of poultry; not for this voyage, but
before, as I suppose, when the ship came from Lis-
bon. What little remainder of corn had been in
the bag was all devoured with the rats, and I saw
nothing in the bag but husks and dust; and being
willing to have the bag for some other use (I think,
it was to put powder in, when I divided it for fear
of the lightning, or some such use,) I shook the
husks of corn out of it, on one side of my fortifica-
tion, under the rock.

It was a little before the great rain just now
mentioned, that I threw this stuff away; taking no
notice of any thing, and not so much as remember-
ing that I had thrown any thing there: when about
a month after, I saw some few stalks of something
green, shooting out of the ground, which I fancied
might be some plant I had not seen; but I was sur~
prised, and perfectly astonished, when, after a little
longer time, I saw about ten or twelve ears come
out, which were perfect green barley of the same
kind as our European, nay, as our English barley.

It is impossible to express the astonishment and
confusion of my thoughts on this occasion: I had
hitherto acted upon no religious foundation at all;
indeed, I had very few notions of religion in my
head, nor had entertained any sense of any thing
that had befallen me, otherwise than as chance, or,
as we lightly say, what pleases God; without so _
much as inquiring into the end of Providence in
these things, or his order in governing events in the
world. But after I saw barley grow there, in a cli-
mate which I knew was not proper for corn, and
especially as I knew not how it came there, it star-
tled me strangely; and l began to suggest, that God
had miraculously caused this grain to grow without
any help of seed sown, and that it was so directed
purely for my sustenance, on that. wild miserable
place.

This touched my heart a little, and brought tears
out of my eyes; and I began to bless myself that
such a prodigy of nature should happen upon my
account: and this was the more strange to me,
because I saw near it still, all along by the side of
the rock, some other straggling stalks, which proved
to be stalks of rice, and which I knew, becausel
had seen it grow in Africa, when I was ashore
there.

I not only thought these the pure productions of
Providence for my support, but, not doubting that
there was more in the place, I went over all that
part of the island where I had been before, search-
ing in every corner, and under every rock, for more
of it; but I could not find any. At last it occur-
red to my thoughts, that I had shook out a bag
of chicken's-meat in that place, and then the won-
der began to cease: and I must confess, my religi-
ous thankfulness to God's providence began to abate
too, upon the discovering that all this was nothing
but what was common; though I ought to have
been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen a
providence, as if it had been miraculous: for it was
really the work of Providence, as to me, that should
order or appoint that ten or twelve grains of corn
should remain unspoiled, when the rats had de-
stroyed all the rest, as if it had been dropt from
heaven; as also, that I should throw it out in that
particular place, where, it being in the shade of a
high rock, it sprang up immediately; whereas, if I
had thrown it any where else, at that time, it would
have been burnt up and destroyed.

l carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may
be sure, in their season, which was about the end
of June; and, laying up every com, I resolved to
sow them all again; hoping, in time, to have some
quantity sufficient to supply me with bread. But it
was not till the fourth year that I could allow my-
self the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then
but sparingly, as I shall show afterwards, in its
order; for I lost all that I sowed the first season,
by not observing the proper time; as l sowed just
before the dry season, so that it never came up at
all, at least not as it would have done; of which in
its place.

Besides this barley, there were, as above, twenty
or thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the
same care; and whose use was of the same kind, or
to the same purpose, viz. to make me bread, or ra-
ther food; for I found ways to cook it up without
baking, though I did that also after some time.--
But to return to my Journal.

I worked excessively hard these three or four
months, to get my wall done; and the 14th of
April I closed it up; contriving to get into it, not by
a door, but over the wall, by a ladder, that there
might be no sign on the outside of my habitation.

April 16. I finished the ladder; so I went up

K2
with the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up
after me, and let it down in the inside: this was a
complete enclosure to me; for within I had room
enough, and nothing could come at me from without,
unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I
had almost all my labour overthrown at once, and
myself killed; the case was thus :----As I was busy
in the inside of it, behind my tent, just at the en-
trance into my cave, I was terribly frightened with
a most dreadful surprising thing indeed; for, all on
a sudden, I found the earth come crumbling down
from the roof of my cave, and from the edge of the
hill over my head, and two of the posts I had set
up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner. I was
heartily scared; but thought nothing of what really
was the cause, only thinking that the top of my
cave was falling in, as some of it had done before:
and for fear I should be buried in it, I ran forward
to my ladder, and not thinking myself safe there
neither, I got over my wall for fear of the pieces of
the hill which I expected might roll down upon me.
I had no sooner stepped down upon the firm ground,
than I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake: for
the ground I stood on shook three times at about
eight minutes distance, with three such shocks as
would have overturned the strongest building that
could be supposed to have stood on the earth; and
a great piece of the top of a rock, which stood
about half a mile from me, next the sea, fell down,
with such a terrible noise as I never heard in all
my life. I perceived also that the very sea was
put into a violent motion by it; and I believe the
shocks were stronger under the water than on the
island.

I was so much amazed with the thing itself (hav-
ing never felt the like, nor discoursed with any one
that had) that I was like one dead or stupified; and
the motion of the earth made my stomach sick, like
one that was tossed at sea: but the noise of the
falling of the rock awaked me, as it were; and
rousing me from the stupified condition I was in,
filled me with horror, and I thought of nothing but
the hill falling upon my tent and my household
goods, and burying all at once; this sunk my very

soul within me a second time.
After the third shock was over, and I felt no more

for some time, -I began to take courage; yet I had
not heart enough to go over my wall again, for fear
of being buried alive, but sat still upon the ground
greatly cast down, and disconsolate, not knowing
what to do. All this while, I had not .the least
serious religious thought; nothing but the common
Lord, have mercy upon me! and when it was over,
that went away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and
grow cloudy, as if it would rain; and soon after
the wind rose by little, and little, so that in less than
half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane:

the sea was, all on a sudden, covered with foam and
froth; the shore was covered with a breach of the
water; the trees were torn up by the roots; and a
terrible storm it was. This held about three hours,
and then began to abate; and in two hours more it

was quite calm, and began to rain very hard. All
this while I sat upon the ground, very much terrified
and dejected; when on a sudden it came into my
thoughts, that these winds and rain being the con-
sequence of the earthquake, the earthquake itself
was spent and over, and I might venture into my
cave again. With this thought my spirits began to
revive; and the rain also helping to persuade me, I
went in, and sat down in my tent; but the rain was
so violent, that my tent was ready to be beaten
down with it; and I was forced to get into my
cave, though very much afraid and uneasy, for fear
it should fall on my head. This violent rain forced
me to a new work, viz. to cut a hole through my
new fortification, like a sink, to let the water go
out, which would else have drowned my cave.
After I had been in my cave for some time, and
found no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I
began to be more composed. And now to support
my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much, I
went to my little store, and took a small sup of
rum; which, however, I did then, and always, very
sparingly, knowing I could have no more when that
was gone. It continued raining all that night, and
great part of the next day, so that I could not stir
abroad: but my mind being more composed, I be-
gan to think of what I had best do; concluding,
that if the island was subject to these earthquakes,
there would be no living for me in a cave, butl
must consider of building me some little hut in an
open place, which I might surround with a wall, as
I had done here, and so make myself secure from
wild beasts or men: for if I staid where I was.

I should certainly, one time or other, be buried
alive.
With these thoughts, I resolved to remove my
tent from the place where it now stood, being just
under the hanging precipice of the hill, and which,
if it should be shaken again, would certainly fall
upon my tent. I spent the two next days, being
the 19th and 20th of April, in contriving where and
how to remove my habitation. The fear of being
swallowed alive affected me so, that I never slept
in quiet; and yet the apprehension of lying abroad,
without any fence, was almost equal to it: but still,
when I looked about, and saw how every thing was
put in order, how pleasantly I was concealed, and
how safe from danger, it made me very 10th to re--
move. In the mean time, it occurred to me that it
would require a vast deal of time for me to do this;
and that I must be contented to run the risk where
I was, till I had formed a convenient camp, and se-
cured it so as to remove to it. With this conclusion
I composed myself for a time; and resolved that I
would go to work with all speed to build me a wall
with piles and cables, &c. in a circle as before, and
set up my tent in it when it was finished; but that
I would venture to stay where I was till it was
ready, and fit to remove to. This was the 21st.

April 22. The next morning I began to consider
of means to put this measure into execution; but I
was at a great loss about the tools. I had three
large axes, and abundance of hatchets (for we car.
ried the hatchets for traffic with the Indians ;) but
with much chopping and cutting knotty hard wood,
they were all full of notches, and dull; and though
I had a grind--stone, I could not turn it and grind
my tools too. This caused me as much thought as
a statesman would have bestowed upon a grand
point of politics, or ajudge upon the life and death
of a man. At length I contrived a wheel with a
string, to turn it with my foot, that I might have
both my hands at liberty.

late. I had never seen any such thing in Eng.
land, or at least not to take notice how it was done,
though since I have observed it is very common
there: besides that, my grind-stone was very large
and heavy. This machine cost me a full week's
work to bring it to perfection.

April 28, 29. These two whole days I took up
in grinding my tools, my machine for turning my
grind--stone performing very well.

April 30. Having perceived that my bread had
been low a great while, I now took a survey of it,
and reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a day, which
made my heart very heavy.

flirty 1. In the morning, looking toward the sea-
side, the tide being low, I saw something lie on the
shore bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a
cask: when I came to it, I found a small barrel, and
two or three pieces of the wreck of the ship, which
were driven on shore by the late hurricane; and
looking towards the wreck itself, I thought it seemed
to lie higher out of the water than it used to do. I
examined the barrel that was driven on shore, and
soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder; but it
had taken water, and the powder was caked as
hard as a stone: however, I rolled it farther on the
shore for the present, and went on upon the sands,
as near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to look
for more.
When I came down to the ship, I found it
strangely removed. The forecastle, which lay be-
fore buried in sand, was heaved up at least six feet:
and the stern (which was broke to pieces, and
parted from the rest, by the force of the sea, soon
after I had left rummaging of her) was tossed, as it
were, up, and cast on one side: and the sand was
thrown so high on that side next her stern, that I
could now walk quite up to her when the tide was
out; whereas there was a great piece of water be.
fore, so that I could not come within a quarter of a
mile of the wreck without swimming. I was sur--
prised with this at first, but soon concluded it must
be done by the earthquake; and as by this violence
the ship was more broke open than formerly, so
many things came daily on shore, which the sea had
loosened, and which the winds and water rolled by
degrees to the land.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design
of removing my habitation; and I busied myself
mightily, that day especially, in searching whether
I could make any way into the ship: butI found
nothing was to be expected of that kind, for all the
inside of the ship was choked up with sand. How-
ever, as I had learned not to despair of any thing,
I resolved to pull every thing to pieces that I could
of the ship, concluding that every thing I could get
from her would be of some use or other to me.

May 3. I began with my saw, and cut a piece
of a beam through, which I thought held some of
the upper part orqquarter deck together; and when
I had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as
well as I could from the side which lay highest; but
the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over for
that time.

Illag/ 4. I went a-fishing, but caught not one
fish that I durst eat of, till I was weary of my sport;
when, just going to leave oil, I caught a young dol-
phin. I had made me a long line of some rope-
yarn, but I had no hooks; yet I frequently caught
fish enough, as much as I cared to eat; all which I
dried in. the sun, and ate them dry.

[Way 5. Worked on the wreck: cut another beam
asunder, and brought three great fir--planks off from
the decks; which] tied together, and made swim
on shore when the tide of flood came on.

Bldg 6. Worked on the wreck; got several iron
bolts out of her, and other pieces of iron-work;
worked very hard, and came home very much tired,
and had thoughts of giving it over.

Illa]; '7. Went to the wreck again, but not with
an intent to work: but found the weight of the
wreck had broke itself down, the beams being cut;
that several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose;
and the inside of the hold lay so open thatl could
see into it; but almost full of water and sand.

May 8. Went to the wreck, and carried an iron
crow to wrench up the deck, which lay now quite
clear of the water and sand. I wrenehed up two
planks, and brought them on shore also with the
tide. I left the iron crow in the wreck for next
day.

May 9. Went to the wreck, and with the crow
made way into the body of the wreck, and felt se-
veral casks, and loosened them with the crow, but
could not break them up. I felt also a roll of Eng-
lish lead, and could stir it; but it was too heavy to
remove.

111(1)} 10--14. Went every day to the wreck;
and got a great many pieces of timber, and boards,
or plank, and two or three hundred weight of iron.

.I'lIay 15. I carried two hatchets, to try if I
could not cut a piece off the roll of lead, by placing
the edge of one hatchet, and driving it with the other;
but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water, I
could not make any blow to drive the hatchet.

fling/16. It had blown hard in the night, and
the wreck appeared more broken by the force of
the water; but I staid so long in the woods, to get
pigeons for food, that the tide prevented my going
to the wreck that day.

May 17. I saw some pieces of the wreck blown
on shore, at a great distance, two miles off me, but
resolved to see what they were, and found it was a
piece of the head, but too heavy for me to bring
away.

AIay 24. Every day, to this day, I worked on
the wreck; and with hard labour I loosened some
things so much with the crow, that the first blowing
tide several casks floated out, and two of the sea-
men's chestS' but the wind blowing from the shore,
nothing car' to land that day but pieces of timber,
and a hogshead, which had some Brazil pork in it;
but the salt-water and the sand had spoiled it. I
continued this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food; which I
always appointed, during this part of my employ-
ment, to be when the tide was up, that I might be
ready when it was ebbed out: and by this time I

VOL. I. . L
had gotten timber, and plank, and iron-work, enough
to have built a good boat, if I had known how: and
I also got, at several times, and in several pieces,
near one hundred weight of the sheet-lead.

June 16. Going down to the sea-side, I found a
large tortoise, or turtle. This was the first I had
seen; which, it seems, was only my misfortune, not
any defect of the place, or scarcity: for bad I hap-
pened to be on the other side of the island, I might
have had hundreds of them every day, as I found after
wards; but perhaps had paid dear enough for them.

June 17. I spent in cooking the turtle. I found
in her threescore eggs: and her flesh was to me, at
that time, the most savoury and pleasant that I ever
tasted in my life; having had no flesh, but of goats
and fowls, since I landed in this horrid place.

June 18. Rained all that day, and I staid within.
I thought, at this time, the rain felt cold, and I was
somewhat chilly; which I knew was not usual in
that latitude.

June 19. Very ill, and shivering, as if the wea-
ther had been cold.

June 20. No rest all night; violent pains in my
head, and feverish.

June 21. Very ill; frightened almost to death
with the apprehensions of my sad condition, to be
sick, and no help: prayed to God, for the first time
since the storm of Hull; but scarce knew whatl
said, or why, my thoughts being all confused.

June 22. A little better; but under dreadful
apprehensions of sickness.

June 23. Very had again; cold and shivering,
and then a violent head-ache.
June 24. Much better.

June 25. An ague very violent: the fit held me
seven hours; cold fit, and hot, with faint sweats
after it.

June 26. Better; and having no victuals to eat,
took my gun, but found myself very weak: how-
ever, I killed a she-goat, and with much difficulty
got it home, and broiled some of it, and ate. I
would fain have stewed it, and made some broth,
but had no pot.

June 27. The ague again so violent that I lay
a-bed all day, and neither ate nor drank. I was
ready to perish for thirst; but so weak, I had not
strength to stand up, or to get myself any water to
drink. Prayed to God again, but was light~headcd:
and when I was not, I was so ignorant that I knew
not what to say; only lay and cried, " Lord, look
upon me! Lord, pity me! Lord, have mercy upon
me E" I suppose I did nothing else for two or three
hours; till the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, and did
not wake till far in the night. When I awoke, I
found myself much refreshed, but weak, and exceed-
ing thirsty: however, as I had no water in my whole
habitation, I was forced to lie till morning, and
went to sleep again. In this second sleep I had
this terrible dream: I thought that I was sitting on
the ground, on the outside of my wall, where I sat
when the storm blew after the earthquake, and that
I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a
bright flame of fire, and light upon the ground: he
was all over as bright as a flame, so that I could but
just hear to look towards him: his countenance was
most inexpressibly dreadful, impossible for words to
describe: when he stepped upon the ground with
his feet, I thought the earth trembled, just as it had
done before in the earthquake; and all the air look-
ed, to my apprehension, as if it had been filled with
flashes of fire. He had no sooner landed upon the
earth, but he moved forward towards me, with a
long spear or weapon in his hand, to kill me; and
when he came. to a rising ground, at some distance,
he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so terrible that
it is impossible to express the terror of it: all that
I can say I understood, was this: " Seeing all these
things have not brought thee to repentance, now
thou shalt die;" at which words I thought he lifted
up the spear that was in his hand, to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account, will ex-
pect that. I should be able to describe the horrors
of my soul at this terrible vision; 1 mean, that even
while it was a dream, I even dreamed of those hor-
rors; nor is it any more possible to describe the
impression that remained upon my mind when l
awaked, and found it was but a dream.

I had, alas! no divine knowledge: what I had
received by the good instruction of my father was
then worn out, by an uninterrupted series, for eight
years, of seafaring wickedness, and a constant con-
versation with none but such as were, like myself,
wicked and profane to the last. degree. I do not
remember that I had, in all that time, one thought
that so much as tended either to looking upward
towards God, or inward towards a reflection upon
my own ways: but a certain stupidity ot'sonl, with-
out desire of good, or consciousness of evil, had en-
tirely overwhelmed me; and l was all that the most
hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our
common sailors, can be supposed to be; not having
the least sense, either of the fear of God, in danger,
or of thankfulness to him, in deliverances.

In the relating what is already past of my story,
this will be the more easily believed, when I shall
add, that through all the variety of miseries that
had to this day befallen me, I never had so much
as one thought of its being the hand of God, or
that it was a just punishment for my sin; either my
rebellious behaviour against my father, or my pre-
sent sins, which were great; or even as a punish-
ment for the general course of my wicked life.
When I was on the desperate expedition on the de-
sert shores of Africa, I never had so much as one
thought of what would become of me; or one wish
to God to direct me whither I should go, or to keep
me from the danger which apparently surrounded
me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel sa-
vages: but I was quite thoughtless of a God or at
Providence; acted like a mere brute, from the prin-
ciples of nature, and by the dictates of common
sense only; and indeed hardly that. When I was
delivered and taken up at sea by the Portuguese
captain, well used, and dealt with justly and honour.
ably, as well as charitably, I had not the least
thankfulness in my thoughts. When, again, I was
shipwrecked, mined, and in danger of drowning,
on this island, I was as far from remorse, or looking
on it as a judgment: I only said to myself often,
that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be
always miserable.

It is true, when I first got on shore here, and
found all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared,
l was surprised with a kind of ecstasy, and some

L 2
transports of soul, which, had the grace of God
assisted, might have come up to true thankfulness;
but it ended where it began, in a mere common
flight ofjoy; or, as I may say, being glad I was
alive, without the least reflection upon the distin-
guished goodness of the hand which had preserved
me, and had singled me out to be preserved when
all the rest were destroyed, or an inquiry why Pro-
vidence had been thus merciful to me: just the
same connnon sort ofjoy which seamen generally
have, after they are got safe ashore from a ship-
wreck; which they drown all in the next bowl of
punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over: and
all the rest ofmy life was like it. Even when l was,
afterwards, on due consideration, made sensible of
my condition,--how l was cast on this dreadful
place, out of the reach of human kind, out of all
hope of relief, or prospect of redemption,--as soon
as I saw but a prospect of living, and that I should
not starve and perish for hunger, all the sense of
my aflliction wore off, and I began to be very easy,
applied myself to the works proper for my preser-
vation and supply, and was far enough from being
afllicted at my condition, as ajudgment from Hea--
veu, or as the hand of God against me: these were
thoughts which very seldom entered into my head.
The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my
Journal, had, at first, some little influence upon
me, and began to affect me with seriousness, as
long as I thought it had something miraculous in
it; but as soon as that part of the thought was re-
moved, all the impression which was raised from it
wore off also, as l have noted already. Even the
earthquake, though nothing could be more terrible
in its nature, or more immediately directing to the
invisible Power which alone directs such things, yet
no sooner was the fright over, but the. impression it
had made went otf also. I had no more sense of
(iod, or his judgments, nmch less of the present
atlliction of my circumstances being from his hand,
than if] had been in the most prosperous condition
of life. But now, when I began to be. sick, and a
leisure view of the miseries of death came to place
itself before me; when my spirits began to sink
under the burden of a strong distemper, and nature
was exhausted with the violence of the fever; con-
science, that had slept so long, began to awake;
and l reproached myself with my past life, in
which I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness,
provoked the justice of God to lay me under an-
common strokes, and to deal with me in so vindic-
tive a manner. These. reflections oppressed me for
the second or third day of my distemper; and in
the violence, as well of the fever as of the. dreadful
reproaches of my conscience, estorted from me
some words like praying to God: though I cannot
say it was a prayer attended either with desires or
with hopes; it was rather the voice of mere fright
and distress. My thoughts were confused; the con-
victions great upon my mind; and the horror of
dying in such a miserable condition, raised vapours
in my head with the mere apprehension: and, in
these hurries of my soul, I knew not what my tongue
might express := but it was rather exclamation, such
as, " Lord, what a miserable creature am I! If I
should be sick, I shall certainly die for want of
help; and what will become of me?" Then the
tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say no more
for a good while. In this interval, the good advice
of my father came to my mind, and presently his
prediction, which I mentioned at the beginning of
this story, viz. that if I did take this foolish step,
God would not bless me; and I should have leisure
hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his coun-
sel, when there might be none to assist in my reco-
very. " Now," said I, aloud, "my dear father's
words are come to pass; God's justice has over-
taken me, and I have none to help or hear me. I
rejected the voice of Providence, which had merci-
fully put me in a station of life wherein I might
have been happy and easy; butI would neither see
it myself, nor learn from my parents to know the
blessing of it. I left them to mourn over my folly;
and now I am left to mourn under the consequences
of it: I refused their help and assistance, who
would have pushed me in the world, and would
have made every thing easy to me; and now I have
difficulties to struggle with, too great for even nature
itself to support; and no assistance, no comfort, no
advice." Then I cried out, " Lord, be my help,
for I am in great distress." This was the first prayer,
if I may call it so, that I had made for many years.
But I return to my Journal.

June 28. Having been somewhat refreshed with
the sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I
got up; and though the fright and terror of my
dream was very great, yet I considered that the fit
of the ague would return again the next day, and
now was my time to get something to refresh and
support myself when I should be ill. The first thing
I did was to filla large square case--bottle with
water; and set it upon my table, in reach of my
bed: and to take off the chill or aguish disposi-
tion of the water, I put about a quarter of a pint
of rum into it, and mixed them together. Then I
got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on
the. coals, but could eat very little. I walked about;
but was very weak, and withal very sad and heavy-
hearted under a sense of my miserable condition,
dreading the return of my distemper the next day.
At night, I made my supper of three of the turtle's
eggs; which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we
call it, in the shell: and this was the first bit of
meat I had ever asked God's blessing to, as I could
remember, in my whole life. After I had eaten, I
tried to walk; but found myself so weak, that I
could hardly carry the gun (for I never went out
without that ;) so I went but a little way, and sat
down upon the ground, looking out upon the sea,
which was just before me, and very calm and smooth.
As I sat here, some such thoughts as these occur-
red to me: What is this earth and sea, of which I
have seen so much? Whence is it produced? And
what am I, and all the other creatures, wild and
tame, human and brutal? Whence are we? Surely,
we are all made by some secret power, who formed
the earth and sea, the air and sky. And who is
that? Then it followed most naturally, It is God
that has made all. Well, but then, it came on
strangely, if God has made all these things, he
guides and governs them all, and all things that con-
t'ern them; for the power that could make all
things, must certainly have power to guide and
direct them: if so, nothing can happen in the great
circuit of his works, either without his knowledge
or appointment.

And if nothing happens without his knowledge,
he knows that I am here, and am in this dreadful
condition: and if nothing happens without his ap-
pointment, he has appointed all this to befall me.
Nothing occurred to my thought, to contradict any
of these conclusions: and therefore it rested upon
me with the greatest force, that it must needs be
that God had appointed all this to befall me; that
I was brought to this miserable circumstance by
his direction, be having the sole power, not of me
only, but of every thing that happens in the world.
Immediately it followed, Why has God done this
to me? What have I done to be thus used? My
conscience presently checked me in that inquiry,
as if I had blasphemed; and methought it spoke
to me like a voice, " Wretch! dost thou ask what
thou hast done'! Look back upon a dreadful mis-
spent life, and ask thyself, what thou hast not done?
Ask, why is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed?
Why wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads;
killed in the fight when the ship was taken by the
Sallee man of war; devoured by the wild beasts on
the coast of Africa; or drowned here, when all the
crew perished but thysele Dost thou ask what
thou hast done 2" I was struck dumb with these re-
flections, as one astonished, and had not a word to
say; no, not to answer to myself; and, rising up
pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat, and
went over my wall, as if I had been going to bed:
but my thoughts were sadly disturbed, and I had
no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in the chair,
and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dark. Now,
as the apprehension of the return of my distemper
terrified me very much, it occurred to my thought,
that the Brazilians take no physic but their tobacco
for almost all distempers; and I had a piece of a
roll of tobacco in one of the chests, which was
quite cured; and some also that was green, and not
quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven no doubt: for in this
chest I found a cure both for soul and body. I
opened the chest, and found what I looked for, viz.
the tobacco; and as the few books Ihad saved lay
there too, I took out one of the Bibles which I
mentioned before, and which to this time I had not
found leisure, or so much as inclination, to look
into. I say, I took it out, and brought both that
and the tobacco with me to the table. What use
to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my dis-
temper, nor whether it was good for it or not; but
I tried several experiments with it, as if I was
resolved it should hit one way or other. I first
took a piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth ;
which, indeed, at first, almost stupified my brain;
the tobacco being green and strong, and such as I
had not been much used to. Then I took some
and steeped it an hour or two in some rum, and
resolved to take a dose of it when I lay down:
and, lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals, and
held my nose close over the smoke of it as long as
I could bear it; as well for the heat, as almost for
suffocation. In the interval of this operation, I
took up the Bible, and began to read; but my head
was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear
reading, at least at that time; only, having opened
the book casually, the first words that occurred to
me were these: " Call on me in the day of trouble,
and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me."
These words were very apt to my case; and made
some impression upon my thoughts at the time of
reading them, though not so much as they did
afterwards; for, as for being delivered, the word
had no sound, as I may say, to me; the thing was
so remote, so impossible in my apprehension of
things, that, as the children of Israel said when
they were promised flesh to eat, " Can God spread
a table in the wilderness?" soI began to say, Can
even God himself deliver me from this place '2 And
as it was not for many years that any hopes ap-
peared, this prevailed very often upon my thoughts:
but, however, the words made a great impression
upon me, and I mused upon them very often. It
now grew late; and the tobacco had, as I said,
dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep:
so I left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should
want any thing in the night, and went to bed. But
before I lay down, I did what I never had done in
all my life; I kneeled down, and prayed to God to
fulfil the promise to me, that if I called upon him
in the day of trouble, he would deliver me. After
my broken and imperfect prayer was over, I drank
the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco; which
was so strong and rank of the tobacco, that indeed
I could scarce get it down: immediately upon this
I went to bed. I found presently the rum flew up
into my head violently; but I fell into a sound
sleep, and waked no more till, by the sun, it must
necessarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon
the next day: nay, to this hour I am partly of
opinion, that I slept all the next day and night, and
till almost three the day after; for otherwise, I
know not how I should lose a day out of my
reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared
some years after I had done; for if I had lost it by
crossing and re-crossing the Line, I should have
lost more than one day; but certainly I lost a day
in my account, and never knew which way. Be
that, however, one way or the other, when I awaked
I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits
lively and cheerful: when I got up, I was stronger
than I was the day before, and my stomach better,
for I was hungry; and, in short, I had no fit the
next day, but continued much altered for the better.
This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course; and I
went abroad with my gun, but did not care to
travel too far. I killed a sea-fowl or two, something
like a brand goose, and brought them home; but
was not very forward to eat them; so I ate some
more of the turtle's eggs, which were very good.
This evening I renewed the medicine, which I had
supposed did me good the day before, viz. the
tobacco steeped in rum; only I did not take so
much as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or I
hold my head over the smoke: however, I was not
so well the next day, which was the lst of July, as
I hoped I should have been; for I had a little of
the cold fit, but it was not much.

VOL. I. M
July 2. I renewed the medicine all the three
ways; and dosed myself with it as at first, and
doubled the quantity which I drank.

July 3. I missed the fit for good and all, though
I did not recover my full strength for some weeks
after. While I was thus gathering strength, my
thoughts ran exceedingly upon this scripture, " I
will deliver thee;" and the impossibility of my de-
liverance lay much upon my mind, in bar of my
ever expecting it: but as I was discouraging myself
with such thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I
pored so much upon my deliverance from the main
affliction, that I disregarded the deliverance I had
received; and I was, as it were, made to ask myself
such questions as these, viz. Have I not been de-
livered, and wonderfully too, from sickness; from
the most distressed condition that could be, and
that was so frightful to me? and what notice have
1 taken of it? Have I done my part? God has
delivered me, but I have not glorified him; that is
to say, I have not owned and been thankful for
that as a deliverance: and how can I expect a
greater deliverance? This touched my heart very
much; and immediately I knelt down, and gave God
thanks aloud for my recovery from my sickness.

July 4. In the morning I took the Bible; and
beginning at the New Testament, I began seriously
to read it; and imposed upon myself to read awhile
every morning and every night; not binding myself
to the number of chapters, but as long as my
thoughts should engage me. It was not long after
I set seriously to this work, that I found my heart
more deeply and sincerely affected with the wick-
edness of my past life. The impression of my
dream revived; and the words, " All these things
have not brought thee to repentance," ran seriously
in my thoughts. I was earnestly begging of God
to give me repentance, when it happened providen-
tially, the very same day, that, reading the scripture,
I came to these words, " He is exalted a Prince
and a Saviour; to give repentance, and to give re-
mission." I threw down the book; and with my
heart as well as my hands lifted up to heaven, in a
kind of ecstasy of joy, I cried out aloud, " Jesus,
thou son of David! Jesus, thou exalted Prince and
Saviour! give me repentance!" This was the first
time in all my life I could say, in the true sense of
the words, that I prayed; for now I prayed with a
sense of my condition, and with a true scripture
view of hope, founded on the encouragement of
the word of God: and from this time, I may say,
I began to have hope that God would hear me.
Now I began to construe the words mentioned
above, " Call on me, and I will deliver thee," in
a different sense from what I had ever done before;
for then I had no notion of any thing being called
deliverance, but my being delivered from the cap-
tivity I was in: for though I was indeed at large in
the place, yet the island was certainly a prison to
me, and'that in the worst sense in the world. But
now I learned to take it in another sense: now I

looked back upon my past life with such horror,
and my sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul
sought nothing of God but deliverance from the
load of guilt that bore down all my comfort. As
for my solitary life, it was nothing; I did not so
much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of
it; it was all of no consideration, in comparison
with this. And I add this part here, to hint to
whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to
a true sense of things, they will find deliverance

from sin a much greater blessing than deliverance
from aflliction. But, leaving this part, I return to
my Journal.

My condition began now to be, though not less
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier
to my mind: and my thoughts being directed, by
constantly reading the Scripture and praying to
God, to things of a higher nature, I had a great
deal of comfort within, which, till now, I knew
nothing of; also, as my health and strength returned,
I bestirred me to furnish myself with every thing
that I wanted, and make my way of living as regu-
lar as I could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly
employed in walking about with my gun in my
hand, a little and a little at a time, as a man that
was gathering up his strength after a fit of sickness:
for it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and
to what weakness I was reduced. The application
which I made use of was perfectly new, and per-
haps what had never cured an ague before; neither
can I recommend it to any one to practise, by this
experiment: and though it did carry off the fit,
yet it rather contributed to weakening me; for I
had frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs
for some time: I learned from it also this, in parti-
cular; that being abroad in the rainy season was
the most pernicious thing to my health that could
be, especially in those rains which came attended
with storms and hurricanes of wind; for as the rain
which came in the dry season :was almost always
accompanied with such storms, so I found that this
rain was much more dangerous than the rain which
fell in September and October.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten
months: all possibility of deliverance from this
condition seemed to be entirely taken from me;
and I firmly believed that no human shape had
ever set foot upon that place. Having secured my
habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a
great desire to make a more perfect discovery of
the island, and to see what other productions I
might find, which I yet knew nothing of.

It was on the 15th of July thatI began to take a
more particular survey of the island itself. I went
up the creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my
rafts on shore. I found, after I came about two
miles up, that the tide did not flow any higher; and
that it was no more than a little brook of running
water, very fresh and good: but this being the dry
season, there was hardly any water in some parts of
it; at least, not any stream. On the banks of this
brook I found many pleasant savannahs or meadows,
plain, smooth, and covered with grass: and on the
rising parts of them, next to the higher grounds
(where the water as it might be supposed, never
overflowed,) I found a great deal of tobacco, green,
and growing to a very great and strong stalk: and
there were divers other plants, which I had no
knowledge of, or understanding about, and that

might, perhaps, have virtues of their own, which I
M 2
could not find out. I searched for the cassava
root, which the Indians, in all that climate, make
their bread of; but I could find none. I saw large
plants of aloes, but did not understand them. I
saw several sugar-canes, but wild; and, for want of
cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself with
these discoveries for this time; and came back,
musing with myself what course I might take to
know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits
or plants which I should discover; but could bring
it to no conclusion; for, in short,I had made so
little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I
knew little of the plants in the field; at least, very
little that might serve me to any purpose now in
my distress.

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again; and after going something farther than I
had gone the day before, I found the brook and the
savannahs begin to cease, and the country become
more woody than before. In this part I found dif-
ferent fruits; and particularly I found melons upon
the ground, in great abundance, and grapes upon the
trees: the vines, indeed, had spread over the trees,
and the clusters of grapes were now just in their
prime, very ripe and rich. This was a surprising
discovery, and I was exceedingly glad of them,
butI was warned by my experience to eat spar-
ingly of them; remembering that when l was ashore
in Barbary, the eating of grapes killed several of
our Englishmen, who were slaves there, by throwing
them into fluxes and fevers. I found, however, an
excellent use for these grapes; and that was, to
cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as
dried grapes or raisins are kept; which I thought
would be (as indeed they were) as wholesome and
as agreeable to eat, when no grapes were to be

had.

I spent all that evening there, and went not back
to my habitation; which, by the way, was the first
night, as I might say, I had lain from home. At
night, I took my first contrivance, and got up into
a tree, where I slept well; and the next morning
proceeded on my discovery, travelling near four
miles, as I might judge by the length of the valley;
keeping still due north, with a ridge of hills on the
south and north sides of me. At the end of this
march I came to an opening, where the country

seemed to descend to the west; and a little spring
of fresh water, which issued out of the side of the
hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east;
and the country appeared so fresh, so green, so
flourishing, every thing being in a constant verdure,
or flourish of spring, that it looked like a planted
garden. I descended a little on the side of that
delicious vale, surveying it with a secret kind of
pleasure (though mixed with other afflicting
thoughts,) to think that this was all my own; that
I was king and lord of all this country indefeasibly,
and had a right of possession; and, if I could con-
vey it, I might have it in inheritance as completely
as any lord of a manor in England. I saw here
abundance of cocoa trees, and orange, lemon, and
citron trees, but all wild, and very few bearing any
fruit; at least not then. However, the green limes
that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but
very wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards
with water, which made it very wholesome, and
very cool and refreshing. I found now I had
business enough to gather and carry home; and I
resolved to lay up a store, as well of grapes as
limes and lemons to furnish myself for the wet sea-
son, which I knew was approaching. In order to
this, I gathered a great heap of grapes in one place,
a lesser heap in another place; and a great parcel
of limes and melons in another place; and, taking
a few of each with me, I travelled homeward; and
resolved to come again, and bring a bag or sack, or
what I could make to carry the rest home. Ac-
cordingly, having spent three days in this journey,
I came home (so I must now call my tent and my
cavez) but before I got thither, the grapes were
spoiled; the richness of the fruits, and the weight
of the juice, having broken and bruised them, they
were good for little or nothing: as to the limes,
they were good, but I could bring only a few.

The next day, being the 19th, Iwent back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest;
but I was surprised, when, coming to my heap of
grapes, which were so rich and fine when I gathered
them, I found them all spread about, trod to pieces,
and dragged about, some here, some there, and
abundance eaten and devoured. By this I con-
cluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts
which had done this, but what they were I knew
not. However, as I found there was no laying
them up in heaps, and no carrying them away in a
sack; but that one way they would be destroyed,
and the other way they would be crushed with
their own weight; I took another course: I then
gathered a large quantity of the grapes, and hung
them upon the out-branches of the trees, that they
inight cure and dry in the sun; and as for the limes
and lemons, I carried as many back as I could well
stand under.

When I came home from this journey, I contem-
plated with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that
valley, and the pleasantness of the situation; the
security from storms on that side; the water and
the wood: and concluded that I had pitched upon a
place to fix my abode in, which was by far the worst
part of the country. Upon the whole, I began to
consider of removing my habitation, and to look out
for a place equally safe as where I was now situate;
if possible, in that pleasant fruitful part of the
island.

This thought ran long in my head; and I was
exceeding fond of it for some time, the pleasant-
ness of the place tempting me: but when I came
to a nearer view of it, I considered that I was now
by the sea-side, where it was at least possible that
something might happen to my advantage, and, by
the same ill fate that brought me hither, might bring
some other unhappy wretches to the same place;
and though it was scarce probable that any such
thing should ever happen, yet to enclose myself
among the hills and woods in the centre of the
island, was to anticipate my bondage, and to render
such an affair not only improbable, but impossible;
and that therefore I ought not by any means to re-
move. However, I was so enamoured of this place,
that I spent much of my time there for the whole
remaining part of the month of July; and though,
upon second thoughts, I resolved, as above stated,
not to remove; yet I built me a little kind of a
bower, and surrounded it at a distance with a strong
fence, being a double hedge, as high as I could
reach, well staked, and filled between with brush-
wood. Here I lay very secure, sometimes two or
three nights together; always going over it with
a ladder, as before: so that I fancied nowI had
my country and my sea-coast house. This work
took me up till the beginning of August.

I had but newly finished my fence, and began
to enjoy my labour, when the rains came on, and
made me stick close to my first habitation: for
though I had made a tent like the other, with a
piece of sail, and spread it very well, yet I had not
the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a
cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were
extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my bower, and began to enjoy myself.
The 3d of August, I found the grapes I had hung
up were perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent
good raisins of the sun: so I began to take them
down from the trees; and it was very happy that I
did so, as the rains which followed would have
spoiled them, and I should have lost the best part
of my winter food; for I had above two hundred
large bunches of them. No sooner had I taken
them all down, and carried most of them home to
my cave, but it began to rain: and from hence,
which was the 14th of August, it rained, more or
less, every day till the middle of October; and
sometimes so violently, that I could not stir out of
my cave for several days.

In this season, I was much surprised with the in-
crease of my family. I had been concerned for the
loss of one of my cats, who ran away from me, or,
as I thought, had been dead; and I heard no more
of her, till, to my astonishment, she came home
with three kittens. This was the more strange to
me, because, about the end of August, though I
had killed a wild cat, as I called it, with my gun,
yet I thought it was quite a different kind from our
European cats: yet the young cats were the same
kind of house-breed as the old one; and both of my
cats being females, I thought it very strange. But
from these three, I afterwards came to be so pes-
tered with cats, that I was forced to kill them like
vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from my
house as much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant
rain; so that I could not stir, and was now very
careful not to be much wet. In this confinement, I
began to be straitened for food; but venturing out
twice, I one day killed a goat, and the last day,
which was the 26th, found a very large tortoise,
which was a treat to me. My food was now regu-
lated thus: I ate a bunch of raisins for my break-
fast; a piece of the goat's flesh, or of the turtle,
broiled, for my dinner (for, to my great misfortune,
I had no vessel to boil or stew any thing;) and two
or three of the turtle's eggs for my supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain,
I worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my
cave, and by degrees worked it on towards one side,
till I came to the outside of the hill; and made a
door, or way out, which came beyond my fence or
wall: and so I came in and out this way. ButI
was not perfectly easy at lying so open: for as I had
managed myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure;
whereas now, I thought I lay exposed; and yet I
could not perceive that there was any living thing
to fear, the biggest creature that I had yet seen
upon the island being a goat.

September 30. I was now come to the unhappy
anniversary of my laudimr. 1 cast up the notches
on my post, and found I had been on shore three
hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a
solemn fast; setting it apart for religious exercise,
prostrating myself on the ground with the most se-
rious humiliation, confessing my sins to God, ac-
knowledging his righteous judgments upon me, and
praying to him to have mercy on me through Jesus
Christ; and having not tasted the least refreshment
for twelve hours, even till the going down of the
sun, I then ate a biscuit and a bunch of grapes, and
went to bed, finishing the day 2151 began it. I had
all this time observed no sabbath-day; for as at first
I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I had,
after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks,
by making a longer notch than ordinary for the
sabbath-(lay, and so did not really know what any'
of the days were: but now having cast up the days,
as above, I found I had been there a year; so I
divided it into weeks, and set apart every seventh
day for a sabbath: though I found, at the end of my
account, I had lost a day or two in my reckoning.
A little after this, my ink beginning to fail me, I
contented myself to use it more Sparingly; and to
write down only the most remarkable events of my
life, without continuing a daily memorandum of
other things.

The rainy season and the dry season began now
to appear regular to me, and I learned to divide
them so as to provide for them accordingly; but I
bought all my experience before I had it; and what
I am going to relate was one of the most discourag-
ing experiments that I had made at all.

I have mentioned that I had saved the few ears
of barley, and rice, which I had so surprisingly
found sprung up, as I thought, of themselves. I
believe there were about thirty stalks of rice, and
about twenty of barley; and now I thought it a
proper time to sow it after the rains; the sun being
in its southern position, going from me. Accord-
ingly I dug a piece of ground, as well as I could,
with my wooden spade; and dividing it into two
parts, I sowed my grain; but, as I was sowing, it
casually occurred to my thoughts that I would not
sow it all at first, because I did not know when was
the proper time for it; so I sowed about two-thirds
of the seed, leaving about a handful of each: and
it was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did
so, for not one grain of what I sowed this time
came to any thing; for the dry month following,
and the earth having thus had no rain after the seed
was sown, it had no moisture to assist its growth,
and never came up at all till the wet season had
come again, and then it grew as if it had been but
newly sown. Finding my first seed did not grow,
which I easily imagined was from the drought, I
sought for a moister piece of ground to make an-
other trial in; and I dug up a piece of ground near
my new bower, and sowed the rest of my seed in
February, a little before the vernal equinox. This
having the rainy month of March and April to

VOL. I. N
water it, sprung up very pleasantly, and yielded a
very good crop; but having only part of the seed
left, and not daring to sow all that I had, I got but
a small quantity at last, my whole crop not amount-
ing to above half a peck of each kind. But by this
experiment I was made master of my business, and
knew exactly when was the proper time to sow; and
that I might expect two seed-times, and two har-
vests, every year.

While this corn was growing, I made a little dis-
covery, which was of use to me afterwards. As soon
as the rains were over, and the weather began to
settle, which was about the month of November, I
made a visit up the country to my bower; where,
though I had not been some months, yet I found all
things just as I left them. The circle or double
hedge that I had made was not only firm and entire,
but the stakes which I had cut out of some trees
that grew thereabouts, were all shot out, and grown
with long branches, as much as a willow-tree usu-
ally shoots the first year after lopping its head; but
I could not tell what tree to call it that these stakes
were cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well
pleased, to see the young trees grow; and I pruned
them, and led them to grow as much alike as I
could: and it is scarce credible how beautiful a
figure they grew into in three years: so that, though
the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards
in diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now call
them, soon covered it, and it was a complete shade,
sullicient to lodge under all the dry season. This
made me resolve to cutsome more stakes, and make
me a hedge like this, in a semi-circle round my wall
(I mean that of my first dwelling,) which I did; and
placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at about
eight yards distance from my first fence, they grew
presently; and were at first a fine cover to my ha-
bitation, and afterwards served for a defence also;
as I shall observe in its order.

I found now that the seasons of the year might
generally be divided, not into summer and winter,
as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the dry
seasons, which were generally thus: From the mid-
dle of February to the middle .of April, rainy; the
sun being then on or near the equinox. From the
middle of April till the middle of August, dry; the
sun being then north of the line. From the middle
of August till the middle of October, rainy; the sun
being then come back to the line. From the mid-
dle of October till the middle of February, dry;
the sun being then to the south of the line.

The rainy seasons held sometimes longer and
sometimes shorter, as the winds happened to blow;
but this was the general observation I made. . After
I had found, by experience, the ill consequences of
being abroad in the rain, I took care to furnish my-
self with provisions beforehand, that I might not be
obliged to go out: and I sat within d00rs as much
as possible during the wet months. In this time I
found much employment, and very suitable also to
the time; forI found great occasion for many things
which I had no way to furnish myself with, but by
hard labour and constant application: particularly,
I tried many ways to make myself a basket: but all
the twigs I could get for the purpose proved so brit-
tle, that they would do nothing. It proved of ex-
cellent advantage to me now, that when I was a boy,
I used to take great delight in standing at a basket-
maker's in the town where my father lived, to see
them make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys
usually are, very ofiicious to help, and a great ob-
server of the manner how they worked those things,
and sometimes lending a hand, I had by these means
full knowledge of the methods of it, so that I wanted
nothing but the materials; when it came into my
mind, that the twigs of that tree from whence I
cut my stakes that grew might possibly be as tough
as the sallows, willows, and osiers, in England; and
I resolved to try. Accordingly, the next day, I
went to my country house, as I called it; and cut-
ting some of the smaller twigs, I found them to my
purpose as much as I could desire: whereupon I
came the next time prepared with a hatchet to cut
down a quantity, which I soon found, for there was
great plenty of them. These I set up to dry within
my circle or hedge; and when they were fit for use,
I carried them to my cave: and here, during the
next season, I employed myself in making, as well
as I could, several baskets; both to carry earth, or
to carry or lay up any thing as I had occasion for.
Though I did not finish them very handsomely, yet
I made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose:
and thus, afterwards, I took care never to be with-
out them; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I made
more; especially strong deep baskets, to place my
corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to
have any quantity of it.

Having mastered this difliculty, and employed a
world of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if
possible, how to supply two other wants. I had no
vessel to hold any thing that was liquid, except two
runlets, which were almost full of rum; and some
glass bottles, some of the common size, and others
(which were case-bottles) square, for the holding of
waters, spirits, &c. I had not so much as a pot to
boil any thing; except a great kettle, which I saved
out of the ship, and which was too big for such use
as I desired it, viz. to make broth, and stew a bit of
meat by itself. The second thing I would fain have
had, was a tobacco-pipe; but it was impossible for
me to make one; however, I found a contrivance
for that too at last. I employed myself in planting
my second row of stakes or piles, and also in this
wicker-working, all the summer or dry season; when
another business took me up more time than it could
be imagined I could spare.

I mentioned before, that I had a great mind to
see the whole island; and that I had travelled up
the brook, and so on to where I had built my bower,
and where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the
other side of the island. I now resolved to travel
quite across to the sea--shore, on that side: so tak-
ing my gun, a hatchet, and my dog, and a larger
quantity of powder and shot than usual; with two
biscuit-cakes, and a great bunch of raisins in my
pouch, for my store; I began my journey. When I
had passed the vale where my bower stood, as above,
I came within view of the sea, to the west; and it
being a very clear day, I fairly descried land, whe.
ther an island or continent I could not tell; but it
lay very high, extending from W. to W.S.W. at a

very great distance; by my guess, it could not be
less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.
I could not tell what part of the world this might
N 2
be; otherwise than that I knew it must be part of
America; and, as I concluded, by all my observa--
tions, must be near the Spanish dominions; and per-
haps was all inhabited by savages, where, if I should
have landed, I had been in a worse condition than
I was now. I therefore acquiesced in the disposi-
tions of Providence, which I began now to own and
to believe ordered every thing for the best; I say,
I quieted my mind with this, and left off afflicting
myself with fruitless wishes of being there.

Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I con-
sidered that if this land was the Spanish coast, I
should certainly, one time or other, see some vessel
pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it
was the savage coast between the Spanish country
and the Brazils, whose inhabitants are indeed the
worst of savages; for they are cannibais, or men-
eaters, and fail not to murder and devour all human
beings that fall into their hands.

With these considerations, walking very leisurely
forward, I found this side of the island, where I now
was, much pleasanter than mine; the open or savan-
nah fields sweetly adorned with flowers and grass,
and full of very fine woods. I saw abundance of
parrots; and fain would have caught one, if possi-
ble, to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to
speak to me. I did, after taking some pains, catch
a young parrot: for I knocked it down with a stick,
and, having recovered it, I brought it home: but it

was some years before I could make him speak; how-
ever, at last I taught him to call me by my name very

familiarly. But the accident that followed, though
it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly amused with this journey. I
found in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to
be, and foxes: but they differed greatly from all the
other kinds I had met with; nor could I satisfy my-
self to eat them, though I killed several. But I had
no need to be venturous: for I had no want of food,
and bf that which was very good too; especially
these three sorts, viz. goats, pigeons, and turtle, or
tortoise. With these, added to my grapes, Leaden-
hall~Market could not have furnished a table better
than I, in proportion to the company; and though
my case was deplorable enough, yet I had great
cause for thankfulness; as I was not driven to any
extremities for food, but had rather plenty, even to
dainties.

I never travelled on this joumey above two miles
outright in a day, or thereabouts; butl took so many
turns and returns, to see what discoveries I could
make, that I came weary enough to the place where
I resolved to sit down for the night; ,and then I
either reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself
with a row of stakes, set upright in the ground,
either from one tree to another, or so as no wild
creature could come at me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore, I was sur-
prised to see that I had taken up my lot on the
worst side of the island: for here indeed the shore
was covered with innumerable turtles; whereas, on
the other side, I had found but three in(a year and
a half. Here was also an infinite number of fowls
of many kinds; some of which I had seen, and some

of which I had not seen before, and many of them
very good meat; but such as I knew not the names

0f, except those called Penguins.
I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was
very sparing of my powder and shot; and therefore
had more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which I
could better feed on. But though there were many
goats here, more than on my side the island, yet it
was with much more difficulty that I could come
near them; the country being flat and even, and they
saw me much sooner than when I was upon a hill.

I confess this side of the country was much plea-
santer than mine; yetI had not the least inclination
to remove; for as I was fixed in my habitation, it
became natural to me, and I seemed all the while
I was here to be as it were upon ajourney, and from
home. However, I travelled along the sea-shore
towards the cast, I suppose about twelve miles; and
then setting up a great pole upon the shore for a
mark, I concluded I would go home again; and that
the next journey I took should be on the other side
of the island, east from my dwelling, and so round
till I came to my post again: of which in its place.

I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep so much of the island
in my view, that I could not miss my first dwelling
by viewing the country: but I found myself mis-
taken; for being come about two or three miles, I
found myself descended into a very large valley,
but so surrounded with hills, and those bills covered

with wood, that I could not see which was my way
by any direction but that of the sun, nor even then,
unless I knew'very well the position of the sun at
that time of the day. And it happened to my far-
ther misfortune, that the weather proved hazy for
three or four days while I was in this valley; and
not being able to see the sun, I wandered about
 

0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 141

very uncomfortable, and at last was obliged to find
out the sea-side, look for my post, and come back
the same way I went; and then by easy journies I
turned homeward, the weather being exceeding hot,
and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and other things
very heavy.

In this journey, my dog surprised a young kid,
and seized upon it; and running to take hold of it,
I caught it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had
a great mind to bring it home if I could; for I had
often been musing whether it might not be possible
to get a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame
goats, which might supply me when my powder and
shot should be all spent. I made a collar for this
little creature, and with a string which I had made
of some rope-yarn, which I alvays carried about
me, I led him along, though with some difficulty,
till I came to my bower, and there I enclosed him
and left him; for I was very impatient to be at home,
from whence I had been absent above a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me
to come into my old hutch, and lie down in my ham-
mock-bed. This little wandering journey, without
a settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to
me, that my own house, as I called it to myself,
was a perfect settlement to me, compared to that;
and it rendered every thing about me so comfort-
able, that I resolved I would never go a great way
from it again, while it should be my lot to stay on
the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
myself after my long journey: during which, most
of the time was taken up in the weighty affair of
making a cage for my Pol, who began now to be
more domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted
with me. Then I began to think of the poor kid
which I had penned within my little circle, and
resolved to fetch it home, or give it some food:
accordingly I went, and found it whereI left it (for
indeed it could not get out,) but was almost starved
for want of food. I went and cut boughs of trees,
and branches of such shrubs as I could find, and
threw it over, and having fed it, I tied it as I did
before, to lead it away; but it was so tame with
being hungry, that I had no need to have tied it,
for it followed me like a dog: and as I continually
fed it, the creature became so loving, so gentle, and
so fond, that it was from that time one of my domes-
tics also, and would never leaveme afterwards.
The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was
now come, and I kept the 30th of September in the
same solemn manner as before, being the anniver-
sary of my landing on the island; having now been
there two years, and no more prospect of being
delivered than the first day I came there. I spent
the whole day in humble and thankful acknowledg-
ments for the many wonderful mercies which my
solitary condition was attended with, and without
which it might have been infinitely more miserable.
I gave humble and hearty thanks to God for having
been pleased to discover to me, that it was possible
I might be more happy even in this solitary condition,
than I should have been in the enjoyment of society,
and in all the pleasures of the world: that he could
fully make up to me the deficiencies of my solitary

state, and the want of human society, by his pre-v own-ah 93.1." *' u--w' gm..." ' '

v . '.-k-~.~hnC/~6C/h{yr-s..fi.

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 143

sence, and the communications of his grace to my
soul; supporting, comforting, and encouraging me
to depend upon his providence here, and to hope
for his eternal presence hereafter.

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much
more happy the life I now led was, with all its
miserable circumstances, than the wicked, cursed,
abominable life I led all the past part of my days:
and now I changed both my sorrows and my joys:
my very desires altered, my afi'ections changed their
gusts, and my delights were perfectly new from
what they were at my first coming, or indeed for
the two years past.

Before, as I walked about, either on my hunting,
or for viewing the country, the anguish of my soul
at my condition would break out upon me on a
sudden, and my very heart would die within me, to
think of the woods, the mountains, the deserts Iwas
in; and how I was a prisoner, locked up with the
eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhabited
wilderness, without redemption. In the midst of
the greatest composures of my mind, this would
break out upon me like a storm, and make me wring
my hands, and weep like a child: sometimes it would
take me in the middle of my work, and I would
immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the
ground for an hour or two together: this was still
worse to me; but if I could burst into tears, or give
vent to my feelings by words, it would go off; and
my grief being exhausted, would abate.

But now I began to exercise myself with new
thoughts; I daily read the word of God, and applied
all the comforts of it to my present state. One
morning, being very sad, I opened the Bible upon
these words, " I will never leave thee, nor forsake
thee :" immediately it occurred that these words were
to me; why else should they be directed in such a
manner, just at the moment when I was mourning
over my condition, as one forsaken of God and
man '2 " Well then," said I, " if God does not for-
sake me, of what ill consequence can it be, or what
matters it, though the world should forsake me;
seeing on the other hand, if I had all the world, and
should lose the favour and blessing of God, there
would be. no comparison in the loss I"

From this moment I began to conclude in my
mind, that it was possible for me to be more happy
in this forsaken, solitary condition, than it was pro-
bable I should ever have been in any other particu-
lar state in the world; and with this thought I was
going to give thanks to God for bringing me to this
place. I know not what it was, but something
shocked my mind at that thought, and I durst not
speak the words. " How canst thou be such a hy-
pocrite," said I, even audibly, " to pretend to be
thankful for a condition, which, however thou may-
est endeavour to be contented with, thou wouldest
rather pray heartily to be delivered from?" Here
I stopped: but though I could not say I thanked
God for being here, yet I sincerely gave thanks to
God for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting
providences, to see the former condition of my life,
and to mourn for my wickedness, and repent. I
never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very soul
within me blessed God for directing my friend in
England, without any order of mine, to pack it up
among my goods; and for assisting me afterwards
to save it out of the wreck of the ship.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my
third year; and though I have not given the reader
the trouble of so particular an account of my works
this year as the first, yet in general it may be ob-
served, that I was very seldom idle; but having re-
gularly divided my time, according to the several
daily employments that were before me; such as,
first, My duty to God, and the reading the Scrip--
tures, which I constantly set apart some time for,
thrice every day: secondly, Going abroad with my
gun for food, which generally took me up three,
hours every morning, when it did not rain: thirdly,
Ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking what I
had killed or catched for my supply: these took up
great part of the day; also it is to be considered,
that in the middle of the day, when the sun was in
the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great
to stir out; so that about four hours in the evening
was all the time I could be supposed to work in;
with this exception, that sometimes I changed my
hours of hunting and working, and went to work in
the morning, and abroad with my gun in the after-
noon.

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire
may be added the exceeding laboriousness of my
work; the many hours which, for want of tools,
want of help, and want of skill, every thingI did
took up out of my time: for example, I was full
two and forty days making me a board for along
shelf, which I wanted in my cave; whereas, two

sawyers, with their tools and a saw-pit, would have
VOL. I. 0
out six of them out of the same tree in half a
day.

My case was this; it was a large tree which was
to be cut down, because my board was to be a broad
one. This tree I was three days cutting down, and
two more in cutting off the boughs, and reducing
it to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible
hacking and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it.
into chips, till it was light enough to move; then I
turned it, and made one side of it smooth and flat
as a board, from end to end; then turning that side
downward, cut the other side, till I brought the
plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on
both sides. Any one may judge the labour of my
hands in such a piece of work; but labour and
patience carried me through that, and many other
things: I only observe this in particular, to show
the reason why so much of my time went away with

so little work, viz. that what might be a little to be
done with help and tools, was a vast labour, and
required a prodigious time to do alone, and by hand.
Notwithstanding this, with patience and labour I
went through many things; and, indeed, every thing
that my circumstances made necessary for me to do,
as will appear by what follows.

I was now in the months of November and Decem-
ber, expecting my crop of barley and rice. The
ground I had manured or dug up for them was not
great; for, as I observed, my seed of each was not
above the quantity of half a peck, having lost one
whole crop by sowing in the dry season: but now my
crop promised very well; when, on a sudden, I found
I was in danger of losing it all again by enemies of
several sorts, which it was scarce possible to keep
from it; as, first, the goats, and wild creatures
which I called hares, who, tasting the sweetness of
the blade, lay in it night and day, as soon as it

came up, and ate it so close, that it could get no
time to shoot up into stalk.

I saw no remedy for this, but by making an en-
closure about it with a hedge, which I did with a
great deal of toil; and the more, because it required
speed. However, as my arable land was but small,
suited to my crop, I got it tolerably well fenced in
about three weeks' time; and shooting some of the
creatures in the day-time, I set my dog to guard it
in the night, tying him up to a stake at the gate,
where he would stand and bark all night long; so
in a little time the enemies forsook the place, and
the corn grew very strong and well, and began to
ripen apace.

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my
corn was in the blade, so the birds were as likely to
ruin me now, when it was in the ear: for going
along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my
little crop surrounded with fowls, I know not of
how many sorts, who stood, as it were, watching
till I should be gone. I immediately let fly among
them (for I always had my gun with me ;) I had no
sooner shot, but there rose up a little cloud of
fowls, which I had not seen at all, from among the
corn itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a
few days they would devour all my hopes; that I
should be starved, and never be able to raise a crop
at all; and what to do I could not tell: however, I
resolved not to lose my corn, if possible, though I
should watch it night and day. In the first place,
I went among it, to see what damage was already
done, and found they had spoiled a good deal of
it; but that as it was yet too green for them, the
loss was not so great, but that the remainder was
likely to be a good crop, if it could be saved.

I staid by it to load my gun, and then coming
away, I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all
the trees about me, as if they only waited till I was
gone away; and the event proved it to be so; for
as I walked off, as if gone, I was no sooner out of
their sight, than they dropt down, one by one, into
the corn again. I was so provoked, that I could
not have patience to stay till more came on, know-
ing that every grain they eat now was, as it might
be said, a peck-loaf to me in the consequence; so
coming up to the hedge, I fired again, and killed
three of them. This was whatI wished for; so I
took them up, and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England, viz. hanged them in chains, for
a terror to others. It is impossible to imagine that
this should have such an efi'ect as it had; for the
fowls not only never came to the corn, but, in short,
they forsook all that part of the island, and I could
never see a bird near the place as long as my scare-
crows hung there. This I was very glad of, you
may be sure; and about the latter end of Decem-
ber, which was our second harvest of the year, I

reaped my com.
I was sadly put to it for a scythe or sickle to cut

it down: and all I could do was to make one as
well as I could, out of one of the broad swords, or
cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the
ship. However, as my first crop was but small, I
had no great difficulty to cut it down: in short, I
reaped it my way, for I cut nothing off but the ears,
and carried it away in a great basket which I had
made, and so rubbed it out with my hands; and at
the end of all my harvesting, I found that out of my
half peek of seed I had near two bushels of rice,
and above two bushels and a half of barley; that
is to say, by my guess, for I had no measure.
However, this was great encouragement to me;
and I foresaw that, in time, it would please God to

supply me with bread; and yet here I was perplexed
again; for I neither knew how to grind, or make
meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and
part it; nor if made into meal, how to make bread
of it; and if how to make it, yet I knew not how
to bake it: these things being added to my desire
of having a good quantity for store, and to secure
a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of
this crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the
next season; and, in the mean time, to employ all
my study and hours of working to accomplish this
great work of providing myself with corn and
bread.

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my
bread. It is a little wonderful, and what I believe
few people have thought much upon, viz. the strange
multitude of little things necessary in the providing,
producing, curing, dressing, making, and finishing
this one article of bread.

I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature,
found this to my daily discouragement, and was
made more sensible of it every hour, even after I
had got the first handful of seed-com, which, as I

0 2
have said, came up unexpectedly, and indeed to a
surprise.

First, I had no plough to turn up the earth; no
spade or shovel to dig it: well, this I conquered by
making a wooden spade, as I observed before; but
this did my work but in a wooden manner; and
though it cost me a great many days to make it,
yet, for want of iron, it not only wore out the
sooner, but made my work the harder, and per-
formed it much worse. However, this I bore with,
and was content to work it out with patience, and
bear with the badness of the performance. When
the corn was sown, I had no harrow, but was forced
to go over it myself, and drag a great heavy bough
of a tree over it, to scratch it, as it may be called,
rather than rake or harrow it. When it was growing
and grown, I have observed already how many
things I wanted to fence it, secure it, mow or reap
it, cure and carry it home, thrash, part it from the
chaff, and save it: then I wanted a mill to grind it,
sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to make it into
bread, and an oven to bake it; and yet all these
things I did without, as shall be observed; and the
corn was an inestimable comfort and advantage to
me: all this, as I said, made every thing laborious
and tedious to me, but that there was no help for;
neither was my time so much loss to me, because,
as I had divided it, a certain part of it was every
day appointed to these works; and as I resolved to
use none of the corn for bread till I had a greater
quantity by me, I had the next six months to apply
myself wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish
myself with utensils proper for the performing all
the operations necessary for making corn fit for my
use. .

But now I was to prepare more land; for I had
seed enough to sow above an acre of ground. Be-
fore I (lid this, I had a week's work at least to make
me a spade; which, when it was done, was but a
sorry one indeed, and very heavy, and required
double labour to work with it: however, I went
through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat
pieces of ground, as near my house as I could find
them to my mind, and fenced them in with a good
hedge; the stakes of which were all cut off that
wood which I had set before, and knew it would
grow; so that, in one year's time, I knew I should
have a quick or living hedge, that would want but
little repair. This work took me up full three
months; because a great part of the time was in

 

the wet season, when I could not go abroad. Within
doors, that is, when it rained, and I could not go
out, I found employment on the following occasions;
always observing, that while I was at work, I di-
verted myself with talking to my parrot, and teach-
ing him to speak; and I quickly learned him to
know his own name, and at last to speak it out
pretty loud, Pol; which was the first word I ever
heard spoken in the island by any month but my

own. This, therefore, was not my work, but an
assistant to my work; for now, as I said, I had a
great employment upon my hands, as follows: I had
long studied, by some means or other, to make my-
self some earthen vessels, which indeed I wanted
much, but knew not where to come at them: how-
ever, considering the heat of the climate, I did not
doubt but if I could find out any clay, I might
botch up some such pot as might, being dried in the
sun, be hard and strong enough to hear handling,
and to hold any thing that was dry, and required to
be kept so; and as this was necessary in the pre-
paring corn, meal, &c. which was the thing I was
upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could,
and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should
be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather
laugh at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took
to raise this pastil; what odd, misshapen, ugly
things I made; how many of them fell in, and how
many fell out, the clay not being stiff enough to
bear its own weight; how many cracked by the
over violent heat of the sun, being set out too
hastily; and how many fell in pieces with only
removing, as well before as after they were dried:
and, in a word, how, after having laboured hard to
find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it
home, and work it, I could not make above two
large earthen ugly things (I cannot call them jars)
in about two months' labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry
and hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them
down again in two great wicker baskets, which I
had made on purpose for them, that they might not
break; and as between the pot and the basket there
was a little room to spare, I stufi'ed it full of the
rice and barley--straw; and these two pots being to
stand always dry, I thought would hold my 'dry
corn, and perhaps the meal, when the corn was
bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for
large pots, yet I made several smaller things with
better success; such as little round pots, flat dishes,
pitchers, and pipkins, and any thing my hand turned
to; and the heat of the sun baked them very hard.

But all this would not answer my end, which was
to get an earthen pot to hold liquids, and bear the
fire, which none of these could do. It happened
some time after, making a pretty large fire for cook-
ing my meat, when I went to put it out after I had
done with it, I found a broken piece of one of my
earthen-ware vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a
stone, and red as a tile. I was agreeably surprised
to see it; and said to myself, that certainly they
might be made to burn whole, if they would burn
broken.

This set me to study how to order my fire, so as
to make it burn some pots. I had no notion of a
kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them
with lead, though I had some lead to do it with;
but I placed three large pipkins and two or three
pots in a pile, one upon another, and placed my
fire-wood all round it, with a great heap of embers
under them. 1 plied the fire with fresh fuel round
the outside, and upon the top, till I saw the pots in
the inside red-hot quite through, and observed that
they did not crack at all: when I saw them clear
red, I let them stand in that heat about five or six
hours, till I found one of them, though it did not
crack, did melt or run; for the sand which was
mixed with the clay melted by the violence of the
heat, and would have run into glass, if I had gone
on; so I slacked my fire gradually, till the pots be-
gan to abate of the red colour; and watching them
all night, that I might not let the fire abate too fast,
in the morning I had three very good, I will not say
handsome, pipkins, and two other earthen pots, as
hard burnt as could be desired; and one of them
perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted
no sort of earthen-ware for my use; but I must needs
say, as to the shapes of them, they were very indif-
ferent, as any one may suppose, as I had no way of
making them but as the children make dirt pies, or
as a woman would make pics that never learned to
raise paste.

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever
equal to mine, when I found I had made an earthen
pot that would hear the fire; and I had hardly pa-
tience to stay till they were cold, before I set one
on the fire again, with some water in it, to boil me
some meat, which it did admirably well; and with
a piece of a kid I made some very good broth;
though I wanted oatmeal, and several other ingre-
dients requisite to make it so good as I would have
had it been.

My next concern was to get a stone mortar to
stamp or beat some corn in; for as to the mill,
there was no thought of arriving to that perfection
of art with one pair of hands. To supply this
want I was at a great loss; for, of all trades in the
world, I was as perfectly unqualified for a stone-
cutter, as for any whatever; neither had I any tools
to go about it with. I spent many a day to find
out a great stone big enough to cut hollow, and
make fit for a mortar; but could find none at all,
except what was in the solid rock, and which I had
no way to dig or cut out: nor, indeed, were the
rocks in the island of sufficient hardness, as they
were all of a sandy crumbling stone, which would
neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor
would break the corn without filling it with sand:
so, after a great deal of time lost in searching for
a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out a
great block of hard wood, which I found indeed
much easier; and getting one as big as I had strength
to stir, l rounded it, and formed it on the outside
with my axe and hatchet; and then, with the help
of fire, and infinite labour, made a hollow place in
it, as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After
this, I made a great heavy pestle, or heater, of the
wood called iron-wood; and this I prepared and
laid by against I had my next crop of corn, when I
proposed to myself to grind, or rather pound, my
corn into meal, to make my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or scarce,
to dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and
the husk, without which I did not see it possible I
could have any bread. This was a most difficult
thing, even but to think on; for I had nothing like
the necessary thing to make it; I mean fine thin
canvass or stuff, to searce the meal through. Here
I was at a full stop for many months; nor did I
really know what to do; linen I had none left, but
what was mere rags; I had goats'-hair, but neither
knew how to weave it nor spin it; and bad I known
how, here were no tools to work it with: all the
remedy I found for this was, at last recollecting I
had, among the seamen's clothes which were saved
out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin,
with some pieces of these I made three small sieves,
proper enough for the work; and thus I made shift
for some years: how I did afterwards, I shall show
in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be consi-
dered, and how I should make bread when I came
to have corn: for, first, I had no yeast: as to that
part there was no supplying the want, so I did not
concern myself much about it; but for an ovenI
was indeed puzzled. At length I found out an ex.
pedient for that also, which was this; I made some
earthen vessels, very broad, but not deep, that is to
say, about two feet diameter, and not above nine
inches deep: these I burned in the fire, as I had
done the other, and laid them by; and when I wanted

to bake, I made a great the upon my hearth, which
I had paved with some square tiles, of my own
making and burning also; but I should not call
them square.
When the fire-wood was burned into embers, or
live coals, I drew them forward upon the hearth, so
as to cover it all over, and there let them lie till the
hearth was very hot; then sweeping away all the
embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and covering
them with the earthen pot, drew the embers all
round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to
the heat; and thus, as well as in the best oVen in
the world, I baked my barley-loaves, and became, in
a little time, a good pastry-cook into the bargain;
for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the
rice; but made no pies, as I had nothing to put
into them except the flesh of fowls or goats.

It need not be wondered at, if all these things
took me up most part of the third year of my abode
here; for, it is to be observed, in the intervals of
these things, I had my new harvest and husbandry
to manage: I reaped my corn in its season, and car-
ried it home as well as I could, and laid it up in the
ear, in my large baskets, till I had time to rub it
out; for I had no floor to thrash it on, or instrument

to thrash it with.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I
really wanted to build my barns bigger: I wanted a
place to lay it up in; for the increase of the corn
now yielded me so much, that I had of the barley
about twenty bushels, and of rice as much, or more,
insomuch that now I resolved to begin to use it
freely; for my bread had been quite gone a great
while: I resolved also to see what quantity would
be sufficient for me a whole year, and to sow but

once a year.
Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of
VOL. I. P
barley and rice were much more than I could con-
sume in a year; so I resolved to sow just the same
quantity every year that I sowed the last, in hopes
that such a quantity would fully provide me with
bread, &c.

All the while these things were doing, you may be
sure my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect
of land which I had seen from the other side of the
island; and I was not without some secret wishes
that I was on shore there; fancying, that seeing the
main land, and an inhabited country, I might find
some way or other to convey myself farther, and
perhaps at last find some means of escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the
dangers of such a condition, and that I might fall
into the hands of savages, and perhaps such as I
might have reason to think far worse than the lions
and tigers of Africa; that if I once came in their
power, I should run a hazard of more than a thou-
sand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being
eaten; for I had heard that the people of the Ca-
ribbean coast were cannibals, or man-eaters; and I
knew, by the latitude, that I could not be far off
from that shore. Then supposing they were not

cannibals, yet that they might kill me, as they had
many Europeans who had fallen into their hands,
even when they have been ten or twenty together;
much more I, who was but one, and could make lit-
tle or no defence; all these things, I say, which I
ought to have considered well of, and did cast up
in my thoughts afterwards, took up none of my
apprehensions at first; yet my head ran mightily
upon the thought of getting over to the shore.
Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat
with the shoulder-of--mutton sail, with which I sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa; but
this was in vain: then I thought I-would go and look
at our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown
up upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when
we were first cast away. She lay nearly where she
did at first, but not quite; having turned, by the
force of the waves and the winds, almost bottom
upward, against a high ridge of beachy rough sand;

but no water about her, as before. If I had had
hands to have refitted her, and to have launched her

into the water, the boat would have done very well,
and I might have gone back into the Brazils with
her easily enough; but I might have foreseen, that
1 could no more turn her and set her upright upon
her bottom, than I could remove the island; how-
ever, I went to the woods, and cut levers and rollers,
and brought them to the boat, resolving to try what
I could do; suggesting to myself, that if I could
but turn her down, and repair the damage she had
received, she would be a very good boat, and I might
venture to sea in her.

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless
toil, and spent,.I think, three or four weeks about
it: at last, finding it impossible to heave her up with
my little strength, I fell to digging away the sand,
to undermine her, and so as to make her fall down,
setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide her right
in the fall.

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir
her up again, or to get under her, much less to move
her forward towards the water; so I was forced to
give it over: and yet, though I gave over the hopes
of the boat, my desire to venture over the main in-
creased, rather than diminished, as the means for it
seemed impossible.

At length, I began to think whether it was not
possible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such
as the natives of those climates make, even without
tools, or, as I might say, without hands, of the trunk
of a great tree. This I not only thought possible,
but easy, and pleased. myself extremely with the idea
of making it, and with my having much more con-
venience for it than any of the Negroes or Indians;
but not at all considering the particular inconveni-
ences which I lay under more than the Indians did,
viz. the want of hands to move it into the water
when it was made, a difliculty much harder for me
to surmount than all the consequences of want of
tools could be to them: for what could it avail me,
if, after I had chosen my tree, and with much trou-
ble cut it down, and might be able with my tools to
hew and dub the outside into the proper shape of a
boat, and burn or cut out the inside to make it hol-
low, so as to make a boat of it; if, after all this, I
must leave it just where I found it, and was not
able to launch it into the water?

One would imagine, if I had had the least reflec-
tion upon my mind of my circumstances while I
was making this boat, I should have immediately
thought how I was to get it into the sea: but my
thoughts were so intent upon my voyage in it, that
I never once considered how I should get it off the
land; and it was really, in its own nature, more easy
for me to guide it over forty-five miles of sea, than
the forty-five fathoms of land, where it lay, to set
it afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did, who had any of his senses awake.
I pleased myself with the design, without deter-
mining whether I was able to undertake it; not but
that the difficulty of launching my boat came often
into my head; but I put a stop to my own inquiries
into it, by this foolish answer: Let me first make it;
I warrant I will find some way or other to get it
along when it is done.

This was a most preposterous method; but the
eagerness of my fancy prevailed, and to workI went.
I felled a cedar tree, and I question much whether
Solomon ever had such a one for the building of the
Temple at Jerusalem; it was five feet ten inches
diameter at the lower part next the stump, and
four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of
twenty-two feet, where it lessened, and then parted
into branches. It was not without infinite labour
that I felled this tree; I was twenty days hacking
and hewing at the bottom, and fourteen more getting
the branches and limbs, and the vast spreading
head of it, cut off: after this, it cost me a month
to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to some-
thing like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim
upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three
months more to clear the inside, and work it out so
as to make an exact boat of it: this I did, indeed,
without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and by the
dint of hard labour, till I had brought it to be a
very handsome periagua, and big enough to have

P 2
carried six and twenty men, and consequently big
enough to have carried me and all my cargo.

When I had gone through this work, I was ex-
tremely delighted with it. The boat was really
much bigger than ever I saw a canoe or periagua,
that was made of one tree, in my life. Many a
weary stroke it had cost, you may be sure; and
there remained nothing but to get it into the water;
which, had I accomplished, I make no question but
I should have begun the maddest voyage, and the
most unlikely to be performed, that ever was un-
dertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed
me; though they cost me inexpressible labour too.
It lay about one hundred yards from the water, and
not more; but the first inconvenience was, it was
up hill towards the creek. Well, to take away this
discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface
of the earth, and so make a declivity: thisI begun,
and it cost me a prodigious deal of pains; (but who
grudge pains that have their deliverance in view 'l)
when this was worked through, and this difficulty
managed, it was still much the same, for I could no
more stir the canoe than I could the other boat.
Then I measured the distance of ground, and re-
solved to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up
to the canoe, seeingI could not bring the canoe
down to the water. Well, I began this work; and
when I began to enter upon it, and calculate how
deep it was to be dug, how broad, how the stuff was
to be thrown out, I found by the number of hands
I had, having none but my own, that it must have?
i

 

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 163

been ten or twelve years before I could have gone
through with it; for the shore lay so high, that at
the upper end it must have. been at least twenty feet
deep; this attempt, though with great reluctancy,
I was at length obliged to give over also.

This grieved me heartily; and nowI saw, though
too late, the folly of beginning a work before we
count the cost, and before we judge rightly of our
own strength to go through with it.

In the middle of this work, I finished my fourth
year in this place, and kept my anniversary with
the same devotion, and with as much comfort as
before; for, by a constant study and serious appli-
cation to the word of God, and by the assistance of
his grace, I gained a different knowledge from what
I had before; I entertained different notions of
things; I looked now upon the world as .a thing
remote, which I had nothing to do with, no expecta-
tion from, and, indeed, no desires about: in a word,
I had nothing to do with it, nor was ever likely to
have; I thought it looked, as we may perhaps look

upon it hereafter, viz. as a place I had lived in, but

was come out of it; and well might I say, as father
Abraham to Dives, " Between me and thee is a
great gulf fixed."

In the first place, I was here removed from all
the wickedness of the world; I had neither the lust
of the flesh, the lust of the eye, nor the pride of
life. I had nothing to covet, for I had all thatI
was now capable of enjoying: I was lord of the
whole manor; or, if I pleased, lmight call myself
king or emperor over the whole country which I
had possession of; there were no rivals; Ihad no
competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or command
with me: I might have raised ship-loadings of corn,
but I had no use for it; so I let as little grow as I
thought enough for my occasion. I had tortoise or
turtle enough, but now and then one was as much

as I could put to any use: I had timber enough to
have built a fleet of ships; and I had grapes enough
to have made wine, or to have cured into raisins, to
have loaded that fleet when it had been built.

But all I could make use of was all that was
valuable: I had enough to eat and supply my wants,
and what was the rest to me"! If I killed more flesh
than I could eat, the dag must eat it, or vermin;
if I sowed more com than I could eat, it must be
spoiled; the trees that I cut down were lying to rot
on the ground; I could make no more use of them

than for fuel, and that I had no other occasion for
but to dress my food.

In a word, the nature and experience of things
dictated to me, upon just reflection, that all the
good things of this world are of no farther good to
us than for our use; and that whatever we may heap
up to give others, we enjoy only as much as we can
use, and no more. The most covetous griping
miser in the world would have been cured of the

vice of covetousness, if he had been in my case; for
I possessed. infinitely more than I knew what to do
with. I had no room for desire, except it was for
things which I had not, and they were comparatively
but trifles, though indeed of great use to me. I
had, as I hinted before, a parcel of money, as well
gold as silver, about thirty-six pounds sterling.
Alas! there the nasty, sorry, useless stufl' lay: I
had no manner of business for it; and I often
thought within myself, that I would have given a
handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes, or for a
handomill to grind my corn; nay, I would have
given it all for sixpenny-worth of turnip and carrot
seed from England, or for a handful of peas and
beans, and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had not
the least advantage by it, or benefit from it; but
there it lay in a drawer, and grew mouldy with the
damp of the cave in the wet seasons; and if I had
had the drawer full of diamonds, it had been the
same case,--they had been of no manner of value
to me because of no use.

I had now brought my state of life to be much
more comfortable in itself than it was at first, and
much easier to my mind, as well as to my body. I
frequently sat down to meat with thankfulness, and
admired the hand of God's providence, which had
thus spread my table in the wilderness: I learned .
to look more upon the bright side of my condition,
and less upon the dark side, and to consider what I
enjoyed, rather than what I wanted: and this gave
me sometimes such secret comforts, that I cannot
express them; and which I take notice of here, to
put those discontented people in mind of it, who
cannot enjoy comfortably what God has given them,
because they see and covet something that he has
not given them. All our discontents about what
we want, appeared to me to spring from the want
of thankfulness for what we have. -

Another reflection was of great use to me, and
doubtless would be so to any one that should fall
into such distress as mine was; and this was, to
compare my present condition with what I at first
expected it would he; nay, with what it would cer-
tainly have been, if the good providence of God
had not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up
near to the shore, where I not only could come at
her, but could bring what I got out of her to the
shore, for my relief and comfort; without which, I
had wanted for tools to work, weapons for defence,
and gunpowder and shot for getting my food.

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in
representing to myself, in the most lively colours,
how I must have acted if I had got nothing out of
the ship. 1 could not have so much as got any
food, except fish and turtles; and that, as it was
long before I found any of them, I must have
perished; that I should have lived, if I had not
perished, like a mere savage; that if I had killed a
goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no way
to flay or open it, or part the flesh from the skin
and the bowels, or to cut it up; but must gnaw it
with my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a
beast.

These reflections made me very sensible of the
goodness of Providence to me, and very thankful
for my present condition, with all its hardships and
misfortunes: and this part also I cannot but recom~
mend to the reflection of those who are apt, in their
misery, to say, Is any affliction like mine? Let
them consider how much worse the cases of some
people are, and their case might have been, if Pro-
vidcnce had thought fit.

I had another reflection, which assisted me also
to comfort my mind with hopes; and this was com-
paring my present condition with what I had tie-
served, and had therefore reason to expect from the
hand of Providence. 1 had lived a dreadful life,
perfectly destitute of the knowledge and fear of
God. I had been well instructed by my father and
mother; neither had they been wanting to me, in
their endeavours to infuse an early religious awe of
God into my mind, a sense of my duty, and what
the nature and end of my being required of me.
But, alas! falling early into the seafaring life, which,
of all lives, is the most destitute of the fear of God,
though his terrors are always before them; I say,
falling early into the seafaring life, and into sea-
faring company, all that little sense of religion
which I had entertained was laughed out of me by
my messmates; by a hardened despising of dangers,
and the views of death, which grew habitual to me;
by my long absence from all manner of opportuni-
ties to converse with any thing but what was like
myself, or to hear any thing that was good, or tend-
ing towards it.

So void was I of every thing that was good, or of
the least sense of what I was, or was to be, that in
the greatest deliverances I enjoyed (such as my
escape from Sallee, my being taken up by the Portu-
guese master of a ship, my being planted so well in
the Brazils, my receiving the cargo from England,
and the like,) I never had once the words, Thank
God, so much as on my mind, or in my mouth; nor
in the greatest distress had I so much as a thought
to pray to him, or so much as to say, Lord, have
mercy upon me! no, nor to mention the name of

God, unless it was to swear by, and blaspheme it.
I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many
months, as I have already observed, on account of
my wicked and hardened life past; and when I
looked about me, and considered what particular
providences had attended me since my coming into
this place, and how God had dealt bountifully with
me,--had not only punished me less than my iniquity
had deserved, but had so plentifully provided for
me,--- this gave me great hopes that my repentance
was accepted, and that God had yet mercies in
store for me.

With these reflections, I worked my mind up,
not only to a resignation to the will of God in the
present disposition of my circumstances, but even
to a sincere thankfulness for my condition; and that
I, who was yet a living man, ought not to complain,
seeing I had not the due punishment of my sins;
that I enjoyed so many mercies which I had no
reason to have expected in that place, that I ought
never more to repine at my condition, but to rejoice,
and to give daily thanks for that daily bread, which
nothing but a crowd of wonders could have brought;
that I ought to consider I had been fed by a miracle,
even as great as that of feeding Elijah by ravens;
nay, by a long series of miracles: and that I could
hardly have named a place in the uninhabitable
part of the world where I could have been cast
more to my advantage; a place where, as I had no
society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I
found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves or
tigers, to threaten my life; no venomous or poison-
ous creatures which I might feed on to my hurt;
no savages to murder and devour me. In a word,
as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a
life of mercy another; and I wanted nothing to
make it a life of comfort, but to make myself sensi-
ble of God's goodness to me, and care over me in
this condition; and after I did make a just in>>
provement of these things, I went away, and was no
more sad.

I had now been here so long, that many things
which I brought on shore for my help were either
quite gone, or very much wasted, and near spent.

My ink, as I observed, had been gone for some
time, all but a very little, which I eked out with
water, a little and a little, till it was so pale, it
scarce left any appearance of black upon the paper.
As long as it lasted, I made use of it to minute
down the days of the month on which any remark-
able thing happened to me: and, first, by casting
up times past, I remember that there was a strange
concurrence of days in the various providences
which befel me, and which, if I had been supersti~
tiously inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunate,
I might have had reason to have looked upon with
a great deal of curiosity.

First, I had observed, that the same day that I
broke away from my father and my friends, and ran
away to Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day
afterwards I was taken by the Sallee man of war,
and made a slave: the same day of the year that I
escaped out of the wreck of the ship in Yarmouth
Roads, that same day-year afterwards I made my
escape from Sallee in the boat: and the same day
of the year I was born on, viz. the 30th of Septem-
her, that same day I had my life so miraculously

VOL. I. 9
saved twenty-six years after, when I was cast on
shore in this island: so that my wicked life and my
solitary life began both on one day.

The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that
of my bread, I mean the biscuit which I brought
out of the ship: this I had husbanded to the last
degree, allowing myself but one cake of bread a
day for above a year; and yet I was quite without
bread for near a year before I got any corn of my
own; and great reason I had to be thankful that I
had any at all, the getting it being, as has been
already observed, next to miraculous.

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily: as to
linen, I had none for a great while, except some
chequered shirts which I found in the chests of the
other seamen, and which I carefully preserved, be-
cause many times I could bear no clothes on but a
shirt; and it was a very great help to me that I had,
among all the men's clothes of the ship, almost three
dozen of shirts. There were also, indeed, several
thick watch-coats of the seamen's which were left,
but they were too hot to wear: and though it is true
that the weather was so violently hot that there was
no need of clothes, yet I could not go quite naked,
no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was
not, nor could I abide the thought of it, though I
was all alone. The reason why I could not go quite
naked was, I could not bear the heat of the sun so
well when quite naked as with some clothes on;
nay, the very heat frequently blistered my skin:
whereas, with a shirt on, the air itself made some
motion, and whistling under the shirt, was twofold
cooler than without it. No more could I ever bring
myself to go out in the heat of the sun without a
cap or hat; the heat of the sun beating with such
violence as it does in that place, would give me the
head-ach presently, by darting so directly upon my
head, without a cap or hat on, so that I could not
bear it; whereas, if I put on my hat, it would pre-
sently go away.

Upon these views, I began to consider about put-
ting the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into
some order: I had worn out all the waistcoats I
had, and my business was now to try if I could not
make jackets out of the great watch-coats that I
had by me, and with such other materials as I had;
so I set to work a tailoring, or rather, indeed, a
botching, for I made most piteous work of it.
However, I made shift to make two or three new
waistcoats, which I hoped would serve me a great
while: as for breeches or drawers, I made but a
very sorry shift indeed till afterwards,

I have mentioned, that I saved the skins of all
the creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones;
and I had hung them up, stretched out with sticks,
in the sun, by which means some of them were so
dry and hard that they were fit for little, but others
I found very useful. The first thing I made of these
was a great cap for my head, with the hair on the
outside, to shoot oil" the rain; and this I performed
so well, that after this I made me a suit of clothes
wholly of the skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and
breeches open at the knees, and both loose; for
they were rather wanting to keep me cool than warm.
I must not omit to acknowledge that they were

wretchedly made; for if I was a bad carpenter, I
was a worse tailor. However, they were such as I
made very good shift with; and when I was abroad,
if it happened to rain, the hair of my waistcoat and
cap being uppermost, I was kept very dry.

After this I spent a great deal of time and pains
to make me an umbrella: I was indeed in great
want of one, and had a great mind to make one; I
had seen them made in the Brazils, where they were
very useful in the great heats which are there; and
I felt the heats every jot as great here, and greater
too, being nearer the equinox: besides, as I was
obliged to be much abroad, it was a most useful
thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats. I
took a world of pains at it, and was a great while
before I could make any thing likely to hold; nay,
after I thought I had hit the way, I spoiled two or
three before I made one to my mind; but at last I
made one that answered indifferently well; the main .
difficulty I found was to make. it to let down: I
could make it spread, but if it did not let down too,
and draw in, it was not portable for me any way but
just over my head, which would not do. However,
at last, as I said, I made one to answer, and covered
it with skins, the hair upwards, so that it cast off the
rain like a pent-house, and kept of? the sun so ef-
fectually, thatl could walk out in the hottest of the
weather with greater advantage than I could before
in the coolest; and when I had no need of it, could
close it, and carry it under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being
entirely composed by resigning to the will of God,
and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of his
providence. This made my life better than sociable;
for when I began to regret the want of conversa-
tion, I would ask myself, whether thus conversing
mutually with my own thoughts, and, as I hope I
may say, with even God himself, by ejaculations,
was not better than the utmost enjoyment of human
society in the world? .

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened to me, but I lived on in
the same course, in the same posture and place, just
as before; the chief things I was employed in, be-
sides my yearly labour of planting my barley and
rice, and curing my raisins, of both which I always
kept up just enough to have sufficient stock of one
year's provision beforehand; I say, besides this
yearly labour, and my daily pursuit of going out
with my gun, I had one labour, to make me a canoe,
which at last I finished: so that by digging a canal
to it of six feet wide, and four feet deep, I brought
it into the creek, almost half a mile. As for the
first, which was so vastly big, as I made it without
considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how I
should be able to launch it, so, never being able to
bring it into the water, or bring the water to it, I
was obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memoran-
dum to teach me to be wiser the next time: indeed,
the next time, though I could not get a tree proper
for it, and was in a place where I could not get the
water to it at any less distance than, as I have said,
near half a mile, yet as I saw it was practicable at_
last, I never gave it over: and though I was near
two years about it, yet I never grudged my labour,
in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last.

However, though my little periagua was finished,

0 '2

N
yet the size of it was not at all answerable to the
design which I had in view when I made the first;
I mean, of venturing over to the terrafirma, where
it was above forty miles broad; accordingly, the
smallness of my boat assisted to put an end to that
design, and now I thought no more of it. As I had
a boat, my next design was to make a cruise round
the island; for as I had been on the other side in
one place, crossing, as I have already described it,

over the land, so the discoveries I made in that little

journey made me very eager to see other parts of
the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing

but sailing round the island.

For this purpose, that I might do every thing
with discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little
mast in my boat, and made a sail to it out of some
of the pieces of the ship's sails which lay in store,
and of which I had a great stock by me. Having
fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat, I found
she would sail very well: then I made little lockers,
or boxes, at each end of my boat, to put provisions,
necessaries, ammunition, &c. into, to be kept dry,
either from rain or the spray of the sea; and a
little long hollow place I cut in the inside of the

boat, where I could lay my gun, making a flap to
hang down over it, to keep it dry. '

Ifixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern,
like a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the
heat of the sun off me, like an awning; and thus I
every now and then took a little voyage upon the
sea, but never went far out, nor far from the little
creek. At last, being eager to view the circumfe-
rence of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my
 

cruise; and accordingly I victualled my ship for
the voyage, putting in two dozen of loaves (cakes I
should rather call them) of barley bread, an earthen
pot full of parched rice (a food I ate a great deal
of,) a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and powder
and shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats,
of those which, as I mentioned before, I had saved
out of the seamen's chests; these I took, one to lie
upon, and the other to cover me in the night,

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of
my reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I
set out on this voyage, and I found it much longer
than I expected; for though the island itself was
not very large, yet when I came to the east side of
it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out about two
leagues into the sea, some above water, some under
it; and beyond that a shoal of sand, lying dry half
a league more, so that I was obliged to go a great
way out to sea to double the point.
When first I discovered them, I was going to give
over my enterprise, and come back again, not know-
ing how far it might oblige me to go out to sea,
and, above all, doubting how I should get back
again; so I came to an anchor; for I had made me
a kind of an anchor with a piece of a broken grap-
pling which I got out of the ship.

Having secured my boat, I took' my gun and
went on shore, climbing up on a bill, which seemed
to overlook that point, where I saw the full extent
of it, and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill where I
stood, I perceived a strong, and indeed a most furi-
ous current, which ran to the east, and even came
close to the point; and I took the more notice of it,
because I saw there might be some danger, that
whenI came into it, I might be carried out to sea
by the strength of it, and not be able to make the
island again: and, indeed, had I not got first upon
this hill, I believe it would have been so; for there
was the same current on the other side the island,
only that it set off at a farther distance, and I saw
there was a strong eddy under the shore; so I had
nothing to do but to get out of the first current,
and I should presently be in an eddy.

I lay here, however, two days, because the wind
blowing pretty fresh at E.S.E. and that_being just
contrary to the said current, made a great breach
of the sea upon the point; so that it was not safe
for me to keep too close to the shore for the breach,
nor to go too far OK because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having

abated over--night, the sea was calm, and I ventured:
but I am a warning-piece again to all rash and igno-
rant pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point,
when I was not even my boat's length from the
shore, but I found myself in a great depth of water,
and a current like the sluice of a mill; it carried
my boat along with it with such violence, that all I
could do could not keep her so much as on the
edge of it; but I found it hurried .me farther and
farther out from the eddy, which was on my left
hand. There was no wind stirring to help me, and
alll could do with my paddles signified nothing:
and now I began to give myself over for lost; for as
the current was on both sides of the island, I knew
in a few leagues distance they must join again, and
then I was irrecoverably gone; nor did I see any
possibility of avoiding it; so that I had no prospect
before me but of perishing, not by the sea, for that
was calm enough, but of starving for hunger. I
had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big
almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into the
boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water, that is
to say, one of my earthen pots; but what was all
this to being driven into the. vast ocean, where, to
be sure, there was no shore, no main land or island,
for a thousand leagues at least? _

And now I saw how easy it was for the providence
of God to make even the most miserable condition
of mankind worse. ' Now I looked back upon my
dosolate solitary island, as the most pleasant place
in the world; and all the happiness my heart could
wish for was to be but there again. I stretched out
my hands to it, with eager wishes ; " 0 happy
desert!" said I, " I shall never see thee more. 0
miserable creature! whither am I going!" Then I
reproached myself with my unthankful temper, and
how I had repined at my solitary condition; and
now what would I give to be on shore there again!
Thus we never see the true state of our condition
till it is illustrated to us by its contraries, nor know
how to value what we enjoy, but by the want of it.
It is scarce possible to imagine the consternation I
was now in, being driven from my beloved island
(for so it appeared to me now to be) into the wide
ocean, almost two leagues, and in the utmost de-
spair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked
hard, till indeed my strength was almost exhausted,
and kept my boat as much to the northward, that is,
towards the side of the current which the eddy lay
on, as possibly I could; when about noon, as the
sun passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little
breeze of wind in my face, springing up from S.S.E.
This cheered my heart a little, and especially when,
in about half an hour more, it blew a pretty gentle
gale. By this time I was got at a frightful distance
from the island, and had the least cloudy or hazy
weather intervened, I had been undone another way
too; for I had no compass on board, and should
never have known how to have steered towards the
island, if I had but once lost sight of it; but the
weather continuing clear, I applied myself to get up
my mast again, and spread my sail, standing away
to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current. '

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat
began to stretch away, I saw even by the clearness --:
of the water some alteration of the current was"l
2
2
2

 

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 179

' near; for where the current was so strong, the
i water was foul; but perceiving the water clear,

2 I found the current abate; and presently I found to
i the east, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea

upon some rocks: these rocks I found caused the

'- current to part again, and as the main stress of it

ran away more southerly, leaving the rocks to the

- north-east, so the other returned by the repulse of
.. the rocks, and made a strong eddy, which ran back
again to the north-west, with a very sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve

' brought to them upon the ladder, or to be rescued

from thieves just going to murder them, or who
have been in such--like extremities, may guess what
my present surprise of joy was, and how gladlyI
put my boat into the stream of this eddy; and the
wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail
to it, running cheerfully before the wind, and with
a strong tide or eddy under foot.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way
back again, directly towards the island, but about
two leagues more to the northward than the current

which carried me away at first: so that when I

'came near the island, I found myself open to the

northern shore of it, that is to say, the other end of
the island, opposite to that which I went out from.
When I had made something more than a league
of way by the help of this current or eddy, I found
it was spent, and served me no farther. However,
I found that being between two great currents, viz.
that on the south side, which had hurried me away,
and that on the north, which lay about a league on
the other side; I say, between these two, in the
wake of the island, 1 found the water at least still,
and running no way; and having still a breeze of
wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly for the
island, though not making such fresh way as I did
before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then
within a leagUe of the island, I found the point of
the rocks which occasioned this disaster, stretching
out, as is described before, to the southward, and
casting off the current more southerly, had, of
course, made another eddy to the north; and this 1
found very strong, but not directly setting the way
my course lay, which was due west, but almost full
north. However, having a fresh gale, I stretched
across this eddy, slanting north-west: and, in about
an hour, came within about a mile of the shore,
where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and
gave God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to
lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my
boat; and refreshing myself with such things asI
had, I brought my boat close to the shore, in a little
cove thatI had spied under some trees, and laid
me down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour
and fatigue of the voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat: I had run so much hazard, and
knew too much of the case, to think of attempting
it by the way I went out; and what might be at the
other side (I mean the west side) I knew not, nor
had I any mind to run any more ventures; so I only
resolved in the morning to make my way westward
along the shore, and to see if there was no creek
where I might lay up my frigate in safety, so as to
have her again, if I wanted her. In about three
miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came to
a very good inlet-or bay, about a mile over, which
narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet or brook,
where I found a very convenient harbour for my
boat, and where she lay as if she had been in a little
,dock made on purpose for her. Here I put in, and
having stowed my boat very safe, I went on shore,
to look about me, and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I travelled on foot to
that shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but
my gun and umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I
began my march. The way was comfortable enough
after such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached
my old bower in the evening, where I found every
thing standing as I left it; forI always kept it in
good order, being, as I said before, my country
house.

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the
shade, to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and
fell asleep: but judge you, if you can, that read my
story,- what a surprise I must be in, when I was
awaked out of my sleep by a voice, calling me by my
name several times, " Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe;
poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe?
Where are you"! Where have you been 'i"

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of
the day, and with walking the latter part, that'l did
not wake thoroughly; but dozing between sleeping
and waking, thoughtI dreamed that somebody spoke

VOL.L R
to me; but as the voice continued to repeat Robin
Crusoe, Robin Crusoe, at last] began to wake more
perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frightened,
and started up in the utmost consternation; but no
sooner were my eyes open, butI saw my Pol sitting
on the top of the hedge; and immediately knew it
was he that spoke to me; for just in such bemoan-
ing language I had used to talk to him, and teach
him; and he had learned it so perfectly, that he
would sit upon my finger, and lay his bill close to
my face, and cry, " Poor Robin Crusoe! Where are
you? Where have you been? How came you here ?"
and such things as I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot,
and that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a
good while before I could compose myself. First, I
was- amazed how the creature got thither, and then,
how he should just keep about the place, and no
where else:- but as I was well satisfied it could be
nobody but honest Pol, I got over it; and holding
out my hand, and calling him by his name, Pol,
the sociable creature came to me, and sat upon my
thumb, as he used to'do, and continued talking to
me, Poor Robin Crusoe! and how did I come here?
and where had I been? just as if he had been over-
joyed to see me. again: and so I carried him home
along with me.

I now had enough of rambling to sea for some
time, and had enough to do for many days, to sit
still, and reflect upon the danger I had been in.
I would have been very glad to have had my boat
again on my side of the island; but I knew not
how it was practicable to get it about. As to theg.
I
if
g
F'
l
;

 

OF ROBIN-SON CRUSOE. 183

east side of the island, which I had gone round, I
knew well enough there was no venturing that way;
my very heart would shrink, and my very blood run
chill, but to think of it; and as to the other side
of the island, I did not know how it might be there;
but supposing the current ran with the same force
against the shore at the east as it passed by it on
the other, .I might run the same risk of being driven
down the stream, and carried by the island, as I had
been before of being carried away from it; so, with
these thoughts, I contented myself to be without
any boat, though it had been the product of so
many months' labour to make it, and of so many
more to get it into the sea. ,

In this government of my temper I remained near
a year, lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may
well suppose; and my thoughts being very much
composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted
in resigning myself to the dispositions of Provi-
dence, I thought I lived really very happily in ,all
things, except that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon apply-
ing myself to; and I believe Icould, upon occasion, '
have made a very good carpenter, especially con-
sidering how few tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfec-
tion in my earthen-ware, and contrived well enough
to make them with a wheel, which! found infinitely
easier and better; because I made things round and
shapable, which before were filthy things indeed to
look on. But I think I was never more vain of my
own performance, or more joyful for any thing I
found out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-
pipe; and though it was a very ugly clumsy thing
when it was done, and only burnt red, like other
earthen-ware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would
draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with
it, for I had been always used to smoke: and there
were pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first,
not thinking that there was tobacco in the island;
and afterwards, when I searched the ship again, I
could not come at any pipes at all.

In my wicker-ware also I improved much, and
made abundance of necessary baskets, as well as
my invention showed me; though not very hand-
some, yet they were such as were very handy and
convenient for my laying things up in, or fetching
things home. For example, ifI killed a goat abroad,
I could hang it up in a tree, flay it, dress it, and cut
it in pieces, and bring it home in a basket; and the
like by a turtle: I could cut it up, take out the
eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was
enough for me, and bring them home in a basket,
and leave the rest behind me. Also large deep
baskets were the receivers of my corn, which I
always rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured,
and kept it in great baskets.

I began now to perceive my powder abated con-
siderably; this was a want which it was impossible
for me to supply, and I began seriously to consider
what I must do when I should have no more pow-
der; that is to say, how I should do to kill any
goats. I had, as is observed, in the third year of
my being here, kept a young kid, and bred her up
tame, and I was in hopes of getting a he--goat: but4
V
i
t
r;
9'
'f.
i;
l;
5
5
1'
5
Z
6
V
i
i
4
i
F

E
If
k

z
I;
.4-
'1
's

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 185

I could not by any means bring it to pass, till my

kid grew an old goat; and as I could never find in

my heart to kill her, she died at last of mere age.
But being now in the eleventh year of my resi-

dence, and, as I have said, my ammunition growing
low, I set myself to study some art to trap and snare
the goats, to see whether I could not catch some of
them alive; and particularly, I wanted a she~goat
great with young. For this purpose, I made snares
to hamper them; and I do believe they were more
than once taken in them; but my tackle was not
good, for I had no wire, and I always found them
broken, and my bait devoured. At length I resolved
to try a pitfall: so I dug several large pits in the
earth, in places where I had observed the goats
used to feed, and over those pits I placed hurdles,
of my own making too, with a great weight upon
them; and several times I put ears of barley and
dry rice, without setting the trap; and I could easily
perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up
the corn, for I could see the marks of their feet.
At length I set three traps in one night, and going
the next morning, Ifound them all standing, and
yet the bait eaten and gone; this was very dis-
couragino. However, I altered my traps; and, not
to trouble you with particulars, going one morning
to see my traps, I found in one of them a large old
lie-goat, and in one of the others three kids, a male
and two females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with
him; he was so fierce, I durst not go into the pit
to him; that is to say, to. go about to bring him
away alive, which was whatI wanted: I could have

R 2
killed him, but that was not my business, nor would
it answer my end; so I even let him out, and he
ran away, as if he had been frightened out of his
wits. But I did not then know what I afterwards
learnt, that hunger will tame a lion. If I had let
him stay there three or four days without food, and
then have carried him some water to drink, and
then a little corn, he would have been as tame as
one of the kids; for they are mighty sagacious,
tractable creatures, where they are well used.

However, for the present I let him go, knowing
no better at that time: then I went to the three
kids, and taking them one by one, I tied them with
strings together, and with some difficulty brought
them all home.

It was a good while before they would feed; but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them,
and they began to be tame. And now I found that
if I expected to supply myself with goat's flesh
when I had no powder or shot left, breeding some
up tame was my only way; when, perhaps, I might
have them about my house like a flock of sheep.
But then it occurred to me, thatl must keep the
tame from the wild, or else they would always run
wild when they grew up: and the only way for this
was, to have some enclosed piece of ground, well
fenced, either with hedge or pale, to keep them in
so effectually, that those within might not break
out, or those without break in.

This was a great undertaking for one pair of
hands; yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity
for doing it, my first work was to find out a proper
piece of ground, where there was likely to be
herbage for them to eat, water for them to drink,
and cover to keep them from the sun.

Those who understand such enclosures will think
I had very little contrivance, when I pitched upon
a place very proper for all these (being a plain open
piece of meadow land, or savannah, as our people
call it in the western colouies,) which had two or
three little drills of fresh water in it, and at one
end was very woody; I say, they will smile at my
forecast, when I shall tell them, I began my en-
closing this piece of ground in such a manner, that
my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles
about. Nor was the madness of it so great as to
the compass, for if it was ten miles about, Iwas
like to have time enough. to do it in; but I did not
consider that my goats would be as wild in so much
compass as if they had had the whole island, and
I should have so much room to chase them in, that
I should never catch them.

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe
about fifty yards, when this thought occurred to
me; so I presently stopped short, and, for the first
beginning, I resolved to enclose a piece of about
150 yards in length, and 100 yards in breadth;
which, as it would maintain as many as I should
have in any reasonable time, so, as my stock in-
creased, I could add more ground to my enclosure.

This was acting with some prudence, and I went
to work with courage. I was about three months
hedging in the first piece; and, till I had done it,
I tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and
used them to feed as near me as possible, to make
them familiar; and very often I would go and carry
them some ears of barley, or a handful of rice, and
feed them out of my hand: so that after my enclo-
sure was finished, and I let them loose, they would
follow me up and down, bleating after me for a
handful of com.

This answered my end; and in about a year and
a half I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids and
all; and in two years more, I had three and forty,
besides several that I took and killed for my food.
After that I enclosed five several pieces of ground
to feed them in, with little pens to drive them into,
to take them as I wanted, and gates out of one piece
of ground into another.

But this was not all; for now I not only had
goat's flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too;
a thing which, indeed, in the beginning, I did not
so much as think of, and which, when it came into
my thoughts, was really an agreeable surprise: for
now I set up my dairy, and had sometimes a gallon
or two of milk in a day. And as nature, who gives
supplies of food to every creature, dictates even
naturally how to make use of it, so I, that had never
milked a cow, much less a goat, or seen butter or
cheese made, only when I was a boy, after a great
many essays and miscarriages, made me both butter
and cheese at last, and also salt (though I found it
partly made to my hand by the heat of the sun upon
some of the rocks of the sea,) and never wanted it
afterwards. How mercifully can our Creator treat
his creatures, even in those conditions in which they
seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction! How
can he sweeten the bitterest providences, and give
us cause to praise him for dungeons and prisons!
What a table was here spread for me in a wilderness,
where I saw nothing, at first, but to perish for
hunger!

It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen
me and my little family sit down to dinner: there
was my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole
island; I had the lives of all my subjects at my
absolute command; Icould hang, draw, give liberty,
and take it away; and no rebels among all my sub-
jects. Then to see how like a king 1 dined too, all
alone, attended by my servants! Pol, as if he had
been my favourite, was the only person permitted
to talk to me. My dog, who was now grown very
old and crazy, and had found no species to multiply
his kind upon, sat always at my right hand; and
two cats, one on one side of the table, and one on
the other, expecting now and then a bit from my
hand, as a mark of special favour.

But these were not the two cats whichl brought
on shore at first, for they were both of them dead,
and had been interred near my habitation by my
own hand; but one of them having multiplied by I
know not what kind of creature, these were two
which I had preserved tame; whereas the rest run
wild in the woods, and became indeed troublesome
to me at last; for they would often come into my
house, and plunder me too, till at last I was obliged
to shoot them, and did kill a great many; at length
they left me.-----With this attendance, and in this

plentiful manner, I lived; neither could I be said
to want any thing but society: and of that, some
time after this, I was like to have too much.

I was something impatient, as I have observed,
to have the use of my boat, though very loth to run
any more hazards; and therefore sometimes I sat
contriving ways to get her about the island, and at
other times I sat myself down contented enough
without her. But I had a strange uneasiness in my
mind to go down to the point of the island, where,
as I have said, in my last ramble, I went up the hill
to see how the shore lay, and how the current set,
that I 111igl1t see what I had to do: this inclination
increased upon me every day, and at length I re-
solved to travel thither by land, following the edge
of the shore. l (lid so; but had anyone in Eng-
land been to meet such a man as I was, it must
either haxe frightened him, or raised a great deal
of laughter: and as l frequentlx stood still to look
at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my
travelling through Yorkshire, with such an equipage,
and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch
of my figure, as follows:

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as well to
keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain off from
running into my neck: nothing being so hurtful in
these climates as the rain upon the flesh, under the

clothes.
I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts

coming down to about the middle of the thighs,
and a pair of open-kneed breeches of the same; the
breeehes were made of the skin of an old he-goat,

u hose hair hungr down such a length on either side,
that, like pantaloons, it reached to the middle of
my legs; stockings and shoes I had none, but had
made me a pair of somethings, I scarce know what
to call them, like buskins, to flap over my legs,
and lace on either side like spatterdashes: but of
a most barbarous shape, as inded were all the rest
of my clothes.

 
 
   
 
 
  

r- )uiui'""""

l
u"!

illlllfy'? '-"

 

l

{all

ll!

\

  

I had on' a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which
I drew together with two thongs of the same, instead-
of buckles; and in a kind of a frog on either side
of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a little
saw and a hatchet; one on one side, and one on
the other. I had another belt, not so broad, and
fastened in the same manner, which hung over my
shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left arm,
hung two pouches, both made of goat's skin too;
in one of which hung my powder, in the other my
shot. At my back I carried my basket, and on my
shoulder my gun; and over my head a great clumsy
ugly goat's skin umbrella, but which, after all, was
the most necessary thing I had about me, next to
my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was really
not so mulatto-like as one might expect from'a man
not at all careful of it, and living within nine or
ten degrees of the equinox. My heard I had once
suffered to grow till it was about a quarter of a
yard long; but as] had both scissars and razors
sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what
grew 011 my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a
large pair of Mahometan whiskers, such as I had
seen worn by some Turks at Sallee; for the Moors
did not wear such, though the Turks did: of these
mustachios or whiskers, I will not say they were long
enough to hang my hat upon them, but they were
of a length and shape monstrous enough, and such
as, in England, would have passed for frightful.
But all this is by the bye; for, as to my figure,
I had so few to observe me that it was of no manner
of consequence; so I say no more to that part. In
this kind of figure I went my new journey, and was
out five or six days. I travelled first along the sea-
shore, directly to the place where I first brought
my boat to an anchor, to get upon the rocks; and
having no boat now to take care of, 'I went over the
land, a nearer way, to the same height that I was upon
before; when looking forward to the point of the
rocks which lay out, and which Iwas obliged to
double with my boat, as is said above, I was sur-
prised to see the sea all smooth and quiet; no rip-
pling, no motion, no current, any more there than
in any other places. I was at a strange loss to un-
derstand this, and resolved to spend some time in
the observing it, to see if nothing from the sets of
the tide had occasioned it; butI was presently con--
vinced how it was, viz. that the tide of ebb setting
from the west, and joining with the current of
waters from some great river on the shore, must
be the occasion of this current; and that according
as the wind blew more forcibly from the west, or
from the north, this current came nearer, or went
farther from the shore; for waiting thereabouts till
evening, I went up to the rock again, and then the
tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current
again as before, only that it ran farther off, being
near half a league from the shore; whereas in my
case, it set close upon the shore, and hurried me
and my canoe along with it; which, at another
time, it would not have done.

This observation convinced me, that I had nothing
to do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of
the tide, and I might very easily bring my boat
about the island again: but when I began to think
of putting it in practice, I had such a terror upon
my spirits at the remembrance of the danger I had
been in, that I could not think of it again with any
patience; but, on the contrary,'I took up another
resolution, which was more safe, though more labo-
rious; and this was, that I would build, or rather
make me another periagua or canoe; and so have
one for one side of the island, and one for the
other. .

You are to understand, that now I had, as I may
call it, two plantations in the island; one, my litile
fortification or tent, with the wall about it, under
the rock, with the cave behind me, which, by this
time, I had enlarged into several apartments or
caves, one within another. One of these, which was
the driest and largest, and had a door out beyond

VOL. 1. s
my wall or fortification, that is to say, beyond
where my wall joined to the rock, was all filled up
with the large earthen pots, of which I have given
an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets,
which would hold five or six bushels each, where I
laid up my stores of provision, especially my corn,
some in the ear, cut off short from the straw, and
the other rubbed out with my hand.

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes

or piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by
this time grown so big, and spread so very much,
that there was not the least appearance, to any one's
view, of any habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther
within the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two
pieces of corn land, which I kept duly cultivated
and sowed, and which duly yielded me their harvest
in its season: and whenever I had occasion for more
corn, I had more land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat; and I had
now a tolerable plantation there also: for, first, I
had my little bower, as I called it, which I kept in
repair; that is to say, I kept the hedge which en-
circled it in constantly fitted up to its usual height,
the ladder standing always in the inside: I kept the
trees, which at first were no more than my stakes,
but were now grown very firm and tall, always cut
so, that they might spread and grow thick and wild,
and make the more agreeable shade; which they
did cfiectually to my mind. In the middle of this
I had my tent always standing, being a piece of a
sail spread over poles, set up for that purpose, and
which never wanted any repair or renewing; and
under this I had made me a squab or couch, with
the skins of the creatures I had killed, and with
other soft things; and a blanket laid on them, such
as belonged to our sea-bedding, which I had saved,
and a great watch-coat to cover me; and here,
whenever I had occasion to be absent from my chief
seat, I took up my country habitation.

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cat-
tle, that is to say, my goats; and as I had taken an
inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose
this ground, I was so anxious to see it kept entire,
lest the goats should break through, thatI never
left off, till, with infinite labour, I had stuck the
outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so
near to one another, that it was rather a pale than a
hedge, and there was scarce room to put a hand
through between them; which afterwards, when
those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy
season, made the enclosure strong like a wall,----in-
deed, stronger than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and
that I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever
appeared necessary for my comfortable support;
for I considered the keeping up a breed of We
creatures thus at my band would be a living maga-
zine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me as
long as I lived in the place, if it were to be forty
years; and that keeping them in my reach depended
entirely upon my perfecting my enclosures to such
a degree, that I might be sure of keeping them to-
gether; which, by this method, indeed, I so effec-
tually secured, that when these little stakes began
to grow, I had planted them so very thick, that I
was forced to pull some of them up again.
In this place also I had my grapes growing, which
I principally depended on for my winter store of
raisins, and which I never failed to preserve very
carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of
my whole diet: and indeed they were not only
agreeable, but medicinal, wholesome, nourishing,
and refreshing to the last degree.

As this was also about half-way between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid up my
boat, I generally stayed and lay here in my way
thither; for I used frequently to visit my boat; and
I kept all things about, or belonging to her, in very
good order: sometimes I went out in her to divert
myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go,
nor scarce ever above a stone's cast or two from the
shore, I was so apprehensive of being hurried out
of my knowledge again by the currents or winds, or
any other accident. But now I come to a new
scene of my life.

It happened one day, about noon, going towards
my boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print
of a man's naked foot on the shore, which was very
plain to be seen in the sand. I stood like one thun-
der-struck, or as if I had seen an apparition; I list-
ened, I looked round me, but I could hear nothing,
nor see any thing; I went up to a rising ground,

to look farther; I went up the shore, and down
the shore, but it was all one; I could see no other
impression but that one. I went to it again to see
if there were any more, and to observe if it might
not be my fancy; but there was no room for that,
for there was exactly the print of a foot, toes, heel,
and every part of a foot: how it came thither I
knew not, nor could I in the least imagine; but,
 

after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man
perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home
to my fortification, not feeling, as we say, the
ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree:
looking behind me at every two or three steps, mis-
taking every bush and tree, and fancying every
stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it possible
to describe how many various shapes my afl'righted
imagination represented things to me in, how many
wild ideas were found every moment in my fancy,
and what strange unaccountable whimsies came into
my thoughts by the way.

When I came to my castle (for so I think I called
it ever after this,) I fled into it like one pursued;
whethcrI went over by the ladder, as first contrived,
or went in at the hole in the rock, which I had
called a door, I cannot remember; no, nor could I
remember the next morning; for never frightened

S 2
hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror
of mind than I to this retreat.

I slept none that night; the farther I was from
the occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehen-
sions were; which is something contrary to the
nature of such things, and especially to the usual
practice of all creatures in fear; but I was so em-
barrassed with my own frightful ideas of the thing,
that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to
myself, even though I was now a great way off it.
Sometimes I fancied it must be the Devil, and reason
joined in with me upon this supposition; for how
should any other thing in human shape come into
the place"! Where was the vessel that brought them"!
What marks were there of any other footsteps"!
And how was it possible a man should come there"!
But then to think that Satan should take human
shape upon him in such a place, where there could
be no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the
print of his foot behind him, and that even for no
purpose too, for he could not be sure I should see
it,--this was an amusement the other way. I con-
sidered that the Devil might have found out abun-
dance of other ways to have terrified me than this
of the single print of a foot; that as I lived quite
on the other side of the island, he would never have .
been so simple as to leave a mark in a place where
it was ten thousand to one whether I should ever
see it or not, and in the sand too, which the first
surge of the sea, upon a high wind, would have de-
faced entirely: all this seemed inconsistent with

the thing itself, and with all the notions we usually
entertain of the subtilty of the Devil.
Abundance of such things as these assisted to
argue me out of all apprehensions of its being the
Devil; and I presently concluded then, that it must
be some more dangerous creature, viz. that it must
be some of the savages of the mainland over against
me, who had wandered out to sea in their canoes,
and either driven by the currents or by contrary
winds, had made the island, and had been on shore,
but were gone away again to sea; being as loth,
perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate island as I
would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my
mind, I was very thankful in my thoughts that I
was so happy as not to be tliereabouts at that time,
or that they did not see my boat, by which they
would have concluded that some inhabitants had
been in the place, and perhaps have searched far-
ther for me: then terrible thoughts racked my
imagination about their having found my boat, and
that there were people here; and that if so,I Ishould
certainly have them come again in greater numbers,
and devour me; that if it bshould happen so that
they should not find me, yet they would find my
enclosure, destroy all my corn, and carry away all
my flock of tame goats, and I should perish at last
for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope, all
that former confidence in God, which was founded
upon such wonderful experience as I had had of
his goodness, as if he that had fed me by miracle
hitherto could not preserve, by his power, the pro-
vision which he had made for me by his goodness.
I reproached myself with my laziness, that would
not sow any more com one year than would just
serve me till the next season, as if no accident
would intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop
that was upon the ground; and this I thought so
just a reproof, that I resolved for the future .to
have two or three years' corn beforehand; so that
whatever might come, I might not perish for want
of bread.

How strange a chequer--work of Providence is
the life of man! and by what secret difl'erent springs
are the affections hurried about, as different cir-
cumstances present! To-day we love what to--mor--
row we hate; to-day we seek what to-morrow we
shun; to-day we desire what to-morrow we fear,
nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of; this was
exemplified in me, at this time, in the most lively
manner imaginable; for I, whose only affliction was
that I seemed banished from human society, that I
was alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean,
cut off from mankind, and condemned to what I
called silent life; that I was as one whom Heaven
thought not worthy to be numbered among the
living, or to appear among the rest of his creatures;
that to have seen one of my own species would
have seemed to me a raising me from death to life,
and the greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next
to the supreme blessing of salvation, could bestow;
I say, that I should now tremble at the very appre-
hensions of seeing a man, and was ready to sink
into the ground at but the shadow or silent appear-
ance of a man's having set his foot in the island.

Such is the uneven state of human life; and it
afforded me a great many curious speculations after-
wards, when I had a little recovered my first sur-
prise. Iconsidered that this was the station of life
the infinitely wise and good providence of God had
determined for me; that as I could not foresee what
the ends of divine wisdom might be in all this, so I
was not to dispute his sovereignty, who, as I was
his creature, had an undoubted right, by creation,
to govern and dispose of me absolutely as he thought
fit; and who, as I was a creature that had offended
him, had likewise a judicial right to condemn me
to what punishment he thought fit; and that it was
my part to submit to hear his indignation, because
I had sinned against him. I then reflected, that as
God, who was not only righteous, but omnipotent,
had thought fit thus to punish and afliict me, so he
was able to deliver me; that if he did not think fit
to do so, it was my unquestioned duty to resign
myself absolutely and entirely to his will; and, on
the other hand, it was my duty also to hope in him,
pray to him, and quietly to attend the dictates and
directions of his daily providence.

These thoughts took me up many hours, days,
nay, I may say, weeks and months; and one parti-
cular effect of my cogitations on this occasion I
cannot omit: One morning early, lying in my bed,
and filled with thoughts about my danger from the
appearances of savages, I found it discomposed me
very much; upon which these words of the Scripture
came into my thoughts, " Call upon me in the day
of trouble, and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt
glorify me." Upon this, rising cheerfully out of
my bed, my heart was not only comforted, but I
was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to
God for deliverance: when I had done praying, I
took up my Bible, and opening it to read, the first
words that presented to me were, " Wait on the
Lord, and be of good cheer, and he shall strengthen
thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lord." It is impossi-
ble to express the comfort this gave me. In answer,
I thankfully laid down the book, and was no more
sad, at least on that occasion.

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions,
and reflections, it came into my thoughts one day,
that all this might be a mere chimera of my own,
and that this foot might be the print of my own
foot, when I came on shore from my boat: this
cheered me up a little too, and I began to persuade
myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing
else but my own foot: and why might I not come
that way from the boat, as well as I was going that
way to the boat? Again, I considered also, thatI
could by no means tell, for certain, where I had
trod, and where I had not; and that if, at last, this
was only the print of my own foot, I had played
the part of those fools who try to make stories of
spectres and apparitions, and then are frightened
at them more than any body.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again, for I had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for pro-
visions; for I had little or nothing within doors but
some barley-cakes and water: then I knew that my
goats wanted to be milked too, which usually was
my evening diversion; and the poor creatures were
in great pain and inconvenience for want of it;
and, indeed, it almost spoiled some of them, and
almost dried up their milk. Encouraging myself,
therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but
the print of one of my own feet, and that I might
be truly said to start at my own shadow, I began to
go abroad again, and went to my country-house to
milk my flock: but to see with what fear I went
forward,- how often I looked behind me, how I was
ready, every now and then, to lay down my basket,
and run for my life, it would have made any one have
thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or
that I had been lately most terribly frightened;
and so, indeed, I had. However, as I went down
thus two or three days, and having seen nothing, I
began to be a little bolder, and to think there was
really nothing in it but my own imagination; but I
could not persuade myself fully of this till I should
go down to the shore again, and see this print of a
foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there
was any similitude or fitness, that I might be assured
it was my own foot: but when I came to the place,
first, it appeared evidently to me, that when I laid
up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore any
where thereabouts: secondly, when I came to mea-
sure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot
not so large by a great deal. Both these things
filled my head with new imaginations, and gave me
the vapours again to the highest degree, so that I
shook with cold like one in an ague; and I went
home again, filled with the belief that some man or
men had been on shore there; or, in short, that the
island was inhabited, and I might be surprised be-
fore I was aware; and what course to take for my
security I knew not.

0 , what ridiculous resolutions men take when
possessed with fear! It deprives them of the use
of those means which reason offers for their relief.
The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw
down my enclosures, and turn all my tame cattle
wild into the woods, lest the enemy should find
them, and then frequent the island in prospect of
the same or the like booty: then to the simple
thing of digging up my two corn fields, lest they
should find such a grain there, and still be prompted
to frequent the island: then to demolish my bower
and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of
habitation, and be prompted to look farther, in
order to find out the persons inhabiting.

These were the subject of the first night's cogita-
taions after I was come home again, while the appre-
hensions which had so over-run my mind were fresh

upon me, and my head was full of vapours, as above.
Thus fear of danger is ten thousand times more
terrifying than danger itself, when apparent to the
eyes; and we find the burthen of anxiety greater,
by much, than the evil which we are anxious about:
and, which was worse than all this, I had not that
relief in this trouble from the resignation I used to
practise, that I hoped to have. I looked,I thought,
like Saul, who complained not only that the Philis.

tines were upon him, but that God had forsaken
him; for I did not now take due ways to compose
my mind, by crying to God in my distress, and rest-
ing upon his providence, as I had done before, for
my defence and deliverance; which, if I had done,
I had at least been more cheerfully supported under
this new surprise, and perhaps carried through it
with more resolution.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me awake
all night; but in the morning I fell asleep; and
having, by the amusement of my mind, been, as it
were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very
soundly, and waked much better composed than I
had ever been before. And now I began to think
sedately; and, upon the utmost debate with myself,
I concluded that this island, which was so exceed-
ing pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from the main
land than as I had seen, was not so entirely aban-
doned as I might imagine; that although there were
no stated inhabitants who lived on the spot, yet that
there might sometimes come boats off from the
shore, who, either with design, or perhaps never
but when they were driven by cross winds, might

come to this place; that] had lived here fifteen

years now, and had not met with the least shadow
or figure of any peOple yet; and that if at any time
they should be driven here, it was probable they
went away again as soon as ever they could, seeing
they had never thought fit to fix here upon any
occasion; that the most I could suggest any danger
from, was from any casual accidental landing of
straggling people from the main, who, as it was
likely, if they were driven hither, were here against
their wills, so they made no stay here, but went off
again with all possible speed; seldom staying one
night on shore, lest they should not have the help
of the tides and daylight back again; and that,
therefore, I had nothing to do but to consider of
some safe retreat, in case I should see any savages
land upon the spot.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my
cave so large as to bring a door through again,

VOL I. T
which door, as I said, came out beyond where my
fortification joined to the rock: upon maturely con-
sidering this, therefore, I resolved to draw me a
second fortification, in the same manner of a semi-
circle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had
planted a double row of trees about twelve years
before, of whichl made mention: these trees having

beemplantedjo thick before, they wanted but few
piles to be driven between them, that they might be

thicker and stronger, and my wall would be soon
finished: so that. I had now a double wall; and my
outer wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old
cables, and every thing I could think of, to make it
strong; having in it seven little holes, about as big
as I might put my arm out at. In the inside of
this, I thickened my wall to about ten feet thick,
with continually bringing earth out of my cave, and
laying it at the foot of the wall, and walking upon
it; and through the seven holes I contrived to plant
the muskets, of which I took notice that I had got
seven on shore out of the ship; these I planted like
my cannon, and fitted them into frames, that held
them like a carriage, so that I could fire all the
seven guns in two minutes' time: this wall I was
many a weary month in finishing, and yet never
thought myself safe till it was done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground with-
out my wall, for a great length every way, as full
with stakes, or sticks, of the osier--like wood, which
I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand;
insomuch, that I believe I might set in near twenty

thousand of them, leaving a pretty large space be-
tween them and my wall, that I might have room
to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter
from the young trees, if they attempted to approach
my outer wall.

Thus, in two years' time, I had a thick grove;
and in five or six years' time I had a wood before
my dwelling, growing so monstrous thick and strong,
that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no
men, of what kind soever, would ever imagine that
there was any thing beyond it, much less a habita-
tion. As for the way which I proposed to myself
to go in and out (for I left no avenue,) it was by
setting two ladders, one to a part .of the rock which

was low, and then broke in, and left room to place
another ladder upon that; so when the two ladders
were taken down, no man living could come down
to me without doing himself mischief; and if they
had come down, they were still on the outside of

my outer wall.
Thus I took all the measures human prudence

could suggest for my own preservation; and it will
be seen, at length, that they were not altogether
without just reason; though I foresaw nothing
at that time nore than my mere fear suggested to
me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether care-
less of my other affairs; for I had a great concern
upon me for my little herd of goats; they were not
only a ready supply to me on every occasion, and
began to be sufficient for me, without the expense
of powder and shot, but also without the fatigue of
hunting after the wild ones; and I was loth to lose
the advantage of them, and to have them all to

nurse up over again.
For this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think of but two ways to preserve them: one was,
to find another convenient place to dig a cave under
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and
the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of
land, remote from one another, and as much con-
cealed as I could, where I might keep about half a
dozen young goats in each place; so that if any
disaster happened to the flock in general, I might
be able to raise them again with little trouble and
time: and this, though it would require a great
deal of time and labour, I thought was the most
rational design.

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the
most retired parts of the island; and I pitched
upon one, which was as private, indeed, as my
heart could wish for: it was a little damp piece of
ground, in the middle of the hollow and thick
woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost myself
once before, endeavouring to come back that way
from the eastern part of the island. Here I found
a clear piece of land, near three acres, so sur-
rounded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure
by nature; at least, it did not want near so much
labour to make it so as the other pieces of ground
I had worked so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this piece of
ground, and in less than a month's time I had so
fenced it round, that my flock, or herd, call it
which you please, who were not so wild now as at
first they might be supposed to he, were well enough
secured in it: so, without any farther delay, I re-
moved ten young she--goats and two he-goats to this.rmv,

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 209

piece; and when they were there, I continued to
perfect the fence, till I had made it as secure as the
other; which, however, I did at more leisure, and
it took me up more time by a great deal. All this
labour I was at the expense of, purely from my ap-
prehensions on the account of the print of a man's
foot which I had seen; for, as yet, I never saw any
human creature come near the island; and I had
now lived two years under this uneasiness, which,
indeed, made my life much less comfortable than it
was before, as may be well imagined by any who
know what it is to live in the constant snare of the
fear of man. And this Imust observe, with grief
too, that the discomposure of my mind had too
great impressions also upon the religious part of my
thoughts: for the dread and terror of falling into
the hands of savages and cannibals lay so upon my
spirits, that I seldom found myself in a due temper
for application to my Maker, at least not with the
sedate calmness and resignation of soul which I was
wont to do: I rather prayed to God as under great
affliction and pressure of mind, surrounded with
danger, and in expectation every night of being
murdered and devoured before morning; and I
must testify from my experience, that a temper of
peace, thankfulness, love, and affection, is much the
more proper frame for prayer than that of terror
and discomposure; and that under the dread of
mischief impending, a man is no more fit for a com-
forting performance of the duty of praying to God,
than he is for a repentance on a sick bed; for these
discomposures affect the mind, as the others do the
body; and the discomposure of the mind must
T 2
necessarily be as great a disability as that of the
body, and much greater; praying to God being
properly an act of the mind, not of the body.

But to go on: after I had thus secured one part
of my little living stock, I went about the whole
island, searching for another private place to make
such another deposit; when, wandering more to the
west point of the island than I had ever done yet,
and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat upon
the sea, at a great distance. I had found a perspec-
tive-glass or two in one of the seamen's chests,
which I saved out of our ship, but I had it not about
me; and this was so remote, that I could not tell
what to make of it, though I looked at it till my
eyes were not able to hold to look any longer:
whether it was a boat or not, I do not know, but as
I descended from the hill I could see no more of it;
so I gave it over; only I resolved to go no more out
without a perspective-glass in my pocket. When I
was come down the hill to the end of the island,
where, indeed, I had never been before, I was pre-
sently convinced that the seeing the print of a man's
foot was not such a strange thing in the island as I
imagined: and, but that it was a special providence
that l was cast upon the side of the island where
the savages never came, I should easily have known
that nothing was more frequent than for the canoes
from the main, when they happened to be a little
too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the
island for harbour: likewise, as they often met and
fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken any
prisoners, would bring them over to this shore,
where, according to their dreadful customs, being|
r
i
l
r
i
l

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 211

all cannibals, they would kill and eat them; of
which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I
said above, being the S.W. point of the island, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed -; nor is it possible
for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing
the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other
bones of human bodies; and particularly, I ob-
served a place where there had been a fire made,
and a circle dug in the earth, like a cock-pit, where
I supposed the savage wretches had sat down to
their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of their

fellow creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notions of any danger to my-
self from it for a long while: all my apprehensions
were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of in-
human, hellish brutality, and the horror of the
degeneracy of human nature, which, though I had
heard of it often, yet I never had so near a view of
before: in short, I turned away my face from the
horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick, and I was

just at the point of fainting, when nature discharged

the disorder from my stomach; and having vomited
with uncommon violence, I was a little relieved,
but could not bear to stay in the place a moment;
so I got me up the hill again with all the speed I
could, and walked on towards my own habitation.
When I came a little out of that part of the
island, I stood still awhile, as amazed, and then re-
covering myself, I looked up with the utmost affec-
tion of my soul, and, with a flood of tears in my
eyes, gave God thanks, that had cast my first lot in
a part of the world where I was distinguished from
such dreadful creatures as these; and that, though
I had esteemed my present condition very miserable,
had yet given me so many comforts in it, that I
had still more to give thanks for than to complain
of: and this, above all, that I had, even in this
miserable condition, been comforted with the know-
ledge of Himself, and the hope of His blessing;
which was a felicity more than sufliciently equiva-
lent to all the misery which I had suffered, or could
suffer.

In this frame of thankfnlness, I went home to my
castle, and began to be mach easier now, as to the
safety of my circumstances, than ever I was before:
for I observed that these wretches never came to
this island in search of what they could get; per-
haps not seeking, not wanting, or not expecting,
any thing here; and having often, no doubt, been
up in the covered, woody part of it, without finding
any thing to their purpose. I knew I had been here
now almost eighteen years, and never saw the least
footsteps of human creature there before; and I
might be eighteen years more as entirely concealed
as I was now, if I did not discover myself to them,
which I had no manner of occasion to do; it being
my only business to keep myself entirely concealed
where I was, unless I found a better sort of crea-
tures than cannibals to make myself known to.

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and
eating one another up, that I continued pensive and
sad, and kept close within my own circle, for almost
two years after this; when I say my own circle, I
mean by it my three plantations, viz. my castle, my
country-seat, which I called my bower, and my en-
closure in the woods: nor did I look after this for
any other use than as an enclosure for my goats;
for the aversion which nature gave me to these
hellish wretches was such, that I was as fearful of
seeing them as of seeing the Devil himself. I did
not so much as go to look after my boat all this
time, but began rather to think of making me
another; for I could not think of ever making any
more attempts to bring the other boat round the
island to me, lest I should meet with some of these
creatures at sea; in which if I had happened to
have fallen into their hands, I knew what would
have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I
was in no danger of being discovered by these.peo-

ple, began to wear ofl' my uneasiness about them;
and I began to live just in the same composed man-

ner as before; only with this difference, thatl used
more caution, and kept my eyes more about me,
than I did before, lest I should happen to be seen
by any of them; and particularly, I was more can-
tious of firing my gun, lest any of them being on
the island should happen to hear it. It was there-

fore a very good providence to me that I had fur-
nished myself with a tame breed of goats, and that

I had no need to hunt any more about the woods,
or shoot at them; and if I did catch any of them
after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had done
before: so that for two years after this, I believe I
never fired my gun once off, though I never went
out without it; and, which was more, as I had
saved three pistols out of the ship, I always carried
them out with me, or at least two of them, sticking
them in my goat-skin belt. I also furbished up
one of the great cutlasses that I had out of the ship,
and made me a belt to hang it on also; so thatl
was now a most formidable fellow to look at when
I went abroad, if you add to the former description
of myself, the particular of two pistols, and a great
broad-sword hanging at my side in a belt, but with-
out a scabbard.

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some
time, I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be re-
duced to my former calm sedate way of living. All
these things tended to show me, more and more,
how far my condition was from being miserable,
compared to some others; nay, to many other par-
ticulars of life, which it might have pleased God to
have made my lot. It put me upon reflecting how
little repining there would be among mankind at
any condition of life, if people would rather com-
pare their condition with those that were worse, in
order to be thankful, than be always comparing
them with those which are better, to assist their
murmurings and complainings.

As in my present condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, so, indeed, I thought
that the frightsl had been in about these savage
wretches, and the concern I had been in for my
own preservation, had taken off the edge of my
invention for my own conveniences; and I had
dropped a good design, which I had once bent my
thoughts too much upon, and that was, to try if I
could not make some of my barley into malt, and
then try to brew myself some beer. This was really
a whimsical thought, and I reproved myself often
for the simplicity of it; for] presently saw there
would be the want of several things necessary to
the making my beer, that it would be impossible
for me to supply: as, first, casks to preserve it in,
which was a thing that, as I have observed already,
I could never compass; no, though I spent not only
many days, but weeks, nay, months, in attempting
it, but to no purpose. In the next place, I had no
hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it work, no
copper or kettle to make it boil; and yet, with all
these things wanting, I verily believe, had not the
frights and terrors I was in about the savages inter-
vened, I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it
to pass too; for I seldom gave any thing over with-
out accomplishing it, when once I had it in my
head to begin it. But my invention now ran quite
another way; for, night and day, I could think of
nothing but how I might destroy some of these
monsters in their cruel, bloody entertainment, and,
if possible, save the victim they should bring hither
to destroy. It would take up a larger volume than
this whole work is intended to be, to set down all
the contrivances I hatched, or rather brooded upon,
in my thoughts, for the destroying these creatures,
or at least frightening them so as to prevent their
coming hither any more: but all this was abortive;
nothing could be possible to take effect, unless I
was to be there to do it myself: and what could one
man do among them, when perhaps there might be
twenty or thirty of them together, with their darts,
or their bows and arrows, with which they could
shoot as true to a mark as I could with my gun?
Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the
place where they made their fire, and putting in
five or six pounds of gunpowder, which, when they
kindled their fire, would consequently take fire,
and blow up all that was near it: but as, in the first
place, I should be unwilling to waste so much
powder upon them, my store being now within the
quantity of one barrel, so neither could I be sure
of its going off at any certain time, when it might
surprise them; and, at best, that it would do little
more than just blow the fire about their ears, and
fright them, but not sufficient to make them forsake
the place: 501 laid it aside; and then proposed
that I would place myself in ambush in some con-
venient place, with my three guns all double-loaded,
and, in the middle of their bloody ceremony, let
fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound
perhaps two or three at every shot; and then falling
in upon them with my three pistols, and my sword,
I made no doubt but that if there were twenty I
should kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts
for some weeks; and I was so full of it, that I often
dreamed of it, and sometimes that I was just going
to let fly at them in my sleep. I went so far with
it in my imagination, that I employed myself several
days to find out proper places to put myself in
ambuscade, as I said, to watch for them; and I
went frequently to the place itself, which was now
grown more familiar to me: but while my mind was
thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and a bloody
putting twenty or thirty of them to the sword, as l
may call it, the horror I had at the place, and at
the signals of the barbarous wretches devouring
one another, abetted my malice. Well, at length,
I found a place in the side of the hill, where I was
satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any of their
boats coming: and might then, even before they
would be ready to come on shore, convey myself,
unseen, into some thickets of trees, in one of which
there was a hollow large enough to conceal me en-
tirely; and there I might sit and observe all their
bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads,
when they were so close together as that it would
be next to impossible that I should miss my shot,
or that I could fail wounding three or four of them
at the first shot. In this place, then,-I resolved to
fix my design; and, accordingly, I prepared two
muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two
musketsj loaded with a brace of slugs each, and
four or five smaller bullets, about the size of pistol-
bullets; and the fowling-piece I loaded with near a
handful of swan-shot, of the largest size: I also
loaded my pistols with about four bullets each; and
in this posture, well provided with ammunition for
a second and third charge, Iprepared myself for
my expedition.

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design,
and, in my imagination, put it in practice, I conti-
nually made my tour every morning up to the top
of the hill, which was from my castle, as I called it,
about three miles, or more, to see if I could observe
any boats upon the sea, coming near the island, or
standing over towards it: but I began to tire of
this hard duty, after I had, for two or three months,

VOL. I. U .
constantly kept my watch, but came. always back
without any discovery; there having not, in all that
time, been the least appearance, not only on or
near the shore, but on the whole ocean, so far as
my eyes or glasses could reach every way.

As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look
out, so long also I kept up the vigour of my design,
and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suit-
able form for so outrageous an execution as the
killing twenty or thirty naked savages, for an offence
which I had not at all entered into a discussion of
in my thoughts, any farther than my passions were
at. first tired by the horror I conceived at the un-
natural custom of the people of that country; who,
it seems, had been suffered by Providence, in his
wise disposition of the world, to have no other guide
than that of their own abominable and vitiated pas-
sions; and, consequently, were left, and perhaps
had been so for some ages, to act such horrid things,
and receive such dreadful customs, as nothing but
nature, entirely abandoned by Heaven, and actuated
by some hellish degeneracy, could have run them
into. But now, when, as I have said, I began to be
weary of the fruitless excursion which I had made
so long and so far every morning in vain, so my
opinion of the action itself began to alter; and!
began, with cooler and calmer thoughts, to consider
what 1 was going to engage in; what authority or
call 1 bad to pretend to be judge and executioner
upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had
thought lit, for so many ages, to suffer, unpunished,
to go on, and to he, as it were, the executioners of
his judgments one upon another. How far these
people were offenders against me, and what right I
had to engage in the quarrel of that blood which
they shed promiscuously upon one another, I debated
this very often with myself, thus: How do I know
what God himself judges in this particular case?
It is certain these people do not commit this as a
crime; it is not against their own consciences re-
proving, or their light reproaching them; they do
not know it to be an offence, and then commit it in
defiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all
the sins we commit. They think it no more a crime
to kill a captive taken in war, than we do to kill an
OK ; nor to eat human flesh, than we do to eat mut-
ton.

When I considered this a little, it followed neces-
sarily that I was certainly in the wrong in it; that
these people were not murderers in the sense that I
had before condemned them in my thoughts, any
more than those Christians were murderers who
often put to death the prisoners taken in battle; or
more frequently, upon many occasions, put whole
tr00ps of men to the sword, without giving quarter,
though they threw down their arms and submitted.
In the next place, it occurred to me, that although
the usage they gave one another was thus brutish
and inhuman, ret it was really nothing to me; these
people had done me no injury: that if they at-
tempted me, or I saw it necessary, for my immediate
preservation, to fall upon them, something might be
said for it; but that I was yet out of their power,
and they really had no knowledge of me, and con-
sequently no design upon me; and therefore it could
not be just for me to fall upon them: that this would
justify the conduct of the Spaniards in all their
barbarities practised in America, where they de-
stioyed millions of these people: who, however
they were idolaters and barbarians, and had several
bloody and barbarous rites in their customs, such as

sacrificing human bodies to their idols, were yet, as

to the Spaniards, very innocent people; and that
the rooting them out of the country is spoken of
with the utmost abhorrence and detestation by
even the Spaniards themselves at this time, and
by all other Christian nations in Europe, as a mere
butchery, a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty,
unjustifiable either to God or man; and for which
the very name of a Spaniard is reckoned to be
frightful and terrible to all people of humanity, or
of Christian compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain
were particularly eminent for the produce of a race
of men who were without principles of tenderness,
or the common bowels of pity to the miserable,
which is reckoned to be a mark of generous temper
in the mind.

These considerations really put me to a pause,
and to a kind of a full stop; and I began, by little
and little, to be off my design, and to concludel
had taken wrong measures in my resolution to at-
tack the savages; and that it was not my business
to meddle with them, unless they first attacked me;
and this it was my business, if possible, to prevent;
but that if I were discovered and attacked by them,
I knew my duty. On the other hand, I argued with
myself, that this really was the way not to deliver
myself, but entirely to ruin and destroy myself; for
unless I was sure to kill every one that not only
should be on shore at that time, but that should
ever come on shore afterwards, if but one of them
escaped to tell their country--people what had hap-
pened, they would come over again by thousands to
revenge the death of their fellows, and I should only
bring upon myself a certain destruction, which, at
present, I had no manner of occasion for. Upon
the whole, I concluded, that neither in principle
nor in policy, I ought, one way or other, to concern
myself in this affair: that my business was, by all
possible means, to conceal myself from them, and
not to leave the least signal to them to guess by
that there were any living creatures upon the island,
I mean of human shape. Religion joined in with
this prudential resolution; and I was convinced now,
many ways, that I was perfectly out of my duty
when I was laying all my bloody schemes for the
destruction of innocent creatures, I mean innocent
as to me. As to the crimes they were guilty of
towards one another, I had nothing to do with them;
they were national, and I ought to leave them to
the justice of God, who is the governor of nations,
and knows how, by national punishments, to make
a just retribution for national offences, and to bring
public judgments upon those who ofl'end in a public
manner, by such ways as best please him. This
appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a
greater satisfaction to me than that I had not been
suffered to do a thing which I now saw so much
reason to believe would have been no less a sin than
that of wilful murder, if I had committed it; and
I gave most humble thanks on my knees to God,
that had thus delivered me from blood-guiltiness;
l? 2
heseeehing him to grant me the protection of his
providence, that I might not fall into the hands of
the barbarians, or that I might not lay my hands

upon them, unless I had a more clear call from
Heaven to do it, in defence of my own life.

In this disposition I continued for near a year
after this; and so far was I from desiring an occasion
for falling upon these wretches, that in all that time
I never once went up the hill to see whether there
were any of them in sight, or to know whether any
of them had been on shore there or not, that I might
not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances
against them, or be provoked, by any advantage
which might present itself, to fall upon them: only
this I did, I went and removed my boat, which I
had on the other side of the island, and carried it
down to the east end of the. whole island, where I
ran it into a little cove, which I found under some
high rocks, and where I knew, by reason of the
currents, the savages durst not, at least would not
come, with their boats, upon any account whatever.
With my boat I carried away every thing that I had
left there belonging to her, though not necessary
for the bare going thither, viz. a mast and sail which
I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but
which, indeed, could not be called either anchor or
grapnel; however, it was the best I could make of
its kind: all these I removed, that there might not
he the least shadow of any discovery, or any ap-
pearance of any boat, or of any human habitation,
upon the island. Besides this, I kept myself, as I
said, more retired than ever, and seldom went from
my cell, other than upon my constant employment,
viz. to milk my she-goats, and manage my little
flock in the wood, which, as it was quite on the
other part of the island, was quite out of danger;
for certain it is, that these savage people, who
sometimes haunted this island, never came with
any thoughts of finding any thing here, and conse-
quently never wandered off from the coast; and I
doubt not but they might have been several times
on shore after my apprehensions of them had made
me cautious, as well as before. Indeed, I looked
back with some horror upon the thoughts of what.
my condition would have been if I had chopped
upon'them and been discovered before that, when,
naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and that
loaded often only with small shot, I walked every
where, peeping and peering about the island to see
what I could get; what a surprise should I have
been in, if, when I discovered the print. of a man's
foot, I had, instead of that, seen fifteen or twenty
savages, and found them pursuing me, and by the
swiftness of their running, no possibility of my es-
caping them! The thoughts of this sometimes sunk
my very soul within me, and distressed my mind so
much, that I could not soon recover it, to think
what I should have done, and how I should not
only have been unable to resist them, but even
should not have had presence of mind enough to
do what I might have done; much less what now,
after so much consideration and preparation, I might
be able to do. Indeed, after serious thinking of
these things, I would be very melancholy, and some-
times it would last a great while; but I resolved it
all, 'at last, into thankfulness to that Providence
which had delivered me from so many unseen dan-
gers, and had kept from me those mischiefs which
I could have no way been the agent in delivering
myself from, because I had not the least notion of
any such thing depending, or the least supposition
of its being possible. This renewed a contempla-
tion which often had come to my thoughts in former
time, when first I began to see the merciful dispo-
sitions of Heaven, in the dangers we run through
in this life; how wonderfully we are delivered when
we know nothing of it; how, when we are in a
quandary, (as we call it) a doubt or hesitation,
whether to go this way, or that way, a secret hint
shall direct us this way, when we intended to go
that way: nay, when sense, our own inclination, and
perhaps business, has called to go the other way,
yet a strange impression upon the mind, from 'we
know not what springs, and by we know not what
power, shall over-rule us to go this way; and it shall
afterwards appear, that had we gone that way
which we should have gone, and even to our imagi-
nation ought to have gone, we should have been
ruined and lost. Upon these, and many like reflec-
tions, I afterwards made it a certain rule with me,
that whenever I found those secret hints or pressings
of mind, to doing or not doing any thing that pre-
sented, or going this way or that way, I never failed
to obey the secret dictate; though I knew no other
reason for it than that such a pressure, or such a
hint, hung upon my mind. I could give many ex-
amples of the success of this conduct in the course
of my life, but more especially in the latter part of
my inhabiting this unhappy island; besides many
occasions which it is very likely I might have taken
notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then
that I see with now. But it is never too late to be
wise; and I cannot but advise all considering men,
whose lives are attended with such extraordinary
incidents as mine, or even though not so extraordL
nary, not to slight such secret intimations of Provi-
dence, let them come from what invisible intelli-
gence they will. That I shall not discuss, and per-
haps cannot account for; but certainly they are a
proof of the converse of spirits, and a secret com-
munication between those embodied and those un-
embodied, and such a proof as can never be with-
stood; of which I shall have occasion to give some
very remarkable instances in the remainder of my
solitary residence in this dismal place.

I believe the reader of this will not think it
strange if I confess that these anxieties, these con-
stant dangers I lived in, and the concern that was
now upon me, put an end to all invention, and to
all the contrivances thatI had laid for my future
accommodations and conveniences. I had the care
of my safety more now upon my hands than that of
my food. I cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick
of wood now, for fear the noise I might make should
be heard: much less would I fire a gun, for the
same reason: and, above all, I was intolerably un-
easy at making any fire, lest the smoke, which is
visible at a great distance in the day, should betray
me. For this reason I removed that part of my
business which required fire, such as burning of
pots and pipes, &c. into my new apartment in the
woods; where, after I had been some time, I found,
to my unspeakable consolation, a mere natural cave
in the earth, which went in a vast way, and where,
I dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth of
it, would be so hardy as to venture in; nor, indeed,
would any man else, but one who, like me, wanted
nothing so much as a safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where by mere accident (I would say, if
I did not see abundant reason to ascribe all such
things now to Providence,) I was cutting down some
thick branches of trees to make charcoal; and before
I go on, I must observe the reason of my making
this charcoal, which was thus: I was afraid of mak-
ing a smoke about my habitation, as I said before;
and yet I could not live there without baking my
bread, cooking my meat, &c.; so I contrived to
burn some wood here, as I had seen done in England,
under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal: and
then putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to
carry home, and perform the other services for which
fire was wanting, without danger of smoke. But this
is by the by:-----While I was cutting down some
wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
branch of low brush-wood, or under-wood, there
was a kind of hollow place: I was curious to look
in it, and getting with difficulty into the mouth
of it, I found it was pretty large: that is to say,
sufiicient for me to stand upright in it, and perhaps
another with me: but I must confess to you that I
made more haste out than I did in, when, looking
farther into the place, and which was perfectly dark,
I saw two broad shining eyes of some creature,
whether devil or man I knew not, which twinkled
like two stars; the dim light from the cave's mouth
shining directly in, and making the reflection.

. However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and
' began to call myself a thousand fools, and to think,

that he that was afraid to see the devil was not fit
to live twenty years in an island all alone; and that
I might well think there was nothing in this cave
that was more frightful than myself. Upo'ir this,
plucking up my courage, I took up a firebrand, and
in I rushed again, with the stick flaming in my
hand: I had not gone three steps in, but I was
almost as much frightened as I was before; forI
heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in some
pain, and it was followed by a broken noise, as of
words half-expressed, and then a deep sigh again.
I stepped back, and was indeed struck with such a
surprise, that it put me into a cold sweat; and if I
had had a hat on my head, I will not answer for it,
that my hair might not have lifted it off. But still
plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and
encouraging myself a little with considering that
the power and presence of God was every where,
and was able to protect me, upon this I stepped
forward again, and by the light of the firebrand,
holding it up a little over my head, I saw lying on
the ground a most monstrous, frightful, old he--goat,
just making his will, as we say, and gasping for
life; and dying, indeed, of mere old age. Istirred
him a little to see if I could get him out, and he

essayed to get up, but was not able to raise himself;
and I thought with myself he might even lie there;
for if he had frightened me, so he would certainly
fright any of the savages, if any one of them should
be so hardy as to come in there while he had any
life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began
to look round me, when I found the cave was but
very small, that is to say, it might be about twelve
feet over, but in no manner of shape, neither round
nor sqgare, no hands having ever been employed in
making it but those of mere Nature. I observed
also that there was a place at the farther side of it
that went in further, but was so low-that it required
me to creep upon my hands and knees to go into it,
and whither it wentI knew not: so having no candle,
I gave it over for that time; but resolved to come
again the next day, provided with candles and a
tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of one of
the muskets, with some wild fire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with
six large candles of my own making (for I made
very good candles now of goats' tallow, but was
hard set for candle--wick, using sometimes rags or
rope-yarn, and sometimes the dried rind of a weed
like nettles;) and going into this low place, I was
obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have said,
almost ten yards; which, by the way, I thought
was a venture bold enough, considering that I knew
not how far it might go, nor what was beyond it.
When I had got through the strait, I found the roof
rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but never
was such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare
say, as it was, to look round the sides and roof of
this vault or cave; the wall reflected an hundred
thousand lights to me from my two candles. What
it was in the rock, whether diamonds, or any other
precious stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it
to be, I knew not. The place I was in was a most
delightful cavity or grotto of its kind, as could be
expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry
and level, and had a sort of a small loose gravel upon
it, so that there was no nauseous or venomous crea-
ture to be seen, neither was there any damp or wet
on the sides or roof: the only ditficulty in it was the
entrance; which, however, as it was a place of secu-
rity, and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought that
was a convenience; so that I was really rejoiced at
the discovery, and resolved, without any delay,
to bring some of those things which I was most
anxious about to this place; particularly, I resolved
to bring hither my magazine of powder, and all my
spare arms, viz. two fowling--pieces, for I had three
in all, and three muskets, for of them I had eight
in all: so I kept at my castle only five, which stood
ready-mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my out-
most fence; and were ready also to take out upon
any expedition. Upon this occasion of removing
my ammunition, I happened to open the barrel of
powder, which I took up out of the sea, and which
had been wet; and I found that the water had
penetrated about three or four inches into the pow--
der on every side, which, caking, and growing hard,
had preserved the inside like a kernel in the shell;
so that I had near sixty pounds of very good pow-
der in the centre of the cask: this was a very
agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I carried
all away thither, never keeping above two or three
pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear of
VOL. I. xa surprise of any kind: I also carried thither all the
lead I had left for bullets.

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient
giants, which were said to live in caves and holes in
the rocks, where none could come at them; for I
persuaded myself, while I was here, that if five hun-
dred savages were to hunt me, they could never find
me out; or, if they did, they would not venture to
attack me here. The old goat, whom I found expir-
ing, died in the mouth of the cave the next day after
I made this discovery: and I found it much easier
to disr a great hole there, and throw him in and
cover him with earth, than to drag him out; so I
interred him there, to prevent offence to my nose.

I was now in the twenty-third year of my resi-
dence in this island; and was so naturalized to the
place, and the manner of living, that could I have
but enjoyed the certainty that no savages would
come to the place to disturb me, I could have been
content to have capitulated for spending the rest of
my time there, even to the last moment, till I had
laid me down and died, like the old goat in the

cave. I had also arrived to some little diversions
and amusements, which made the time pass a great

deal more pleasantly with me than it did before:
as, first, I had taught my Pol, as I noted before, to
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so
articulately and plain, that it was very pleasant to
me; for I believe no bird ever spoke plainer; and
he lived with me no less than six and twenty years:
how long he might have lived afterwards I know
not, though I know they have a notion in the Brazils
that they live a hundred years. My dog was a very
pleasant and loving companion to me for no less
than sixteen years of my time, and then died of
mere old age. As for my cats, they multiplied, as
I have observed, to that degree, that I was obliged
to shoot several of them at first, to keep them from
devouring me and all I had; but, at length, when
the two old ones I brought with me were gone, and
after some time continually driving them from me,
and letting them have no provision with me, they
all ran wild into the woods, except two or three
favourites, which I kept tame, and whose young,
when they had any, I always drowned; and these
were part of my family. Besides these, I always
kept two or three household kids about me, whom
I taught to feed out of my hand; and I had two
more parrots, which talked pretty well, and would
all call Robin Crusoe, but none like my first; nor,
indeed, did I take the pains with any of them thatI
had done with him. I had also several tame sea-
fowls, whose names I knew not, that I caught upon
the shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes
which I had planted before my castle wall being
now grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls
all lived among these low trees, and bred there,
which was very agreeable to me; so that, as I said
above, I began to be very well contented with the
life I led, if I could have been secured from the
dread of the savages. But it was otherwise directed;
and it may not be amiss for all people who shall
meet with my story, to make this just observation
from it, viz. How frequently, in the course of our
lives, the evil which in itself we seek most to shun,
and which, when we are fallen into, is the most
dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door
of our deliverance, by which alone we can be raised
again from the affliction we are fallen into. I could
give many examples of this in the course of my
unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more par-
ticularly remarkable than in the circumstances of
my last years of solitary residence in this island.

It was now the month of December, as I said
above, in my twenty-third year; and this, being the
southern solstice (for winter I cannot call it,) was
the particular time of my harvest, and required my
being pretty much abroad in the fields: when going
out pretty early in the morning, even before it was
thorough daylight, I was surprised with seeing a
light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from
me of about two miles, towards the end of the island
where I had observed some savages had been, as
before, and not on the other side; but, to my great
afiliction, it was on my side of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stopped short within my grove, not daring to go
out, lost I might be surprised, and yet I had no more
peace within, from the apprehensions I had that if
these savages, in rambling over the island, should
find my corn standing or cut, or any of my works
and improvements, they would immediately con-
clude that there were people in the place, and would
then never give over till they had found me out.
In this extremity, I went back directly to my castle,
pulled up the ladder after me, and made all things
without look as wild and natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself
in a posture of defence: I loaded all my cannon,
as I called them, that is to say, my muskets, which
were mounted upon my new fortification, and all
my pistols, and resolved to defend myself to the
last gasp; not forgetting seriously to commend my-
self to the divine protection, and earnestly to pray
to God to deliver me out of the hands of the bar-
barians. I continued in this posture about two
hours; and began to be mighty impatient for intel-
ligence abroad, for I had no spies to send out.
After sitting awhile longer, and musing what I
should do in this, I was not able to bear sitting in
ignorance any longer; so setting up my ladder to
the side of the hill, where there was a flat place,
as I Observed before, and then pulling the ladder
up after me, I set it up again, and mounted to the
top of the hill; and pulling out my perspective-
glass, which I had taken on purpose, I laid me down
flat on my belly on the ground, and began to look
for the place. I presently found there were no less
than nine naked savages, sitting round a small fire
they had made, not to warm them, for they had no
need of that, the weather being extremely hot, but,
as I supposed, to dress some of their barbarous
diet of human flesh, which they had brought with
them, whether alive or dead, I could not tell.

They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up upon the shore; and as it was then tide
of ebb, they seemed to me to wait for the return of
the flood to go away again. It is not easy to ima-
gine what confusion this sight put me into, espe---
cially seeing them come on my side of the island,
and so near me too; but when I considered their

X 2
coming must be always with the current of the ebb,
I began, afterwards, to be more sedate in my mind,
being satisfied that I might go abroad with safety
all the time of the tide of flood, if they were not
on shore before: and having made this observation,
I went abroad about my harvest-work with the
more composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the
tide made to the westward, I saw them all take
boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it) away. I
should have observed, that for an hour or more
before they went off, they went a dancing; and I
could easily discern their postures and gestures by
my glass. I could not perceive, by my nicest ob-
servation, but that they were stark naked, and had
not the least covering upon them; but whether
they were men or women, I could not distinguish.

As soon as I saw them. shipped and gone, I took
two guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols in my
girdle, and my great sword by my side, without a
scabbard, and with all the speed I was able to make,
went away to the hill where I had discovered the
first appearance of all; and as soon as I got thither,
which was not in less than two hours (for I could
not go apace, being so loaden with arms as I was,)
I perceived there had been three canoes more of
savages at that place; and looking out farther, I
saw they were all at sea together, making over for
the main. This was a dreadful sight to me, espe-
cially as, going down to the shore, I could see the
marks of horror, which the dismal work they had
been about had left behind it, viz. the blood, the
bones, and part of the flesh, of human bodies,
eaten and devoured by those wretches with merri-
ment and sport.- I was so filled with indignation
at the sight, that I now began to premeditate the
destruction of the next that I saw there, let them
be whom or how many soever. It seemed evident
to me that the visits which they made thus to this
island were not very frequent, for it was above
fifteen months before any more of them came on
shore there again; that is to say, I neither saw
them, nor any footsteps or signals of them, in all
that time; for, as to the rainy seasons, then they
are sure not to come abroad, at least not so far:
yet all this while I lived uncomfortably, by reason
of the constant apprehensions of their coming
upon me by surprise: from whence I observe, that
the expectation of evil is more bitter than the suf-
fering, especially if there is no room to shake off
that expectation, or those apprehensions.

During all this time I was in the murdering hu-
mour, and took up most of my hours, which should
have been better employed, in contriving how to
circumvent and fall upon them, the very next time
I should see them; especially if they should be di-
vided, as they were the last time, into two parties:
nor did I consider at all, that if I killed one party,
suppose ten or a dozen, I was still the next day, or
week, or month, to kill another, and so another,
even ad infinitum, till I should be at length no less
a murderer than they were in being man-eaters, and
perhaps much more so. I spent my days now in
great perplexity and anxiety of mind, expecting
that I ShOIfld, one day or other, fall into the hands
of these merciless creatures; and if I did at any
time venture abroad, it was not without looking
round me with the greatest care and caution ima--
ginable. And now I found, to my great comfort,
how happy it was that I had provided a tame flock
or herd of goats; for I durst not, upon any account,
fire my gun, especially near that side of the island
where they usually came, lest I should alarm the
savages; and if they had fled from me now, I was
sure to have them come again, with perhaps two
or three hundred canoes with them, in a few days,
and then I knew what to expect. However, I wore
out a year and three months more before I ever
saw any more of the savages, and then I found
them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true,
they might have been there once or twice, but
either they made no stay, or at least I did not see
them: but in the month of May, as near as I could
calculate, and in my four and twentieth year, I had
a very strange encounter with them; of which in
its place.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen
or sixteen months' interval, was very great; I slept
unquiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
started out of my sleep in the night: in the day
great troubles overwhelmed my mind; and in the
night, I dreamed often of killing the savages, and
of the reasons why I might justify the doing of it.
But, to wave all this for a while.----It was in the
middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I think, as
well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, for
I marked all upon the post still; I say, it was on the
sixteenth of May that it blew a very great storm of
wind all day, with a great deal of lightning and
thunder, and a very foul night it was after it. I
knew notwhat was the particular occasion of it,
but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up
with very serious thoughts about my present condi-
tion, I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I
thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a sur-
prise quite of a different nature from any I had
met with before; for the notions this put into my
thoughts were quite of another kind. I started up
in the greatest haste imaginable, and, in a trice,
clapped my ladder to the middle place of the rock,
and pulled it after me; and mounting it the second
time, got to the top of the hill the very moment
that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun,
which accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard ;
and, by the sound, knew that it was from that part
of the sea where I was driven down the current in
my boat. I immediately considered that this must
be some ship in distress, and that they had some
comrade, or some other ship in company, and fired
these guns for signals of distress, and to obtain
help. I had the presence of mind, at that minute,
to think, that though I could not help them, it
might be they might help me: so I brought toge-
ther all the dry wood I could get at hand, and mak-
ing a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon the
hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely; and
though the wind blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly
out, so that I was certain, if there was any such
thing as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt
they did; for as soon as ever my fire blazed up I
heard another gun, and after that several others, all
from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night
long, till daybreak; and when it was broad day,
and the air cleared up, I saw something at a great
distance at sea, full cast of the island, whether a
sail or a hull I could not distinguish, no, not with
my glass; the distance was so great, and the weather
still something hazy also; at least it was so out at
sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon
perceived that it did not move; so I presently con-
cluded that it was a ship at anchor; and being
eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my
gun in my hand, and ran towards the south side of
the island, to the rocks where I had formerly been
carried away with the current; and getting up
there, the weather by this time being perfectly
clear, I could plainly see, to my great sorrow, the
wreck of a ship, cast away in the night upon those
concealed rocks which I found when I was out in
my boat; and which rocks, as they checked the
violence of the stream, and made a kind of counter-

stream, or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering
from the most desperate, hopeless condition that
ever I had been in, all my life. Thus, what is one
man's safety is another man's destruction; for it
seems these men, whoever they were, being out of
their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under
water, had been driven upon them in the night, the
wind blowing hard at E.N.E. Had they seen the
island, as I must necessarily suppose they did not,
they must, as I thought, have endeavoured to have
saved themselves on shore by the help of their boat;
but their firing of? guns for help, especially when
they saw, as I imagined, my tire, filled me with
many thoughts: first, I imagined that upon seeing
my light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and endeavoured to make the shore; but that
the sea going very high, they might have been cast
away: other times I imagined that they might have
lost their boat before, as might be the case many
ways; as, particularly, by the breaking of the sea
upon their ship, which many times obliges men to
stave, or take in pieces, their boat, and sometimes
to throw it overboard with their own hands: other
times I imagined they had some other ship or ships
in company, who, upon the signals of distress they
had made, had taken them up and carried them off:
other times I fancied they were all gone off to sea
in their boat, and being hurried away by the current
that I had been formerly in, were carried out into
the great ocean, where there was nothing but misery
and perishing; and that, perhaps, they might by
this time think of starving, and of being in a con-
dition to eat one another.

As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in
the condition I was in, I could do no more than
look on upon the misery of the poor men, and pity
them; which had still this good effect on my side,
that it gave me more and more cause to give thanks
to God, who had so happily and comfortably pro-
vided for me in my desolate condition; and that of
two ships' companies who were now cast away upon
this part of the world, not one life should be spared
but mine. I learned here again to observe, that it
is very rare that the providence of God casts us
into any condition of life so low, or any misery so
great, but we may see something or other to be
thankful for, and may see others in worse circum-
stances than our own. Such certainly was the case
of these men, of whom I could not so much as see
room to suppose any of them were saved; nothing
could make it rational so much as to wish or expect
that they did not all perish there, except the possi-
bility only of their being taken up by another ship
in company; and this was but mere possibility in-
deed, for 1 saw not the least sign or appearance of
any such thine. I cannot explain, by any possible
energy of words, what a strange longing or hanker-
ing of desires I felt in my soul upon this sight,
breaking out sometimes thus: " O that there had
been but one or two, nay, or but one soul, saved
out of this ship, to have escaped to me, that I
might but have had one companion, one fellow-
creature to have spoken to me, and to have con-
versed with!" In all the time of my solitary life, I
never felt so earnest, so strong a desire after the
society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret
at the want of it.

There are some secret moving springs in the af-
fections, which, when they are set a going by some
object in view, or, though not in view, yet rendered
present to the mind by the power of imagination,
that motion carries out the soul, by its impetuosity,
to such violent, eager embracings of the object, that
the absence of it is insupportable. Such were these
earnest wishings that but one man had been saved.
1 believel repeated the words, " O that it had been
but one !" a thousand times; and my desires were
so moved by it, that whenI spoke the words my
hands would clinch together, and my fingers would
press the palms of my hands, so that if I had had
any soft thing in my hand, it would have crushed it
involuntarily; and the teeth in my head would strike
together, and set against one another so strong, that
for some time I could not part them again. Let
the naturalists explain these things, and the reason
and manner of them: all I can say to them is, to
describe the fact, which was even surprising to me,
when I found it, though I knew not from whence
it proceeded: it was doubtless the effect of ardent
wishes, and of strong ideas formed in my mind,
realizing the comfort which the conversation of one
of my fellow-christians would have been to me.--
But it was not to be; either their fate or mine, or
both, forbade it: for, till the last year of my being
on this island, I never knew whether any were saved
out of that ship or no; and had only the atlliction,
some days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy
come on shore at the end Of the island which was
next the shipwreck. He had no clothes on but a
scaman's waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen
drawers, and a blue linen shirt; but nothing to
direct me so much as to guess what nation he was
of: he had nothing in his pockets but two pieces--
of-eight and a tobacco-pipe;------the last was to me
of ten times more value than the first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to ven-
ture out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but
I might find something on board that might be use-
ful to me: but that did not altogether press me so
much as the possibility that there might be yet some
living creature on board, whose life I might not only
save, but might, by saving that life, comfort my

VOL. I. Y
own to the last degree; and this thought clung so
to my heart, that I could not be quiet night or day,
but I must venture out in my boat on board this
wreck; and committing the rest to God's providence,
I thought the impression was so strong upon my
mind that it could not be resisted, that it must come
from some invisible direction, and that I should be
wanting to myself if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened
back to my castle, prepared every thing for my
voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot of
fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum
(for I had still a great deal of that left,) and a
basket of raisins: and thus, loading myself with
every thing necessary, I went down to my boat, got
the water out of her, put her afloat, loaded all my
cargo in her, and then went home again for more.
My second cargo was a great bag of rice, the um-
brella to set up over my head for a shade, another
large pot of fresh water, and about two dozen of
my small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than before,
with a bottle of goat's milk and a cheese: all which,
with great labour and sweat, I carried to my boat;
and praying to God to direct my voyage, I put out;
and rowing, or paddling, the canoe along the shore,
came at last to the utmost point of the island on
the north-east side. And now I was to launch out
into the ocean, and either to venture or not to ven-
ture. I looked on the rapid currents which ran
constantly on both sides of the island at a distance,
and which were very terrible to me, from the re-
membrance of the hazard I had been in before, and
my heart began to fail me; for I foresaw that if I
was driven into either of those currents, I should
be carried a great way out to sea, and perhaps out
of my reach, or sight of the island again; and that
then, as my boat was but small, if any little gale
of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I be-
gan to give over my enterprise; and having hauled
my boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped
out, and sat me down upon a rising bit of ground,
very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire,
about my voyage; when, as I was musing, I could
perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood
come on; upon which my going was impracticable
for so many hours. Upon this, presently it occurred
to me, that I should go up to the highest piece of
ground I could find, and observe, if Icould how
the sets of the tide, or currents, lay when the flood
came in, that I might judge whether, if I was driven
one way out, I might not expect to be driven another
way home, with the same rapidness of the currents.
This thought was no sooner in my head than I cast
my eye upon a little hill, which sufficiently over-
looked the sea both ways, and from whence I had a
clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and
which way I was to guide myself in my return.
Here I found, that as the current of the ebb set out
close by the south point of the island, so the current
of the flood set in close by the shore of the north
side; and that I had nothing to do but to keep to
the north side of the island in my return, andI
should do well enough.

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved, the
next morning, to set out with the first of the tide;
and reposing myself for the night in my canoe,
under the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched
out. I first made a little out to sea, full north, till
I began to feel the. benefit of the current, which set
eastward, and which calried me at a great rate;

and yet did not so hurrv me as the current on the

soutli side had done before, so as to take from me
all government of the boat; but hax 111g a strong

steerage with my paddle, I went at a great rate
directly for the wreck, and in less than two hours I
came 11p to it. It was a dismal sight to look at:
the ship, which, bv its building, was Spanish, stuck
fast, jammed in between two crocks; all the stern
and quarter of her were beaten to pieces with the
sea; and as her forecastle, which stuck in the rocks,
had run on with great violence, her mainmast and
foremast were brought by the board, that is to say,
broken short off; but her bowsprit was sound, and
the head and bow appeared firm. When I came
close to her, a dog appeared upon her, who, seeing
me coming, yelped and cried; and as soon as I called
him, jumped into the sea to come to me; I took
him into the boat, but found him almost dead with
hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread,
and he devoured it like a ravenous wolf that had
been starving a fortnight in the snow: I then gave
the poor creature some fresh water, with which, if
I would have let him, he would have burst himself.
After this, I went 011 board; but the first sight I
met with was two men drowned in the cook-room,
or forecastle of the ship, with their arms fast about
one another. Iconcluded, as is indeed probable,
that when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the
sea broke so high, and so continually over her, that
the men were not able to bear it, and were strangled
with the constant rushing in of the water, as much

as if they had been under water. Besides the dog,
there was nothing left in the ship that had life; nor
any goods, that I could see, but what were spoiled
by the water. There were some casks of liquor,
whether wine or brandy I knew not, which lay lower
in the hold, and which, the water being ebbed out,
I could see; but they were too big to meddle with.
I saw several chests, which I believed belonged to
some of the seamen; and I got two of them into
the boat, without examining what was in them.
Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore-
part broken off, I am persuaded I might have made
a good voyage; for, by what I found in these two
chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a great
deal of wealth on board; and, if I may guess from
the course she steered, she must have been bound
from Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the
south part of America, beyond the Brazils, to the
Havanna, in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps
to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great treasure in
her, but of no use, at that time, to any body; and
what became of her crew, I then knew not.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into
my boat with much difficulty. There were several
muskets in the cabin, and a great powder-horn,
with about four pounds of powder in it; as for the
muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left them,
.but took the powder-horn. I took a fireshovel and
tongs, which I wanted extremely; as also two little

Y 2
brass kettles, a copper pot to make chocolate, and
a gridiron: and with this cargo, and the dog, I came
away, the tide beginning to make home again; and
the same evening, about an hour within night, I
reached the island again, weary and fatigued to the
last degree. I reposed that night in the boat; and
in the morning I resolved to harbour what I had
got in my new cave, and not carry it home to my
castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo
on shore, and began to examine the particulars.
The cask of liquor I found to be a kind of rum,
but not such as we had at the Brazils, and, in a
word, not at all good; but when I came to open
the chests, I found several things of great use to
me: for example, I found in one a fine case of bot-
tles, of an extraordinary kind, and filled with cor-
dial waters, fine and very good; the bottles held
about three pints each, and were tipped with silver.
I found two pots of very good succades, or sweet-
meats, so fastened also on the top, that the salt
water had not hurt them; and two more of the
same, which the water had spoiled. I found some
very good shirts, which were very welcome to me;
and about a dozen and a half of white linen hand-
kerehiefs and coloured neckcloths; the former were
also very welcome, being exceeding refreshing to
wipe my face in a hot day. Besides this, whenI
came to the till in the chest, I found there three
great bags of pieces-of--eight, which held about
eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of them,
wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and
some small bars or wedges of gold; I suppose they
might all weigh near a pound. In the other chest
were some. clothes, but of little value; but, by the
circumstances, it must have belonged to the gunner's
mate; though there was no powder in it, except
two pounds of fine glazed powder, in three small
flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their fowling~
pieces on occasion. Upon the whole, I got very
little by this voyage that was of any use to me; for,
as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for
it; it was to me as the dirt under my feet; and I
would have given it all for three or four pair of
English shoes and stockings, which were thingsl
greatly wanted, but had none on my feet for many
years. I had indeed got two pair of shoes now,
which I took off the feet of the two drowned men
whom I saw in the wreck, and I found two pair
more in one of the chests, which were very we]-
come to me; but they were not like our English
shoes, either for ease or service, being rather what
we call pumps than shoes. I found in this seaman's
chest about fifty pieces-of--eight in rials, but no
gold: I suppose this belonged to a poorer man than
the other, which seemed to belong to some officer.
Well, however, I lagged this money home to my
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before
whiehI brought from our own ship: but it was a
great pity, as I said, that the other part of this ship
had not come to my share; for I am satisfied I
might have loaded my canoe several times over with
money; and, thought I, if I ever escape to England,
it might lie here safe enough till I may come again
and fetch it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed
or paddled her along the shore to her old harbour,
where I laid her up, and made the best of my way
to my old habitation, wherel found every thing safe
and quiet. Ibegan now to repose myself, live after
my old fashion, and take care of my family affairs;
and, for a while, I lived easy enough, only thatI was
more vigilant than I used to be, looked out oftener,
and did not go abroad so much; and if at any time
I did stir with any freedom, it was always to the east
part of the island, where I was pretty well satisfied
the savages never came, and where I could go with-
out so many precautions, and such a load of arms
and ammunition 2151 always carried with me if 1
went the other way. I lived in this condition near
two years more; but my unlucky head, that was al-
ways to let me know it was born to make my body
miserable, was all these two years filled with pro-
jects and designs, how, if it were possible, I might
get away from this island: for, sometimes I was for
making another voyage to the wreck, though my
reason told me that there was nothing left there
worth the hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a
ramble one way, sometimes another; and I believe
verily, if I had had the boat that I went from Sallee
in, 1 should have ventured to sea, bound any where,
I knew not whither. I have been, in all my cir-
cumstances, a memento to those who are touched
with the general plague of mankind, whence, for
aught I know, one half of their miseries flow; I
mean that of not being satisfied with the station
wherein God and nature hath placed them: for, not
to look back upon my primitive condition, and the
excellent advice of my father, the opposition to
which was, as I may call it, my original sin, my
subsequent mistakes of the same kind had been the
means of my coming into this miserable condition;
for had that Providence, which so happily seated me
at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me with confined
desires, and I could have been contented to have
gone on gradually, I might have been, by this time,
I mean in the time of my being in this island, one
of the most considerable planters in the Brazils;
nay, I am persuaded, that by the improvements I
had made in that little time I lived there, and the
increase I should probably have made if I had re-
mained, I might have been worth a hundred thou-
sand moidores: and what business had I to leave a
settled fortune, a well-stocked plantation, improving
and increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea to
fetch negroes, when patience and time would have
so increased our stock at home, that we could have
bought them at our own door from those whose
business it was to fetch them? and though it had
cost us something more, yet the difference of that
price was by no means worth saving at so great a
hazard. But as this is usually the fate of young
heads, so reflection upon the folly of it is as com-
monly the exercise of more years, or of the dear-
bought experience of time: so it was with me now;
and yet so deep had the mistake taken root in my
temper, that I could not satisfy myself in my station,
but was continually poring upon the means and pos-
sibility of my escape from this place: and that I
may, with the greater pleasure to the reader, bring
on the remaining part of my story, it may not be
improper to give some account of my first concep-
tiuns on the subject of this foolish scheme for my
escape, and how, and upon what foundation I acted.
I am now to be supposed retired into my castle,
after my late voyage to the wreck, my frigate laid
up and secured under water, as usual, and my con-
dition restored to what it was before; I had more
wealth, indeed, than I had before, but was not at
all the richer; for I had no more use for it than the

Indians of Peru had before the Spaniards came
there,

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in
March, the four and twentieth year of my first set-
ting foot in this island of solitude, I was lying in
my bed, or hammock, awake; very well in health,
had no pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body,
nor any uneasiness of mind, more than ordinary, but
could by no means close my eyes, that is, so as to
sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than
as followsz--It is impossible to set down the innu-
merable crowd of thoughts that whirled through
that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory,
in this night's time: I ran over the whole history of
my life in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may
call it, to my coming to this island, and also of that
part of my life since I came to this island. In my
reflections upon the state of my case since I came
on shore on this island, I was comparing the happy
posture of my affairs in the first years of my habi-
tation here, compared to the life of anxiety, fear,
and care, which I had lived in, ever since I had seen
the print of a foot in the sand; not that I did not
believe the savages had frequented the island even
all the while, and might have been several hundred;
of them at times on shore there; but I had never
known it, and was incapable of any apprehensions
about it; my satisfaction was perfect, though my
danger was the same, and I was as happy in not
knowing my danger as if I had never really been ex-
posed to it. This furnished my thoughts with many
very profitable reflections, and particularly this one:
How infinitely good that Providence is, which has
provided, in its government of mankind, such nar-
row bounds to his sight and knowledge of things;
and though he walks in the midst of so many thou-
sand dangers, the sight of which, if discovered to
him, would distract his mind and sink his spirits, he
is kept serene and calm, by having the events of
things hid from his eyes, and knowing nothing of
the dangers which surround him.

After these thoughts had for some time enter-
tained me, I came to reflect seriously upon the real
danger I had been in for so many years in this very
island, and how I had walked about in the greatest
security, and with all possible tranquillity, even
when perhaps nothing but the brow of a hill, a great
tree, or the casual approach of night, had been be-
tween me and the worst kind of destruction, viz.
that of falling into the hands of cannibals and sa-
vages, who would have seized on me with the same
view as I would on a goat or a turtle, and have
thought it no more a crime to kill and devour me,
than I did of a pigeon or curlew. I would unjustly
slander myself, if I should say I was not sincerely
thankful to my great Preserver, to whose singular
protection I acknowledged, with great humility, all
these unknown deliverances were due, and without
which I must inevitably have fallen into their mer--
ciless hands.

When these thoughts were over, my head was for
some time taken up in considering the nature of
these wretched creatures, I mean the savages, and
how it came to pass in the world, that the wise Go-
vernor of all things should give up any of his crea-
tures to such inhumanity, nay, to something so much
below even brutality itself, as to devour its own
kind: but as this ended in some (at that time) fruit-
less speculations, it occurred to me to inquire, what
part of the world these wretches lived in"! how far
off the coast was, from whence they came? what
they ventured over so far from home for? what kind
of boats they had? and why I might not order
myself and my business so, that I might be as able
to go overthither as they were to come to me".l

I never so much as troubled myself to consider
what I should do with myself when I went thither;
what would become of me, if I fell into the hands
of the savages; or how I should escape from them,
if they attacked me; no, nor so much as how it was
possible for me to reach the coast, and not be at-
tacked by some or other of them, without any pos-
sibility of delivering myself; and if I. should not
fall into their hands, whatI should do for provision,
or whither I should bend my course: none of these
thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way; but
my mind was wholly bent upon the notion of my
passing over in my boat to the main land. I looked
upon my present condition as the most miserable
that could possibly be ; that I was not able to throw
myself into any thing, but death, that could be
called worse; and if I reached the shore of the
main, I might perhaps meet with relief, or I might
coast along, as I did on the African shore, till I
came to some inhabited country, and where I might
find some relief; and after all, perhaps, I might fall
in with some Christian ship that might take me in;
and if the worst came to the .worst, Icould but die,
which would put an end to all these miseries at once.
Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind,
an impatient temper, made desperate, as it were, by
the long continuance of my troubles, and the disa-p.
pointments I had met in the wreck I had been on
board of, and where I had been so near obtaining
what I so earnestly longed for, viz; somebody to
speak to, and to learn some knowledge from them
of the place where I was, and of the probable
means .of my deliverance. -I was agitated wholly
by these thoughts; all my calm of mind, in my re-
signation to Providence, and waiting the issue of the
dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended;
and I had, as it were, no power to turn my thoughts
to any thing but to the project of a voyage to the
main; which came upon .me with such force, and
such an impetuosity of desire, that it was not to be
resisted.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two
hours or more, with such violence that it set my
very blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat as if
I had been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary
fervour of my mind about it, nature, as if I had
been fatigued and exhausted with the very thought
of it, threw me into a sound sleep. One would

have thought I. should have dreamed of it, butI
VOL. I. z
did not, nor of any thing relating to it: but I
dreamed that as l was going out in the morning, as
usual, from my castle, I saw upon the shore two
canoes and eleven savages coming to land, and that
they brought with them another savage, whom they
were going to kill, in order to eat him; when, on a
sudden, the savage that they were going to kill
jumped away, and ran for his life; and I thought,
in my sleep, that he came running into my little
thick grove before my fortification, to hide himself;
and that I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that
the others sought him that way, showed myself to
him, and smiling upon him, encouraged him: that
he kneeled down to me, seeming to pray me to assist
him; upon which I showed him my ladder, made
him go up, and carried him into my cave, and he
became my servant: and that as soon as I had got
this man, I said to myself, " Now I may certainly
venture to the main land; for this fellow will serve
me as a pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whi-
ther to go for provisions, and whither not to go for
fear of being devoured; what places to venture
into, and what to shun." I waked with this thought;
and was under such inexpressible impressions of joy
at the prospect of my escape in my dream, that the
disappointments which I felt upon coming to myself,
and finding that it was no more than a dream, were
equally extravagant the other way, and threw me
into a very great dejection of spirits.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion; that
my only way to go about to attempt an escape was,
if possible, to get a savage into my possession; and,
if possible, it should be one of their prisoners whom
they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring
hither to kill. But these thoughts still were at-
tended with this difliculty, that it was impossible to
effect this without attacking a whole caravan of
them, and killing them all; and this was not only a
very desperate attempt, and might miscarry, but, on
the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawful-
ness of it to myself; and my heart trembled at the
thoughts of shedding so much blood, though it was
for my deliverance. I need not repeat the argu-
ments which occurred to me against this, they being
the same mentioned before: but though 1 had other
reasons to offer now, viz. that those men were ene-
mies to my life, and would devour me if they could;
that it was self-preservation, in the highest degree,
to deliver myself from this death of a life, and was
acting in my own defence as much as if they were
actually assaulting me, and the like; I say, though
these things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shed-
ding human blood for my deliverance were very ter-
rible to me, and such as I could by no means recon--
cile myself to for a great while. However, at last,
after many secret disputes with myself, and after
great perplexities about it (for all these arguments,
one way and another, struggled in my head a long
time,) the eager prevailing desire of deliverance at
length mastered all the rest; and I resolved, if pos--
sible, to get one of those savages into my hands,
cost what it would. My next thing was to contrive
how to do it, and this indeed was very difficult to
resolve on: but as I could pitch upon no probable
means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon the
watch, to see them when they came on shore, and
leave the rest to the event; taking such measures-
as the opportunity should present, let what would
be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set my-
self upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed
so often, that I was heartily tired of it; for it was
above a year and a half that I waited; and for great
part of that time went out to the west end, and to
the southwest corner of the island, almost every
day, to look for canoes, but none appeared. This
was very discouraging, and began to trouble me
much; though 1 cannot say that it did in this case
(as it had done some time before) wearlofi' the edge
of my desire to the thing; but the longer it seemed
to be delayed, the more eager I was for it: in a
word, I was not at first so careful to shun the sight
of these savages, and avoid being seen by them, as
I was now eager to be upon them. Besides, I fan-
eied myself able to manage one, nay, two or three
savages, if I had them, so as to make them entirely
slaves to me, to do whatever I' should direct them,
and to prevent their being able at any time to do
me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased
myself with this affair; but nothing still presented;
all my fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no
savages came near me for a great while.

About a year and a half after I entertained these
notions (and by long musing had, as it were, resolved
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to

put them into execution,) I was surprised, one
morning early, with seeing no less than five canoes
all on shore together on my side the island, and the
people who belonged to them all landed, and out of
my sight. The number of them broke all my mea-
sures; for seeing so many, and knowing that they
always came four or six, or sometimes more, in a
boat, I could not tell what to think of it, or how to
take my measures, to attack twenty or thirty men
single--handed; so lay still in my castle, perplexed
and discomforted: however, I put myself into all
the same postures for an attack that I had formerly
provided, and was just ready for action, if any thing
had presented. Having waited a good while, listen-
ing to hear if they made any noise, at length, being
very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my lad-
der, and clambered up to the top of the bill, by my
two stages, as usual; standing so, however, that my
head did not appear above the hill, so that they
could not perceive me by any means. Here I ob-
served, by the help of my perspective-glass, that
they were no less than thirty in number; that they
had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed.
How they had cooked it I knew not, or what it was;
but they were all dancing, in I know not how many
barbarous gestures and figures, their own way,
round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived,
by my perspective, two miserable wretches dragged
from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by,
and were now brought out for the slaughter. I
perceived one of ~them immediately fall, being
knocked down, I suppose, with a club or wooden
sword, for that was their way, and two or three

others were at work immediately, cutting him open
for their cookery, while the other victim was left
standing by himself, till they should be ready for

Z2
him. In that very moment, this poor wretch seeing
himself a little at liberty, and unbound, nature in-
spired him with hopes of life, and he started away
from them, and ran with incredible swiftness along
the sands, directly towards me, I mean towards that
part of the coast where my habitation was. I was
dreadfully frightened, I must acknowledge, when I
perceived him run my way, and especially when, as
I thought, I saw him pursued by the whole body:
and now I expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he would certainly take
shelter in my grove: but I could not depend, by
any means, upon my dream for the rest of it, viz.
that the other savages would not pursue him thither,
and find him there. However, I kept my station,
and my spirits began to recover, when I found that
there was not above three men. that, followed him;
and still more was I encouraged when I found that
he outstripped them exceedingly in running, and
gained ground of them; so that if he could but
hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he would
fairly get away from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned often in the first part of my story,
where I landed m-y cargoes out of the ship; and this
I saw plainly he must necessarily swim over, or the
poor wretcli would be taken there: but when the
savage escaping came thither, he made nothing of
it, though the tide was then up; but plunging in,
swam through in about thirty strokes, or there-
abouts, landed, and ran on with exceeding strength
and swiftness. When the three persons came to the
creek,I found that two of them could swim, but
the third could not, and that, standing on the other
side, he looked at the others, but went no farther,
and soon after went softly back again; which, as it
happened, was very well for him in the end. I ob-
served, that the two who swam were yet more than
twice as long swimming over the creek as the fellow
was that fled from them. It came now very warmly
upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now
was the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a
companion or assistant, and that I was called plainly
by Providence to save this poor creature's life. I
immediately ran down the ladders with all possible
expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were
both at the foot of the ladders, as I observed above,
and getting up again, with the same haste, to the
top of the bill, I crossed towards the sea, and having
a very short cut, and all down hill, placed myself in
the way between the pursuers and the pursued,
hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking back,
was at first, perhaps, as much frightened at me as
at them; but I beckoned with my hand to him to
come back; and, in the mean time, I slowly ad-
vanced towards the two that followed; then rushing
at once upon the foremost, I knocked him down
with the stock of my piece. I was loth to fire,
because I would not have the rest hear; though, at
that distance, it would not have been easily heard,
and being out of sight of the smoke too, they would
not have easily known what to make of it. Having
knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued
him stopped, as if he had been frightened, and 1
advanced apace towards him: but as I came nearer,
I perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and
was fitting it to shoot at me; so I was then neces-
sitated to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed
him at the first shot. The poor savage who fled,
but had stopped, though he saw both his enemies
fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so fright-
ened with the fire and noise of my piece, that he
stood stock-still, and neither came forward nor went
backward, though he seemed rather inclined still
to fly, than to come on. I hallooed again to him,
and made signs to come forward, which he easily
understood, and came a little way; then stopped
again, and then a little farther, and stopped again;
and I could then perceive that he stood trembling,
as if he had been taken prisoner, and had just been
to be killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned
to him again to come to me, and gave him all the
signs of encouragement that I could think of; and
he came nearer and nearer, kneeling down every ten
or twelve steps, in token of acknowledgment for
saving his life. I smiled at him, and looked plea-
santly, and beckoned to him to come still nearer:
at length he came close to me; and then he kneeled
down again, kissed the ground, and laid his head
upon the ground, and taking me by the foot, set my
foot upon his head; this, it seems, was in token of
swearing to be my slave for ever. I took him up,
and made much of him, and encouraged him all I
could. But there was more work to do yet; for I
perceived the savage whom I knocked down was not
killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to
come to himself : so I pointed to him, and showed
him the savage, that he was not dead; upon this
he spoke some words to me, and though I could
 

not understand them, yet I thought they were plea-
sant to hear; for they were the first sound of a
man's voice that I had heard, my own excepted, for
above twenty-five years. But there was no time for
such reflections now; the savage who was knocked
down recovered himself so far as to sit up upon the
ground, and I perceived that my savage began to
be afraid; but when I saw that, I presented my
other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him:
upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made
a motion to me to lend him my sword, which hung
naked in a belt by my side, which I did. He no
sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy, and, at
one blow, cut off his head so cleverly, no execu-
tioner in Germany could have done it sooner or
better; which I thought very strange for one who, I
had reason to believe, never saw a sword in his life
before, except their own wooden swords: however,
it seems, as I learned afterwards, they make their
wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood is
so hard, that they will cut off heads even with them,
aye, and arms, and that at one blow too. When
he had done this, he comes laughing to me, in sign
of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and
with abundance of gestures, which I did not under-
stand, laid it down, with the head of the savage
that he had killed, just before me. But that which
astonished him most, was to know how I killed the
other Indian so far off: so pointing to him, he made
signs to me to let him go to him; so I bade him go,
as well as I could. When he came to him, he stood
like one amazed, looking at him, turning him first
on one side, then on the other, looked at the wound
the bullet had made, which,; it seems, was just in
his breast, where it had made a hole, and no great
quantity of blood had followed; but he had bled
inwardly, for he was quite dead. He took up his
bow and arrows, and came back; so I turned to go
away, and beckoned him to follow me, making signs
to him that more might come after them. Upon
this, he made signs to me that he should bury them
with sand, that they might not be seen by the rest,
if they followed; and so I made signs to him again
to do so. He fell to work; and, in an instant, he
had scraped a hole in the sand with his hands, big
enough to bury the first in, and then dragged him
into it, and covered him; and did so by the other
also: I believe he had buried them both in a quarter
of an hour. Then calling him away, I carried him,
not to my castle, but quite away to my cave, on
the farther part of the island: so I did not let my
dream come to pass in that part, viz. that he came
into my grove for shelter. Here I gave him bread
and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught of
water, which I found he was indeed in great distress
for, by his running; and having refreshed him, I
made signs for him to go and lie down to sleep,
showing him a place where I had laid some rice-
straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep
upon myself sometimes; so the poor creature lay
down, and went to sleep.

He was a comely handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight strong limbs, not too large, tall,
and well shaped; and, as I reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. He had a very good countenance,
not a fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have
something very manl'y in his face; and yet he had
all the sweetness and softness of an European in
his countenance too, especially when he smiled.
His hair was long and black, not curled like wool;
his forehead very high and large; and a great viva-
city and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The
colour of his skin was not quite black, but very
tawny; and yet not an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny,
as the Brazilians and Virginians, and other natives
of America are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive
colour, that had in it something very agreeable,
though not very easy to describe. His face was
round and plump; his nose small, not flat like the
Negroes; a very good mouth, thin lips, and his fine
teeth well set, and as white as ivory.

After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about
half an hour, he awoke again, and came out of the
cave to me, for I had been milking my goats, which
I had in the enclosure just by: when he espied me,
he came running to me, laying himself down again
upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an
humble thankful disposition, making a great many
antic gestures to show it. At last, he lays his head
fiat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets my
other foot upon his head, as he had done before;
and after this, made all the signs to me of subjec-
tion, servitude, and submission, imaginable, to let
me know how he would serve me so long as he
lived. I understood him in many things, and let
him know I was very well pleased with him. In a
little time I began to speak to him, and teach him
to speak to me; and, first, I let him know his name
should be FRIDAY, which was the day I saved his
life: I called him so for the memory of the time.
I likewise taught him to say Master; and then let
him know that was to be my name: I likewise
taught him to say Yes and No, and to know the
meaning of them. ] gave him some milk in an
earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before him,
and sop my bread in it; and gave him a cake of
bread to do the like, which he quickly complied
with, and made signs that it was very good for him.
I kept there with him all that night; but as soon
as it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me,
and let him know I would give him some clothes;
at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked.
As we went by the place where he had buried the
two men, he pointed exactly to the place, and showed
me the marks that he had made to find them again,
making signs to me that we should dig them up
again, and eat them. At this I appeared very angry,
expressed my abhorrence of it, made as if I would
vomit at the thoughts of it, and beckoned with my
hand to him to come away; which he did immedi-
ately, with great submission. I then led him up to
the top of the hill, to see if his enemies were gone;
and pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly
the place where they had been, but no appearance
of them. or 'their canoes; so that it was plain they
were gone, and had left their two comrades behind
them, without any search after them.

But I was not content with this discovery; but
having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I took my man Friday with me, giving
him the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows
at his back, which I found he could use very dexte-
rously, making him carry one gun for me, and I two
for myself; and away we marched to the place where
these creatures had been; for I had a mind now to
get some fuller intelligence of them. When I came
to the place, my very blood ran chill in my veins,
and my heart sunk within me, at the horror of the
spectacle; indeed, it was a dreadful sight, at least
it was so to me, though Friday made nothing of it.
The place was covered with human bones, the
ground dyed with their blood, and great pieces of
flesh left here and there, half-eaten, mangled, and
scorched; and, in short, all the tokens of the trium-
phant feast they had been making there, after a vic-
tory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five
hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet,
and abundance of other parts of the bodies; and
Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they
brought over four prisoners to feast upon; that
three of them were eaten up, and that be, pointing

VOL. I. A A
to himself, was the fourth; that there had been a
great battle between them and their next king,
whose subject, it seems, he had been one of, and
that they had taken a great number of prisoners;
all which were carried to several places by those
who had taken them in the fight, in order to feast
upon them, as was done here by these wretches
upon those they brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones,
flesh, and whatever remained, and lay them together

in a heap, and make a great fire upon it, and burn
them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a hanker-
ing stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a

cannibal in his nature; but I discovered so much
abhorrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the
least appearance of it, that he durst not discover it:
for I had, by some means, let him know, that I
would kill him if he offered it.

When he had done this, we came back to our
castle; and there I fell to work for my man Friday:
and, first of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers,
which I had out of the poor gunner's chest I men-
tioned, which I found in the wreck; and which,
with a little alteration, fitted him very well: and
then I made him a jerkin of goat's-skin, as well as
my skill would allow (for I was now grown a tole-
rable good tailor ;) and I gave him a cap, which I
made of hare's-skin, very convenient and fashionable
enough: and thus he was clothed for the present,
tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased to see
himself almost as well clothed as his master. It is
true, he went awkwardly in these clothes at first;
wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and
the sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders,
and the inside of his arms; but a little easing them
where he complained they hurt him, and using him-
self to them, he took to them at length very well.
The next day after I came home to my hutch with
him, I began to consider where] should lodge him;
and that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly
easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last and in the outside of the ,first. As there
was a door or entrance there into my cave, I made
a formal framed door-case, and a door to it of boards,
and set it up in the passage, a little within the en-
trance; and causing the door to open in the inside,
I barred it up in the night, taking in my ladders
too; so that Friday could no way come at me in the
inside of my innermost wall, without making so
much noise in getting over that it must needs waken
me; for my first wall had now a complete roof over
it of long poles, covering all my tent, and leaning
up to the side of the hill; which was again laid
across with smaller sticks, instead of laths, and then
thatched over a great thickness with the rice-straw,
which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or

place which was left to go in or out by the ladder,
I had placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had
been attempted on the outside, would not have
opened at all, but would have fallen down, and make
a great noise: as to weapons, I took them all into
my side every night. But I needed none of all this
precaution; for never man had a more faithful, lov-
ing, sincere servant, than Friday was to me; without
passions, sullenness, or designs, perfectly obliged
and engaged; his very afi'eetions were tied to me,
like those of a child to a father; and I dare say, he
would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine,
upon any occasion whatsoever: the many testimonies
he gave me of this put it out of doubt, and soon
convinced me that I needed to use no precautions,
as to my safety on his account.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and
that with wonder, that however it had pleased God,
in his providence, and in the government of the
works of his hands, to take from so great a part of
the world of his creatures the best uses to which
their faculties and the powers of their souls are
adapted, yet that he has bestowed upon them the
same powers, the same reason, the same affections,
the same sentiments of kindness and obligation, the
same passions and resentments of wrongs, the same
sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the
capacities of doing good, and receiving good, that
he has given to us; and that when he pleases to offer
them occasions of exerting these, they are as ready,
nay, more ready, to apply them to the right uses for
which they were bestowed, than we are. This made
me very melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the
several occasions presented, how mean a use we
make of all these, even though we have these powers
enlightened by the great lamp of instruction, the
Spirit of God, and by the knowledge of his word
added to our understanding; and why it has pleased
God to hide the like saving knowledge from so many
millions of souls, who, if I might judge by this poor
savage, would make a much better use of it than we
did. From hence, I sometimes was led too far, to
invade the sovereignty of Providence, and as it were
urraign the justice of so arbitrary a dispositon of
things, that should hide that light from some, and
reveal it to others, and yet expect a like duty from
both; butI shut it up, and checked my thoughts
with this conclusion: first, That we did not know
by what light and law these should be condemned;
but that as God was necessarily, and, by the nature
of his being, infinitely holy and just, so it could not
be, but if these creatures were all sentenced to ab-
sence from himself, it was on account of sinning
against that light, which, as the Scripture says, was
a law to themselves, and by such rules as their con-
sciences would acknowledge to be just, though the
foundation was not discovered to us; and, secondly,
That still, as we all are the clay in the hand of the
potter, no vessel could say to him, " Why hast thou
formed me thus 2"

But to return to my new companion :--I was
greatly delighted with him, and made it my business
to teach him every thing that was proper to make
him useful, handy, and helpful; but especially to
make him speak, and understand me when I spoke:
and he was the aptest scholar that ever was; and
particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent,
and so pleased when he could but understand me,
or make me understand him, that it was very plea-
sant to me to talk to him. Now my life began to
be so easy, that I began to say to myself, that could
I but have been safe from more savages, I cared not
if I was never to remove from the place whereI
lived.

After I had been two or three days returned to

A A 2
my castle, I thought that, in order to bring Friday
oil' from his horrid way of feeding, and from the
relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to let him
taste other tlesh; so I took him out with me one
morning to the woods. I went, indeed, intending to
kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it home
and dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat
lying down in the shade, and two young kids sitting
by her. I catchcd hold of Friday;--Hold, said I;
stand still; and made signs to him not to stir: im-
mediately I presented my piece, shot, and killed one
of the kids. The poor creature, who had, at a dis-
tance, indeed, seen me kill the savage, his enemy,
but did not know, nor could imagine, how it was
done, was sensibly surprised, trembled and shook,
and looked so amazed, that I thought he would
have sunk down. He did not see the kid I shot at,
or perceive I had killed it, but ripped up his waist-
coat, to feel whether he was not wounded; and, as
I found presently, thought I was resolved to kill
him: for he came and kneeled down to me, and
embracing my knees, said a great many things I did
not understand; but I could easily see the meaning
was, to pray me not to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him that I would
do him no harm; and taking him up by the hand,
laughed at him, and pointing to the kid which I had
killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which
he did: and while he was wondering, and looking to
see how the creature was killed, I loaded my gun
again. By and by, I saw a great fowl, like a hawk,
sitting upon a tree, within shot; so, to let Friday
understand a little what I would do, I called him to
me again, pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a
parrot, though I thought it had been a hawk; I
say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to
the ground under the parrot, to let him see I would
make it fall, I made him understand that] would
shoot and kill that bird; accordingly, I fired, and
bade him look, and immediately he saw the parrot
fall. He stood like one frightened again, notwith-
standing all I had said to him; and I found he was
the more amazed, because he did not see me put
any thing into the gun, but thought that there must
be some wonderful fund of death and destruction
in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or any
thing near or far off; and the astonishment this
created in him was such, as could not wear ofi' for
a long time; and I believe, if I would have let him,
he. would have worshipped me and my gun. As for
the gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for
several days after; but he would speak to it, and
talk to it, as if it had answered him, when he was
by himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him,
was to desire it not to kill him. Well, after his
astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to
him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he
did, but staid some time; for the parrot, not being
quite dead, had fluttered away a good distance from
the place where she fell: however, he found her,
took her up, and brought her to me; and asl had
perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took
this advantage to charge the gun again, and not to
let him see me do it, that I might be ready for any
other mark that might present; but nothing more
offered at that time: so I brought home the kid,
and the same evening 1 took the skin off, and cut it
out as well as I could; and having a pot fit for that
purpose, I boiled or stewed some of the flesh, and
made some very good broth. After I had begun to
eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very
glad of it, and liked it very well; but that which
was strangest to him, was to see me eat salt with it.
He made a sign to me that the salt was not good to
eat; and putting a little into his own month, he
seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and sputter
at it, washing his mouth with fresh water after it:
on the othe1 hand, I took some meat into my month
without salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter
for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the salt;
but it would not do; he would never care for salt
with his meat or in his broth; at least, not for a
great while, and then but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth,
I was resolved to feast him the next day with roast-
ing a piece of the kid: this I did, by hanging it be-
fore the fire on a string, as I had seen many people
do in England, setting two poles up, one on each
side of the fire, and one across on the top, and tying
the string to the cross stick, letting the meat turn
continually. This Friday admired very much; but
when he came to taste the flesh, he took so many
ways to tell me how well he liked it, that I could
not but understand him: and at last he told me, as
well as he could, he would never eat man's flesh
any more, which I was very glad to hear.

The next day, I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do,
as I observed before; and he soon understood how
to do it as well as I, especially after he had seen
what the meaning of it was, and that it was to make
bread of; for after that] let him see me make my
bread, and bake it too; and in a little time Friday
was able to do all the work for me, as well asI could
do it myself.

I began now to consider, that having two mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn
than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece
of land, and began the fence in the same manner as
before, in which Friday Worked not only very wil-
lingly and very hard, but did it very cheerfully: and
I told him what it was for; that it was for corn to
make more bread, because he was now with me,
and that I might have enough for him and myself
too. He appeared very sensible of that part, and
let me know that he thought I had much more la-
bour upon me on his account, than I had for myself;
and that he would work the harder for me, if I
would tell him what to do.

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led
in this place; Friday began to talk pretty well, and
understand the names of almost every thing I had
occasion to call for, and of every place I had to send
him to, and talked a great deal to me; so that, in
short, I began now to have some use for my tongue
again, which, indeed, I had very little occasion for
before, that is to say, about speech. Besides the
pleasure of talking to him, I had a singular satis-
faction in the fellow himself: his simple unfeigned
honesty appeared to me more and more every day,
and I began really to love the creature; and, on his
side, I believe he loved me more than it was possible
for him ever to love any thing before.

1 had a mind once to try if he had any hankering
inclination to his own country again; and having
taught him English so well that he could answer
me almost any question, I asked him whether the
nation that he belonged to never conquered in bat-
tle? At which he smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we
always fight the better:" that is, he meant, always
get the better in fight; and so we began the follow-
ing discourse:

rllaslcr. You always fight the better; how came
you to be taken prisoner then, Friday '3

Friday. My nation beat much for all that.

flit/stein How beat? If your nation beat them,
how came you to be taken!

Friday. They more many than my nation in the
place where me was; they take one, two, three, and
me: my nation over-beat them in the yonder place,
where me no was; there my nation take one, two,
great thousand.

.r'lIaster. But why did not your side recover you
from the hands of your enemies then!

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and
make go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe
that time.

Blaster. Well, Friday, and what does your na-
tion do with the men they take? Do they carry them
away and eat them, as these did '1

Friday. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all up.

Blaster. Where do they carry them?

Friday. Go to other place, where they think.
:lIaster. Do they come hither?
Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other
else place.
Allister. Have you been here with them?

Friday. Yes, I have been here (points to the
N.W. side of the island, which, it seems, was their
side.)

By this I understood that my man Friday had for-
merly been among the savages who used to come on
shore on the farther part of the island, on the same
man-eating occasions he was now brought for; and,
some time after, when I took the courage to carry
him to that side, being the same I formerly men-
tioned, he presently knew the place, and told me he
was there once when they eat up twenty men, two
women, and one child: he could not tell twenty in
English, but he numbered them, by laying so many
stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them
over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces
what follows; that afterI had this discourse with
him, I asked him how far it was from our island to
the shore, and whether the canoes were not often
lost. He told me there was no danger, no canoes
ever lost; but that, after a little way out to sea,
there was a current and wind, always one way in
the morning, the other in the afternoon. This I
understood to be no more than the sets of the tide,
as going out or coming in; but I afterwards under-
stood it was occasioned by the great draft and re-
flux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth or
gulf of which river, as I found afterwards, our
island lay; and that this land which I perceived to
the W. and N .W. was the great island Trinidad, on
the north point of the mouth of the river. I asked
Friday a thousand questions about the country, the
inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and .what nations
were near: he told me all he knew, with the greatest
openness imaginable. I asked him the names of
the several nations of his sort of people, but could
get no other name than Caribs: from whence l
easily understood, that these were the Caribbees,
which our maps place on the part of America which
reaches from the month of the river Oroonoko to
Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. He told me
that up a great waybeyond the moon, that was,
beyond the setting of the moon, which must be west
from their country, there dwelt white bearded men,
like me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I
mentioned before; and that they had killed much
mans, that was his word: by all which I under-
stood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruelties in
America had been spread over the whole country,
and were remembered by all the nations, from father
to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might go
from this island and get among those white men:
he told me,.Yes, yes, you may go in two canoe. I
could not understand what he meant, or make him
describe .to me what he meant by two canoe; till,
at last, with great difficulty, Ifound he meant it
must be in a large boat, as big as two canoes. This
part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me
very well; and from this time I entertained some
hopes that, one time or other, I might find an op-
portunity to make my escape from this place, and I
that this poor savage might be a means to help me. .
During the long time that Friday had now been
with me, and that he began to speak to me, and
understand me, I was not wanting to lay a founda-
tion of religious knowledge in his mind: particularly
I asked him one time, Who made him? The poor

creature did not understand me at all, but thought
I had asked him who was his father: but I took it

up by another handle, and asked him who made the
sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills and
woods? He told me, it was one old Benamuckee,
that lived beyond all; he could describe nothing of
this great person, but that he was very old, much
older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the
moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this old
person had made all things, why did not all things
worship him? He looked very grave, and with a
perfect look of innocence said, All things say 0 to
him. I asked. him if the people who die in his
country went away any where? He said, Yes; they
all went to Benamuckee: then I asked him whether
these they eat up went thither too? He said, Yes.
From these things I began to instruct him 1n the
knowledge of the true God: I told him that the
great Maker of all things lived up there, pointing
up towards heaven; that he governed the world by
the same power and providence by which he made
it; that he was omnipotent, and could do every
thing for us, give every thing to .us, take every thing
from us; and thus, by degrees, I opened his eyes.
He listened with great attention, and received with
pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to
redeem us, and of the manner of making our prayers
to God, and his being able to hear us, even in heaven.
VOL. I. B B e
He told me one day, that if our God could 'hear us
up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater God
than their Benamuckee, who lived but a little way
off, and yet could not hear till they went up to the
great mountains where he dwelt to speak to him.
I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to
him? He said, No; they never went that were
young men; none went thither but the old men,
whom he called their Oowokakee; that is, as I
made him explain it to me, their religious, or
clergy; and that they went to say 0 (so he called
saying prayers,) and then came back, and told them
what Benamuckec said. By thisI observed, that
there is priestcraft even among the most blinded,
ignorant pagans in the world; and the policy of
making a secret of religion, in order to preserve the
veneration of the people to the clergy, is not only
to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all
religions in the world, even among the most brutish
and barbarous savages.

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday; and told him, that the pretence of their old
men going up to the mountains to say 0 to their
god Benamuckee was a cheat; and their bringing
word from thence what he said was much more so;
that if they met with any answer, or spake with any
one there, it must be with an evil spirit: and then
[ entered into a long discourse with him about the
devil, the original of him, his rebellion against God,
his enmity to man, the reason of it, his setting him-
self up in the dark parts of the world to be wor-
shipped instead of God, and as God, and the many
stratagems he made use of to delude mankind to'.

'1

1'

 

 

OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 279

their ruin; how he had a secret access to our pas-
sions and to our affections, and to adapt his snares
to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be our
own tempters, and run upon our destruction by our
own choice.

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions
in his mind about the devil, as it was about the
being of a God: nature assisted all my arguments
to evidence to him even the necessity of a great
First Cause, and over-ruling, governing Power, a
secret, directing Providence, and of the equity and
justice of paying homage to him that made us, and
the like; but there appeared nothing of this kind
in the notion of an evil spirit; of his original, his
being, his nature, and, above all, of his inclination
to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too: and the
poor creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by
a question merely natural and innocent, that] scarce
knew what to say to him. I had been talking a
great deal to him of the power of God, his omni-
potence, his aversion to sin, his being a consuming '
fire to the workers of iniquity; how, as he had
made us all, he could destroy us and all the world
in a moment; and he listened with great seriousness
to me all the while. After this, I had been telling
him how the devil was God's enemy in the hearts of
men, and used all his malice and skill to defeat the
good designs of Providence, and to ruin the king-
dom of Christ in the world, and the like. " Well,"
says Friday, " but you say God is so strong, so
great; is he not much strong, much might as the
devil?"---" Yes, yes," says I, " Friday, God is
Stronger than the devil: God is above the devil,
and therefore we pray to God to tread him down
under our feet, and enable us. to resist his tempta-
tions, and quench his fiery darts."---" But," says he
again, " if God much stronger, much might as the
devil, why God no kill the devil, so make him no
more do wicked 'l" I was strangely surprised at this
question; and, after all, though I was now an old
man, yet I was but a young doctor, and ill qualified
for a casuist, or a solver of dilliculties; and, at first,
I could not tell what to say; so I pretended not to
hear him, and asked him what he said; but he was
too earnest for an answer, to forget his question, so
that he repeated it in the very same broken words
as above. By this time Ihad recovered myself a
little, and I said, " God will at last punish him
severely; he is reserved for the judgment, and is to
be cast into the bottomless pit, to dwell with ever-
lasting fire." This did not satisfy Friday; but he
returns upon me, repeating my words, " Reserve at
last! me no understand: but why not kill the devil
now; not kill great ago?"--" You may as well ask
me," said I, " why God does not kill you and me,
when we do wicked things here that offend him:
we are preserved to repent and be pardoned." He
mused some time on this: " Well, well," says he,
mighty affectionately, " that well: so you, I, devil,
all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all."
Here I was run down again by him to the last de-
gree; and it was a testimony to me, how the mere
notions of nature, though they will guide reasonable
creatures to the knowledge of a God, and of a wor-
ship or homage due to the supreme being of' God,
as the consequence of our nature, yet nothing but
divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus
Christ, .and of redemption purchased for us, of a
Mediator of the new covenant, and of an Intercessor
at the footstool of God's throne; I say, nothing but
a revelation from Heaven can form these 'in the
soul; and that, therefore, the gospel of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the Word of God,
and the Spirit of God, promised for the guide and
sanctifier of his people, are the absolutely necessary
instructors of the souls of men in the saving know-
ledge of God, and the means of salvation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some
sudden occasion of going out; then sending him
for something a good way off, I seriously prayed to
God that he would enable me to instruct savingly
this poor savage; assisting, by his Spirit, the heart
of the poor ignorant creature to receive the light of
the knowledge of God in Christ, reconciling him to
himself, and would guide me to speak so to him from
the word of God, as his conscience might be con-
vinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved. When
he came again to me, I entered into a long discourse
with him upon the subject of the redemption of
man by the Saviour of the world, and of the doc-
trine of the gospel preached from heaven, viz. of
repentance towards God, and faith in our blessed
Lord Jesus. I then explained to him as well as I
could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on him
the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham;
and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no
share in the redemption; that he came only to the
lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the like.

is B 2
I had, God knows, more sincerity than know-
ledge in all the methods I took for this poor crea-
ture's instruction, and must acknowledge, what I
believe all that act upon the same principle will
find, that in laying things open to him, I really in-
formed and instructed myself in many things that
either I did not know, or had not fully considered
before, but which occurred naturally to my mind
upon searching into them, for the information of
this poor savage; and I had more affection in my
inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever I
felt before: so that, whether this poor wild wretch
was the better for me or no, I had great reason to
be thankful that ever he came to me; my grief sat
lighter upon me; my habitation grew comfortable
to me beyond measure: and when I reflected, that
in this solitary life which I had been confined to, I
had not only been moved to look up to heaven my-
self, and to seek to the hand that had brought me
here, but was now to be made an instrument, under
Providence, to save the life, and, for aught I knew,
the soul, of a poor savage, and bring him to the
true knowledge of religion, and of the Christian
doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus, in whom
is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon all these
things, a secret joy ran through every part of my
soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was
brought to this place, which I had so often thought
the most dreadful of all afiiictions that could possi-

bly have befallen me.
I continued in this thankful frame all the re-

mainder of my time; and the conversation which
employed the hours between Friday and me was
such, as made the three years which we lived there
together perfectly and completely happy, if any
such thing as complete happiness can be formed in
a sublunary state. This savage was now a good
Christian, a much better than I; though I have
reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we were
equally penitent, and comforted, restored penitents.
We had here the word of God to read, and no far-
ther off from his Spirit to instruct, than if we had
been in England. I always applied myself, in reading
the Scriptures, to let him know, as well as I could,
the meaning of what I read; and he again, by his
serious inquiries and questionings, made me, as I
said before, a much better scholar in the Scripture-
knowledge than I should ever have been by my
own mere private reading. Another thing I can-
not refrain from observing here also, from experi-
ence in this retired part of my life, viz. how infinite
and inexpressible a blessing it is that the know~
ledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by
Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the word of
God, so easy to be received and understood, that,
as the bare reading the Scripture made me capable
of understanding enough of my duty to carry me
directly on to the great work of sincere repentance
for my sins, and laying hold of a Saviour for life
and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice,
and obedience to all God's commands, and this
without any teacher or instructor, I mean human;
so the same plain instruction sufficiently served to
the enlightening this savage creature, and bringing
him to be such a Christian, as I have known few
equal to him in my life.
As to all the disputes, wrangling, strife, and con-
tention which have happened in the world about
religion, whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes
of church-government, they were all perfectly use-
less to us, and, for aught I can yet see, they have
been so to the rest of the world. We had the sure
guide to heaven, viz. the word of God; and we had,
blessed be God, comfortable views of the Spirit of
God teaching and instructing us by his word, lead-
ing us into all truth, and making us both willing
and obedient to the instruction of his word. And I
cannot see the least use that the greatest knowledge
of the disputed points of religion, which have made
such confusions in the world, would have been to
us, if we could have obtained it.---But I must go
on with the historical part of things, and take every
part in its order.

After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all 1
said to him, and speak pretty fluently, though in
broken English, to me, I acquainted him with my
own history, or at least so much of it as related to
my coming to this place; how I had lived here, and
how long: I let him into the mystery, for such it
was to him, of gunpowder and bullet, and taught
him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, which he
was wonderfully delighted with; and I made him a
belt, with a frog hanging to it, such as in England
we wear hangers in; and in the frog, instead of a
hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only
as good a weapon, in some cases, but much more
useful upon other occasions.

I described to him the country of Europe, parti-l
l?

l

OF ROBINSON CR1) SOE. 285

cularly England, which I came from; how we lived,
how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one
another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of
the world. I gave him an account of the wreck
which I had been on board of, and showed him, as
near as I could, the place where she lay; but she
was all beaten in pieces before, and gone. I showed
him the ruins of our boat, which we lost when we
escaped, and which I could not stir with my whole
strength then; but was now fallen almost all to
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing
a great while, and said nothing. I asked him what
it was he studied upon? At last, says he, " Me see
such boat like come to place at my nation." I did
not understand him a good while; but, at last,
when I had examined farther into it, I understood
by him, that a boat, such as that had been, came
on shore upon the country where he lived; that is,
as he explained it, was driven thither by stress of
weather. I presently imagined that some European
ship must have been cast away upon their coast,
and the boat might get loose, and drive ashore; but
was so dull, that I never once thought of men mak-
ing their escape from a wreck thither, much less
whence they might come: so I only inquired after a
description of the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough;
but brought me better to understand him when he
'added with some warmth, " We save the white
mans from drown." Then I presently asked him,
if there were any white mans, as-he called them, in
the boat? " Yes," he said; " the boat full of white
mans." I asked him how many 1 He told upon his
fingers seventeen. I asked him then what became
of them? He told me, " They live, they dwell at
my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for I pre-
sently imagined that these might be the men he-
longing to the ship that was cast away in the sight
of my island, as I now called it; and who, after
the ship was struck on the rock, and they saw her
inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat,
and were landed upon that wild shore among the
savages. Upon this, I inquired of him more criti-
cally what was become of them; he assured me they
lived still there; that they had been there about four
years; that the savages let them alone, and gave
them victuals to live on. I asked him how it came
to pass they did' not kill them, and eat them? He
said, " No, they make brother with them ;" that
is, as I understood him, a truce; and then he
added, " They no. eat mans but when make the war
fight;" that is to say, they never eat any men but
such as come to fight with them, and are taken in
battle. ,

It was after this some considerable time, that
being upon the top of the hill, at the east side of
the island, from whence, as I have said, I had, in a
clear day, discovered the main or continent of
America, Friday, the weather being very serene,
looks very earnestly towards the main land, and, in
a kind of surprise, falls a jumping and dancing,
and calls out to me, for I was at some distance
from him. I asked him what was the matter? " 0
joy!" says he; " O glad! there see my country,
there my nation !" I observed an extraordinary
sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his
eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a
strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to be in his
own country again. This observation of mine put
a great many thoughts into me, which made me at
first not so easy about my new man Friday as'I
was before; and I made no doubt but that if
Friday could get back to his own nation again, he
would not only forget all his religion, but all his
obligation to me, and would be forward enough
to give his countrymen an account of me, . and
come back perhaps with a hundred or him of them,
and make a feast upon me, at which he might be
as merry as he used to be with those of his ene-
mies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged
the poor honest creature very much, for which I
was very sorry afterwards. However, as my jealousy
increased, and held me some weeks, I was a little
more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind to
him as before: in which I was certainly in the wrong
too; the honest, grateful creature, having no thought
about it, but what consisted with the best princi-
ples, both as a religious Christian, and as a grate-
ful friend; as appeared afterWards, to my full satis-
faction.

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be
sure I was every day pumping him, to see if he
would discover any of the new thoughts which I
suspected were in him: but I found every thing he
said was so honest and so innocent, that I could find
nothing to nourish my suspicion; and, in spite of
all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his
own again; nor did he, in the least, perceive that I
was uneasy, and therefore I could not suspect him
of deceit.

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the con-
tinent, I called to him, and said, " Friday, do not
you wish yourself in your own country, your own
nation?"--" Yes," he said, " I be much 0 glad to
he at my own nation."--" What would you do
there 1" said I: " would you turn wild again, eat
men's flesh again, and be. a savage as you were be--
fore?" He looked full of concern, and shaking his
head, said, " No, no, Friday tell them to live good;
tell them to pray God; tell them to eat corn--bread,
cattle-flesh, milk ; no eat man again."-----" Why then,"
said] to him, "they will kill you." He looked
grave at that, and then said, " No, no; they no kill
me, they willing love learn." He meant by this,
they would be willing to learn. He added, they
learned much of the bearded mans that came in
the boat. Then I asked him if he would go back
to them. He smiled at that, and told me that he
could not swim so far. I told him, I would make
a canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I
would go with him. " I go!" says I, " why, they
will eat me if I come there."---" No, no," says he,
" me make they no eat you; me make they much
love you." He meant, he would tell them howl
had killed his enemies, and saved his life, and so he
would make them love me. Then he told me, as
well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen
white men, or bearded men, as he called them, who
came on shore there in distress.

From this time, I confess I had a mind to venture
over, and see if I could possibly join with those
bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards
and Portuguese: not doubting but if I could, we
might find some method to escape from thence,
being upon the continent, and a good company
together, better than I could from an island forty
miles off the shore, and alone, without help. So,
after some. days, I took Friday to work again, by
way of discourse; and told him I would give him a
boat to go back to his own nation; and accordingly
I carried him to my frigate, which lay on the other
side of the island, and having cleared it of water
(for I always kept it sunk in water,) I brought it
out, showed it him, and we both went into it. I
found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing
it, and would make it go almost as swift again as I
could. So when he was in, I said to him, "" Well,
now, Friday, shall we go to your nation '1" He
looked very dull at my saying so; which, it seems,
was because he thought the boat too small to go so
far: I then told him 1 had a bigger; so the next
dayI went to the place where the first boat lay
which I had made, but which I could not get into
the water. He said that was big enough: but then,
as 1 had taken no care of it, and it had lain two or
three and twenty years there, the sun had split and
dried it, that it was in a manner rotten. Friday
told me such a boat would do very well, and would
carry " much enough vittle, drink, brea ;" that
was his way of talking.

Upon the whole, Iwas by this time so fixed upon
my design of going Over with him to the continent,

that I told him we would go and make one as big
VOL. I. c c
as that, and he should go home in it. He answered
not one word, but looked very grave and sad. I
asked him what was the matter with him? He
asked me again, " Why you angry mad with Friday?
what me done?" I asked him what he meant: I
told him I was not angry with him at all. " No
angry l" says he, repeating the words several times,
" why send Friday home away to my nation?"--
" Why," says I, " Friday, did not you say you
wished you were there'l"----~" Yes, yes," says he,
" wish be both there; no wish Friday there, no
master there." In a word, he would not think of
going there without me. " I go there, Friday!"
says I, " what shall I do there 1" He returned very
quick upon me at this: " You do great deal much
good," says he; " you teach wild mans be good,
sober, tame mans; you tell them know God, pray
God, and live new life."----" Alas! Friday," says I,
" thou knowest not what thou sayest; I am but an
ignorant man myself."---" Yes, yes," says he, " you
teachee me good, you teachee them good."----" No,
no, Friday," says I, " you shall go without me; leave
me here to live by myself, as I did before." He
looked confused again at that word; and running
to one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he
takes it up hastily, and gives it to me. " What
must I do with this?" says I to him. " You take
kill Friday," says he. " What must I kill you for?"
said I again. He returns very quick, " What you
send Friday away for? Take kill Friday, no send
Friday away." This he spoke so earnestly, that I
saw tears stand in his eyes: in a word, I so plainly
discovered the utmost affection in him to me, and a
firm resolution in him, that I told him then, and
often after, that I would never send him away from
me, if he was willing to stay with me.

Upon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse,
a settled affection to me, and that nothing should
part him from me, so I found all the foundation of
his desire to go to his own country was laid in his
ardent affection to the people, and his hopes of my
doing them good; a thing, which, as I had no notion
of myself, so I had not the least thought, or inten-
tion, or desire of undertaking it. But still I found
a strong inclination to my attempting an escape, as
above, founded on the supposition gathered from
the discourse, viz. that there were seventeen bearded
men there: and, therefore, without any more delay,
I went to work with Friday, to find out a great tree
proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe,
to undertake the voyage. There were trees enough
in the island to have built a little fleet, not of
periaguas, or canoes, but even of good large vessels:
but the main thing I looked at was, to get one so
near the water that we might launch it when it was
made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first.
At last, Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he
knew much better than I what kind of wood was

fittest for it; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood
to call the tree we cut down, except that it was very
like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour
and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow or
cavity of this tree out, to make it for a boat, but I
showed him how to cut it with tools; which, after I
had showed him how to use, he did very handily:
and in about a month's hard labour we finished it,
and made it very handsome; especially when, with
our axes, whichl showed him how to handle, we
cut and hewed' the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this, however, it- cost us near a fort-
night's time to get her along, as it were inch by
inch, upon great rollers into the water; but when
she was in, she would have carried twenty men with
g1 eat ease.

When she was in the water, and though she was
so big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity,
and' how swift my man Friday would manage her,
turn her, and paddle her along. So I asked him
if he would, and if we might" venture over in her.
" Yes," he said, " we venture over in her very well,
though great blow wind." However, I had a far-
ther design that he knew nothing of, and that was
to make a'mast and a sail, and to fit her with an
anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was easy
enough to get; so I pitched upon a straight young
cedar tree, which I found near the place, and which
there were great plenty of in the island: and I set
Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him direc-
tions how to shape and'order it. But as to the sail,
that was my particular care. I knew I had old sails,
or rather pieces of old sails enough; but as I had
had them now six and twenty years by me, and had
not been very careful to preserve them, not imagin-
ing that I should ever have this kind of use for them,
I did not doubt but they were all rotten,- and, in-
deed, most of them were so. However, I found
two pieces, which appeared pretty good, and with
these I went to work; and with a great deal of pains,
and awkward stitching, you may be sure, for want
of needles, I, at length, made a three-cornered ugly
thing, like what we call in England a shoulder of
mutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom, and a
little short sprit at the top, such as usually our ships'
long-boats sail with, and such as I best knew how
to manage, as it was such a one I had to the boat
in which I made my escape from Barbary, as related
in the first part of my story.

I was near two months performing this last work,
viz. rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I
finished them very complete, making a small stay,
and a sail, or fore-sail, to it, to assist, if we should
turn to windward; and, which was more than all,
I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with. I
was but a bungling shipwright, yet, - as I knew the
usefulness, and even necessity of such a thing, I
applied myself with so much pains to do it, that at
lastI brought it to pass; though, considering the
many dull contrivances I had for it that failed, 1
think it cost me almost as much labour as making
the boat.

After all this was done, I had. my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for, though he knew very well how to paddle
a canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail
and a rudder; and was the most amazed when he
saw me work the boat to and again in the sea by
the rudder, and how the sail gibbed, and filled this
way, or that way, as the course we sailed changed;
1 say, when he saw this, he stood like one astonished
and amazed. However, with a little use, I made
all these things familiar to him, and he became an

c c 2
expert sailor, except that as to the compass; I could
make him understand very little of that. On the
other hand, as there was very little cloudy weather,
and seldom or never any fogs in those parts, there
was the less occasion for a compass, seeing the stars
were always to be seen by night, and the shore by
day, except in the rainy seasons, and then nobody
cared to stir abroad, either by land or sea.

I was now entered on the seven and twentieth
year of my captivity in this place; though the three
last years that I had this creature with me ought
rather to be left out of the account, my habitation
being quite of another kind than in all the rest of
the time. I kept-- the anniversary of my landing
here with the same thankfulness to God for his mer~
cies as at first; and if I had such cause of acknow-
ledgment at first, I had much more so now, having
such additional testimonies of the care of Providence
over me, and the great h0p'es I had of being effec-
tually and speedily delivered; for I had an invinci-
ble impression upon my thoughts that my delive-
rance was at hand, and that I should not be another
year in this place. Iwent on, however, with my
husbandry; digging, planting, and fencing, as usual.
I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
necessary thing as before.

The rainy season was, in the mean time, upon
me, when I kept more within doors than at other
times. We had stowed our new vessel as secure as
we could, bringing her up into the creek, where,
as I said in the beginning, I landed my rafts from
the ship; and hauling her up to the shore, at high-
water mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock,
just big enough to hold her, and just deep enough
to give her water enough to float in; and then,
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam across
the end of it, to keep the water out; and so she
lay dry, as to the tide, from the sea; and to keep
the rain off, we laid a great many boughs of trees,
so thick, that she was as well thatched as a house;
and thus we waited for the months of November
and December, in which I designed to make my
adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, as
the thought of my design returned with the fair
weather, I was preparing daily for the voyage: and
the first thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity
of provisions, being the stores for our voyage: and
intended,'in a week or a fortnight's time, to open
the dock, and launch out our boat. I was busy one
morning upon something of this kind, when I called
to Friday, and bid him go to the sea-shore, and see
if he could find a turtle, or tortoise, a thing which
we generally got once a week, for the sake of the
eggs as well as the flesh. Friday had not been long
gone, when he came running back, and flew over
my outer-wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and before
I had time to speak to him, he cries out to me, " 0
master! 0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad !"---" What's
the matter, Friday?" says I. " O yonder, there,"
says he, " one, two, three canoe; one, two, three!"
By this way of speaking, I concluded there were
six; but, on inquiry, I found it was but three.
" Well, Friday," says I, " do not be frightened."
So I heartened him up as well as I could: however,
I saw the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for
nothing ran in his head but that they were come to
look for him, and would cut him in pieces, and eat
him; and the poor fellow trembled so, that I scarce
knew what to do with him. I comforted him as
well as I could, and told him I was in as much
danger as he, and that they would eat me as well as
him. " But," says I, " Friday, we must resolve to
fight them. Can you fight, Friday?"--" Me shoot,"
says he; but there come many great number."--
" No matter for that," said I, again; " our guns
will fright them that we do not kill." So I asked
him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would
defend me, and stand by me, and do just as I bid
him. He said, " Me die, when you bid die, mas-
ter." So I went and fetched a good dram of rum
and gave him; for I had been so good a husband of
my rum, that I had a great deal left. When he
drank it, I made him take the two fowling-pieces,
which we always carried, and loaded them with
large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-bullets: then
I took four muskets, and loaded them with two
slugs, and five small bullets each; and my two pis-
tols I loaded with a brace' of bullets each: I hung
my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and
gave Friday his hatchet. When I had thus prepared
myself, I took my perspective-glass, and went up to
the side of the hill, to see what I could discover;
and I found quickly, by my glass, that there were
one and twenty savages, three prisoners, and three
canoes; and that their whole business seemed to be
the triumphant banquet upon these three human
bodies; a barbarous feast indeed! but nothing more
than, as I had observed, was usual with them. I
observed also, that they were landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his escape, but
nearer to my creek: where the shore was low, and
where a thick wood came almost close down to the
sea. This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman
errand these wretches came about, filled me with

such indignation, that I came down again to Friday,
and told him I was resolved to go down to them,
and kill them all;- and asked him if he would stand
by me. He had now got over his fright, and his
spirits being a little raised with the dram I had given

him, he was very cheerful, and told me, as before,
he would die when I bid die.

In this fit of fury, I took and divided the arms
which I had charged, as before, between us: I gave
Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three
guns upon his shoulder; and I took one pistol, and
the other three guns, myself; and in this posture
we marched out. I took a small bottle of rum in
my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more
powder and bullets; and, as to orders, I charged
him to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or
shoot, or do any thing, till I bid him; and, in the
mean time, not to speak a word'. In this posture,
I fetched a compass to- my. right hand of near a
mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into
the wood, -so that I might come within shot of
them before I should be discovered, which I had
seen, by my glass, it was easy to do.

While I was making this march, my formerthoughts returning, I began to abate my resolution:
I do not mean that I entertained any fear of their
number; for, as they were naked, unarmed wretches,
it is certain I was superior to them; nay, though I
had been alone. But it occurred to my thoughts,
what call, what occasion, much less what necessity
I was in, to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack
people who had neither done or intended me any
wrong? Who, as to me, were innocent, and whose
barbarous customs were their own disaster; being,
'in them, a token indeed of God's having left them,
with the other nations of that part of the world, to
such stupidity, and to such inhuman courses; but
did not call me to take upon me to be ajudge of
their actions, much less an executioner of his jus-
tice; that, whenever he thought fit, he would take
the cause into his own hands, and, by national ven-
geance, punish them, as a people, for national
crimes; but that, in the mean time, it was none of
my business; that, it was true, Friday mightjustify
it, because he was a declared enemy, and in a state
of war with those very particular people, and it
was lawful for him to attack them; but I could not
say the same with respect to myself. These things
were so warmly pressed upon my thoughts all the
way as I went, that I resolved I would only go and
place myself near them, that I might observe their
barbarous feast, and that I would act then as God
should direct; but that, unless something offered
that was more a call to me than yet I knew of, I
would not meddle with them. .

With this resolution I entered the wood; and,
with all possible weariness and silence, Friday fol-
lowing close at my heels, I marched till I came to
the skirt of the wood, on the side which was next
to them, only that one corner of the wood lay be-
tween me and them. Here I called softly to Friday,
and showing him a great tree, which was just at the
corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and
bring me word if he could see there plainly what
they were doing. He did so; and came immedi-
ately back to me, and told me they might be plainly
viewed there; that they were all about their fire,
eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that
another lay bound upon the sand, a little from
them, which, he said, they would kill next, and
which fired the very soul within me. He told me
it was not one of their nation, but one of the
bearded men he had told me of, that came to their
country in the boat. I was filled with horror at
the \ery naming' the white-bearded man; and,
going to the tree, I saw plainly, by myb class, a white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea, with his
hands and his feet tied with flags, or things like
rushes, and that he was an European, and had
clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket be-

yond it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the
place where I was, which, byg ooing a little way
about, I saw I might come at undiscovered, and
that then I should be within half a shot of them:
so I withheld my passion, though I was indeed en-
raged to the highest degree; and going back about
twenty paces, I got behind some bushes, which held
all the way till I came to the other tree; and then
came to a little rising ground, which gave me a
full view of them, at the distance of about eighty
yards.

I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of
the dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close
huddled together, and had just sent the other two
to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, per-
haps, limb by limb, to their fire; and they were
stooping down to untie the bands at his feet. I
turned to Friday----" Now, Friday," said I, " do as
I bid thee." Friday said he would. " Then, F ri--
day," says I, " do exactly as you see me do; fail in
nothing." So I set down one of the muskets and
the fowling-piece upon the ground, and Friday did
the like by his; and with the other musket I took

 

my aim at the savages, bidding him to do the like:
then asking him if he was ready, he said,-" Yes."
" Then fire at them," said I; and the same moment
I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that,
on the side that he shot, he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and on my side, I killed one,
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure,
in a dreadful consternation; and all of them who
were not hurt jumped upon their feet, but did not
immediately know which way to run, or which way
to look, for they knew not from whence their de-
struction came. Friday kept his eyes close upon
me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe what I
did; so, as soon as the first shot was made, I threw
down the piece, and took up the fowling-piece, and
Friday did the like: he saw me cock and present;
he did the same again. " Are you ready, Friday 'l"
said I.--" Yes," says he. " Let fly, then," says I,
"in the name of God !" and with that, I fired again
among the amazed wretches, and so did Friday;
and as our pieces were now loaden with what I
called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets, we found
only two drop, but so many were wounded, that
they ran about yelling and screaming like mad
creatures, all bloody, and most of them miserably
wounded, whereof three more fell quickly after,
though not quite dead. .

" NOW,' Friday," says I, laying down the dis.
charged pieces, and taking up the musket which
was yet loaden, " follow me;" which he did with
a great deal of courage; upon which I rushed out
of the wood, and showed myself, and Friday close
at my foot. As soon as'I perceived they saw me, I
shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so
too; and running as fast as I could, which, by the
way, was not very fast, being loaded with arms as
I was, I made directly towards the poor victim, who

VOL. I. D D
was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or shore, be-
tween the place where they satand the sea. The
two butahers, who were just going to work with
him, had left him at the surprise of our first fire,
and fled in a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had
jumped into a canoe, and three more of the rest
made ,the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade
him staprforwards, and fire at them; he understood
1113 infigediately, and running about forty yards, to
beetleqrer them, he shot at them, and I thought he
had killed them all, for I saw them all fall of a heap
into the boat, though I saw two of them up again
quickly: how ever, the killed two of them, and
wounded the third so, that he lay down in the bot-
tom of the boat as if he had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out
my knife and cut the flags that bound the poor vic-
tim; and loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him
up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what
he was. He answered in Latin, Christianus; but
was so weak and faint that he could scarce stand or
speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket, and
gave it him, making signs that he should drink,
which he did; and I gave him a piece of bread,
which he eat. Then I asked him what countryman
he was: and he said, Espagniole; and being a little
recovered, let me know, by all the signs he could
possibly make, how much he was in my debt for his
deliverance. " Seignior," said I, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, " we will talk after-
wards, but we must fight now: if you have any

strength left, take this pistol and sword, and lay
about you." He took them very thankfully; and
no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if
they had put new'vigour into him, he flew upon his
murderers like a fury, and had cut two of them in
pieces in an instant; for the truth is, as the whole
was a surprise to them, so the poor creatures were
so much frightened with the noise of our pieces,
that they fell down for mere amazement and fear,
and had no more power to attempt their own escape,
than their flesh had to resist our shot: and that was .,
the case of those five that Friday shot at in the
boat; for as three of them fell with the hurt they
received, so the other two fell with the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing,
being willing to keep my charge ready, because I
had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword: so I
called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree
from whence we first fired, and fetch the arms which
lay there that had been discharged, which he did
with great swiftness; and then giving him my mus-
ket, I sat down myself to load all the rest again, and
bade them come to me when they wanted. While
I was loading these pieces, there happened a fierce
engagement between the Spaniard and one of the
savages, who made at him with one of their great
wooden swords, the same-like weapon that was to
have killed him before, if I had not prevented it.
The Spaniard, who was as bold and brave as could
be imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian
a good while, and had cut him two great wounds on
his head; but the savage being a stout, lusty fel-
low, closing in with him, had thrown him down,
being faint, and was wringing my sword out of his
hand; when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely
quitting the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle,
shot the savage through the body, and killed him
upon the spot, before I, who was running to help
him, could come near him.

Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches, with no weapon in his hand but his
hatchet; and with that he dispatched those three,
who, as I said before, were wounded at first, and
fallen, and all the rest he could come up with: and
the Spaniard coming to- me for a gun, I gave him
one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued
two of the savages, and wounded them both; but,
as he was not able to run, they both got from him
into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and
killed one of them, but the other was too nimble
for him; and though he was wounded, yet had
plunged himself into the sea, and swam, with all
his might, off to those two who were left in the
canoe, which three in the canoe, with one wounded,
that we knew not whether he died or no, were all
that escaped our hands of one and twenty; the ac<<
count of the whole is as follows: three killed at our
first shot from the tree; two killed at the next shot;
two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed by
Friday of those at first wounded; one killed by
Friday in the wood; three killed by the Spaniard;
four killed, being found dropped here and there, of
their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of
them; four escaped in the boat, whereof one
wounded, if not dead.--Twent-y-one in all.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get
out of gun-shot, and though Friday made two or
three shots at them, I did not find that he hit any
of them. Friday would fain have had me take one
of their canoes, and pursue them; and, indeed, I
was very anxious about their escape, lest carrying
the news home to their people, they should come
back perhaps with two or three hundred of the ca~
noes, and devour us by mere multitude; so I con-
sented to pursue them by sea, and running to one
of their canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday fol-
low me; but when I was in the canoe, Iwas sur-
prised to find another poor creature lie there, bound
hand and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaugh--
ter, and almost dead with fear, not knowing what
was the matter; for he had not been able to look
up over the side of the boat, he was tied so hard
neck and heels, and had been tied so long, that he
had really but little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes,
which they had bound him with, and would have
helped him up; but he could not stand or speak,
but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems,
still, that he was only unbound in order to be killed.
When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to
him, and tell him of his deliverance; and, pulling
out my bottle, made him give the poor wretch a
dram; which, with the news of his being delivered,
revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when
Friday came to hear him speak, and look in his
face, it would have moved any one to tears to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged
him, cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about,
danced, sung; then cried again, wrung his hands,
beat his own face and head; and then sung and
jumped about again, like a distracted creature. 1t

1) D 2
was a good while before I could make him speak to
me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he
came a little to himself, he told me that it was his
father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me
to see what ecstasy and filial affection had worked
in this poor savage at the sight of his father, and
of his being delivered from death; nor, indeed, can
I describe half the extravagances of his affection
after this; for he went into the boat, and out of
the boat, a great many times: when he went in to
him, he would sit down by him, open his breast,
and hold his father's head close to his bosom for
many minutes together, to nourish it; then he took
his arms and ancles, which were numbed and stiff
with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them with
his hands; and I, perceiving what the case was,_
gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them
with, which did them a great deal of good.

This affair put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now got almost
out of sight; and it was happy for us that we did
not, for it blew so hard within two hours after, and
before they could be got a quarter of their way, and
continued blowing so hard all night, and that from
the north-west, which was against them, that I
could not suppose their boat could live, or that
they ever reached their own coast.

But, to return to Friday; he was so busy about
his father, that I could not find in my heart to take
him off for some time: but after I thought he could
leave him a little, I called him to me, and he came

jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest
extreme; then I asked him if he had given his
father any bread. He shook his head, and said,
" None; ugly dog eat all up self." I then gave him
a cake of bread, out of a little pouch I carried
on purpose; I also gave him a dram for himself,
but he would not taste it, but carried it to his
father. I had in my pocket two or three bunches
of raisins, so I gave him a handful of them for his
father. He had no sooner given his father these
raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat, and
run away, as if he had been hewitched, he ran at
such a rate; for he was the swiftest fellow on his
feet that ever I saw: I say, he ran at such a rate,
that he was out of sight, as it were, in an instant;
and though I called, and hallooed out too, after
him, it was all one, away he went; and in a quar-
ter of an hourI saw him come back again, though
not so fast as he went; and as he came nearer, I
found his pace slacker, because he had something
in his hand. When he came up to me, I found he
had been quite home for an earthen jug, or pot, to
bring his father some fresh water, and that he had
two more cakes or loaves of bread; the bread he
gave me, but the water he carried to his father;
however, as I was very thirsty too, I took a little
sup of it. The water revived his father more than
all the rum or Spirits I had given him, for he was
just fainting with thirst.

When his father had drank, I called to him to
know if there was any water left: he said, " Yes;"
and I bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who
was in as much want of it as his father; and I sent
one of the cakes, that Friday brought, to the
Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and was
reposing himself upon a green place under the shade
of a tree; and whose limbs were also very stifi', and
very much swelled with the rude bandage he had
been tied with. \Vhen I saw that, upon Friday's
coming to him with the water, he sat up and drank,
and took the bread, and began to eat, I went to him
and gave him a handful of raisins: he looked up in
my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thank-
fulness that could appear in any countenance; but
was so weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted
himself in the fight, that he could not stand up
upon his feet; he tried to do it two or three times,
but was really not able, his ancles were so swelled
and so painful to him; so I bade him sit still, and
caused Friday to rub his ancles, and bathe them
with rum, as he had done his father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every
two minutes, or perhaps less, all the while he was
here, turn his head about, to see if his father was
in the same place and posture as he left him sitting;
and at last he found he was not to be seen; at which
he started up, and, without speaking a word, flew
with that swiftness to him, that one could scarce
perceive his feet to touch the ground as he went:
but when he 'came, he only found he had laid him-
self down to ease his limbs, so Friday came back to
me presently; and then I spoke to the Spaniard to
let Friday help him up, if he could, and lead him
to the boat, and then he should carry him to our
dwelling, where I would take care of him: but
Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard
quite up upon his back, and carried him away to the
boat, and set him down softly upon the side or
gunnel of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of
it; and then lifting him quite in, he set him close
to his father; and presently stepping out again,
launched the boat off, and paddled it along the
shore faster than I could walk, though the wind
blew pretty hard too: so he brought them both
safe into our creek, and leaving them in the boat,
ran away to fetch the other canoe. As he-passed
me, 1 spoke to him, and asked him whither he went.
He told me, " Go fetch more boatz" so away he
went like the wind, for sure never man or horse ran
like him; and he had the other canoe in the creek
almost as soon as I got to it by, land; so he wafted
me over, and then went to help our new guests out
of the boat, which he did; but they were neither
of them able to walk, so that poor Friday knew not
what to do.

To remedy this, 1 went to work in my thought,
and calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the
bank while he came to me, I soon made a kind of
a hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I
carried them both up together upon it, between us.

But when we got them to the outside of our wall,
or fortification, we were at a worse loss than be-
fore, for it was impossible to get them over, and I
was resolved not to break it down: so I set to work
again; and Friday and I, in about two hours' time,
made a very handsome tent, covered with old sails,
and above that with boughs of trees, being in the
space without our outward fence, and between. that
and the grove of young wood which I had planted:
and here we made them two beds of such things as
I had, viz. of good rice-straw, with blankets laid
upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them, on
each bed.

My island was now peopled, and I thought my-
self very rich in subjects; and it was a merry re-
flection, which I frequently made, how like a king
I looked. First of all, the. whole country was my
own mere property, so that 1 had an undoubted
right of dominion. Secondly, my people were per-
fectly subjected; I was absolutely lord and law-
giver; they all owed their lives to me, and were
ready to lay down their lives, if there had been
occasion for it, for me. It was remarkable, too, I
had but three subjects, and they were of three dif--
t'ereut religions: my man Friday was a Protestant,
his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spa-
niard was a l'apist: however, I allowed liberty of
conscience throughout my dominionsz--But this is
by the. way.

As soon as] had secured my two weak rescued
prisoners, and given them shelter, and a place to
rest them upon, I began to think of making some
provision for them; and the first thing I did, I or-
dered Friday to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid
and a goat, out of my particular flock, to be killed;
when I cut oti' the hinder-quarter, and chopping it
into small pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling
and stewing, and made them a very good dish, I
assure you, of flesh and broth, having put some
barley and rice. also into the broth: and as I cooked
it without doors, for I made no fire within my inner
wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and having
set a table. there for them, I sat down, and eat my
dinner also with them, and, as well as I could,
cheered them, and encouraged them. Friday was
my interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed,
to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke the
language of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes, and go and fetch
our muskets and other fire-arms, which, for want of
time, we had left upon the place of battle: and,
the next day, I ordered him to go and bury the
dead bodies of the savages, which lay open to the
sun, and would presently be offensive. lalso or-
dered him to bury the horrid remains of their bar-
barous feast, which I knew were pretty much, and
which I could not think of doing myself; nay, I
could not bear to see them, if I went that way; all
which he punctually performed, and efl'aced the
very appearance of the savages being there; so that
when] went again, I could scarce know where it
was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood
pointing to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation
with my two new subjects: and, first, I set Friday
to inquire of his father what he thought of the
escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether
we might expect a return of them, with a power
too great for us to resist. His first opinion was,
that the savages in the boat never could live out
the storm which blew that night they went off, but
must, of necessity, be drowned, or driven south to
those other shores, where they were as sure to be
devoured as they were to be drowned, if they were
cast away: but, as to what they would do, if they
came safe on shore, he said he knew not; but it
was his opinion, that they were so dreadfully fright-
cned with the manner of their being attacked, the
noise, and the fire, that he believed they would tell
the people they were all killed by thunder and
lightning, not by the hand of man; and that the
two which appeared, viz. Friday and I, were two
heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy
them, and not men with weapons. This, he said,
he knew; because he heard them all cry out so, in
their language, one to another; for it was imp'ossible
for them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and
speak thunder, and hill at a distance, without lifting
up the hand, as was done now: and this old savage
was in the right; for, as I understood since, by
other hands, the savages never attempted to go over
to the island afterwards, they were so terrified with
the accounts given by those four men (for, it seems,
they dideseape the sea,) that they believed whoever
went to that enchanted island would be destroyed
with fire from the gods. This, however, I knew
not; and therefore was under continual apprehen-
sions for a good while, and kept always upon my
guard, with all my army: for, as there were now
four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred
of them, fairly in the open field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes appear-
ing, the fear of their coming were off; and I began
to take my former thoughts of a voyage to the main
into consideration; being likewise assured, by Fri~
day's father, that I might depend upon good usage
from their nation, on his account, if Iwould go.
But my thoughts were a little suspended whenI had
a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and when I
understood that there were sixteen more of his coun-
trvmen and Portuguese, who, having been cast away,
and made their escape to that side, lived there at
peace, indeed, with the savages, but were very sore
put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I
asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and
found they were a Spanish ship, bound from the
Rio de la Plata to the Havanna, being directed to
leave their loading there, which was chiefly hides
and silver, and to bring back what European goods
they could meet with there; that they had five Por-
tuguese seamen on board, whom they took out of
another wreck; that five of their own men were
drowned, when first the ship was lost, and that these
escaped, through infinite dangers and hazards, and
arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast, where
they expected to have been devoured every moment.
He told me they had some arms with them, but they
were perfectly useless, for that they had neither pow-
der nor ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled
all their powder, but a little, which they used, at
their first landing, to provide themselves some
food.

I asked him what he thought would become of
them there, and if they had formed any design of
making their escape. He said they had many con-
sultations about it; but that having neither vessel,
nor tools to build one, nor provisions of any kind,
their councils always ended in tears and despair. I
asked him how he thought they would receive a
proposal from me, which might tend towards an
escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might

VOL. I. E E
not be done. I told him with freedom, I feared
mostly their treachery and ill usage of me, if I put
my life in their hands; for that gratitude was no
inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men
always square their dealings by the obligations they
had received, so much as they did by the advantages
they expected. I told him it would be very hard
that I should be the instrument of their deliverance,
and that they should afterwards make me their pri-
soner in New Spain, where an Englishman was cer-
tain to be made a sacrifice, what necessity, or what
accident soever brought him thither; and that I
had rather be delivered up to the savages, and be
devoured alive, than fall into the merciless claws of
the priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. 1
added, that otherwise I was persuaded, if they were
all here, we might, with so many hands, build a
bark large enough to carry us all away, either to
the Brazils, southward, or to the islands, or Spanish
coast, northward; but that if, in requital, they
should, when I had put weapons into their hands,
carry me by force among their own people, I might
be ill used for my kindness to them, and make my
case worse than it was before.

He answered, with a great deal of candour and
ingenuousness, that their condition was so misera-
ble, and that they were so sensible of it, that, he
believed, they would abhor the thought of using
any man unkindly that should contribute to their
deliverance; and that if I pleased, he would go to
them with the old man, and discourse with them
about it and return again, and bring me their answer;
that he would make conditions with them upon their
"A" 'C/LJI.',u-'- .. i '

 

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 315

solemn oath, that they should be absolutely under
my leading, as their commander and captain; and
that they should swear upon the holy sacraments
and gospel, to be true to me, and go to such Chris-
tian country as that] should agree to, and no other,
and to be directed wholly and absolutely by my
orders, till they were landed safely in such country
as I intended; and that he would bring a contract
from them, under their hands, for that purpose.
Then he told me he would first swear to me him-
self, that he would never stir from me as long as
he lived, till I gave him orders; and that he would
take my side to the last drop of his blood, if there
should happen the least breach of faith among his
countrymen. He told me they were all of them
very civil, honest men, and they were under the
greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons
or clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and dis-
cretion of the savages; out of all hopes of ever re-
turning to their own country; and that he was sure,
if I would undertake their relief, they would live
and die by me.

Upon these assurances, I resolved to venture to
relieve them, if possible, and to send the old savage
and this Spaniard over to them to treat. But when
we had got all things in readiness to go, the Spa-
niard himself started an objection, which had so
much prudence in it, on one hand, and so much
sincerity on the other hand, that I could not but
be very well satisfied in it; and, by his advice, put
off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half
a year. The case was thus: He had been with us
now about a month, during which time I had let
him see in what manner I had provided, with the
assistance of Providence, for my support; and he
saw evidently what stock of corn and rice I had laid
up; which, though it was more than suflicient for

myself, yet it was not sufficient, without good hus~
ba'ndry, for my family, now it was increased to
four; but much less would it be sufficient if his
countrymen, who were, as he said, sixteen, still alive,
should come over; and, least of all, would it be
sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build
one, for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies
of America; so he told me he thought it would be
more adviseable to let him and the other two dig
and cultivate some more land, as much as I could
spare seed to sow, and that we should wait another
harvest, that we might have a supply of corn for his
countrymen, when they should come; for want
might be a temptation to them to disagree, or not
to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out
of one difficulty into another. " You know," says he,
" the children of Israel, though they rejoiced at first
for their being delivered out of Egypt, yet rebelled
even against God himself, that delivered them,
when they came to want bread in the wilderness."
His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I could not but be very well pleased with
his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his fide-
lity: so we fell to digging all four of us, as well as
the wooden tools we were furnished with permitted;
and in about a month's time, by the end of which
it was seed-time, we had got as much land cured
and trimmed up as we sowed two and twenty bushels
of barley on, and sixteen jars of rice; which was,
in short, all the seed we had to spare: nor, indeed,
did we leave ourselves barley suflicient for our own
food, for the six months that we had to expect our
crop; that is to say, reckoning from the time we
set our seed aside for sowing; for it is not to be
supposed it is six months in the ground in that
country.

Having now society enough, and our number be-
ing sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if
they had come, unless their number had been very
great, we went freely all over the island, whenever
we found occasion; and as here we had our escape
or deliverance upon our thoughts, it was impossible,
at least for me, to have the means of it out of mine.
For this purpose, I marked out several trees which
I thought fit for our work, and I set Friday and his
father to cutting them down; and then I caused the
Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thoughts on that
affair, to oversee and direct their work. I showed
them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a
large tree into single planks, and I caused them to
do the like, till they had made about a dozen large
planks of good oak, near two feet broad, thirty-five
feet long, and from two inches to four inches thick:
what prodigious labour it took up, any one may
imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and, for
this purpose, I made Friday and the Spaniard go out
one day, and myself with Eriday the next day (for
we took our turns,) and by this means we got about
twenty young kids to breed up with the rest; for
whenever we shot the dam, we saved the kids, and

EE2
added them to our flock. But, above all, the sea-
son for curing the grapes coming on, I caused such
a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun,
that, I believe, had we been at Alieant, where the
raisins of the sun are cured, we could have filled
sixty or eighty barrels; and these, with our bread,
was a great part of our food, and was very good
living too, I assure you, for it is exceeding nourish-
in .

gIt was now harvest, and our crop in good order:
it was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in
the island, but, however, it was enough to answer
our end; for from twenty-two bushels of barley we
brought in and threshed out above two hundred and
twenty bushels, and the like in proportion of the
rice; which was store enough for our food to the
next harvest, though all the sixteen Spaniards had
been~ on shore with me; or if we had been ready for
a voyage, it would very plentifully have victualled
our ship to have carried us to any part of the world,
that is to say, any part of America. When we had
thus housed and secured our magazine of corn, we
fell to work to make more wicker-ware, viz. great
baskets, in which we kept it; and the Spaniard was
very handy and dexterous at this part, and often
blamed me that I did not make some things for de-
fence of this kind of work; butI sawno need of it.

And now having a full supply of food for all the
guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go
over to the main, to see what he could do with
those he had left behind them there. I gave him a
strict charge not to bring any man with him who
would not first swear, in the presence of himself
and the old savage, that he would no way injure,
fight with, or attack the person he should find in
the island, who was so kind as to send for them in
order to their deliverance; but that they would
stand by him, and defend him against all such at.
tempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely
under and subjected to his command; and that this
should be put in writing, and signed with their
hands. How they were to have done this, when I
knew they had neither pen nor ink, was a question
which we never asked. Under these instructions,
the Spaniard and the old savage, the father of
Friday, went away in one of the canoes which they
might be said to come in, or rather were brought
in, when they came as prisoners to be devoured by
the savages. I gave each of them a musket, with
a firelock on it, and about eight charges of powder
and ball, charging them to be very good husbands
of both, and- not to use either of them but upon
urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first mea-
sures used by me, in view of my deliverance, for
now twenty-seven years and some days. I gave
them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, suffi-
cient for themselves for many days, and sufficient
for all the Spaniards for about eight days' time;
and wishing them a good voyage, I saw them go;
agreeing with them about a signal they should hang
out at their return, by which I should know them
again, when they came back, at a distance, before
they came on shore. They went away with a fair
gale, on the day that the moon was at full, by my
account in the month of October; but as for an
exact reckoning of days, after I had once lost it, I
could never recover it again; nor had I kept even
the. number of years so punctually as to be sure I
was right; though, as it proved, when I afterwards
examined my account, I found I had kept a true
reckoning of years.

It. was no less than eight daysI had waited for
them, when a strange and unforeseen accident in-
tervened, of which the like has not perhaps been
heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch
one morning, when my man Friday came running
in to me, and called aloud, " Master, master, they
are come, they are come!" I jumped up, and, re-
gardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could
get my clothes on, through my little grove, which,
by the way, was by this time grown to be a very
thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I went
without my arms, which was not my custom to do:
but] was surprised, when turning my eyes to the
sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league and a
half distance, standing in for the shore, with a
shoulder of mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind
blowing pretty fair to bring them in: also I observed
presently, that they did not come from that side
which the shore lay on, but from the southernmost
end of the island. Upon this, Icalled Friday in,
and bade him lie close, for these were not the peo--
ple we looked for, and that we might not know yet
whether they were friends or enemies. In the next
place, 1 went in to fetch my perspective-glass, to see
what I could make of them; and having taken the
ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I
used to do when I was apprehensive of any thing,
and to take my view the plainer, without being dis-
covered. I had scarce set my foot upon the hill,
when my eye plainly discovered a ship lying at an
anchor, at about two leagues and a half distance
from me, S.S.E. but not above a league and a half
from the shore. By my observation, it appeared
plainly to be an English ship, and the boat appeared
to be an English long-boat.

1 cannot express the confusion I was in; though
the joy of seeing a ship, and one that I had reason
to believe was manned by my own countrymen, and
consequently friends, was such as I cannot describe;
but yet I had some secret doubts hung about me,
Icannot tell from whence they came, bidding me
keep upon my guard. In the first place, it occurred
to me to consider what business an English ship
could have in that part of the world, since it was
not the way to or from any part of the world where
the English had any traffic; and I knew there had
been no storms to drive them in there, as in distress;
and that if they were really English, it was most
probable that they were here upon no good design;
and that I had better continue as I was, than fall
into the hands of thieves and murderers.-

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices
of danger, which sometimes are given him when he
may think there is no possibility of its being real.
That such hints and notices are given us, I believe
few that have made any observations of things can
deny; that they are certain discoveries of an invi-
sible world, and a converse of spirits, we cannot
doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to be to
warn us of danger, why should we not suppose they
are from some friendly agent (whether supreme, m-
inferior and subordinate, is not the question,) and
that they are given for our good?

The present question abundantly confirms me in
the justice of this reasoning; for had I not been
made cautious by this secret admonition, come it
from whence it will, I had been undone inevitably,
and in a far worse condition than before, as you will
see presently. I had not kept myself long in this
posture, but I saw the boat draw near the shore, as
if they looked for a creek to thrust in at, for the
convenience of landing; however, as they did not
come quite far enough, they did not see the little
inlet where I formerly landed my rafts, but run their
boat on shore upon the beach, at about half a mile
from me, which was very happy for me; for other.
wise they would have landed just at my door, as I
may say, and would soon have beaten me out of my
castle, and perhaps have plundered me of all I had.
When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they
were Englishmen, at least most of them; one or two
I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so; there
were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I
found were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and
when the first. four or five of them were jumped on
shore, they took those three out of the boat, as pri-
soners: one of the three I could perceive using the
most passionate gestures of entreaty, aflliction, and
despair, even to a kind of extravagance; the other
two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands some-
times, and appeared concerned, indeed, but not_to
such a degree as the first. Iwas perfectly con-
founded at the sight, and knew not what the mean-
ing of it should be. Friday called out to me in
English, as well as he could, " 0 master! you see
English mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans."
-----" Why, Friday," says I, " do you think they are
going to eat them tlien'!"---" Yes," says Friday,
" they will eat them."----" No, no," says I, " Friday;
I am afraid they will murder them, indeed, but you
may be sure they will not eat them."

 

All this while I had no thought of what the mat-
ter really was, but stood trembling with the horror
of the sight, expecting every moment when the
three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw
one of the villains lift up his arm with a great cut-
lass, as the seamen call it, or sword, to strike one of
the poor men; and I expected to see him fall every
moment; at which all the blood in my body seemed
to run chill in my veins. I wished heartily now for
my Spaniard, and the savage that was gone with
him, or that I had any way to have come undisco-
vered within shot of them, that I might have rescued
the three men, for I saw no fire-arms they had
among them; but it fell out to my mind another
way. After I had observed the outrageous usage of
the three men by the insolent seamen, I observed
the fellows run scattering about the island, as if
they wanted to see the country. I observed that
the three other men had liberty to go also where
they pleased; but they sat down all three upon the
ground, very pensive, and looked like men in de--
spair. This put me in mind of the first time when
I came on shore, and began to look about me; how
I gave myself over for lost; how wildlyI looked
round me; what dreadful apprehensions I had; and
how I lodged in the tree all night, for fear of being
devoured by wild beasts. As I knew nothing, that
night, of the supply I was to receive by the provi-
dential driving of the ship nearer the land by the
storms and tide, by which I have since been so long

nourished and supported; so these three poor de-
solate men knew nothing how certain of deliverance
and supply they were, how near it was to them, and
how effectually and really they were in a condition
of safety, at the same time that they thought them-
selves lost, and their case desperate. So little do
we see before us in the world, and so much reason
have we to depend cheerfully upon the great Maker
of the world, that he does not leave his creatures
so absolutely destitue, but that, in the worst circum-
stances, they have always something to be thankful
for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than
they imagine; nay, are even brought to their deli-
verance by the means by which they seem to be
brought to their destruction.

It was just at the top of high water when thesel
3

OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 323')

people came on shore; and partly while they rambled
7 about to see what kind of a place they were in, they
'3 had carelessly staid till the tide was spent, and the
water was ebbed considerably away, leaving their

boat aground. They had left two men in the boat,
who, as I found afterwards, having drank a little
too much brandy, fell asleep; however, one of
them waking a little sooner than the other, and
finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it,
hallooed out for the rest, who were straggling
about; upon which they all soon came to the boat:
but it was past all their strength to launch her, the
boat being very heavy, and the shore on that side
being a soft oozy sand, almost like a quicksand.
In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they
gave it over, and away they strolled about the
country again; and I heard one of them say aloud
to another, calling them off from the boat, " Why,
let her alone, Jack, can't you"! she'll float next
tide :" by which I was fully confirmed in the main
inquiry of what countrymen they were. All this
while I kept myself very close, not once daring to
stir out of my castle, any farther than to my place
of observation, near the top of the hill; and very
glad I was to think how well it was fortified. I
knew it was no less than ten hours before the boat
could float again, and by that time it would be
dark, and I might be at more liberty to see their
motions, and to hear their discourse, if they had
any. In the mean time, I fitted myself up for a
battle, as before, though with more caution, know-
ing I had to do with another kind of enemy than I
VOL. I. F F
had at. first. I ordered Friday also, whom I had
made an excellent marksman with his gun, to load
himself with arms. I took myself two fowling-
pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My figure,
indeed, was very fierce; I had my formidable goat-
skin coat on, with the great cap I have mentioned,
a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt,
and a gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design, as I said above, not to have
made any attempt till it was dark: but about two
o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found that, in
short, they were all gone straggling into the woods,
and, as I thought, laid down to sleep. The three
poor distressed men, too anxious for their condition
to get any sleep, were, however, sat down under
the shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a
mile from me, and, as I thought, out of sight of any 1
of the rest. Upon this I resolved to discover my-
self to them, and learn something of their condi-
tion; immediately I marched in the figure as above,
my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as
formidable for his arms as I, but not making quite
so staring a spectre-like figure as I did. I came as
near them undiscovered as I could, and then, before
any of them saw me, I called aloud to them in
Spanish, " What are ye, gentlemen 'l" They started
up at the noise; but were ten times more con-
founded when they saw me, and the uncouth figure
that I made. They made no answer at all, but I
thought I perceived them just going to fly from me,
when I spoke to them in English: " Gentlemen,"
said I, " do not be surprised at me: perhaps you
may have a friend near, when you did not expect
it."-----" He must be sent directly from Heaven
then," said one of them very gravely to me, and
pulling off his hat at the same time to me; " for
our condition is past the help of man."-----" All help
is from Heaven, Sir," said I: " But can you put a
stranger in the way how to help you? for you seem
to be in some great distress. I saw you when you
landed; and when you seemed to make application
to the brutes that came with you, I saw one of
them lift up his sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face,
and trembling, looking like one astonished, returned,
" Am I talking to God or man? Is it a real man or
an angel 2"----" Be in no fear about that, Sir," said
I; "if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he
would have come better clothed, and armed after
another manner than you see me: pray lay aside
your fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and dis-
posed to assist you: you see I have one servant
only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us freely,
can we serve you? What is your case '!"----" Our
case," said he, " Sir, is too long to tell you, while
our murderers are so near us: but, in short, Sir, I
was commander of that ship, my men have mutinied
against me; they have been hardly prevailed on
not to murder me; and at last have set me on shore
in this desolate place, with these two men with me,
one my mate, the other a passenger, where we
expected to perish, believing the place to be unin-
habited, and know not yet what to think of it."--
" Where are these brutes, your enemies?" said I:
" Do you know where they are gone ?"--" There
they lie, Sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of
trees; " my heart trembles for fear they have seen
us, and heard you speak; if they have, they will
certainly murder us all."------" Have they any fire-
arms?" said' I. He answered, " they had only two
pieces, one of which they left in the boat." " Well
then," said I, " leave the rest to me; I see they
are all asleep, it is an easy thing to kill them all:
but shall we rather take them prisoners?" He told
me there were two desperate villains among them,
that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but
if they were secured, he believed all the rest would
return to their duty. I asked him which they
were '2 He told me he could nor at that distanCe
distinguish them, but he would obey my orders in
any thin;r I would direct. " Well," says I, "let
us retreat out of their view or hearing, lest they
awake, and we will resolve further." So they wil-
lingly went back with me, till the woods covered as
from them.

" Look you, Sir," said I, " if I venture upon
your deliverance, are you willing;r to make two con-
ditions with me 3" He anticipated my proposals, by
tellingr me, that both he. and the ship, if recovered,
should be wholly directed and commanded by me.
in every thing; and, if the ship was not recovered,
he would live and die with me. in what part of the
world soever I would send him; and the two other
men said the same. " Well," says I, " my condi-
tions are but two: first, That while you stay in
this island with me, you will not: pretend to any
authority here; and if 1 put arms in your hands,
you will, upon all occasions, give them up to me,
and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island;
and, in the mean time, be governed by my orders:
secondly, That if the ship is, or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England, passage
free."

He gave me all the assurances that the inven-
tion or faith of man could devise, that he would
comply with these most reasonable demands; and,
besides, would owe his life to me, and acknowledge
it upon all occasions, as long as he lived." " Well
then," said I, " here are three muskets for you,
with powder and ball: tell me next what you think
is proper to be done." He showed all the testimo-
nies of his gratitude that he was able, but offered
to be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought
it was hard venturing any thing; but the best me-
thod I could think of was to fire upon them at
once, as they lay, and if any were not killed at the
first volley, and offered to submit, we might save
them, and so put it wholly upon God's providence
to direct the shot. He said very modestly, that he
was loath to kill them, if he could help it: but that
those two were incorrigible villains, and had been
the authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if
they escaped, we should be undone still; for they
would go on board and bring the whole ship's com-
pany, and destroy us all. " Well then," says I,
" necessity legitimates my advice, for it is the only
way to save our lives." However, seeing him still
cautious of shedding blood, I told him they should
go themselves, and manage as they found conve-
nient.

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them on

F F '2
their feet. I asked him if either of them were the
heads of the mutiny? He said, No. " Well then," '
said I, " you may let them escape; and Providence .
seems to have awakened them on purpose to sateli
themselves.--Now," says I, " if the rest escape 1
you, it is your fault." Animated with this, he took
the musket I had given him in his hand, and a i
pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him,l :
with each a piece in his hand; the two men whol-
new with him going first, made some noise, at
w hich one of the seamen who was awake turned?
about, and seeing them coming, cried out to the 5"
rest; but it was too late then, for the moment he.
cried out they fired; I mean the two men, the cap-
tain wisely reserving his own piece. They had so f 1
well aimed their shot at the men they knew, that :
one of them was killed on the spot, and the other '
very much wounded; but not being dead, he started
up on his feet, and called eagerly for help to the -
other; but the captain stepping to him, told him it
was too late to cry for help, he should call upon
God to forgive his villany; and with that word
knocked him down with the stock of his musket, so
that he never spoke more: there were three more
in the company, and one of them was also slightly -
wounded. By this time I was come; and when they
saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist,
they begged for mercy. The captain told them he
would spare their lives, if they would give him any
assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they
had been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful .
to him in recovering the ship, and afterwards in

carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they
 

0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 331
came. They gave him all the protestations of their

. sincerity that could be desired, and he was willing
E . to believe them, and spare their lives, which I was

not against, only that I obliged him to keep them
bound hand and foot while they were on the island.
While this was doing, I sent Friday with the cap-
tain's mate to the boat, with orders to secure her,
and bring away the oars and sails, which they did:

and by and by three straggling men, that were

(happily for them) parted from the rest, came back
upon hearing the guns fired; and seeing the captain,
who before was their prisoner, now their conqueror,
they submitted to be bound also; and so our victory
was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should
inquire into one another's circumstances: I began
first, and told him my whole history, which he
heard with an attention even to amazement; and
particularly at the wonderful manner of my being
furnished with provisions and ammunition; and, in-
deed, as my story is a whole collection of wonders,
it affected him deeply. But when he reflected from
thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have
been preserved there on purpose to save his life,
the tears ran down his face, and he could not speak
a word more. After this communication was at an
end, I carried him and his two men into my apart-
ment, leading them in just where I came out, viz.
at the top of the house, where I refreshed them
with such provisions as I had, and showed them all
the contrivances I had made, during my long, long
inhabiting that place.

All I showed them, all I said to them, was per-
fectly amazing; but, above all, the captain admired
my fortification, and how perfectly I had concealed
my retreat with a grove of trees, which, having
been now planted near twenty years, and the trees
growing much faster than in England, was become
a little wood, and so thick, that it was impassable
in any part of it, but at that one side where I had
reserved my little winding passage into it. I told
him this was my castle and my residence, but that I
had a seat in the country, as most princes have,
whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I would
show him that too another time: but at present our
business was to consider how to recover the ship.
He agreed with me as to that; but told me, he was
perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that
there were still six and twenty hands on board, who
having entered into a cursed conspiracy, by which
they had all forfeited their lives to the law, would
be hardened in it now by desperation, and would
carry it on, knowing that, if they were subdued,
they would be brought to the gallows as soon as
they came to England, or to any of the English
colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no at-
tacking them with so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said,
and found it was a very rational conclusion, and
that, therefore, something was to be resolved on
speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some
snare for their surprise, as to prevent their landing
upon us, and destroying us. Upon this, it presently
occurred to me, that in a little while the ship's
crew, wondering what was become of their com-
rades, and of the boat, would certainly come on
shore in their other boat, to look for them; and
that then, perhaps, they might come armed, and be
too strong for us: this he allowed to be rational.
Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach,
so that they might not carry her off: and taking
every thing out of her, leave her so far useless as
not to be fit to swim: accordingly we went on board,
took the arms which were left on board out of her,
and whatever else we found there, which was a bot-
tle of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit-
cakes, a horn of powder, and a great lump of sugar
in a piece of canvass (the sugar was five or six
pounds ;) all which was very welcome to me, espe-
cially the brandy and sugar, of which I had none
left for many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore,
(the oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were
carried away before, as above,) we knocked a great
hole in her bottom, that if they had come strong
enough to master us, yet they could not carry off
the boat. Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts
that we could be able to recover the ship; but my
View was, that if they went away without the boat,
I did not much question to make her fit again to
carry us to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our
friends the Spaniards in my way; forI had them
still in my thoughts.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and
had first, by main strength, heaved the boat upon
the beach so high, that the tide would not float
her off at high water mark, and besides, had broke

a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly stopped,
and were set down musing what we should do, we
heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a waft
with her ensign as a signal for the boat to come on
board: but no boat stirred; and they fired several
times, making other signals for the boat. At last,
when all their signals and firing proved fruitless,
and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them,
by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat out,
and row towards the shore; and we found, as they
approached, that there were no less than ten men in
her, and that they had fire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore,
we had a full view of them as they came, and a
plain sight even of their faces; because the tide

having set them a little to the east of the other
boat, they rotved up under shore, to come to the
same place where the other had landed, and where
the boat lay; by this means, I say, we had a full
view of them, and the captain knew the persons and
characters of all the men in the boat, of whom, he
said, there were three very honest fellows, who, he
was sure, were led into this conspiracy by the rest,
being overpowered and frightened; but that as for
the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief officer
among them, and all the rest, they were as outrageous
as any of the ship's crew, and were no doubt made
desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly ap-
prehensive he was that they would be too powerful
for us. I smiled at him, and told him that men in
our circumstances were past the operation of fear;

that seeing almost every condition that could be was
better than that which we were supposed to be in,
we ought to expect that the consequence, whether.mwv--awnr'u'. .1".- W <<"f- A ,"T'Q '

 

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 335

death or life, would be sure to be a deliverance.
I asked him what he thought of the circumstances
of my life, and whether a deliverance were not
worth venturing for? " And where, Sir," said I, "is
your belief of my being preserved here on purpose
to save your life, which elevated you a little while
ago? For my part," said I, " there seems to me but
one thing amiss in all the prospect of it."----" What
is that?" says he. " Why," said I, " it is, that as
you say there are three or four honest fellows among
them, which should be spared, had they been all
of the wicked part of the crew I should have
thought God's providence had singled them out to
deliver them into your hands; for depend upon it,
every man that comes ashore are our own, and shall
die or live as they behave to us." As I spoke this
with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I
found it greatly encouraged him; so we set vigo-
rously to our business.

We had, upon the first appearance of the boat's
coming from the ship, considered of separating our
prisoners; and we had, indeed, secured them effec-
tually. Two of them, of whom the captain was less
assured than ordinary, I sent with Friday, and one
of the three delivered men, to my cave, where they
were remote enough, and out of danger of being
heard or discovered, or of finding their way out of
the woods if they could have delivered themselves:
here they lefl: them bound, but gave them provi-
sions; and promised them, if they continued there
quietly, to give them their liberty in a day or two;
but that if they attempted their escape, they should
be put to death without mercy. They promised
faithfully to bear their confinement with patience,
and were very thankful that they had such good
usage as to have provisions and light left them;
for Friday gave them candles (such as we made our-
selves) for their comfort; and they did not know but
that he stood centinel over them at the entrance.
The other prisoners had better usage; two of
them were kept pinioned, indeed, because the cap--
tain was not free to trust them; but the other two
were taken into my service, upon the captain's re-
commendation, and upon their solemnly engaging
to live and die with us; so with them and the three
honest men we were seven men well armed; and 1
made no doubt we should be able to deal well

enough with the ten that were coming, considering
that the captain had said there were three or four
honest men among them also. As soon as they got
to the place where their other boat lay, they ran
their boat into the beach, and came all on shore,
hauling the boat up after them, which I was glad to
see; forI was afraid they would rather have left
the boat at an anchor, some distance from the shore,
with some hands in her, to guard her, and so we

should not be able to seize the boat. Being on

shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their
other boat; and it was easy to see they were under
a great surprise to find her stripped, as above, of
all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.
After they had mused a while upon this, they set
up two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their
might, to try if they could make their companions
bear; but all was to no purpose: then they came
all close in a ring, and fired a volley of their smallvfi--a--flv-w'wflflw, .x, .

 

or ROBINSON causoa. 337

arms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made
the woods ring; but it was all one; those in the
cave we were sure could not hear, and those in our
keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet
(lurst give no answer to them. They were so asto-

' nished at the surprise of this, that, as they told us

afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again,

5. to their ship, and let them know that the men were
all murdered, and the long-boat staved; accordingly,

they immediately launched their boat again, and got
all of them'on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even con-
founded at this, believing they would go on board
the ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades
over for lost, and so he should still lose the ship,
which he was in hopes we should have recovered;
but he was' quickly as much frightened the other
way.

They had not been long put off with the boat,
but we perceived them all coming on shore again;
but with this new measure in their conduct, which it
seems they consulted together upon, viz. to leave
three men in the boat, and the rest to go on shore,
and go up into the country to look for their fellows.

This was a great disappointment to us, for now we
were at a loss what to do; as our seizing those seven
men on shore would be no advantage to us, if we
let the boat escape; because they would then row
away to the ship, and then the rest of them would
he sure to weigh and set sail, and so our recovering
the ship would be lost. However, we had no

remedy but to wait and see what the issue of things
might present. The seven men came on shore, and

VOL. I. G G
the three who remained in the boat put her off to a
good distance from the shore, and came to an an-
chor to wait for them; so that it was impossible for
us to come at them in the boat. Those that came
on shore kept close together, marching towards the
top of the little hill under which my habitation lay;
and we could see them plainly, though they could
not perceive us. We could have been very glad
they would have come nearer to us, so that we
might have fired at them, or that they would have
gone farther off, that we might have come abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the hill,
where they could see a great way into the valleys
and woods, which lay towards the north-east part,
and where the island lay lowest, they shouted and
hallooed till they were weary; and not caring, it
seems, to venture far from the shore, nor far from
one another, they sat down together under a tree,
to consider of it. Had they thought fit to have
gone to sleep there, as the other part of them had
done, they had done the job for us; but they were
too full of apprehensions of danger to venture to
go to sleep, though they could not tell what the
danger was they had to fear neither.

The captain made a very just proposal to me
upon this consultation of theirs, viz. that perhaps
they would all fire a volley again, to endeavour to
make their fellows hear, and that we should all
sally upon them, just at the juncture when their
pieces were all discharged, and they would certainly
yield, and we should have them without bloodshed.
I liked this proposal, provided it was done while
we were near enough to come up to them before>>:
,,
'i
he
r
f
O
n

or ROBINSON canson. 339'

they could load their pieces again. But this event
did not happen; and we lay still a long time, very

irresolute what course to take. At length I told
them there would be nothing done, in my opinion,-

till night; and then, if they did not return to the
boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between
them and the shore, and so might use some strata-
gem with them in the boat to get them on shore.~
We waited a great while, though very impatient for
their removing; and were very uneasy, when, after
long consultations, we saw them all start up, and
march down towards the sea: it seems they had
such dreadful apprehensions upon them of the
danger of the place, that they resolved to go on
board the ship again, give their companions over
for lost, and so go on with their intended voyage
with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them to go towards the
shore, I imagined it to be, as it really was, that they
had given over their search, and were for going
back again; and the captain, as soon as I told him
my thoughts, was ready to sink at the apprehensions
of it: but I presently thought of a stratagem to

fetch them back again, and which answered my
end to a tittle. I ordered Friday and the captain's
mate to go over the little creek westward, towards
the place where the savages came on shore when
Friday was rescued, and as soon as they came to a
little rising ground, at about half a mile distance, I
bade them halloo out, as loud as they could, and-
wait till they found the seamen heard them; that
as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer

them, they should return it again; and then keeping
out of sight, take a round, always answering when
the others hallooed, to draw them as far into the
island, and among the woods, as possible, and then
wheel about again to me, by such ways as I directed
them.

They were just going into the boat when Friday
and the mate hallooed: and they presently heard
them, and answering, run along the shore west-
ward, towards the voice they heard, when they were
presently stopped by the creek, where the water
being up, they could not get over, and called for
the boat to come up and set them over; as, indeed,
I expected. When they had set themselves over,
I observed that the boat being gone a good way
into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbour within
the land, they took one of the three men out or
her, to go along with them, and left only two in the
boat, having fastened her to the stump of a little
tree on the shore. This was whatl wished for;
and immediately leaving Friday and the captain's
mate to their business, I took the rest with me, and
crossing the creek out of their sight, we surprised
the two men before they were aware; one of them
lying on the shore, and the other being in the boat.
The fellow on shore was between sleeping and
waking, and going to start up; the captain, who
was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him
down; and then called out to him in the boat to
yield, or he was a dead man. There needed very
few arguments to persuade a single man to yield,
when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade
knocked down; besides, this was, it seems, one of
the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny as
the rest of the crew, and therefore'was easily per-
suaded not only to yield, but afterwards tojoin very
sincerely with us. In the mean time, Friday and
the captain's mate so well managed their .business
with the rest, that they drew them, by hallooing
and answering, from one hill to another, and from
one wood to another, till they not only heartily
tired them, but left them where they were very
sure they could not reach back to the boat before
it was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily tired
themselves also, by the time they came back to us.
We had nothingnow to do but to watch for them
in the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make
sure work with them. It was several hours after
Friday came back to me before they came back to
their boat; and we could hear the foremost of them,
long before they came quite up, calling to those
behind to come along; and could also hear them
answer, and complain how lame and tired they were,

and not able to come any faster; which was very
welcome news to us. At length they came up to
the boat: but it is impossible to express their con-
fusion when they found the boat fast aground in the
creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone.
We could hear them call to one another in a most
lamentable manner, telling one another they were
got into an enchanted island; that either there were
inhabitants in it, and they should all be murdered,
or else there were devils and spirits in it, and they
should be all carried away and devoured. They
hallooed again, and called their two comrades by
their names a great many times; but no answer.
After some time, we could see them, by the little
G G 2
light there was, run about, wringing their hands like
men in despair; and that sometimes they would go
and sit down in the boat, to rest themselves: then
come ashore again, and walk about again, and so
the same thing over again. My men would fain
have had me give them leave to fall upon them at
once in the dark; but I was willing to take them
at some. advantage, so to spare them, and kill as few
of them as I could; and especially I was unwilling
to hazard the killing any of our men, knowing the
others were very well armed. I resolved to wait,
to see if they did not separate; and, therefore, to
make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer,
and ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon
their hands and feet, as close to the ground as they
could, that they might not be discovered, and get
as near them as they could possibly, before they
offered to fire.

They had not been long in that posture, when
the boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of
the mutiny, and had now shown himself the most
dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking
towards them, with two more of the crew: the
captain was so eager at having this principal rogue
so much in his power, that he could hardly have
patience to let him come so near as to be sure of
him, for they only heard his tongue before: but
when they came nearer, the captain and Friday,
starting up on their feet, let fly at them. The boat-
swain was killed upon the spot; the next man was
shot in the body, and fell just by him, though he
did not die till an hour or two after; and the third
run for it. At the noise of the fire, I immediately' L.-:'.'.w-"'e':--'V

.4

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 343

advanced with my whole army, which was now eight
men, viz. myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieu-
tenant-general; the captain and his two men, and
the three prisoners of war, whom we had trusted
with arms. We came upon them, indeed, in the
dark, so that they could not see our number; and
I made the man they had left in the boat, who was
now one of us, to call them by name, to try if I
could bring them to a parley, and so might perhaps>>
reduce them to terms; which fell out just as we
desired: for indeed it was easy to think, as their
condition then was, they would be very willing to
capitulate. So he calls out as loud as he could, to
one of them, " Tom Smith! Tom Smith!" Tom
Smith answered immediately, " Is that Robinson?"
For it seems he knew the voice. The other an-
swered, " Aye aye; for God's sake, Tom Smith,
throw down your arms and yield, or you are all dead
men this moment."------" Who must we yield to?
Where are they 1" says Smith again. " Here they
are," says he; " here's our captain and fifty men
with him, have been hunting you these two hours:
the boatswain is killed, Will Fry is wounded, and I
am a prisoner; and if you do not yield, you are all
lost."--" Will they give us quarter then 2" says
Tom Smith, " and we will yield."---" I'll go and-
ask, if you promise to yield," says Robinson: so
he asked the captain; and the captain himself then
calls out, " You, Smith, you know my voice; if you
lay down your arms immediately, and submit, you
shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins."

Upon this Will Atkins cried out, " For God's
sake, captain, give me quarter; what have I done?
They have all been as bad as 1:" which, by the way,
was not true neither; for, it seems, this Will Atkins
was the first man that laid hold of the captain,
when they first mutinied, and used him barbaronsly,
in tying his hands, and giving him injurious lan-
guage. However, the captain told him he must lay
down his arms at discretion, and trust to the gover-
nor's mercy: by which he meant. me, for they all
called me governor. In a word, they all laid down
their arms, and begged their lives; and I sent the
man that had parleyed with them, and two more, who
bound them all; and then my great army of fifty
men, which, particularly with those three, were in
all but eight, came up and seized upon them, and
upon their boat; only that I kept myself and one
more out of sight for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and think
of seizing the ship: and as for the captain, now he
had leisure to parley with them, he expostulated
with them upon the villany of their practices nith
him, and at length upon the further wickedness of
their design, and how certainly it must bring them
to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to
the gallows. They all appeared very penitent, and
begged hard for their lives. As for that, he told
them they were none of his prisoners, but the com-
mander's of the island; that they thought they had
set him on shore in a barren, uninhabited island;
but it had pleased God so to direct them, that it
was inhabited, and that the governor was an English-

man; that he might hang them all there, if he
pleased; but as he had given them all quarter, he
supposed he would send them to England, to beL.
i.

 

OF ROBINSON CRUSOE. 343

g' dealt with there as justice required, except Atkins,

whom he was commanded by the governor to advise
to prepare for death, for that he would be hanged
in the morning.

Though this was all but a fiction of his own, yet
it had its desired effect: Atkins fell upon his knees,
to beg the captain to intereede with the governor
for his life; and all the rest begged of him, for
God's sake, that they might not be sent to England.

It now occurred to me, that the time of our de-
liverance was come, and that it would be a most
easy thing to bring these fellows in to be hearty in
getting possession of the ship; so I retired in the
dark from them, that they might not see what kind
of a governor they had, and called the captain to
me: when I called, as at a good distance, one of
the men was ordered to speak again, and say to the
captain, " Captain, the commander calls for you;"
and presently the captain replied, " Tell his excel-
lency I am just a coming." This more perfectly
amused them, and they all believed that the com-
mander was just by with his fifty men. Upon the
captain's coming to me, I told him my project for
seizing the ship, which he-Tiked wonderfully well,
and resolved to put it in execution the next morning.
But, in order to execute it with more art, and to
be secure of success, I told him we must divide the
prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins,
and two more of the worst of them, and send them
pinioned to the cave where. the others lay. This
was committed to Friday, and the two men who came
on shore with the captain. They conveyed them to

the cave, as to a prison: and it was, indeed, a
dismal place, especially to men in their condition.
The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of
which I have given a full description; and as it was
fenced in, and they pinioned, the place was secure
enough, considering they were upon their behaviour.
To these in the morning I sent the captain, who
was to enter into a parley with them; in a word,
to try them, and tell me whether he thought they
might be trusted or no to go on board and surprise
the ship. He talked to them of the injury done
him, of the condition they were brought to, and that
though the governor had given them quarter for
their lives as to the present action, yet that if they
were sent to England, they would all be hanged in
chains, to be sure; but that if they would join in
so just an attempt as to recover the ship, he would
have the governor's engagement for their pardon.
Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
would be accepted by men in their condition; they
fell down on their knees to the captain, and pro-
mised, with the deepest imprecations, that they
would be faithful to him to the last drop, and that
they should owe their lives to him, and would go
with him all over the world; that they would own
him as a father as long as they lived. " Well," says
the captain, " I must go and tell the governor what
you say, and see what] can do to bring him to con-
sent to it." So he brought me an account of the
temper he found them in, and that he verily believed
they would be faithful. However, that we might
be very secure, I told him he should go back again

and choose out those five, and tell them, that they
might see he did not want men, that he would take
out those five to be his assistants, and that the
governor would keep the other two, and the three
that were sent prisoners to the. castle (my cave) as
hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that
if they proved unfaithful in the execution, the five
hostages should be hanged in chains alive on the
shore. This looked severe, and convinced them that
the governor was in earnest: however, they had no
way left them but to accept it; and it was now the
business of the prisoners, as much as of the captain,
to persuade the other five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expe-
dition: first, The captain, his mate, and passenger:
second, Then the two prisoners of the first gang, to
whom, having their character from the captain, I
had given their liberty, and trusted them with
arms: third, The other two that I had kept till
now in my bower pinioned, but, on the captain's
motion, had now released: fourth, These five re~
leased at last; so that they were twelve in all, be-
sides five we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture
with these hands on board the ship: but as for me
and my man Friday, I did not think it was proper
for us to stir, having seven men left behind; and it
was employment enough for us to keep them asunder,
and supply them with victuals. As to the five in
the cave, I resolved to keep them fast, but Friday
went in twice a day to them, to supply them with

necessaries; and I made the other two carry provi-
sions to a certain distance, where Friday was to

take it. .
When I showed myself to the two hostages, it
was with the captain, who told them I was the per.
son the governor had ordered to look after them;
and that it was the governor's pleasure they should
not stir any where but by my direction; that if they
did, they would be fetched into the castle, and be
laid in irons: so that as we never suffered them to
see me as a governor, I now appeared as another
person, and spoke of the governor, the garrison,
the castle, and the like, upon all occasions.

The captain now had no difliculty before him,
but to furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one,
and man them. He made his passenger captain of
one, with four of the men; and himself, his mate,
and five more, went in the other; and they con-
trived their business very well, for they came up to
the ship about midnight. As. soon as they came
within call of the ship, he made Robinson hail them,
and tell them they had brought off the men and the
boat, but that it was a long time before they had
found them, and the like, holding them in a chat
till they came to the ship's side; when the captain
and the mate entering first, with their arms, imme-
diately knocked down the second mate and car-
penter with the but end of their muskets, being
very faithfully seconded by their men; they secured
all the rest that were upon the main and quarter-
decks, and began to fasten the hatches, to keep
them down that were below; when the other boat
and their men entering at the fore-chains, secured
the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle which
went down into the cook-room, making three men
they found there prisoners. When this was done,
and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the
mate, with three men, to break into the round-house,
where the new rebel captain lay, who having taken
the alarm, had got up, and with two men and a boy
had got fire-arms in their hands; and when the
mate, with a crow, split open the door, the new cap-
tain and his men fired boldly among them, and
wounded the mate with a musket ball, which broke
his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but
killed nobody. The mate calling for help, rushed,
however, into the round-house, wounded as he was,
and with his pistol shot the new captain through
the head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and
came out again behind one of his ears, so that he
never spoke a word more: upon which the rest
yielded, and the ship was taken effectually, without
any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, thecaptain
ordered seven guns to be fired, which was the signal
agreed upon with me to give me notice of his suc-
cess, which you may be sure I was very glad to
hear, having sat watching upon the shore for it till
near two o'clock in the morning. Having thus
heard the signal plainly,I laid me down; and it
having been a day of great fatigue to me, Islept
very sound, till I was something surprised with the
noise of a gun; and presently starting up, I heard
a man call me by the name of Governor, Governor,
and presently I knew the captain's voice; when
climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood,
and pointing to. the ship, be embraced me in his
arms. " My dear friend and deliverer," says he,
" there's your ship, for she is all your's, and so are
we, and all that belong to her." I cast my eyes to

VOL. I. H H
the ship, and there she rode within little more than
half a mile of the shore; for they had weighed her
anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and
the weather being fair, had brought her to an anchor
jnst against the mouth of the little creek; and the
tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace
in near the place where I at first landed my rafts,
and so landed just at my door. I was at first ready
to sink down with the surprise; for I saw my deli-
verance, indeed, visibly put into my hands, all
things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me
away whither l pleased to go. At first, for some
time, I was not able to answer him one word; but
as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him,
or I should have fallen to the ground. He per-
ceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a bottle
out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial,
which he had brought on purpose for me. After I
had drank it, I sat down upon the ground; and
though it brought me to myself, yet it was a good
while before I could speak a word to him. All this
time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I,
only not under any surprise, as I was; and he said
a thousand kind and tender things to me, to c0111-
pose and bring me to myself: but such was the
flood of joy in my breast, that it put all my spirits
into confusion; at last it broke out into tears; and
in a little while after I recovered my speech. I
then took my turn, and embraced him as my deli-
verer, and we rejoiced together. I told him I
looked upon him as a man sent from Heaven to de-

liver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to
be a chain of wonders; that such things as these-,
.
.

I
3
.
r
J
'i
r'
i

z-JMAA-Li..SStlu

.w--wwnlr~)p_*

 

OF ROBINSON CRU SOE. 351

were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of
Providence governing the world, and an evidence
that the eye of an infinite power could search into
the remotest corner of the world, and send help to
the miserable whenever he pleased. Iforgot not
to lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven; and
what heart could forbear to bless him, who had not
only in a miraculous manner provided for me in
such a wilderness, and in such a desolate condition,
but from whom every deliverance must always be
acknowledged to proceed?

When we had talked a while, the captain told me
he had brought me some little refreshment, such as
the ship afforded, and such as the wretches that had
been so long his masters had not plundered him of.
Upon this he called aloud to the boat, and bade his
men bring the things ashore that were for the gover-
nor; and, indeed, it was a present as if I had been
one that was not to be carried away with them, but
as if I had been to dwell upon the island still.
First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of
excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira
wine, (the bottles held two quarts each,) two pounds
of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of
the ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a bag
of peas, and about an hundred weight of biscuit:
he also brought me a box of sugar, a box of flour,
a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime juice,
and abundance of other things. But, besides these,
and what was a thousand times more useful to me,
he brought me six new clean shirts, six very good

neckcloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a
hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very good
suit of clothes of his own, which had been worn
but very little; in a word, he clothed me from head
to foot. lt \ -as a very kind and agreeable present,
as any one may imagine, to one in my circumstances;
but never was any thing in the world of that kind
so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it was to
me to wear such clothes at first.

After these ceremonies were past, and after all
his good things were brought into my little apart-
ment, we began to consult what was to be done with
the prisoners we had; for it was worth consider-
ing ivhether we might venture to take them away
with us or no, especially two of them, whom he
knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last
degree; and the captain said he knew they were
such rogues, that there was no obliging them; and
if he did carry them away, it must he in irons, as
malefactors, to be delivered over to justice at the
first English colony he could come at; and I found
that the captain himself was very anxious about it.
Upon this I told him, that if he desired it, I would
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to
make it their own request that he should leave them
upon the island. " I should be very glad of that,"
says the captain, " with all my heart."---" Well,"
says I, "I will send for them up, and talk with
them for you." Sol caused Friday and the two
hostages, for they were now discharged, their com--
rades having performed their promise; I say, 1
caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the five
men, pinioncd as they were, to the bower, and keep
them there till I came. After some time, Icame
thither dressed in my new habit; and nva was
called governor again. Being all met, and the cap-
tain with me, I caused the men to be brought before
me, andI told them I had got a full account of
their villanous behaviour to the captain, and how
they had run away with the ship, and were prepar-
ing to commit farther robberies, but that Providence
had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they
were fallen into the pit which they had dug for
others. I let them know that by my direction the
ship had been seized; that she lay now in the road;
and they might see, by and by, that their new cap-
tain had received the reward of his villany, and
that they would see him hanging at the yard-arm:
that as to them, I wanted to know what they had to
say why I should not execute them as pirates, taken
in the fact, as by my commission they could not
doubt but I had authority so to do. .

One of them answered in the name of the rest,
that they had nothing to say but this, that when
they were taken, the captain promised them their
lives, and they humbly implored my mercy. But I
told them I knew not what mercy to show them;
for as for myself, I had resolved to quit the island
with all my men, and had taken passage with the
captain to go for England; and as for the captain,
he could not carry them to England other than as
prisoners, in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and run-
ning away with the ship; the consequence of which,
they must needs know, would be the gallows; so
thatI could not tell what was best for them, unless
they had a mind to take their fate in the island; if
they desired that, as I had liberty to leave the
island, I had some inclination to give them their

H H 2
lives, if they thought they could shift on shore.
They seemed very thankful for it, and said they
would much rather venture to stay there than be
carried to England to be hanged: so I left it on
that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difli-a
culty of it, as if he durst not leave them there.
Upon this I seemed a little angry with the captain,
and told him that they were my prisoners, not his;
and that seeing I had offered them so much favour,
I would be as good as my word; and that if he did
not think fit to consent to it I would set them at
liberty, as I found them; and if he did not like it,
he might take them again if he could catch them.
Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I ac-
cordingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire
into the uoods to the place whence they came, and
I would leave them some fire-arms, some ammuni-
tion, and some directions how they should live very-
well, if they thought fit. Upon this I prepared to
go on board the ship; but told the captain I would
stay that night to prepare my things, and desired
him to go on board, in the mean time, and keep all
right in the ship, and send the boat on' shore next
day for me; ordering him, at all events, to cause
the new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at
the yard-arm, that these men might see him.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men
up to me to my apartment, and entered seriously
into discourse with them on their circumstances. I-
told them I thought they had made a right choice;
that if the captain had carried them away, they
would certainly be hanged. I showed them the
new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship,
and told them they had nothing less to expect.

When they had all declared their willingness to
stay, I then told them I would let them into the
story of my living there, and put them into the way
of making it easy to them: accordingly, I gave
them the whole history of the place, and of my
coming to it; showed them my fortifications, the
way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my
grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to
make them easy. I told them the story also of the
seventeen Spaniards that were to be expected, for
whom I left a letter, and made them promise to
treat them in common with themselves. Here it
may be noted, that the captain had ink on board,
who was greatly surprised that I never hit upon a
way of making ink of charcoal and water, or of
something else, as I had done things much more
dilficult.

I left them my fire-arms, viz. fivemuskets, three
fowling-pieces, and three swords. I had above a
barrel and a half of powder left; for after the first
year or two I used but little, and wasted none. I

gave them a description of the way I managed the
goats, and directions to milk and fatten them, and
to make both butter and cheese: in a word, I gave
them every part of my own story; and told them
I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden seeds,
which I told them I would have been very glad of:
also I gave them the bag of peas which the captain
had brought me to eat, and bade them be sure to

sow and increase them.
Having done all this, I left them the next day,
and went on board the ship. We prepared imme-
diately to sail, but did not weigh that night. The
next morning early, two of the five men came swim-
ming to the ship's side, and making a most lament-
able complaint of the other three, begged to be
taken into the ship, for God's sake, for they should
be murdered, and begged the captain to take them
on board, though he hanged them immediately.
Upon this, the captain pretended to have no power
without me; but after some difficulty, and after
their solemn promises of amendment, they were
taken on board, and were some time after soundly
whipped and pickled: after which they proved
very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this, the boat was ordered on
shore, the tide being up, with the things promised
to the men; to which the captain, at my interces-
sion, caused their chests and clothes to be added,
which they took, and were very thankful for. I
also encouraged them, by telling them that if it lay
in my power to send any vessel to take them in, I
would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on
board, for reliques, the great goat-skin cap I had
made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I
forgot not to take the money I formerly mentioned,
which had lain by me so long useless, that it was
grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass
for silver, till it had been a little rubbed and ban-
died; as also the money I found in the wreck of
the Spanish ship. And thus I left the island, the
19th of December, as I found by the ship's account,
in the year 1686, after I had been upon it eight
and twenty years, two months, and nineteen days;
being delivered from this second captivity the same
day of the month that I first made my escape in
the long-boat, from am'ong the Moors of Sallee.
In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
England the 11th of June, in the year 1687, having
been thirty-five years absent.

When I came to England, I was as perfect a
stranger to all the world as if I had never been
known there. My benefactor and faithful steward,
whom I had left my money in trust with, was alive,
but had had great misfortunes in the world; was
become a widow the second time, and very low in
the world. I made her very easy as to what she
owed me, assuring her I would give her no trouble;
but on the contrary, in gratitude for her former
care and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my
little stock would afford; which, at that time,
would indeed allow me to do but little for her; but
I assured her I would never forget her former kind-
ness to me; nor did I forget her when I had suffi-
cient to help her, as shall be observed in its proper
place. I went down afterwards into Yorkshire;
but my father was dead, and my mother and all the
family extinct, except that I found two sisters, and
two of the children of one of my brothers; and as
I had been long ago given over for dead, there had
been no provision made for me: so that, in a word,
I found nothing to relieve or assist me; and that
the little money I had would not do much for me
as to settling in the world.

- I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, whichI did not expect; and this was, that the master of
the ship whom I had so happily delivered, and by
the same means saved the ship and cargo, having
given a very handsome account to the owners of
the manner how I had saved the lives of the men,
and the ship, they invited me to meet them, and
some other merchants concerned, and all together
made me a very handsome compliment upon the
subject, and a present of almost PS200 sterling.
But after making several reflections upon the
circumstances of my life, and how little way this
would go towards settling me in the world, I re-
solved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come
by some information of the state of my plantation
in the Brazils, and of what was become of my
partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some
years past given me over for dead. With this View
I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in
April following; my man Friday accompanying me
very honestly in all these ramblings, and proving a
most faithful servant upon all occasions. When I
came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my
particular satisfaction, my old friend the captain of
the ship who first took me up at sea off the shore
of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off
going to sea, having put his son, who was far from
a young man, into his ship, and who still used the
Brazil trade. The old man did not know me; and,
indeed, I hardly knew him: butl soon brought him
to my remembrance, and as soon brought myself to
his remembrance, when I told him who I was.
After some passionate expressions of the old ac-
quaintance between us, I inquired, you may be
sure, after my plantation and my partner. The
old man told me he had not been in the Brazils for
about nine years; but that he could assure me, that
when he came away my partner was living; but
the trustees, whom I had joined with him to take
cognizance of my part, were both dead: that, how-
ever, he believed I would have a very good account
of the improvement of the plantation; for that
upon the general belief of my being cast away and
drowned, my trustees had given in the account of
the produce of my part of the plantation to the
procurator-fiscal, who had appropriated it, in case
I never came to claim it, one-third to the king, and
twoothirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be
expended for the benefit of the poor, and for the
conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith;
but that if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim
the inheritance, it would be restored; only that the
improvement or annual production, being distri-
buted to charitable uses, could not be restored:
but he assured me that the steward of the king's
revenue from lands, and the provedore, or steward
of the monastery, had taken great care all along

that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave
every year a faithful account of the produce, of

which they had duly received my moiety. I asked
him if he knew to what height of improvement he
had brought the plantation, and whether he thought
it might be worth looking after; or whether, on --
my going thither, I should meet with any obstruc-
tion to my possessing my just right in the moiety.
He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree
the plantation was improved; but this he knew, that
my partner was grown exceeding rich upon the en-
joying his part of it; and that, to the best of his
remembrance, he. had heard that the king's third of
my part, which was, it seems, granted away to some.
other monastery or religious house, amounted to
above two hundred moidores a year: that as to my
being restored to a quiet possession: of it, there was
no question to be made of that, my partner being
alive to witness my title, and my name being also
enrolled in the register of the country; also he
told me, that the survivors of my two trustees were
very fair honest people, and very wealthy; and he
believed I would not only have their assistance for
putting me in possession, but would find a very
considerable sum of money in their hands for my
account, being the produce of the farm while their
fathers held the trust, and before it was given up,
as above; which, as he remembered, was for about
twelve years.

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at
this account, and inquired of the old captain how
it came to pass that the trustees should thus dispose
of my effects, when he knew that 1 had made my
will, and had made him, the Portuguese captain,
my universal heir, &c.

He told me that was true; but that as there was
no proof of my being dead, he could not act as ex-
ecutor, until some certain account should come of
my death; and, besides, he was not willing to in-
termeddle with a thing so remote: that it was true
he had registered my will, and put in his claim;
and could he have given any account of my'being
dead or alive, he would have acted by procuration,1.3-- n

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 361

and taken possession of the ingeino, (so they called
the sugar-house) and have given his son, who was
now at the Brazils, orders to do it. " But," says
the old man, " I have one piece of news to tell you,
which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you as
the rest; and that is, believing you were lost, and
all the world believing so also, your partner and
trustees did offer to account with me, in your name,
for six or eight of the first years' profits, which I
received. There being at that time great disburse-
ments for increasing the works, building an ingeino,
and buying slaves, it did not amount to near so much
as afterwards it produced: however," says the old
man, " I shall give you a true account of whatI
have received in all, and how I have disposed of it."
After a few days' farther conference with this an-
cient friend, he brought me an account of the first
six years' income of my plantation, signed by my
partner and the merchant-trustees, being always
delivered in goods, viz. tobacco in roll, and sugar
in chests, besides rum, molasses, &c. which is the
consequence of a suganwork; and I found, by this
account, that every year the income considerably
increased; but, as above, the disbursements being
large, the sum at first was small: however, the old
man let me see that he was debtor to me four hun-
dred and seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty
chests of sugar, and fifteen double rolls of tobacco,
which were lost in his ship; he having been ship-
wrecked coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years
after my leaving the place. The good man then
began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he
had been obliged to make use of my money to
VOL. I. I I
recover his losses, and buy him a share ina new ship.
" However, my old friend," says he, " you shall
not want a supply in your necessity; and as soon
as my son returns, you shall be fully satisfied."
Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch, and gives me
one hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold;
and giving the writings of his title to the ship,
which his son was gone to the Brazils in, of which
he. was a quarter-part owner, and his son another,
he puts them both into my hands for security of

the rest.
I was too much moved with the honesty and kind-

ness of the poor man to be able to bear this; and
remembering what he had done for me, how he had
taken me up at sea, and how generously he had
used me on all occasions, and particularly how sin-
(em a friend he was now to me, I could hardly re-
frain weeping at what he had said to me; therefore
I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to
spare so much money at that time, and if it would
not straiten him"! He told me he could not say but
it might straiten him a little; but, however, it was
my money, and I might want it more than he.
Every thing the good man said was full of affec-
tion, and I could hardly refrain from tears while he
spoke; in short, I took one hundred of the moi-
dores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a
receipt for them: then I returned him the rest, and
told him if ever I had possession of the plantation,
I would return the other to him also, (as, indeed, I
afterwards did;) and that as to the bill of sale of
his part in his son's ship, I would not take it by any
means; but that ifI wanted the money, I found he
was honest enough to pay me; and if I did not, but
came to receive what he gave me reason to expect,
I would never have a penny more from him.

When this was past, the old man asked me if he
should put me into a method to make my claim to
my plantation? I told him I thought to go over to
it myself. He said I might do so if I pleased; but
that if 1 did not, there were ways enough to secure
my right, and immediately to appropriate the pro-
fits to my use: and as there were ships in the river
of Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil, he made
me enter my name in a public register, with his
aflidavit, affirming, upon oath, that I was alive, and
thatI was the same person who took up the land
for the planting the said plantation at first. This
being regularly attested by a notary, and a procura-
lion aflixed, he directed me to send it, with a letter
of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at
the place; and then proposed my staying with him
till an account came of the return.

Never was any thing more honourable than the
proceedings upon this procuration; for in less than
seven months I received a large packet from the
survivors of my trustees, the merchants, for whose
account I went to sea, in which were the following
particular letters and papers enclosed.

First, There was the account-current of the pro-
duce of my farm or plantation, from the year when
their fathers had balanced with my old Portugal
captain, being for six years; the balance appeared
to be one thousand one hundred and seventy-four
moidores in my favour.

Secondly, There was the account of four years
more, while they kept the effects in their hands,
before the government claimed the administration,
as being the effects of a person not to be found,
which they called civil death; and the balance of
this, the value of the plantation increasing, amounted
to nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-six cru-
sadoes, being about three thousand two hundred
and forty moidores.

Thirdly, There was the prior of Augustine's ac-
count, who had received the profits for above four--
teen years; but not being to account for what was
disposed of by the hospital, very honestly declared
he had eight hundred and seventy-two moidores not
distributed, which he acknowledged to my account:
as to the king's part, that refunded nothinon

There was a letter of my partner's, congratulating
me very affectionately upon my being alive, giving
me an account how the estate was improved, and
what it produced a year; with a particular of the
number of squares or acres that it contained, how
planted, how many slaves there were upon it, and
making two and twenty crosses for blessings, told
me he had said so many Ave JlIarias to thank the
blessed Virgin that I was alive; inviting me very
passionately to come over and take possession of my

own; and, in the mean time, to give him orders
to whom he should deliver my effects, if I did not
come myself; concluding with a hearty tender of
his friendship, and that of his family; and sent me,
as a present, seven fine leopards' skins, which he
had, it seems, received from Africa, by some other
ship that he had sent thither, and who, it seems,
had made a better voyage than 1. He sent me aISU
live chests of excellent sweetmeats, and a hundred
pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as moi-
dores. By the same fleet, my two merchant-trus-
tees shipped me one thousand two hundred chests
of sugar, eight hundred rolls of tobacco, and the
rest of the whole account in gold.

I might well say now, indeed, that the latter end
of Job was better than the beginning. It is impos--
sible to express the flutterings of my very heart
when I found all my wealth about me; for as the
Brazil ships come all in fleets, the same ships which
brought my letters brought my goods: and the
effects were safe in the river before the letters came
to my hand. In a word, I turned pale, and grew
sick; and had not the old man run and fetched me
a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had
overset nature, and I had died upon the spot: nay,
after that, I continued very ill, and was so some
hours,<<till a physician being sent for, and something
of the real cause of my illness being known, he or-
dered me to be let blood; after which I had relief,
and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not
been eased by a vent given in that manner to the
spirits, I should have died.

I was now master, all on a sudden, of abovg'five
thousand pounds sterling in money, and had an
estate, as I might well call it, in the Brazils, of
above a thousand pounds a year, as sure as an estate
of lands in England; and, in a word, I was in a
condition which I scarce knew how to understand,
or how 0 compose myself for the enjoyment of it.

The first thing I did was to recompense my original
benefactor, my good old captain, who had been first
1 l 2
charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in my
beginning, and honest to me at the end. I showed
him all that was sent to me; I told him, that next
to the providence of Heaven, which disposed all
things, it was owing to him; and that it now lay on
me to reward him, which I would do a hundred-
fold: so I first returned to him the hundred moidores
I had received of him; then I sent for a notary,
and caused him to draw up a general release or dis~
charge from the four hundred and seventy moidores,
which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the
fullest and firmest manner possible. After which
I caused a procuration to be drawn, empowering
him to be my receiver of the annual profits of my
plantation, and appointing my partner to account
with him, and make the returns by the usual fleets
to him in my name; and a clause in the end, being
a grant of one hundred moidores a year to him
during his life, out'of the effects, and fifty moidores
a year to his son after him, for his life: and thus I
requited my old man.

I was now to consider which way to steer my
course next, and what to do with the estate that
Providence had thus put into my hands; and, in-
deed, I had more care upon my head now than I had
in my silent state of life in the island, where I
wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing
but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great

charge upon me, and my business was how to secure.
it. I had never a cave now to hide my money in,
or a place where it might lie without loclfior key,

till it grew mouldy and tarnished before any body
would meddle with it: on the contrary, I knew not"arm-- -. .

or ROBINSON cnvson. 367

where to put it, or whom to trust with it. My old
patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and that
was the only refuge I had. In the next place, my
interest in the Brazils seemed to summon me thither;
but now I could not tell how to think of going thither
till I had settled my affairs, and left my effects in
some safe hands behind me. At first I thought of
my old friend the widow, who I knew was honest,
and would be just to me; but then she was in years,
and but poor, and, for aught I knew, might be in
debt; so that, in a word, I had no way but to go
back to England myself, and take my effects with
me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved
upon this; and therefore, as I had rewarded the old
captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had been
my former benefactor, so I began to think of my
poor widow, whose husband had been my first bene-
factor, and she, while it was in her power, my faith-
ful steward and instructor. So the first thingI did,
I got a merchant in Lisbon to write to his corre-
spondent in London, not only to pay a bill, but to
go find her out, and carry her in money a hundred
pounds from me, and to talk with her, and comfort
her in her poverty, by telling her she should, if I
lived, have a further supply: at the same time I
sent my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds
each, they being, though not in want, yet not in
very good circumstances; one having been married
and left a widow; and the other having a husband
not so lg'nd to her as he should be. But among all
my relations or acquaintances, I could not yet pitch
upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of my' SS

368 LIFE AND ADVENTURES

stock, that I might go away to the Brazils, and
leave things safe behind me; and this greatly per-
plexed me.

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils,
and have settled myself there, for I was, as it were,
naturalized to the place; but I had some little
scruple in my mind about religion, which insensibly
drew me back. However, it was not religion that
i kept me from going there for the present; and as
I had made no scruple of being openly of the reli-
gion of the country all the while I was among them,
so neither did I yet; only that, now and then, hav-
ing of late thought more of it than formerly, when
I began to think of living and dying among them,
I began to regret my haxing professed myself a
papist, and thought it might not be the best religion
to die with.

But, as I have said, this was not the main thing
that kept me from going to the Brazils, but that
really I did not know with whom to leave my efi'ects
behind me; so I resolved, at last, to go to England
with it, where, if I arrived, I concluded I should
make some acquaintance, or find some relations that
would be faithful to me; and, accordingly, I pre-
pared to go to England with all my wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home,
I first, the Brazil fleet being just going away, re-
solved to give answers suitable to the just and faith-
ful account of things I had from thence; and, first,
to the prior of St. Augustine I wrote a letter full of
thanks for their just dealings, and the 039,; of the
eight hundred and seventy-two moidores which were
undisposed of, which I desired might be given, five
hundred to the monastery, and three hundred and
seventy-two to the poor, 'as the prior should direct;
desiring the good padre's prayers for me, and the
like. I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two
trustees, with all the acknowledgment that so much
justice and honesty called for; as for sending them
any present, they were far above having any occa-

' sion for it. Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknow-

 

ledging his industry in the improving the planta-
tion, and his integrity in increasing the stock of the
works; giving him instructions for his future govern-
ment of my part, according to the powers I had left
with my old patron, to whom I desired him to send
whatever became due to me, till he should hear from
me more particularly; assuring him that it was my
intention not only to come to him, but to settle my-
self there for the remainder of my life. To this I
added a very handsome present of some Italian
silks for his wife and two daughters, for such the
captain's son informed me he had; with two pieces
of fine English broad-cloth, the best I could get in
Lisbon, five pieces of black baize, and some Flanders
lace of a good value.

Having thus settled my affairs, sold my cargo,
and turned all my effects into good bills of exchange,
my next difficulty was, which way to go to England:
I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet
I had a strange aversion to go to England by sea at
that time; and though I could give no reason for
it, yet the difficulty increased upon me so much,
that though I had once shipped my baggage in
order to go, yet I altered my mind, and that not
once, but two or three times.
It is true, I had been very unfortunate by sea,
and this might be some of the reasons; but let no
man slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts
in cases of such moment: two of the ships which I
had singled out to go in, I mean more particularly
singled out than any other, having put my things on
board one of them, and in the other to have agreed
with the captain; I say, two of these ships miscarried,
viz. one was taken by the Algerines, and the other
was cast away on the Start, near Torbay, and all
the people drowned, except three; so that in either
of those vessels I had been made miserable.

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my
old pilot, to whom I communicated every thing,
pressed me earnestly not to go by sea, but either to
go by land to the (iroyne, and cross over the Bay
of Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an
easy and safe journey by land to Paris, and so to
Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so
all the way by land through France. In a word, I
was so prepossessed against my going by sea at all,
except from Calas to Dover, that I resolved to travel
all the way by land; which, as I was not in haste,
and did not value the charge, was by much the
pleasanter way: and to make it more so, my old
captain brought an English gentleman, the son of a
merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to travel with
me; after which we picked up two more English
merchants also, and two young Portuguese gentle-
men, the last going to Paris only; so that in all there
were six of us, and five servants; the two merchants
and the two Portuguese contenting themselves with
one servant between two, to save the charge; andK
F

or ROBINSON CRUSOE. 371

as for me, I got an English sailor to travel with me
as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was too
much a stranger to be capable of supplying the
place of a servant on the road.

In this manner I set out from Lisbon; and our
company being very well mounted and armed, we
made a little troop, whereof they did me the honour
to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest
man, as because I had two servants, and, indeed,
was the original of the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my seajour-
nals, so I shall trouble you now with none of my
land journal; but some adventures that happened
to us in this tedious and difficultjourney I must not
omit.

When we came to Madrid, we being all of us
strangers to Spain, were willing to stay some time
to see the court of Spain, and to see what was worth
observing; but it being the latter part of the sum-
mer, we hastened away, and set out from Madrid
about the middle of October; but when we came
to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed, at several
towns on the way, with an account that so much
snow was fallen on the French side of the moun-
tains, that several travellers were obliged to come
back to Pampeluna, after having attempted, at an
extreme hazard, to pass on.

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it
so indeed; and to me, that had been always used
to a hot climate, and to countries where I could
scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable:
nor, indeed, was it more painful than surprising, to
come but ten days before out of Old Castile, where
the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and
immediately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean moun-
tains so very keen, so severely cold, as to be into-
lerable, and to endanger benumbing and perishing
of our fingers and toes.

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw
the mountains all covered with snow, and felt cold
weather, which he had never seen or felt before in
his life. To mend the matter, when we came to
Pampeluna, it. continued snowing with so much
violence, and so long, that the people said winter
was come before its time; and the roads, which
were dillicult before, were now quite impassable;
for, in a word, the snow lay in some places too thick
for us to travel, and being not hard frozen, as is
the case in the northern countries, there was no
going without being in danger of being buried alive
every step. We stayed no less than twenty days at
Painpeluna; when seeing the winter coming on,
and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the
severest winter all over Europe that had been known
in the memory of man, I proposed that we should
all go away to F ontarabia, and there take shipping
for Bourdeaux, which was a very little voyage. But
while I was considering this, there came in four
French gentlemen, who having been stopped on the
French side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish,
had found out a guide, who, traversing the country
near the head of Languedoc, had brought them
over the mountains by such ways, that they were
not much incommoded with the snow; for where
they met with snow in any quantity, they said it was
frozen hard enough to hear them and their horses.
We sent. for this guide, who told us he would under-
take to carry us the same way with no hazard from
the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently to
protect ourselves from wild beasts; for, he said,
upon these great snows it was frequent for some
wolves to show themselves at the foot of the moun-
tains, being made ravenous for want of food, the
ground being covered with snow. We told him we
were well enough prepared for such creatures as
they were, if he would ensure us from a kind of two-
legged wolves, which, we were told, we were in most
danger from, especially on the French side of the
mountains. He satisfied us that there was no dan-
ger of that kind in the way that we were to go: so
we readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve
other gentlemen, with their servants, some French,
some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go,
and were obliged to come back again.
Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna, with
our guide, on the 15th of November; and, indeed,
I was surprised, when, instead of going forward, he
came directly back with us on the same road that
we came from Madrid, about twenty miles; when
having passed two rivers, and come into the plain
country, we found ourselves in a warm climate
again, where the country was pleasant, and no snow
to be seen; but on a sudden, turning to his left, he
approached the mountains another way: and though
it is true the hills and precipices looked dreadful,
yet he made so many tours, such meanders, and led
us by such winding ways, that we insensibly passed
the height of the mountains without being much
encumbered with the snow; and, all on a sudden,

VOL. I. K K
he showed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of
Languedoc and Gascony, all green and flourishing,
'though, indeed, at a great distance, and we had
some rough way to pass still.

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found
it snowed one whole day and a night so fast, that
we could not travel; but he bid us be easy; we
should soon be past it all: we found, indeed, that
we began to descend every day, and to come more
north than before; and so depending upon our
guide, we went on.

It was about two hours before night, when our
guide being something before us, and not just in
sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and after
them a bear, out of a hollow way adjoining to a
thick wood: two of the wolves made at the guide,
and had he been far before us, he would have been
devoured before we could have helped him; one of
them fastened upon his horse, and the other at-
tacked the man with that violence, that he had not
time, or presence of mind enough, to draw his pistol,
but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily. My
man Friday being next me, I bade him ride up, and
see what was the matter. As soon as Friday came
in sight of the man, he hallooed out as loud as the
other, " 0 master! 0 master!" but, like a bold
fellow, rode directly up to the poor man, and with
his pistol shot the wolf that attacked him in the
head.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my
man Friday; for be having been used to such crea.
turns in his country, he had no fear upon him, but
went close up to him and shot him, as above;
whereas any other of us would have fired at a far-
ther distance, and have perhaps either missed the
wolf, or endangered shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man
than I; and, indeed, it alarmed all our company,
when, with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard on
both sides the most dismal howling of wolves; and
the noise, redoubled by the echo of the mountains,
appeared to us as if there had been a prodigious
number of them; and perhaps there was not such
a few as that we had no cause of apprehensions:
however, as Friday had killed this wolf, the other
that had fastened upon the horse left him immedi--
ately, and fled, without doing him any damage,
having happily fastened upon his head, where the
bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth. But
the man was most hurt; for the raging creature had
hit him twice, once in the arm, and the other time
a little above his knee; and though he had made
some defence, he was just as it were tumbling down
by the disorder of his horse, when Friday came up
and shot the wolf.

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's
pistol we all mended our pace, and rode up as fast
as the way, which was very difficult, would give us
leave, to see what was the matter. As soon as we
came clear of the trees, which blinded us before,
we saw clearly what had been the case, and how
Friday had disengaged the poor guide, though we
did not presently discern what kind of creature it

was he had killed.
But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in

such a surprising manner, as that which followed
between Friday and the bear, which gave us all,
though at first we were surprised and afraid for him,
the greatest diversion imaginable. As the bear is
a heavy clumsy creature, and does not gallop as the
wolf does, who is swift and light, so he has two
particular qualities, which generally are the rule of
his actions: first, as to men, who are not his proper
prey, (he does not usually attempt them, except they
tirst attack him, unless he. be excessive hungry,
which it is probable might now be the ease, the,
ground being covered with snow,) if you do not
meddle with him, he will not meddle with you; but
then you must take care to be very civil to him,
and give him the road, for he is a very nice gentle-
man: he will not go a step out of his way for a
prince; nay, if you are really afraid, your best way
is to look another way, and keep going on; for
sometimes if you stop, and stand still, and look
steadfastly at him, he takes it for an affront; but if
you throw or toss any thing at him, and it hits him,
though it were but a bit of stick as big as your
finger, he thinks himself abused, and sets all other
business aside to pursue his revenge, and will have
satisfaction in point of honour;---this is his first
quality: the next is, if he be once atfronted, he will
never leave you, night nor day, till he has his re-
venge, but follows, at a good round rate, till he
overtakes you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and
when we came up to him, he was helping him off
from his horse, for the man was both hurt and
frightened, when, on a sudden, we espied the bear
come out of the wood, and a vast monstrous one it
was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. We were
all a little surprised when we saw him; but whenor noalsson CltLSOl'i. 377
Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage
in the t'ellow's countenance: " O, 0, O E" says Fri--
day, three times, pointing to him; " 0 master! you
give me te leave, me shakee te hand with him; me
makee you good laugh."

I was surprised to see the fellow so well pleased:
" You fool," says I, " he will eat you up."----" Eatee
me up! eatee me up!" says Friday, twice over
again; " me. eatee him up; me makee you good
laugh; you all stay here, me show you good laugh."
So down he sits, and gets off his boots in a moment,
and puts on a pair of pumps, (as we call the flat,
shoes they wear, and which he had in his pocket,)
gives my other servant his horse, and with his gun
away he flew, swift like the wind.

The hear was walking softly on, and ofl'ered to
meddle with nobody, till Friday coming pretty near,
calls to him, as if the bear could understand him,
" Hark ye, hark ye," says Friday, " me speakee
with you." We followed at a distance; for now
being come down on the Gaseony side of the moun-
tains, we were entered a vast great forest, where
the country was plain and pretty open, though it
had many trees in it scattered here and there. F ri-
day, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came
up with him quickly, and takes up a great stone
and throws it at him, and hit him just on the head,
but did him no more harm than if he had thrown it
against a wall; but it answered Friday's end, for
the rogue was so void of fear that he did it purely
to make the bear follow him, and show us some
laugh, as he called it. As soon as the bear felt the
blow, and saw him, he turns about, and comes after

an?
him, taking devilish long strides, and shuffling on at
a strange rate, so as would have put a horse to a
middling gallop: away runs Friday, and takes his
course as if he run towards us for help; so we all
resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver
my man; though I was angry at him heartily for
bringing the hear back upon us, when he was going
about his own business another way: and especially
I was angry that he had turned the bear upon us,
and then run away; and I called out, " You dog,
is this your making us laugh? Come away, and take
your horse, that we may shoot the creature." He
heard me, and cried out, " No shoot, no shoot;
stand still, and you get much laugh:" and as the
nimble creature ran two feet for the bear's one, he
turned on a sudden, on one side of us, and seeing
a great oak tree fit for his purpose, he beckoned to
us to follow; and doubling his pace, he gets nimbly
up the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground,
at about five or six yards from the bottom of the
tree. The bear soon came to the tree, and we fol-
lowedat a distance: the first thing he did, he stopped
at the gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, and up he
scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat, though
so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as
I thought it, of my man, and could not for my life
see any thing to laugh at yet, till seeing the bear
get up the tree, we all rode near to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got
out to the. small end of a large branch, and the bear
got about half way to him. As soon as the bear
got out to that part where the limb of the tree was
weaker,---" Ha !" says he to us, " now you see me
teachec the bear dance :" so he falls ajumping and
shaking the bough, at which the bear began to tot-
ter, but stood still, and began to look behind him,
to see how he should get back; then, indeed, we
did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done
with him by a great deal; when seeing him stand
still, he calls out to him again, as if he had supposed
the bear could speak English, " What, you come
no farther? pray you come fartherz" so he left
jumping and shaking the tree; and the bear, just
as if he understood what he said, did come a little
farther; then hefell a jumping again, and the bear
stopped again. We thought now was a good time
to knock him in the head, and called to Friday to
stand still, and we would shoot the bear: but he
cried out earnestly, " O pray! O pray! no shoot,
me shoot by and then ;" he would have said by and
by. However, to shorten the story, Friday danced
so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had
laughing enough, but still could not imagine what
the fellow would do: for first we thought he de-
pended upon shaking the bear off; and we found
the bear was too cunning for that too; for he would
not go out far enough to be thrown down, but clings
fast with his great broad claws and feet, so that we
could not imagine what would be the end of it, and
what the jest would be at last. But Friday put us
out of doubt quickly: for seeing the bear cling fast
to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded
to come any farther, " Well, well," says Friday,
" you no come farther, me go; you no come to me,
me come to you:" and upon this he goes out to the
smaller end of the bough, where it would bend with
his weight, and gently lets himself down by it,
sliding down the bough, till he came near enougiz
to jump down on his feet, and away he runs to his
gun, takes it up, and stands still. " Well," said I
to him, " Friday, what will you do now"! Why
don't you shoot him'!"--" No shoot," says Friday,
" no yet; me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give
you one more laughz" and, indeed, so he did, as
you will see presentl '; for when the bear saw his
enemy gone, he comes back from the bough where
he stood, but did it mighty cautiously, looking be-
hind him every step, and coming backward till he
got into the body of the tree; then with the same
hinder end foremost, he came down the tree, grasp-
ing it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time,

 

very leisurely. At this juncture, and just before
he co'uld set his hind foot on the ground, Friday
stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle of his
piece into his ear, and shot him dead. Then the
rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh; and
when he saw we were pleased, by our looks, he falls
a laughing himself very loud. " So we kill bear in
my country," says Friday. " So you kill them '2"
says I: " why, you have no guns."----" No," says
he, "no gun, but shoot great much long arrow."
This was a good diversion to us; but we were still
in a wild place, and our guide very much hurt, and
what to do we hardly knew: the howling of wolves
ran much in my head; and, indeed, except the noise
I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which I
have said something already, I never heard any
thing that filled me with so much horror.

These things, and the approach of night, called
us off, or else, as Friday would have had us, we
should certainly have taken the skin of this mon-
strous creature off, which was worth saving; but
we had near three leagues to go, and our guide
hastened us; so we left him, and went forward on
our journey.

The ground was still covered with snow, though
not so deep and dangerous as on the mountains;
and the ravenous creatures, as we heard afterwards,
were come down into the forest and plain country,
pressed by hunger, to seek for food, and had done
a great deal of mischief in the villages, where they
surprised the country people, killed a great many of
their sheep and horses, and some people too. We
had one dangerous place to pass, which our guide
told us, if there were more wolves in the country
we should find them there; and this was a small
plain, surrounded with woods on every side, and a
long narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pass
to get through the wood, and then we should come
to the village where we were to lodge. It was

within half an hour of sunset when we entered the
first wood, and a little after- sunset when we came
into the plain; we met with nothing in the first
wood, except that, in a little plain within the wood,
which was not above two furlongs over, we saw five
great wolves cross the road, full speed, one after
another, as if they had been in chase of some prey,
and had it in view; they took no notice of us, and
were gone out of sight in a few moments. Upon
this our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-
hearted fellow, bid us keep in a ready posture, for
he believed there were more wolves a coming. We
kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but we
saw no more wolves till we came through that wood,
which was near half a league, and entered the plain.
As soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion
enough to look about us: the first object we met
with was a dead horse, that is to say, a poor horse
which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen of
them at work, we could not say eating of him, but
picking of his bones rather; for they had eaten up
all the flesh before. We did not think fit to disturb
them at their feast, neither did they take much
notice of us. Friday would have let fly at them,
but I would not suffer him by any means; for I
found we were like to have more business upon our
hands than we were aware of. We were not gone
half over the plain, when we began to hear the
wolves bowl in the wood on our left in a frightful
manner, and presently after we saw about a bun-
dred coming on directly towards us, all in a body,
and most of them in a line, as regularly as an army
drawn up by experienced oflicers. [scarce knew
in what manner to receive them, but found, to draw
ourselves in a close line was the only way; so we
formed in a moment: but that we might not have
too much interval, I ordered that only every other
man should fire, and that the others who had not
fired should stand ready to give them a second vol~
ley immediately, if they continued to advance upon
us; and then that those who had fired at first
should not pretend to load their fusees again, but
stand ready every one with a pistol, for we were
all armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each
man; so we were, by this method, able to fire six
volleys, half of us at a time: however, at present
we had no necessity; for upon firing the first vol-
ley, the enemy made a full stop, being terrified as
well with the noise as with the fire; four of them
being shot in the head, dropped; several others
were wounded, and went bleeding off, as we could
see by the snow. I found they stopped, but did not
immediately retreat; whereupon, remembering that
I had been told that the fiercest creatures were ter-
rified at the voice of a man, I caused all the com-
pany to halloo as loud as we could; and I found the
notion not altogether mistaken; for upon our shout
they began to retire, and turn about. I then or-
dered a second volley to be fired m their rear, which
put them to the gallop, and away they went to the
woods. This gave us leisure to charge our pieces
again; and that we might lose no time, we kept
going. but we had but little more than loaded our
tusees, and put ourselves in readiness, when we
heard a terrible noise in the same wood, on our left,
only that it was farther onward, the same way we
were to go.

The night was coming on, and the light began to

be dusky, which made it worse on our side; but the
noise increasing, we could easily perceive that it was
the bowling and yelling of those hellish creatures;
and, on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops
of wolves, one on our left, one behind us, and one
in our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded
with them: however, as they did not fall upon us,
we kept our way forward, as fast as we could make
our horses go, which, the way being very rough, was
only a good hard trot. In this manner we came in
view of the entrance of a wood, through which we
were to pass, at the farther side of the plain; but
we were greatly surprised, when coming nearer the
lane or pass, we saw a confused number of wolves
standing just at the entrance. On a sudden, at

 

another opening of the wood, we heard the noise of
a gun, and looking that way, out rushed a horse,
with a saddle and a bridle on him, flying like the
wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him,
full speed; indeed the horse had the heels of them,
but as we supposed that he could not hold it at that
rate, we doubted not but they would get up with
him at last; no question but they did.

But here we had a most horrible sight; for riding
up to the entrance where the horse came out, we
found the carcasses of another horse and of two men,
devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of the
men was no doubt the same whom we heard fire the
gun, for there lay a gun just by him fired off ; but
as to the man, his head and the upper part of his
body were eaten up. This filled us with horror, and
we knew not what course to take; but the creatures
resolved us soon, for they gathered about us pre-
sently, in hopes of prey; and I verily believe there
were three hundred of them. It happened very
much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the
wood, but a little way from it, there lay some large
timber-trees, which had been cut down the summer
before, and I suppose lay there for carriage. I drew
my little troop in among those trees, and placing
ourselves in a line behind one long tree, I advised
them all to alight, and keeping that tree before us
for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three
fronts, enclosing our horses in the centre. We did
so, and it was well we did; for never was a more
furious charge than the creatures made upon us in
this place. They came on with a growling kind of
noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which, asI
said, was our breastwork, as if they were only rush--
ing upon their prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems,
was principally occasioned by their seeing our horses
behind us. I ordered our men to fire as before,
every other man; and they took their aim so sure,

VOL. 1. L L
that they killed several of the wolves at the first
volley; but there was a necessity to keep a con-
tinual tiring, for they came on like devils, those
behind pushing 011 those before.

When we had fired a second volley of our fusees,
we thought they stopped a little, and I hoped they
would have gone of}, but it was but a moment, for
others came forward again; so we fired two volleys
of our pistols; and I believe in these four firings we
had killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and lamed
twice as many, yet they came on again. I was loath
to spend our shot too hastily; so I called my ser-
vant, not my man Friday, for he was better e111-
ployed, for, with the greatest dexterity imaginable,
he had charged my fusee and his own while we were
engaged; but, as I said, I called my other man,
and giving him a horn of pow der, I bade him lay a
train all along the piece of timber, and let it be a
large train. He did so; and had but just time to
get away, when the wolves came up to it, and some
got upon it, when I, snapping an uncharged pistol
close to the powder, set it on fire: those that were
upon the timber were scorched with it, and six or
seven of them fell, or rather jumped in among us,
with the force and fright of the fire; we dispatched
these in an instant, and the rest were so frightened
with the light, which the night, for it was now very
near dark, made more terrible, that they drew back
a little; upon which I ordered our last pistols to be
fired off in one volley, and after that we gave a
shout: upon this the wolves turned tail, and we
sallied immediately upon near twenty lame ones,
that we found struggling on the ground, and fell a
cutting them with our swords, which answered our
expectation; for the crying and howling they made
was better understood by their fellows; so that they
all tied and left us.

We had, first and last, killed about threescore of
them; and had it been daylight, we had killed many
more. The field of battle being thus cleared, we
made forward again, for we had still near a league
to go. We heard the ravenous creatures howl and
yell in the woods as we went, several times, and
sometimes we fancied we saw some of them, but the
snow dazzling our eyes, we were not certain: in
about an hour mote we came to the town where we
were to lodge, which we found in a terrible fright,
and all in arms; for, it seems, the night before, the
wolves and some bears had broke into the village,
and put them in such terror, that they were obliged
to keep guard night and day, but especially in the
night, to preserve their cattle, and, indeed, their
people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his
limbs swelled so much with the rankling of his two
wounds, that he could go no farther; so we were
obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Thou-
louse, where we found a warm climate, a fruitful
pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves, nor any
thing like them: but when we told our story at
Thoulouse, they told us it was nothing but what
was ordinary in the great forest at the foot of the
mountains, especially when the snow lay on the
ground; but they inquired much what kind of a
guide we had got, who would venture to bring us
that way in such a severe season; and told us it was
surprising we were not all devoured. When we told
them how we placed ourselves, and the horses in
the middle, they blamed us exceedingly, and told us
it was fifty to one but we had been all destroyed;
for it was the sight of the horses which made the
wolves so furious, seeing their prey; and that, at
other times, they are really afraid of a gun; but
being excessive hungry, and raging on that account,
the eagerness to come at the horses had made them
senseless of danger; and that if we had not, by the
continued fire, and at last by the stratagem of the
train of powder, mastered them, it had been great
odds but that we had been torn to pieces: whereas,
had we been content to have sat still on horseback,
and fired as horsemen, they would not have taken
the horses so much for their own, when men were
on their backs, as otherwise; and withal they told
us, that at last, if we had stood all together, and left
our horses, they would have been so eager to have
devoured them, that we might have come of? safe,
especially having our fire-arms in our hands, and
being so many in number. For my part, I was never
so sensible of danger in my life; for seeing above
three hundred devils come roaring and open-mouthed
to devour us, and having nothing to shelter us, or
retreat to, I gave myself over for lost; and, as it
was, I believe I shall never care to cross those moun--
tains again; I think I would much rather go a thou-
sand leagues by sea, though I was sure to meet with
a storm once a week.

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my
passage through France, nothing but what other
travellers have given an account of, with much more
advantage than I can. I travelled from Thoulouse
to Paris, and without any considerable stay came tomy

0F ROBINSON CRUSOE. 389

Calais, and landed safe at Dover, the 14th of Jan.
after having a severe cold season to travel in.

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and
had in a little time all my new-discovered estate safe

about me; the bills of exchange which I brought
with me having been very currently paid.

My principal guide and privy counsellor was my
good ancient widow; who, in gratitude for the
money I had sent her, thought no pains too much,
nor care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted
her so entirely with every thing, thatI was perfectly
easy as to the security of my effects: and, indeed, I
was very happy from the beginning, and now to the
end, in the unspotted integrity of this good gentle-
woman.

And now having resolved to dispose of my planta-
tion in the Brazils, I wrote to my old friend at Lis-
bon; who having offered it to the two merchants,
the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils,
they accepted the offer, and remitted thirty-three
thousand pieces-of-eight to a correspondent of theirs
at Lisbon, to pay for it.'

In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the
form which they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my
old man, who sent me the bills of exchange for 32,800
pieces-of--eight for the estate; reserving the payment
of 100 moidores a year to him (the old man) during
his life, and 50 moidores afterwards to his son for
his life, which I had promised them; and which the
plantation was to make good as a rent-charge. And
thus I have given the first part of a life of fortune
and adventure, 3. life of Providence's chequer~work,
and of a variety which the world will seldom be
able to show the like of: beginning foolishly, but
closing much more happily than any part of it ever
gave me leave so much as to hope for.

Any one would think, that in this state of compli-
cated good fortune, [was past running any more
hazards, and so indeed I had been, if other circum-
stances had concurred: but I was inured to a wan-
dering life, had no family, nor many relations; nor,
however rich, had I contracted much acquaintance;
and though 1 had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet
I could not keep that country out of my head, and
had a great mind to be upon the wing again; espe-
cially I could not resist the strong inclination] had
to see my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards
were in being there. My true friend, the widow,
earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so far prevailed
with me, that, for almost seven years, she prevented
my running abroad; during which time I took my
two nephews, the children of one of my brothers,
into my care : the eldest having something of his own,
I bred up as a gentleman, and gave him a settlement
of some addition to his estate, after my decease.
The other I put out to a captain of a ship: and after
five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising
young fellow, I put him into a good ship, and sent
him to sea: and this young fellow afterwards drew
me in, as old as I was, to farther adventures myself.

In the mean time, I in part settled myself here;
for, first of all, I married, and that not either to
my disadvantage or dissatisfaction, and had three
children, two sons and one daughter; but my wife
dying, and my nephew coming home with good suc-
cess from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to goa
i

or ROBINSON causon. 391

abroad, and his importunity, prevailed, and engaged
me to go in his ship as a private trader to the East
Indies: this was in the year 1694.

In this voyage I visited my new colony in the
island, saw my successors the Spaniards, had the
whole story of their lives, and of the villainsl left
there; how at first they insulted the poor Spaniards,
how they afterwards agreed, disagreed, united,
separated, and how at last the Spaniards were
obliged to use violence with them; how they were
subjected to the Spaniards; how honestly the Spani-
ards used them; an history, if it were entered into,
as full of variety and wonderful accidents as my
own part: particularly also as to their battles with
the Caribbeans, who landed several times upon the
island, and as to the improvement they made upon
the island itself; and how five of them made an at-
tempt upon the mainland, and brought away eleven
men and five women prisoners; by which, at my
coming, I found about twenty young children on
the island.

Here I stayed about twenty days; left them sup--
plies of all necessary things, and particularly of
arms, powder, shot, clothes, tools, and two work-
men, which I brought from England with me; viz.
a carpenter and a smith.

Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with
them, reserved to myself the property of the whole,
but gave them such parts respectively, as they agreed
on; and, having Settled all things with them, and
engaged them not to leave the place, I left them
there.

From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence
I sent a bark, which I bought there, with more peo--
ple, to the island; and in it, besides other supplies,
I sent seven women, being such as I found proper
for service, or for wives to such as would take them.
As to the Englishmen, I promised them to send them
some women from England, with'a good cargo of
necessaries, if they would apply themselves to plant--
ing; which I afterwards could not perform: the fel-
lows proved very honest and diligent, after they
were mastered, and had their properties set apart
' for them. I sent them also from the Brazils five
cows, three of them being big with calf, some sheep,
and some hogs, which, when I came again, were
considerably increased.

But all these things, with an account how three
hundred Caribbees came and invaded them, and
ruined their plantations, and how they fought with
that whole number twice, and were at first defeated
and one of them killed; but at last a storm destroy-
ing their enemies' canoes, they famished or destroyed
almost all the rest, and renewed and recovered the
possession of their plantation, and still lived upon
the island.

All these things, with some very surprising inci-
dents in some new adventures of my own, for ten
years more, I shall give a farther account of in an-
other volume.

EI'ID 0F VOL. 1'.

primer: at the albisinict 19:255.
BY C. WHXTTINGHAM.