f??"'"'" ' ' ' ' "'" ""_"""I'7?!"TF'7T'VS"'ITT?"'J-""'T"

 

 

OIUBOI'B mun:THE

ADVENTURES

ROBINSON CRUSOE.

DANIEL DE FOE.

MEMOIR OF THE AUTHOR

with 3mm summits".

15me I! I. I. mom, All) "03"" I! O. W. mun.

WARD, LOCK, AND 00.
LONDON: WARWICK HOUSE, SALISBURY SQUARE. 8.0.
NEW YORK: BOND STREET:

3.
H)

I
'11.

4 .
V." ' ' _
im.;.;im;.~.d...u.hgu_-_m..'::....4.|.-.h..:.-.-___U.__- . .. . .__" 'VEEJ'F 7".CONTENTS. - ' .

- ---o+o--

an
Inn to Inmm.....m.uwuu................ ...................-. Ii

linen or tn Amos "u.mmm.-Wu.m.mmmmm xii

m1.

Bobinmfimdodmhbfltthmflmhp--Eobdinflhnmhfingfih
--Hi-b&nupuhh<<uvithhin--Tfibfiufl.vhaaampuimtmpbhimh" ,.'
ghlfiphym--Ammthidndwhhhhuflochonhi-W - ' "
mmnfipm.hhudgmdnnhYumnmb--Whm
mm.mC/--nmmwgbwmmwhmmhgumm

mu.

mmmmammdumwmmm
AfimOougndmhrhunhfiingnflmhm--th,mhwh
WnMMmW--mmmdmthm-m
Wmmm--mmhmwmmmmm'
thm--MngHthmnm--mlwi
fimovMufl-fimhfi-WfilfififioXMM--Dmd
WhAfimBan--Smhmm--thifiumvhm" ' ' V
khfifipofifim--Shm-mm Buntin- m mild-ML
Whfinhdupbynmwmm--Sofllmlmw,fim
I tandem--Arrival at an mmmmw.mmmm~=mmm. X! '

onmnnm. ~_ ' .1

mmmmmnmbmrmmwmum'
mmmpmmme-mmw--4g a A;
WWdQWAhm--mflphMmMI-d L124;
winngmm--mmhbhfidrMMBmd-Anm {--3

'9?) .vi conrxx'ra.

drownefiuuptcrmwhohwuhdlgnhutnmohndnminmcm
thanM--Horojoioadhilddimnfluhonhhpdflmufln--
mthQMndmmmmmwwmfum--fiup

In I. tree ...... ...................................

CHAPTER IV.

Monukinginthemming,mthuhiplyingn~gmundhighout oftha
ntu--Hemudanhmfieku-Swhlhfiafiip--Oomhflnnfiwhicb
heloadn withdomndgnidu with Moultytothuhm--Smayl timeout],
mddhmmMithmMde--Shwhlbhithafluhofwm
pmvacobe urfim--Uflmmmmd crock that--Swim: tothelhipnpin,
mmgmndwgouhm--Onhhmmhmudbytvfldm'm
Mmadkpodfiwhbofimfly--Hfiulmgwhichhommdm
--Bapubhinilhbthuhip,whiohha wipofih mknb--Bmamhistmth
am ndnnhguou mindful" it mgly--Kilkuho-Mmd in grieved

threat ................................................................................................

CHAPTER V.

Cmmnpsvoodmmqonwhiohhbimuflbumamdhhhnfling,"
mammotm--nomymmmmwnmm
godhitugdnnmcflmivu utthooonddmthnthoianotdmgothu
mmmmmwmmmmmmmmamw
budintho-hip--Keepltlmduu

noun-Iliott-I' <<nu-u...-uuuouunu nun-n...

CHAPTER"

MWmmmththanmdmhhdifl-
culfiu--hlupfindhytheqpemneofhflaygmfingontoflhemmd--Mflm
mmwmwthammmm
mmefiohflaymwddmhflym--Wymfiagnhfw
md--mJamflmd--hmflodbymwthqukgwhichhfollondby:
hurrinnn--Boeomnrinuufidufivmthovmhvhinhhnaboummm
mm--maummdmhn--mnnmnmw'm
drum--Whimdfonwmofhilpmhhmdnflwumhhm

Mimi" "nun-nu...".u-uu-uuun. "no-u... ----- "nun-unuuuun. cu- ......u.uu. n.

011mm

11:3de remand--Orw- thought- dnring litmus--His reflections on
thedufingldhwidmmfithhin--PMsBibhin-m'lchutwhichia
udmfimndhmhdmdmmgadhymomfingdifi--Tomuu
mddlgmt--Hilflntpnyu--PindlddiWfiminnmbk-ingfiv
doflvmmfimnfliofim--Cmvdm--thhquthomm
(Ii-cam: tobacco, don, Imam, melons gape; and wild lawman-Gama:
MmflMhMthm--Kfiwmmfim
a family o! W..............>>. ........ ....................

. .nun-n..n-..uuu.....u...

'lll

.30

'42

68- <<w! F'Lw'wrvv-rWIW v-gfi-w--(r' "-ng

  
 

OORTIRTB.

nolmdmfinmd--Gmdmmmdhkhnflngum .5

a.

crmthQMhiIMgmwhinhqu-AMMMNM
--Hednlivuhimdfmwumigndmplhilm--Ilperpludhawh
deEMWbmhthM--HM.
lptdo-In-doorcmyloymminflmninym--Tmbipmubhlk--W
pom, Indsmaogrind hmh--Ekmbcfing--Amhmut--
mmmmmmw-cmmummnmwm
fi--quwcfilmibnfiuupmmhwm ... 104

WbytnlmM--MWmmfidqmtfibm--Ehhkm "I
ningbmhomlymdlmrhbhminhhkmd--Sonupflindm .3
mummummmmmmmm'm 3
mw--Ammdmnum--Tmhhndymdom E;
"mghmmwxhljmmmmmwmm: .f.
WIMMMHMfithmflu--Iauhhwhthemm Cg
mummm'hMM3mhuhhhm--Otmhundmlm 2
fid-mumdmydhklmding--Wm--Diflmlfiumby '3
'i
'3
3:
i

4.;

(2an

mmmauum.w--Lmummnmdmmm
Indmunmpemddngu--Kodupdnnfgotfingbuklgfin--Mmb
mmmmmmimwmmdmpmw--rm
wammumM-mmn-mmwmm
Mummhhm--Hemmdmwwmmhmfly
rmdmflpmflwmutmjmwm

h
>

'i
g
' 1
j
4

 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

cnmnnn

Whmdmpfldum'lmhdMuMMndmn
"Mm--thdhfiWWdfi-th--Wth _
remains oh but etc-mild: ..................................................,............... 181

WHILE.

Matures-11mm animation album-Liming"
mun--BMW humming <<(his "nonhuman--
mdhhM-hmwhdbymomhmgouhum--Dand
WmMWAMhfim--mmmduwwmm
Whmhfiflmtmdfiomhubmuufluflfuhmnfimm
cm--Gmofibm'nfihhhhfimdflnhthnlyfivingmngnboudw
hum--mmmmmy-mmmmmmmm--a I:

am ........mm...-......................................-...au........;....m......a 16'viii connnm.

mm

nu

mW-henfinhymdcnne'uajmuthQW--Hcmm
ham--Hewnn'dmthoddgnofgefling Inngointohisw-a-ion--Tho
mMfitmowmdemmymmmmm
'hm--Thndlmifnlfllad--Ouodthommhtkpmad--Orm
hmhdmmdthnpumndnhmmotha--He'dmummgifin,
whmhommlgubdnythemnflofhkaufiu--thilnmrfiflay--
Instrnchndclothu him--Humwmplnianflfipm:mC/fleshhntohillot... 175

mm.

mmwwmmyhumedmmu-wflhhin
ubonthiloountrylnd it: mum--Juana him in the hawkdgo loe in:
Mnndupouthodelmionl of Paganpfimfl--mdxyflnbitdiflkulth
mtmmmmdufl--Thanvngobmnmmdmuooil
complokly happy ............. ......................... ........... ..... ................... 188

CHAPTER".

Crmwhurfidnythamoffiremmddmtohhthacomfiuof
Empe--Thcymkaaholt, and fit itwithmnhmdufls--Pn'dlyil When
hufipflib--Thennguagfinvilitthniflmd--Theym W null-mud--
(II-mm:- I Spuniud, their winner, and may dinonu h'ufnthcr ............ 199

CHAPTER m.

Ome'omhjwhgndthoh-nfigianl--Thedudbodiuofmdfinumm
huried--ThaSpanind and Friday: Manet outta: the Madhmmo-
pomwhohldhoenshipmhdthm--Inthdrmcmneilmpfiudbym
wolthoct-lmdofmufinmnflmwhohfing Moflmbtheiflnfl
tomuduthom--Crmonlmmthepfinm--The mnfinmmlmkedmd
defaced ............................................................ ..... .. ...... ......... 211

CHAPTER XVII.

Otmeudthoaphineanmlthnwtheymnywthalhiphmthomfi-
neu--Inthomnnvhflenfiuhputymeuhm--Anmhuadoilwnhind,
mdmmkydonthdrm--The minptomioummybunuupt
WthinI--Tholhip than (mm the nufinm--CrmlnmthoilmLh
which he had lived for treaty-eight you: ........... ............ .. 231

mm.
Mafimhhgmmmmmdhimmhtndfim

hibmamh-hnninhm--Hembm'hmb
Whimhavnbthoupuhdmlhipvbgmkhimnpflonmd inputII:

nmmammmhm'mm--mmuimm'
Mhmwlmywmmmhhmmdhh
muammhwwnydsmn--nmumwm--
mmmmsmufimhwmmmwdu

'
'm

J.
A,"

L ,

15-," H '
J

"M

  
  

mm

WIMMhhflM--HQMdEMdWIM
bummithkmdbovu--Mmbdimhkmndhfim'
mammmammnm-amfian -
mam-nhnmmmnbmumnm--muah '
dfimhymhuywintinthmdflflny,whichh&bmdmm
--hfl|inwithhhmd|whntvuduuhn,ndddivmthnm,vhom
manma--ammmmwummumnfifiu
Bdmllhip,themnflwdwhinhmhmihing...mm.mummmn 27!

135::

' .,..

MIX.

Granola-hunt hiHMwlfidIholndlwithmdiflwlmhningdb-
mummunmmmmmywaunm
mhtdfiyngmupof'flnds--Pridayhnryjoyvumudngthooldphu
--ThaflMpm0ruoonubkthoBymindvhaulifohemd--Ffidnym
withhilhthu--Crmdiawmthuthabglish-flmhokfthehindhn
hohnvd hdly--Thohquthnilnddnfinghinhlufi.............................. 296

3.34;"

"-1. w), .',,' ,'
nm'quflL:

mm

mflnanmgmflynfilndhythnufivdolcruoqvhofwni-hnfim
fidemmm--mwmmammmmum
Mmmqmbmihnndm Mindhdngddivaud--Win
Mrhmhmmflnglnflcdfiohgfilhufloninwnfldninp,
hvhglhonumwmwmhhmdhhmpnimim
thdteonfidm--Tho'llmdh divided" the. admin--Thoma"
mmmmumdmmpmwmunmm
Mflammmmmmgm-nmmm
--Ardigicumvuhn--Grmluvutheiflmdhlhopefnlmdifim ......... 885

K-

_ AU": '
Manna-14;. .'m

"an!

M
A l '. .,
'AJMJ

.-

..~
"--1..

{5?anqu '

MAL

CHAPTER XXII.

WWIMdWmdu--m-mwhhvud-- ~
Pfidaykhfllod--Omoolnivuum'hmhopuhildmpfimud
WighdnfififiwMthfllm--M-flhmmhdiu--
rmummmmvmmbymm-mmd
mdhflnhnmgdhfihfiflmfiammtm
mmmmmtomy--On'minghmb
Wuhafluywhodkngfimfiny,udmfimnlhmnnugdmmm7."; "7'

I 0011132118.

cum XXIII.

Atmmmmummnmm'mmmm
MMMIWhMNOhiM--Thymhm'm
mmnnmmmwmmwmmmm
manywiflt--Thdrmpuuhuohfinglthminhhngu,uC/hqmm
hmumwmmmm--mmawm
Mutnflforcoohhmvhmthayhnnmmfithmwm--TM,
nfinatQuimhmg,whunthayp-rtfimthdrlhip-Gtmofidhxmkinmd
Mudhvdlwiflllmm alumni-lbw Tutuydeu-ia--
W'mmin m--mmmum--mhmmm
aneofnuflydmmmddnh-mhubmmm .................. 880"(DEX T0 WOODCUTS IR THE TEXT.

--..__

Pom or Dam D- For .........
nu Boon Bum ............
DI Fox at m Pmu

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  

01m: Om Anon ............
Tn Inn-Guru" oxmmumw
Tn Sax--Goa m an Km ......
Inna-[ox n! Sm
Tn Fun Pun: ........ . ......
A Wu: 3: m Eu anon...
01m: Gnu-u at an Hum: .
A Pnlmul 01ml
03min Bonn. ...............
Tn Foam Duncan-n
Tu Pun or 8mm; ......
Imus 00m
W6 Baum

A man mm m Suan.......
Tu 81m Pmo'm known...
Owner's Dxumn mu 13: Inn>>
A: Blown-n m Wotan
Tn Ban on In!
A Bum. on m mum
A Bron A! Bu. ......
Dun or I'm! .........
A rum m m Ooclmt 0mm....... .
A 0mm no: Tum ......
Dam al Inner) ............ .....

03m: a Banana!

 

<<an...

    

nommmfllm'ummcnlatnmouul mu- '

......... ... ... ....um...ouuu-o"nu-Jun>>..-pogo-...>>,s~

,4

  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 

man who invented "Robinson Crusoe," little il known.
. ,. Thatfifilghom,umightbemsblyupeotedafn
mamwhmmspmsn'goodamhfiirmdhonmmbhgvhinh,
tomythinking--thatigtoflmthinkingofmindividnalwhoohuinha
mmmmmmwmdm--hmw
omfuhthhmflsctm-Mitvmldhnemnttemdfitfleb
mm>>.mry.wfight,mneroebmmmm.m
m-hmm,mdhisfntherandgrmdfathmmmmoftb_mob;
mammmmmmmummmam
Nmufinhnmhhmmadethodimvery. Thqpequlim-ifi-dxiv MBHOIR 0'

themehouldbeoanaidemd. Thereoenbenodonbtthatnsemle.
nine-tenthsofthenumberofboyreadmwhopemseBobinmCmeoe'e
edventureehavethemostimplioitbeliefthet that hem once existed
inthe flesh: mdthiethonghthaymawmthatthemflerwu
writtenbyDanielDeFoe. For writlontheyreadnmatcd; endifthey
thinkeboutDeFoentdLitieuagoodeortoffellow whowxofe
from Crusoe'e dictefiom--en individual to whom the doughty adventurer
wasunder considerable obligation. Itieaeevemblowtothe young
mdh-nefingmhdhdiecomthetthdrdndingmfimy-idanduigefier
n11, aficfifimmmmmyinmmaammmu
didJacktheGimb-kfller;bnSSif,ineddifid,tmthineimbedonthefnrther
exphnnfinnthetflmeeaidmnxueietwueeotoreooxeombmramly
fellow,who wieldedhiepenfurhmdustoy-makerhnndleehietools,
mdwitheseineemoontemptforhinrhnhefie handiwork, the disunpoint-
ment {vould indeed be complete.

DeFoe'eaneeetryeenbetl-wednofurtherthanhisgrmdfnther. He
majofialoountrygenflemen,livhgonhiaownestate,ntmhon,in
Northemptomhire, sowing and reaping for his profit, and followingthe
houndnforhiapleasure. ItisnotmmrdedthntDeFoe,theyeomnn,wu
apuhlicmanmrthetheetellmeddledwiththeafl'ahlofsm;afillitie
e'hownthethewaenatindifiuenteonemingsuehmmmwethe
followed, oretlmetwuknmwtthewmmonpmefieeof themenofhie
fimqofbeetowingthenmeebomebymteemennotoftheirputyon
dopmdotheranimela of low degree. BayaDeFoe:--"Imembermy
mdfetherhadehuntemnnthetneedthemefimfliuitywithhiedoge;
andhehedhieBoundheadandhieCamlier,hisGefingnndhisWella,
mdanthegmerfleofbothumiuwemhomdninhiepaehmthefimee
turningfiheoldgenflemenwfeinhecetterthepwhendmnkethem
up of mole dog-like surnames."

Thejotial fox-hnnfingaquirahedmghiemonemedlmes

i A. '45:BAN 13!: D1 101- xv

Coneemingtheboyhooddthilpenonnothhg'urecudeduntflmhm
ofhicbeingbamdeppxenfieetceeertdnlohnlavisebnhherotm-
dm;md,hevingdnlymedhiemter,vefindhimembuuherh
thepenhhofShGflegcfipplegmmdhebibdhgetherdiflerentkm
thosecfhiempeceedhtherfinmnchuhememoteobermind,
mdechictfimmfmiehmdfimmfim'emmgthemoctmm
cdhezenteoftheBev.Dr.Anneeley.
YngefidhluppudanbmbthhGflchht
thexegisiirationofhicbirthdoe-motexistinfluepu-iehreccwde.-= This,
however, my-beexpleined. Ae.beEURoxe-menfioned,hiepmhm>>ctliet
Neneenromhte;'mdtheirpeeter,m.mee1ey,mmemeidmue
Madman-reethehmhumnmahhumthemehea
ministetefStGflec'epuiehehnrch. Theeevmmdlhnpleteechinge
of this good men, however, gen alliance-end he m ejected hmvthe
living. AMthigDnAnneeleyeehhliehed'emeefinghweehLiflJeSt.
nequMopmwMthn-thermhmny,mththemeiuitydhhda
oungmgatienfollo'edhim. Thilnlterafionpobmybokphceehafly
hefcreDeniel.weehom-; mdwhmfidmmhioueevmtmthe
Wc'pamufioundthemeelmineetnitccnceminghiengietnfim.
The'oolihh Church thud-headland its doors ugeinet theirpem.mnot
the place towhieh l:he:e1m<lyNancenfouniet'echildceultllaecem'et'lfr It
flielitflemeefing-hcuetheceuemcny-ccnldnctbepexfomedgeendeothe
hirthdaycfthegzeatDeniechemeinednnehrcnided. ..e ...
Eeilebovemokencfeenelned"roe,"-endcmectly; helium
goodhiecleimmeyhevebeentetheprefix"De,"hiefetherendhiegnndr
htherdianeteaoptih Theywuepleinl'cmymdepleinroemlhero
mbomineflleyeer-JGBL (Some kimthnfitifi gave the dated")
Hazlitt-ranch:-.-"-Upcn whetoecaeicnit m that 200 Fee ynndeflie

dbfi-atinninhiennmgbyccnnecfing itwith.thhPSeaeignptenx,mhm.

eppeen. Hie motivem pmbehlye dielikehtchie ozigiml meddle

 

  

a",
an".

A."
"All.

-. .
t , - . - - . ,_ e {I ~.
tighten .'k.rl.1~,a.qunh.M.'.&Ajn."imam: n. elf-Lei

mun huh-a.

" '7 It _ :
"define-.11":

I
ne'er. ni'

'4}.1'. .~ e'

1 .
v-_e.
MA.

talk"!m IHOIB or

foriteimpoztoritshanhneu; orhemighthavebeendeeimmofrestofing
ittoits Norman origin." The period at whiohhe Idopfedthenewfiflo
ahoisnotelear.1twouldalmoeteeemthnthemusthavebeenputthe
mildleegebefomthealtemfionoocnnedtohim;for,whfleetthelgeof
forty-two,and while hem longuprieoner in Newgate forhiaofl'anoea
agfinstthesmmhethuueplieetooneofhisnnmemuenemieawhohad
sneexedethisnnmeinoonnectionwithDeFoe'eownnewspaper,the
Bavicw:--"Ifthe genflemanheaafavonrableopinionofthem,"
fancyhewfllnotdislikeitupontheeoconntoftheeuthofsnmmulike
ethhigwhichhehinselfienohbeingel'oeinflameonly,no%innstn:ge,
teanybody." ,
0f young De Fee's childhood little ornothing ispositively known.
JM&howevu,fimfiemM'Qrmgfiomfle&MfihmM
sible to conceive him anything but a studious, trunk, honest boy, with
suflicienf, perhaps, ofhie fither's severitynndblnntnmto gethiminto'
ecrapeeinnnmerable,andeertehly withmfluientfortitudefobeumem
fullyfllepnniehmentthuabroughtnpomhim. Itmay,fioo,behirly
medthnthewuadaxingandmtumsomeboy,--themtofboy,in
Mwhomaaweytowe. Butthuemmmeyoculafimfiorwhioh
spaoeoannotherebepexmitted. Itunnoghowever,butbemgmflad
thatmnreofmohaman'eboyhoodienotlmm Poueningbnttho
mmforeehadowingsoftheimagimfionthateouldonnjmenp"nobin-
m0meoe,"withnuhisvigimitudee,hadventuxee,andnfiableformee,
unmountofhisbehaviourfiumtenfillfourheenyeueofegewuuldbo
Vlaflyintaxeating.
AttheageoffourbeenDanielwuepheednndertheeueoftheBev.
CharleeMoMWhokeptmmdemylorymggenflemanotNewington
Green. "1hiegent1emnn,"eeyeDeFoe, "mnpolitemdpmfennd
eeholar;emuterwhohughtnothing,eitherhpolifiesuuienoe,whiuh
mdmguouhmuehiflgovmmenguwhichmimpmperforeDAN 131': DB '03.

diligmt scholertoknow." mrmmwmmumm
Morton'sochodwithuumsidmblalhmodlenming. fivehnguageo,
mathmnfiu. natural My. logic; sever-why. "Id him? m
umonghisaeqnisitim
lumeaatahodemmmwmfiehggmwagu
affortwoyemgmdthmappemwithhisfintpn'nudefi'ndm.>> m
mflingtoChadwichmapmphlotmthetbmnghgm'between
meAummmmhwmmwmmum,
andpoinhedoutthedimuoonsequmlikelybmfimudefing
theTurkaagainstthsenmnies,who,uhnobmu,"mstleat
01mm" Hufittmdothmhm,uetflzatboroo'afimtliu-
mryprodufimmalmpwndWWRogeL'mggwho
shoruywmhsdpubmhedweuidatounnaaiumagy." Thetitle
ofDeFoe'apamphletwu"Speculm&apeGownofim;a-11mkhg-
GhafetheyomgAmdemich'mFoth. ByeGnidetothe
mam." L'Eshangehndinhiapubliesfiondimetedtheheufieot
mmmamwmmnmmmmmm
tcntusreedneompmdwithDoFoe'l rejoining onflmghtontbwmk.
_ mofthoEstabliahedelegy.
' From this period--1682 to mas--De Poe's mark is missing from
mepagesofhiswry. Thenwehavetbe'rebellionoftheanaotllm--
mmmmdthedoughtmeMDeFoqahot-bloodedyomgmd
twenty-four, enlisted inhis cam--notwith hbpembutprncfimllyg
eqfiippeduaaoldie,andwearingeswwd. 5319th
fionoftheMmouthattemptiswellinown;andDeFoewithmeny
othmlafldowntheunptnflhhlemoziuflmedbfimirpeaeeful
mmwllinsm
hFoqwhodoesnoteeemuyettohaveanhrkedhmyothebmi-
seriously up citizen life, and established himself in Fmenum's Yard, "can;
' Imfi usuaxn or

hill, as a hosier, or, according to Hazlitt, "as a hose-factor or middle-man

between the manufacturer and retail dealer." Whatever its exact nature,

the Freeman's Yard business must have proved tolerably satisfactory; for

within two years De Foehnd come sofarto regardhimselfasamanwhose

future was settled, that, on his application, he was admitted a Lireryman
I of London on the 26th of January, 1688.

De Foe continued ten years in the hofiery business. He was not,
however, so utterly devoted to it that the dangers of the nation escaped him.
Within the abovementioned ten years several most important events in
English history transpired, and with the chief of which our hero was asso-
ciated. About 1686, the King (James II.), actuated by craft and cowardice,
held out to all religious sects and creeds a project of general toleratin--
Dissenters were to be allowed as much freedom of speech and action as
members of the Established Church, and Papists as both. Such a pretence
of generosity on the partof the Kingwaswell calculated to find farms:
with men as oppressed as were the Dissenters of the period; but although
their desire for toleration was great, their hatred of Popery was greater,
and as a bodytheystood firm against the proposition. At such atime,
and in such a cause, De Foo was not likely to be idle. " Was ever any-
thing more absurd," wrote he, " than this conduct of King James and his
party in wheedling the Dissenters ? Giving them liberty of conscience by
his own arbitrary dispensing authority, and his expecting they should be
content with their religious liberty at the expense of their constitution?
a thing, though a few were deluded with, yet the body of Dissenters saw

' through. The train, indeed, was laid deep and subtilly; but this was
plain to everybody, that it was wholly inconsistent with Popish interests
to protectthe Dissentcrs any otherwise than it was made a project to create
a feud between them and the Church, and in the and destroy both." Dc
Fwafiemrdsmmdthathedidhisuhndstboppouthemhmand
that he wrote two tracts on the subject.'rv-- .. wry" _.,V.. _ . -v..ww--vr_rju..fiuflng--;_-v'x

imam. m: :03. . xix -

ThiubchnvionrofthoKingcreamdxhnchdisconmtmoongnfldm
ofhismbjects;fillotlnstoertninofthenobflitynndgentzy,nndown
elegy--including the University of Mud--petitioned the Prince of
Orangotooomomdhkapossesaionofthedimmtedkingdom. T'nol'zineo
repliodwith charity, and oaths-1th of Nmber, less--being bothhin
birthmdmmfingodny--hndedatTorbaywithfifieenthmdm
Hismmchhhndmmmnninteuuptedhinmph. Thepooplesofnr
fimmfingtheinvasionweloomedthoinvadoruadelivmmnflgmeud
himandhiahostwithtmnultuomjoy. DeFoemanudontadmirox-of
flfismvolnfinn. Whenhohwdthonewsthntthomyofthol'rinnoof
Omgawuappmmgthecity,heeetont'um:unm1eymmetig
majohmdthemoaeymopofnmhpldimmamgmhmmmm
megademmmmddimfi'octeddergmddfizmintheirmhto,
Whitehall. The4thofNavemhermmnfiaregudedhyDoFoou
amuoddny--"adnyfamoumvafiommmmandweryonoofthm
dmmBritmwholovetheirmuynaluemrmtgsminMox'
havoanavexdontotynnnyandoppremion. dnfiisdny'ho(therrinceof
0mm)waabom;onthisdayhemaniedthednnghtorofhgSSnnd;md
onthisdayhoreocuodthonnfionfromabondngomflimthntd
Egypt--abundageofaoulaswennbodflyaervitnde;ndnvorytoths
nmbifimmdmginglustofsgmmfimmtmfimbymidgawfico,
cruelty, and blood." The molufion was thus consummated without
umdshedgmdthehatdthosmmmgnthrmwithoutthemp- -
pmtofthepwphmtenamgfledemcgwhomhomwenmoivefl
hymmisninsmm ' .

Itmaybemumedfmnpamgesthotominmoofhispmphlota,
Mdnrhgfiamupmcydthohemm'sYuflwmhomDoFaohndl _
oomtryhonaeinSnmy. nemmmmmmmmmm if?
Dimenting Wmammmneumhm omdabeingulectcd '
film-pastor.
DeFoe, inhis pamphlets, repeatedlyrepudiates the occupation of an
hosier, andelaimstoboatmder--a general merchant. Oldmixon, me!
Do Foo's most annoying enemies, says, " he never had been a merchant.
otherwme than peddling a little to Portugal." Therein everyreasanto
believe, however, that during his ten years' experience as a trader, he
made several voyages to Spain and. Portugal, and he himselfdeclaree that
he resided in Spain long enough to acquire the language of that country.
HehadsomeeonnexionalsowithDutohcommeree. Heisslludedto
wntemptuously as a "civit-eat merchant;" but, says Hazlitt, "it war
probably the drug, rather than the animal, in which he traded."

Whatever may have been the nature of the various enterprises De Foe
embarkedinduringthe saidtenyeomitiscertainthattheylandedhima
bankrupt, and he had to fly from his creditors. Various causes have been
assigned for this collapse of his fortune; but it must be the boldest specu-
lation to speak of the reasons of a man's failing inbusiness, whenitis
actually unknown what the nature of that business was. His debts
amounted to several thousand pounds; and now his behaviour showed him
something more than a "pedlnr" or a man whose heart was in the till of
a hosiery shop. He might--and still have been nothing below the average
" trade mark"--have availed himself of the bankruptcy law, and to a very
large extent have cluded the payment of his obligations. Had he done so,
however, he would have been false to his own noble teaching, "Never
think yourself discharged in conscience though you may be discharged in
law. No title of honour, no rounded merit, no mark of distinction, can
exceed that lasting appellation, unhonest man. The obligations of an honest
mind can never die. He that lies buried under such an epitaph has more
saidofhimthanvolumesof historyean contain. The payment of debts
after fair discharge,is the dearest titletosuchacharacterthatIanr
nudhowanyman can begin again and hope for ablesslngi'rumfieaven,
or favour from man, without such a resolution, I know not." The debts"UPI--gawa--w-- 'V.".'- 'v, v-r'rw - ~' --~- n- '"7'"?"l'rf'mfik'flr'F'YY' .

    

..'J:(:._AJ';..'... .A

'mxmn n: 1'03. . ' am

-; a; :9; b"?

" in;

incurred during his trading wen subsequently paid to the nttermost
furthing. '
TowhntparbofthekingdomDeFoefleithnthemightinquietmngo
hisaiinhgmdetflie mefimnsvoidthehommofsdebtors'pflwmis
not certain. PmWyIBristol-mshishiding place. 'Thmisafolmbly
well-euthantimtedstnryof his sppeuinginneahinqnuteto! thntcity,
hmdwmdydremdwithfiowhgmhmnflogandsmordethissideh
but wlyon Sundays. "Hethm minedthn-nsme oftheSundamefle-
mambeeause thmughmrofthebaflifi'shedmemt nppeninpnblieon

..' . u u; ~...A.A.....u.n.' A]; .k.u,.'n3..1.' .uLx-hfl.

anyotherdny."
Atthistimehownsthirtyfourymflhkflndohavhgmgedhis
muninrynfinimhewasofi'emdmdsceepfeds-situefionhtheglmduty
commission. Thighcwever,heon1ymtninedforfouryean,asatfhs
expimtionofthattimetheglaastuwasmpealed. Abantfliisfimehe
hemesemmyto'atflsand-briokmkingoonmatTiIbury,hEm
Kemnsthnvehadaeonaideuhleahminflmmehryafiairsdthe
businm, for on its failnxein 1708, DeFoe's personnl'loss wast'm-ee thou- _'
sandpounds. - V . i
EsdufimhmyuaeufleemdMormry'atthsfile 51
works, didnotindueehimrtothrowasidehispen. From1695fin1701
hc.wroteandpublishednnmamusworksmdpmph1ets. His"Essuyon '."-
Prospects," which sppearedin 1697,ismarkablsforthesoundnsnsnd
inguuityofihugmmfiaswellasforflmnovelviewsitedvm A
tractindefeneeoftheneeessityofthemainfianmeeofanhglishmding
mywnspublishedbyhimhlfifinndshorflyafierwfidsmothertrset
onthemmesuhject appeared. Thesubjeotmmahipgeonsidsnblosfir
intheeountryetthefime. Thehieatyoflyswickhndjust'beensigmd,
mflconsequenflyalargeermywhichhbeanangagedinihel'remh'm
wasnowenfixelywithontemplayment. itwasflmpopuluwishthatthis
forecahouldbedisbmided, Mfionmflpreeedenteliksshmgthenedthe"

. 0m

-' '..':.$C/Hn'u:.:_.u:'_ In: my...

  
   

;

 

nun-4,. 4 a1--: u-thiifi'g. ,.:. ': L _'.,..'_..<<.-4XSll HBMOIB OP

prevailing notion that a standing army was of all institutions the most to
heth countryfamous forits maintennnoeof civil and religious
liberty. This however was, in the opinion of the wise King, a time when
precedent should be disregarded, and a deaf ear turned to the shallow
reasoning of the majority of his subjects. There were substantial grounds
forthis: James, thelnte Kingof England, wasresidingwiththe Kingof
France, whose armywas immense, skilfully generalled, and eager for active
service. King James had not forgotten that he had an hereditary right to
the English throne, and there were among the English people thousands
who likewise remembered that fact, and who would be ready, at a fair
opportunity, to push it to an issue. This, then, was no time for the
reigning King of England to abate his defensive strength, but the rather
to increase it. With all the vigour of his pen De Foe defended the King's
policy, and the King was not ungrateful.

Do Foe now appears to have devoted himself solely, and with con-
sidcrablo energy, to literary pursuits. Numerous works, both in poetry
and prose, emanated from his fortile pen, the bare enumeration of which
would occupy almost as many pages as are here devoted to his whole life.
One of the most remarkable, however, and which more closely than ever
attracted the King to him, was " The True-born Englishman," a satirical
poem which made its appearance in 1701, and when the author was in his
fortieth year. The phrase "True-hem Englishman" was constantly in
the mouths of those who-were disaffected towards the King and his
countrymen the Dutch. By this little sentence the molcontents expressed
their immense superiority to the great Dutchman who ruled them, and to
allhisadherents; whenamsndeclared "Iam a true-hora Engiishman,"
itwasasthough he hadssid"Iam an enemyto the King." DeFoe's
admirationof the Kingwasvery great: hewas "his hero,his daliverer,
hisfriend; hewasboundtohimbythefiesofpatriofism, ofraligion, and
of personal obligation." Paraphleteers of all grades, takingthe mom-. - -_ , .--~ -~ wr'vv' '7: >>"na--v-v---w"-s-_"7W_. RT" s!'1"'."'EUR"f'". 'r' ..

f-" ,1

i..mmm..._-_Awuan-m..m Mlm.m:nh_mm I'ub-MAELJLLAQ QiQLLm

mmnn ms :03. xxiii
woreuthairm,hadi:ndulgedinflw most wandalouslihcb agnithia

Mnjeaty,anditwas to mthmmdthroughthemtheirmploym
nudedmimgthatDeFoepennedhisaafirindpom. Hisdeauiptionof
the originofthe"True-bom Englishman"willaerveasanmmploot
themfimproduction. '

Thacmthehmwhodupiufinbmh

Andmilutm-eomfionignmlommh,

Forgetting M thmdm us all thrived
l-'mmthemtmnnflnlnuthatemlind:
Abortidmwdofrmblingthimmddronu,

Who flanked kingdom uddilpeopled towns:
nommpmmmmuswt,

By hunger, than. Indnpine. him! brought;
Nmegianpinmlmmauingm
WhojoinndwithNormanMeompomdmbnod
mewhmocyoumbomhgfilhmupmd.

As mightmmmblyhupwfldthmgllamplyhhisemmia
couchedinsuch hngmgeplmmdkingwmimnotafifilqandhadths'
effect of stopping their clamour,itinnowaytendedfoalmtheiropiniom
orhpmmotetheirestemmeanidDeFoqthewfitu. Thepoemhad
nnenormouuale--atleust eightythomdeopieufindingtheirmyinfio
thehnndaufanequnlnumberofEnglishman,"h'no-bom"orothawiae.

methiafimeDeFoewu hhigh'favourwith the King, who
employedhiminmysemtaervieegthomtmeofwhichianotknown.
Inoneofhia"Reviews."pub1ishedabouttanyennafiertheKing'adeatfi,

'mumummmmm '

thiaboldoaumenm-tellahowthatheadvisedfiislfajesty"tomdl' M
mongfleetfothefiavmahtoseizethatputoftheialnndinwhichitis' a

dWMMdfiOmthmwtoadmmdwomthepouenionatleastofthe; '
coast,ifnotbyoonaequeneothaTmMa,offhoEmpireoflIexico,' L,
andthmbyenfirelycutofltthpaniahmmmahdthemtumoflheir . 5'
phteshipgbytheimmenudchmwhemoflmdhywhichonly, both
Francemdfipainhn'vebeenembledhmpporttbism." '

 

15A - '.'

.hg'bmgn'xd-mku a7AW4'i'nmmkn Mirxiv rumors or

Do Foe's career as a courtier wss, however, cut short by the death
of his royal patron, which took place on the 8th of March, 1702. No
sooner was the lion dead than the host of cars who since the publication
of "The True-born Englishman" had vented their spleen in smothered
growls, again gave tongue and heaped scandal and abuse on the "deed
Dutchman"--ono pamphlet more prominent than the rest appealing with
the title " The Mourners." To this De Foe replied by a dignified letter,
calling it " The Mock Mourners," suificiently forcible to still the mirth of
the dead King's cowardly defamers.

With Anne for Queen came in fresh troubles for the Dissenters. Ad-
vised doubtless by those whose interest that way lay, the Queen, from the
moment of her accession to the throne, made it her business to conciliatc
the Church at all risks. "Sscheverell and the Established Church, and
extermination to Dissenters," became a popular cry; and there was nothing
Ieflsfor De Foe but againtotake the helm and endeavourto steer-his co.
religionists through the storm that lowered on every side; With the view
of warning them he published "A New Test of the Church of England's
Loyalty," and shortly alter-wards " The Shortest Way with the Dissentcrs,"
which is regarded as one of the finest pieces of satire and irony ever com-
posed--indeed its extreme cleverness militated against it. The High
Church, sgainstwhom the satirewss of course levelled, failed to see or
feel the hidden sting, and, taking the pamphlet, rejoiced at winning over
so powerful an advocate to their cause; while the Dissenters, with mar-
vellous dalness, especially as they had had so many proofs of De Foe's
sincerity, failed likewise to catch the true meaning of the tract, and re-
gardcd their unwearying champion as a traitor--swolf that atlssthad
thrown oif his disguise . .

In this strait De' Foewssreduced to the necessityofpablishing an
uploading to his pamphlet; but this only msde badworse, for while it
failed to convince his fellow Dissenters of the injustice of which they had
hoe-r; guilty, the eyes of the Churohmen were opened to the folly they had
been betrayed into, and they suddenly turned from glorying in their new
champion to hating him as a villain double-dyed. An advertisement was
inserted in the London Gasser-to for the apprehension of " Dunicl Dc Foo,
<<Has Do lv'ooo, a. middle-sized spare man, about forty years old, of a
brownish complexion, and dark brown-coloured hair, a hooked nose, a
sharp chin, and 1!. large mole near his month." At the same time it was
resolved in the House of Commons, "That this book, being full of scan~
(lalons reflections on the Parliament, and tending to promote sedition,

be burnt by the hands of the common hangmzm to-mon'ow in N ew Palace
Yard."

    

_-<_-_

ms Books Bum.

En this pzctliuuuzent ho was forced to go into hiding to saw: himself
from a gnol. This course, however, he soon abandoned. The offer of a
rewaul of fifty pounds for his apprehension, was followed by the arrest
of the printer and publisher of tho ol noxious pamphlet, so he generouslySlti 13110!!! 0!

eame forward and gave himself up to the Government. He was brought
totrial, andthe pcnaltyofhis erimewos fixedat a fineof two hundred
marks, three separate standings in the pillory, and imprisonment during
the Queen's pleasure; and, when that expired, he was to find substantial
securities for his good behaviour during the following seven years.

It happened, however, that although De Foe had lost the faith of his
old friends, and earned for himself the extreme hatred of his enemies, he
was the idol of the crowd; and, when he was led out to the pillory, a vast
mob accompanied him, cheering as lastily as though they had elected him
king, and were about to crown him. As for the piilory, it was hung with
garlands of flowers; and, while he stood in it, the mob made a merry time
of it, cheering him and drinking his health, and converting what was
intended as a degrading punishment into a famous triumph.

 

lnthehllmy.

The imprisonment in Nowgate had to be endured for several months.
However, this time was not passed by the greatman in an idle way. Novels
and pamphlets were projected and a complete edition of hisworks wllected
andprinted. ItwaswhilehewasatenantofNewgatealsothatths
Rm'm was established--a publication which appeared two or three times
a week for several years. It was entirely written by De Foe. At last,
in August, 1704, through the instrmnentulity of Mr. Hurley, then Secre-
tory of State, the prisoner was released. After all, it would not seem to
have been the Queen's pleasure that he remained in Newgatc so long, for
when she was informed of the facts of his case, she not only gave him his
liberty, but forwarded him by Lord G odolphin a considerable sum of money,
wnerewith he was enabled to pay his debts and re-estuhh'sh his home.

 

In Navigate.

To reeruit his health, Do Foe now retired with his family to Bury St.
Edmunds, continuing his literaiy labouzs, however, with unt-iring energy.
In 1706 he was commissioned by the Government to visit Scotland, with
a view of assisting in the fornmtion of a union between the two countries.
80 ably did he acquit himself of this mission, that in 1708 0. pension
was gmnted him. Political changes, however, soon deprived him of this
benefit.

Being once more dependent on his pen, he set to work assiduously,
and from 1708 till 1715, produced a vast number of pamphlets and worksxxviii users or

of greater size, including a "History of theUnion of Great Britain," " An
Essay on the South Sea Trade," "The Present State of Parties in Great
Britain," etc, etc. 1111713, and when he was fifty-twoyearsold,De Foe
once more get into trouble. He produced a clever, well-meaning tract,
entitled, "AnAnswerto the Question that nobodyThinks of, viz.: But
what if the Queen should Die? and What if the Pretender should
Come?" Once more was the point of his wit too fine for the dull-eyed.
The Government was anrazed at the writer's audacity, and he was arrested
and sent to geol; and it was not until he endured considerable imprison-
meat that his accusers saw their error, and mcommended the Queen's
pardon.

Itwouldseem thateventhe giantmimlof Daniel De Foenowfound
itself overtaxed, andhe resolved to have no more to do--at least directly---
with politics. For thirty years hehsd busied himself with public efl'airs,
and with no betteb'nwani--beyond the serene consciousness that his
course had been truesndhenest--than persecution, and disaster, and
imprisonment, or, atbest, witbfive mimicr- ons fiend. Before, how-
ever, he abandoned hispolitilalrcareer, hewu deeirousof squaring accounts
with thosowithwhomhedmd solong,dealt,ndtothatendprepared "An
Appeal to Honour and Justice, though it be of his worst Enemies. By
Daniel De Foe: being a True Account of his Conduct in Public Afiairs."
This narrative, however, though published, was never completed. While
working at it, De Foe was mitten with apoplcxy, and lay between life
and death for six months. Knowing the sick man's anxiety that this
"True Account of his Conduct " should go forth to the world, his friends
resolved to delay its publication no longer, and it therefore appeared un-
finished as it was, and with a note added by the publisher, seer-{bins the
delay to the author's illness.

As Hazlitt truly observes :--"'1'he close of De Fee's political career
was the beginning of his greatness. In the retirement which he now.vrwv- ~, . . - ."'7'""'T'4"'FV'VWV'T"F,T'W2'9",' 4 a
V 1.. , . _.' _ .

Dinar. n 30!.

mzhtqutmmwgflmlcimflhiaacfiwlpifitmmpiedintha
ucatihncfaaerieadmhwhichniaedhiamimmunhlyhighar
thmithadcmbeahbefoninthaopifionothiacmtmpaiuiegud
whinhwinmflratmainficahmmdhmmaolmgum
languagainwhichthaymwfittancndurea." DerooWfiomhia
mummihohghhiaflfty-fifihymflatdowntommwrflingwith
amindaavigmulmdelasfioaaayoungmanofflfixty. Withinaixyean
hepmdnodmmfimadomwuhamgtharug--"Thalflqfl-
rmtureqmdPynaiaachaptainSingloton;""TheDnthhfloaophar;"
"Colonel Inch" "Moll Flandm;" "The Hymn-lea of Magio;" "The
Hiataryofthe Plague;" and "Robinson Crusoe." The last mantioned
storywuonaofthaearlkatproduaedafi'arhiarafimmthompolifical
life,andwaapnbliahedin1719. Conceming"BohhamCxuoe,"nothing
needhembeaaid. Anthatoouldbeuttemptedwouldhatoaingita
Imiaeatonnawair;andwhenonahaaaofewwoniatohupm--"m-

dmua wisdom," "perfection of wit," "enchanting interest," and a in

othm--thcir adaptdionto amwhmeiadiflculteapecianyaatheaaid
tunamnathe anathatevdryEngliah boymaymflydngforaingithe
catalnlywflltoaomotuneorothar.

Attheaga ofaixty,DaFoemfamouafllmughhialattuworh; he

Wabaflmhonacatfltoke Newhgmmammnbemin
motherthaneaaycirmstnnoea. Hewmrdyaflictadwiflagonhmd
beaiduwaatrmbledfithapainfnlintcafinaloomplaint. Anotharmia-
WhMmeWMm--cmmmyamlm
StflLinthetccthofflmogxaattroublegDeFoe'atwufinghninoouldmt
hesfill. Hia"EistoryofthaPlagua"iajuaflymgudadasoneofthamoat
mmaflouaofhiapmducfiona. "Noona,"syaEaalitt, "cantakauptho
mmwmmahmmdmmpdmhm
hiamrtory; mdfhathammcyo-witnentoanhcralatea; thathc
mtnaflymwthadazingatuavhinhportmdedthecalamfly; thathcyitp

 

.

I;
5?
A s
. J

......

.'_ '.
l. "4.2-.--

  

L

. a
'

..SS.':Iua..n. _-. .muu... -. T..2.. 1- 1:413.

ASH." .Jg-i ..\4u

l
nun-31M

V. ..
.. -J)..A_A.\.

.1";

"a'.

.. M" I','.'.
fil'Jlbl-I

u'.'mSShma.mu.mr" _, --- v-- "7'

XXX 1! PS110!!! 03

ncssed the grass growing in the streets; read the inscriptions upon the
doors of the infected houses; hetudthe hell-men crying 'Bringontyour
dead;' saw thedead carts conveying the people to'their graves, audwas
present utthe digging of the pitsinwhich thcywero deposited. Itisnn
wonder that a. work so gravely written should have deceived Dr. Mead,
who quoted it as an authentic history in his ' Treatise on the Plague.' "

In 1724 appeared "Roxana, the Fortunate Mistressf' and the follow-
ing year a new " Voyage Round the World," the most instructive, if not
the most interesting, of his histories. Other works of a less important
character followed, and in 1727 was issued " The Complete English
Trudwnan." This is generally regarded as the best of Do'Foe's pne-
tieul works, and was greatly admired by Benjamin Franklin. Following
this came "The Military Memories of Captain Carleton," which, with
some few pamphlets, carried him on to his sixty-ninth year, when we find
him engaged on a work of considerable magnitude, entitled "The Corn-
pleto Gentleman."

Of this, however, part only was written, end but a dugle sheet printed.
We find him writing to his printer (Mr. 3'. Watt, in Wild Court), apolo-
gising for some delay, but exensing himself on the ground that he is
" exceedingly ill." He was not fated, however, to end his well-worn life
easily and pleasantly. Strange as it may appear, considering the profitable
nature of hisworksduringthe preceding twelve or fifteen years, hewas
reduced in his extreme old age to absolute poverty, forfeiting his house at
Ncwington, and actually thrown into prison for debt. His imprisonmmt
was of but short duration, but his worldly condition never eflnrwsrds
mended. Hishodflyaflictionsincmesed, sndhiswickedsonaddedo
climax to his previous ill-behaviour by squandering the little hoard saved
fromthewreokothisfathefsproperty, entrustedtcthissonforthenseof
hismotharand sisters. Writing ooncemingfnmilymdtcrsgsnmfllytohis
son-in-lnw, Mr. Baker, a few months More his death, poor De Foe thusmum. m: ron. xxxi

alludes to this seapcgmce: " I depended upon him--I trusted him--I gave
up my two dear unprodded children into his hands; but he has no coni-
passion, und suffers them and their poor dying mother to beg their bread
at his door, and to crave, as if it were an alms, what he is bound by hand
and seal, besides the most sacred promises, to supply them with; himself
at the same time living in a profusion of plenty. It is too much for me.
Excuse my infirmity; I can say no more, my heart; is too full."

On the 24th of April, 1731, in the seventiei-h year of his age, De Foe
found rest; from the world wherein he had worked so long and so nobly,
and which at last treated him so unkindly. He died in the parish he was
born in--St. Giles's, Cripplegate-- and was buried in what wos then known
as Tindall's Burying Ground, and no"r as Buuhill Fields. Whether he died
surrounded by his family, whether he died all alone or attended by strangers,
cannot be discovered. The worst, however, may be surmised; for had
one of his kindred been at hand at the time of his death, it is reason-
able to suppose that the good man's proper name would have been supplied
to the parish registrar, which certainly was not the ease, for there the
entry reads :--" 17 til--April 26--Mr. Dubow, Clipplegute."
ROBINSON CRUSOE.

CHAPTERI

mmmmmummmuumu--mm
ummmm-mnnmvmsmmmwhhball-dunn--A
mmhmmdeMQhWW--l'hnflpml
mummhrmuM--muo-Mhnwnmuu
"numbnbmmmummumwm

WASbominfheycnrl632,intheeityotYork,ofsgood _ ,
hmilyfihoughnotofthnwunhmmyfathorbeingafomigner '
omewhosetfledfintatHufl. Hegotagoodemto
bymsrchnndise, md'Imvhgoflhhmdqlivedafiorwnrdaat >>
York; hmwhsnoehahadmnnied my mothor,whoae relations
wmnmednobinmaverygoodhmflyinflmtmhmmd: - ;
homwhomlmaomlled RobinsonKmntznm;bnt.bytho
umnloormpfionofwordainEnglmfl,wemnowealled,my,.
wenfloumdvegmdwfibmnmCmm;nndnmyoompnniom
alwayseuflsdme.
Ihndtwoddarbrothmmofwhamwulioumnt-oolonelfpfin
Engfishmgimmtotfmtinflmdmfomeflywmmdedhythefnmou. '
Cdmdhckhmhmdmkflledntthohtflawbunfirkagainsttbu
Spaniards. Whatbpeamaofmyseeandhroflmr,1nemkmw,anjmm
thmmyfatherormotherdidhowwhntwubmndm -
Beingthnthinlmofthofnmfly,mdnotbmdtomytndo,mym
bagnnubeflledeymlywithmhlingfioughh. Hyfither,whowll v_-
nghndgzmmnmmlhmdhunmgufuuhm Jr;
edueafionandaemmtryfi'eeschool generallygo,anddesignedmeforthe
law: huthouldbeaatisfiedwithnothinghutgoingtoses:andmy
inelinationtnthisledmesosh'onglyegainstthewill,nay,theoommanda
of my father, and against all the enheatios and panaasienaof my mother
and other friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that pro-
pension of nature, tending directly to the life of misery which was to
befalme.

My father, a. wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent
counsel against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one
morning into his chamber, where he was confined hythe gout, and ex-
pofiulated verywannly with me upon this subject: he asked me what
reasons, more than a more wandering inclinafioml had for leaving my
father's house, and my native country,whereImightbewenintrodneed,
and had a prospect of raising my fortune, by application and industry,
with elite of ease and pleasure. He told me itwas for men of desperate
fortunes, on one hand, or of aspiring superior fortunes, ontheother, who
went abroad upon adventures, to rise by enterprise, and make them-
selvesflimousinundexmkingsofanatureoutofthecommonroad;that
these thingswerealleithertoofarabovememrtnofarhelowmuthat
minewasthemiddle mmuwhatmightheeefledtheupperstationof
lowlife, whichhehadfoundfixylong expefienee,wasthebeetstatein
the world, the most suited to human happiness; not exposed to the
miseries andhardships, thelabenrandsufl'efings, of the meehaniopartof
mankind,andnotembamesedwiththepfide, luxury, ambition, andenvy
ofthenpperpmtofmanldnd:heteldme,Imightjudgeoffl1ehappi--
nemofthisstatebythisonething,viz.,thatthiswasthemteoflife
whichuilotherpeapleenviedgthatkingshave frequentlylmentedthe
misembleemseqnencesofbeingbomtogreetthinggandwishedtheyhad
bemphwdinthemidfleofthetwouhmmbetweenthememandthe
yeahthatthewisemangavehistesfimonytothisasthejuststandard
oftme felicity, whenhe pnyedtohave"neitherpovertynuriehes." .

He'hidmeobmigandIahonldalwayrfindthattheealamifies

ormind,aethosewerewho,hyvieieualiving,luxury,andutravv
mcmmmhmiorbyhmdlahour,wantofneeemries.andmmor

6 .my-v-u-FFVV .--_,.._. - . v , .

sonmsos cursor. is

mfldentfisfimfisofifihmdmdhtempenupmflimsslmhy
themtnnlconsequencesoftheirwuyeflrving;thstthemiddlsatcfinn
offifewascalcnlstedforsflkhrdofvirtuegandanhfinddenjoymeuts:
thetpeeeeandplentywmthehaudmsidsofumiddle'fortune; t'hsttem-
mmflaefim quietness, health, soeiety,ellag1eeahlsdiversions,
eudalldesirubleplessmeswmthehlessingsattendingthemiddlestufion
offifigmstthhmymwmtfluflymdmwfilythmghthowofld.
mdmfcrmuymtdmmtunhemssedwiththehhomofflmhsnds
mdfiehudnflwflbfiefibddsvuyhrdflyhuduhsrsssed
withpupkxeddmmsmnmwhichmhthewddpmcqandthehody
ofrest;not enragedvviththepessionofenvymrsemthuminglnstof
smbitionforgreatthing: bughmsyoimmshneegalidinggenfly
thmughthewmldmdsmsiblytesfingthesweetsoflivingvvithcutthe
5M;W8MMWMM.MW5WWWIW
deucetoknnvvitmoressnsibly.
Afierthishepzessedmeeamestlymndiuthemostsd'eetiomtemsn--
ner,nottop!sytheycnngmen,mtoprecipMmyselfiutomiseries
whichnstmgmdthestctimdfifelmbmimseemedfnhuvapm-
videdsgeinst; thstIvvesundea-nonscesaityofseekingmyhreed, that
hewoflddo-wenfmmqandendeavourtoeutermsfsiflymtoths
stsfionotlithwhiehhehsdheenjustxecommendingtomeyandthatif
Iwesnntveryessyaudhsppyinthewurldfltmusthemymere'fate,
orfiaulgthstmusthindsrit;audthsthsshouldhmnothingtoenswer
for,hsvingthusdischugedhisd:utyinwmingmasguinstmeasnru'
whiehhehewwouldbetcmyhurt:inuword,flmteshowouldds
Yuyfindfihgshrmfllwofldsbymdmtfleflhmuhedm-
sohswonldnothsvesomuchhsndinmymisfortunessstommsmy
euoomugementtogoawey;and,tcclcseall,hetoldmelhsdmyeldar
bmtherfmmmmplgtowhomhehudnsedthemeeamestpersua-
sionstokeephimimmgoingintothehvvcountrymhuteouldmt
Whisymgdedmpzcmpflnghhutomiutothemy,whmha
mkifled;andthough,hsaaid,hevvou1dnotceesetoprsyforme.yet
hewouldveutmtceaytcmethetifldidhkethisfoolishstegGod
woflduotummqmdlwofldhmeleimhereefierfioreflectupon
mgneglectedlfiseounseLwhenthmmighthenonetoassistinmy.
recovery.
Iohavfihthlshstputofhsdzswmwhchmhulypro-
phefigthmghlnpposqmyfnflrerdiduotknovittoheschimsefl,
I say, I 'obsorved the tears run down his face very plentifully, especially
when he spoke of my brother who was killed; and thst, when he spoke
of my having leisure to repent, and none to assist me, he was so moved
thnthebroko ofi' thodisoonno, Indtoldrnehisheertwessofullheoould
say no more to mo.

 

Iwnssinoerolysfl'eetedwith this disconne; "indeed, who could!>>
otherwise? endImselved nottothinkofgoingehmedmymomhnttn
settle at home, according to my fiather's desire. But, alas! I few days
were itell ofi': and,in short,to preventsnyofmyfether'sfhrtherim-
portnnifieginefewweeksnfberIreeolvedtomqnitemyfiomhim.
However-,1 did notect sohnstily,neitheresrnyflrstheatofresolution
prompted; bntI took my mother, at a time when I thought herelittle
pleasanterthan ordinary, endtold herthntmy thoughts were so entirely
bentnpon seeing the world, that I should never settletn any thing with
resolution enough to go through with ihmdmy fatherhsdbetter'give
mehiseonsartthenforoemetogowithontit;thst1wesnoweighteen
mdtwhichwuhohmtogoeppmfiwtoemdgorderktom
MmeygthstImmifIMIshonldnemmeontmyfims,
deshonlrleerteinlymewuyfrommymnstsrheforemyfimemmaosmsos causes. a

andgotosea;andifahewou1dspeaktomyfathertoletmegom

voyageabroad,irosmehomsagain,anddidnotlikeit,Iwouldgo
nomoro; andeonldpromise,byadoublo dfligmoqtoncoverthetims
I had lost.

Thispnt mymothu' into a greatpsssion: shetoldme sheknewi
wouldbeto no pmposeto sped to myfiithernpon anysuoha subject;
thothe knew toowellwhntwasmyiuterest," givehisoonsenttoany
such thing so much for myhurt; and that she wondered how I could
thinkof anysuoh thing, afl'nrsuoha discourse asI hndwithmyfnther,
mdsnehln'ndandtender expressionsasshe knewmyfather had usedto
me; andthat, inahort, ifIwonldruinmyself, therewasnohelpforme;
butImightdependI shouldnovcrhuvethcirconsonttoit: thohfor
her part, she would not have so much hand in my destrucfion, and I
should never have it to say that my mother was willing wh- my father
was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet, as I have
heard afterwards, she reported all the discourse to him; and that my
father, after showing a great concern atig said to her with a sigh, " That
boy might be happy if he would stay at home; but if he goes abroad, he
willbe the most miserable wretchthat everwas born: I can give no
consent to it."

Itwssnottillalruosta year afterthisthathrokeloose; though in
the meantime I continued obstinately deaf to all proposals of settling to
business, and frequently expostulating with my father and mother about
their being so positively determined against what they knew my inclina-
tions prompted me to. But being one day at Hull. where I went casually.
and without any purpose of making an elopement that time, but I say,
being there, and one of my companions being going by sea to London in his
father's ship, and prompting me to go with them with the common allure-
ment of seafaring men, vim, that it should cost me nothing for my passage.
I consulted neither father nor mother any more, nor so much as sent them
word of it; but leaving them to hear of it as they might, without asking
God's blessing. or my father' s, without any consideration of circumstanm
or consequences, and' in an ill hour, God knows, on the 1st of September,
1651, I went on board a ship bound for London. Never any young ad-
venturer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner, or continued longer,than

mine. Theshipwasno. sooner got outolthe Bomber but thewind

hogan to blow, and the waves to rise, in amost frightful manner; and6 "VIEWERS 0!

thndmmbemetmbafmlwumoetineleydckinbody,
andtenifiedinmind:lbegannoweefionalyeoreflectuponwhnt1hnd
done, and how justly I was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven for
my wickedleavingmy father's house. All thegoodcounaels ofnypemntl,
my father's teen, and my mother's attention, me now flesh into my
mind;endmyconscienw,whid:wasnotyetoometothepitdlofhnrd-
nesshwfichithmbewdnmmpmachedmewiththeconmmpto!
advice, aim the breech ofmy dutytoGod endmy father.
AntfiswhfletheMmWEdthemwhiohlhadmm
beenuponbefote,wentveryhigh,thughnothinglikewhet1hnveaeen
manyfimeesince;no,norlflcewhet!eawefewdnya attenbutitwu
mwghhaflectmefimwhombtu'ayonngeeflor,mdhadmer
knownanythiugofthemotter. Iexpeotedeverywevewouldhave
ewdlowednaupmndthateverytimetheelfipfendowmulthought,
inthehoughorhoflowofthemweshcnldneverrisemm;andin
thisagonyofthImodemywwsendreeolufiomthntifitwonld
pleuseGodtosparemylifeinthisonevoyage,ifeverIgotonoomyfoot
mdqhntlwouldgodhecflyhometomyfnther,mdnemeetitinho
eehipegainwhilollived;thnt1wou1dtekehisadvice,endnevermn
myselfinto such miseriesastheeeanymom. NowIsew plainlythe
goodnessof hisobservntionaabontthe middle stetionoflife; howeasy,
howwmformhlghehndfiveddlhisdeygandneverhadbeenexpoaed
totempestsatseoortmublesonahore;and1molvedflmtlwonld,lflm
atruerepentingprodignl,gohomeeomyfnther.
Thesewiseandsoberthoughteconfinuedallthewhflethestormoon-
finuemmdindeedmmofimeefier;butthenextdnythewmdwu
ebotedandthoeeecalmermndlbegantobeelitfleimredfoit. How-
ever,Iwosverygmveforellthatdny,beingeroelitflemainkstill;
buthwndsnightmewmthmdwdugthewinquuitewer,mdn
charming fine evening followed; the sun went down perfectly clear, and
rosesothenextmoming;endhavinglitfleornowind,mdamoothaee,
themahininguponihthesightmulthonghhthemostdelightful
thateverIsaw.
Ihaddeptwaumthenighhmdwumwmmmmdchbntwry
cheednLlookingwithwmdernponthemthatmeomghandtenihlo
thednybefmendoonldboooedmandoopluminlolifilefimenfiea
Andnow,leatmygoodreeolufionsuhauldoonfinno,myomnpufion,who
had indeed enticed mo away, come: to no. "Well, Bob," say. he,BODINSOH 03.0303. 1

dappingmoontheahonldar,"howdoyondonfiarifl Iwanantyol
wmfiighmfl'n'tyomhstnighhwhenitblewbntsmp-fullof
wind?" "Acap--ful],doyoncallit?"hid1,"'twuatnm'blem"
-'Altonn.yonfooll"repliuhe,"doyoucallthntasfm?Why,itwu
nothingatallmivenabntngoodahipandsearoomandwefhinkmthing
ofmchasquallofwinduthnt. Bntyanmbntafi'eah-wamgaflor,
Bob. thtumdenhwldMMWe'llngeth D'ye
neewhatohumingweathar'fisnow?" Tomakeshottthinndpartofmy
stuy,wowentthewayofdluilon;thapumhwumade,md1m
madedmnkwithit;andhthntmnight'swickedneuldrownedal1my
repentance, all my reflections upon my'pastmdnct, and :11 my maln-
tiomforthefutmo. InaMuthemmntumedtoihmooth-
neuofsnzfieeandaetfledcdmneu_hyPSheabatemmfioffhentoun,no
thehunyofmyfhaughtabefingover,myfeaumdappxihaminmot
hdngmaflmednpbythgmforgotmmmdthecnmtofmyfom
dfimmmalmfirdyforgotthevmmdpumimthatlmadein
mydish'eu. Ifonnd,indeed,mintaruhofreflecfinn;andthaaaficu
thwghbdiiuitmendmmbmhmagainnmfimugbntl
fiwkfimofimdmuudmysdffimmmuitwmfiomadjsmper,
mispplyingmynelfhdrinkingmfleompany,ooonmuteredthnxetumof
thoeefih--fiorlolcalledthem;andlhndinfiveordxdsyagotu
completeavictoryomwnwienoouanyyoungfellowfhntmolvednot
tnbetraubledwithiteoulddedxe. Butlmhhnvemotherhialfor
itsfin;mdhvvidenoe,uhmchmgenmnyitdoegresolvedto
leavemeenfirelywithontexcune:fqriflwonldnottah'thisforn
defivmmthomxtmtobesuchamuthoworstmdmosthudened
Muhammguawonldoonfeasboththedmgurandthememyof.
ThedxthdaydmbehgntmwecamoinanrmmthMflho
whihnhgbemoodnuymdtbawmthucdmwehadmndabntlwflo
wayninnethestom Hmm'mohfigedhwmehmmchmmd
hmwelny,thawindoonth1ningoontnry,vis.,ntaonth--weC/,foroamor
eightdaygdurhgwhiahfimougmatmylhipcfimfl'eweasflam
intothenmemadguthaoommonhnrbouwhemthevnhipsmightwait
forawindforthoriver. Wehadmhhowever,fidhmwlong,bnt
mahouldhavetifleduptbefivar,butthntthawin.dblewtoofieah;md,
Ifiarirehadlainfonrorfivedayyblswwryhafl. Hamel-Allend-
beingreckonedugoodunhubour,themchmgegood,mdmgmund
fickleveq>>mg,onrmenvmunoonemed,mdnotintholenst
apprehensive of danger, but spent the time in rest and mirth, alter the
manner of the see. But the eighth day, in the morning, the wind
increased. and we had all hands at work to strike our topmssts, and make
everything snug and close, that the ship might ride as easy as possible.
By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rid forecastle in,
shipped several seas, and we thought, once or twice, our anchor had come
home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet anchor, so that we
rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now I began to see
terror and amazement in the faces of even the seamen themselves. The
master, though vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, yet, as he
went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself say
several times, " Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be all lost; we shall be
all undone! " and the like. During these first hurries I was stupid, lying
still in my cabin. which was in the steerage, and cannot describe my
temper. I could ill resume the first penitence, which I had so appa-
rently trampled upon and hardened myself against: I thought the bitter--
ness of death had been passed, and that this would be nothing, too, like
the first. But when the master himself came by me, as I said just new,
and said we should be all lost, I was dreadfully t'righted. I got up out
of my cabin, and looked out; but such a dismal sight I never saw: the
sea went mountains high, and broke upon us every three or four minutes.
When I could look about, I could see nothing but distress around us. Two
shipsthatridnear us,we found had cuttheirmastshythe board,being
deep laden; and our men cried outthat a ship which rid about a mile
ahead of us was thundered. Two more ships being driven from their
anchors, wererunoutoftherondstosea, atauadvmturegmdthat
with not a mast standing. The light ships fared the best, as not so much
labouring in the son; but two or three ofthem drove, and me close
by us, running away with only their 'spritsails out before the wind.
Towards evening, the mate and hoatswain begged the master ofonr ship to
let them cut away the foremast, which he was very unwilling to do; but
thehontswainprotestingtohimthatifhedidnotthe shipwouldfounder,
he msented; and when theyhad cut away the foremost the mainmast
stood so loose, and shook the ship so much,theywere obliged to out it
away also and make a clear deck.

Anyone mayjudgewhat a condition I must be in at all this, who
vasbutayomng seilor, sndwhohadbeenin such afi'ighthefereathntsROBINSON 01111803.

'5

little But if I can express, at this distance, the thoughts I had about
me at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account oi
my former convictions, and the having returned from them to the reso-
lutions I had wickedly taken at first,than I was at death itself; and
these, added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a condition, that
I can by no words describe it. But the worst was not come yet 3 the
storm continued with such fury that the seamen themselves acknowledged
they had never known a worse. We had a good ship, but she was deep
laden, and wallowcd m the sea, that the seamen every now and then
cried out she would founder. It was my advantage,' m one respect, that
I did not know what they meant by founder, till I inquired. However,
the storm was so violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the master, the
boatswain, and some others, more sensible than the rest, at their prayers,
and expecting every moment when the ship would go to the bottom.
In the middle of the night, and underall the rest of our distresses, one of
the men that had been down on purpose to see, cried out we had sprung
a leak; another said there was' four feet water in the hold. Then all

handswerecalledtothepump. Atthatwrywordmyhearhul'

thought, died within me, and I fell backwards upon the side of mybed
where I sat, into the cabin. However, the men roused me, and told me
that I, that was able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as
another: at which I stirred up and went to the pump, and worked very
heartily. While this was doing, the master, seeing some light colliers
who, not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to
sea,and would wmenearuaordemdmtofimagunasasignalef
distress. I, who knew nothing what that meant, was so surprised that
I thought the ship had broke, or- some dreadful thing had happened. In
sword, Iwas so surprised,thatIfell down in aswoon. As thiswas a
timewhen everybodyhadhisownlifeto think of, nobodymindedme, or
what was become of me, but another man stepped up to the pump, and
thmstingma asidewithhisfoot,letme1ie,thmkinglhadbeendead;
anditwasagxeatwhilebeforel cametomyself.

We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold, it was apparent
that the ship would founder; and though the storm began to abate a
little, yetas itwasnot possible she could swim till wemightrunintoa
port, sothemastercontinued firingguns forhelp; ands light ship, who
hadridit outjust ahead of us, ventured a boat out to helpus. Itwas

with the utmost hazard the boat came near as, but it was impossible for .
ultogetonlouan-fottheboattolieneartheehip'eside,tinetlut
fl:eman,mwingveryhearfily,andventnfingtheirlivestosavemour
men cnstthemaropeoverthestamwithebuoyto igmdthenveered
itoutagreatlmgthwhichthey,efiergmathbonrandhuud,took
holdofinndwehnuhdthemdoeeunderouretemendgotallintotheir
bout. Itwutonopmposeforthmorugaflerwewemintheboat,
tothinkofmachingtotheirownahip;eoallagreedtoletherdrive,and
onlybopullharintowardeshoreasmnchasweeonld;andonrmster
pmmhedthemfiatflthebmtmshveduponahmhewouldmake
itgoodfptheirmnster:sopuflyrowingandpwydriving,onrboet
went emymthenorthwarinlopingtuwudstheahorealmosteefaru
Winterton--Nesa.
Wewerenotmuchmorothanaqmrterofanhouroutofourehip,but
weeawhereink:andthen1undentood,forthefirsttime,whetm
meantbyeshipfoundafingintheeea. Imnstmhowbdgglhadhardly
eyestolooknpwhentheeemenmldmeehewaeainldng;for,fmmthat
mommgtheyratherputmeintotheboatthnnthatImightbeseidtogo
in:myhenflwaguitwerqdeadwithinme,partlywithfiight,parfly
wimhomrdmhtudthethmghhofwhatmyetbeforeme.
Whflewewemmthis'cmdifiomthemenyethboufingatthemto
hing the boatnear the shore, we eoqueee (when, our boat mounting the
wavegwewmebletpseetheshore)agmatmypeoplamnningdong
theshund,foamistuSSwhenweuhou1dwmeneu;bntwemadedow
mywwmdstheehorgmrwmweehletormhigtfllbeingpastthe
light-house at Whterwmtheshmefeneofi'totheweetmdfowmdl
Cromer,endeothelnndbmkeoifalittlethevioleneeofthewind.
Herewegotimmtfioughmfithantmuehdiflonlty,gotallufeon
ahbre, endwalkedefterwudaonfootfnYu-mouth; whmuunfortnmte
mwewemueedwithyeathummitywswellbytbemagimeheeofthe
mmwhompdummubythepuficflumemhmhmd
ownersofshipa;mdhadmoneygivenuemfieienttomnyuleitherto
Imdmorbmkhfiumuwethonghtfit.
HadInwhadthemmhawgmehethummthBgune
home,Ihadbeanhappy,nndmyfither,anmblemofonrbleeeedSaviour'l
pemblmhadevenkifledthefattedealfforme;for,hearhlgtheehip1
mtamyinwnsmstamythumouflxBoadgitwa-Jmetwhfle
beforehehadmyasmmeethetlwunotdmed.
But myillfahe pushed neonnow withmobefinacythatnothingconldndnmson, ammo; u

mishandthanghlhadmflfimlondedhfiommymmdmy
mmwmpfljudmgbgohmyetlhadmmbdoit I
hawnotwhatboflfihnuwmlmgothatithauuetwmnling
deueethathurfiuusmtobothainstrumaubofm.mdesh|ofion,
evmthoughitbebefomugmdthntwepuahuponitwithmayesopen.
Wmnothingbutsomemohdeureedmoiflnbbmiserylflmding,
andwhiohitwuimpoesibletormtompqoouldhnvepuhedm
forwardagainsttheedmmingsmdpasnndmofmymostmfimd
thonghhandagainsttwomehvisihleimtmutimulhadmetwithin
myfirstatfempt.

Myomudgwhohadhdpedtohndmmbafuqmdwhomthe
mastdasomwunowleufnrwndthml:theflrltfimnholpobbme
nflerwewmatYamwmwhichmmtfilltwouthmdamfarm
werewpmfedinthefbwntonevenlquarm;laay,flmfintfimhe
mwmgitappemedhhtmemdeilookingwrymalmcholy,
mdahakinghiaheaAheukedmehowIdid?andteflinghilfitherwho
Immihowlhadcomethilvoyageonlyforutzinkinurdertogo
fartherathinfathar,tumingtomewithavexypavemdoonmad
tone,"Youngman,"myahe,"youaught_nsvertogotoaeaanymm;yqu
oughttotnksthiaforaplahmndviaibletokenthntyoumnotfobeam
faringman." "Why,sir?"mid1;"wfl1yuugotoseanomore?" "fiat
ismothar case,"saidha; "itiamycallingandthemfonmyduty; buts:
youmadethisvoyugeforahinLyouaeewhatatasteHeavenhugim
youofwhatyonmfoaxpeot'ifyoupersiat. Pahapothinhudl
befiflmumymwmfllikahmhinthoahipofl'mhish. Pray,"
wnfinnuhe,"whatmyan,andanwhntacoonntdidyougotom?"
UponthatIfoldhimmofmyatory;lttheendofwhiehhebmtont
withamungeldndofpaaion. "Whathndldone,"aayuhe,"thtmch
annnhappymtahshouldoomaintomyship? Iwonldnohetmyfoot
inthommenhipfiththseagainfornthounndponnds." Thisindeed
wuulmmmufiondfilspifihwhichmyetagiwedbytho
mofhisloamdwumthmhooouldhvemflmfitytogo.
Euweva,heafiarwardah1kedvexygmvelyto'm:'exhofledmabgo
buckbmyfather,mdnottamptrmvidmtomyruin;toldml
nightmafiaihlohandofnmanagaimtmm "And,youngman,"nid
he."dependuponif,ifyondomtgobmk,whmveryougcyonwfll
maetwithnothingbntdimstqumddisappoinhnanbfillymfathefi
wordsuefulfinednponyou."
Wepartedsoonafier,for1medehimlittleanswer, and Inwhimno
mom: whiehwayhewent, Iknownot. As forms, having some money
inmypoeket, Itrsvalledto Londonhyland, andthere, aswellas on the
MhadmanystmggleswithmyselfwhetoomseoflifeIshouldts'xe,
andwhetherIshonldgohomeol-gotosea. Aatogohghmshame
oppom the best motions that offered to my thoughts; and it immediately
occuned to me how I should be laughed at among the neighbours, and
should be ashamed to see, not my father and mother only, but even every
body else: from wheat>> I have since often observed, how incongruous
and irrational the common temper of mankind is, especially of youth, to
that reason which ought to guide:them in such cases, viz., thatthoy are
not ashamedtosimamlyet are ashamedtorepent; nor ashamed ofthe
action for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools, but are ashamed
of the returning, which only can make them be esteemed wise men.

In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncertain what
measures totake, and what course of life to lead. An irresistible reluct-
ance continued to going home; and as I stayed awhile, the remembrance
of the distress I had been in were of; and, as that abated, the little
motion I had in my desires to a return were off with it, till at last I quite
laid aside the thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.

 

. I _,_-'__"..'..km
Cm makes the acquaintance of the captain of a merchant vessel bound (or the Andean coast.
and embarks as a trading adventurer--Takes a (over. looms how to navigate a ship, and return:
enriched--0n the death of the captain he makes a second voyage with the mate--The ship is
taken by Turkish pirates, whose leader makes Crusoe his slave--Fishing of? the Morocco coast,
he eontrives un escape--{the Moor is thrown overboard, and swim: for his life--Sela soil with the
Moreno boy--Dangers e! coasting--An African Lion--Steers for the south--Fails in with savages,
who supply him with provisions--Shoots a leopard, wherein the natives are astonished and ter-
rified--Ia picked up by a Portuguese merchantmau--Seli: the Moreseo boy, with a reservation--
Arrives at the Braziis.

HAT evil influence which carried me first away from my
father's house, that hurried me into the Wild and indigestcd
notion of raising my fortune, and that impressed those con-
ceits so forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf to all good

adviee, and to tho entreaties, and even the commands of my father; I

say, the some influence, whatever it was, presented the most unfortunate

of all enterprises to my view; and I went on board a vessel bound to the
coast of Africa, or, us our sailors vulgarly cell it, a voyage to Guinea.

It was my great misfortune that in all these adventures I did not
ship myself as a sailor; whereby, though I might indeed have worked a
little harder than ordinary, yet, at the some time I had loomed the duty
and ofiice of a foremostmnn, and in time might have qualified myself for
ornate or lieutenant, if not for 0. master. But as it was always my fate
to choose for the worse, so I did here; for, having money in my packet
and good clothes upon my back, I would always go on board in the habit
of a gentlemen; and so I neither had any business in the ship, no'
learned to do any.

It was my lot, first of all to fall into pretty good company in London;
which does not always happen to such loose and unguided young fellows
as I then was, the devil generally not omitting to lay some snare for
them very early. But it was not so with me. I first fell acquainted
with the master of a ship who had been on the coast of Guinea, and who,

 

(2r "
huvinghadverygotdmoeeuthuqmmolvedtogongain;lndwfo,
mkiugefnuoytomyoonmfiomwhiohmnotetflldieagxeeableut
thetfimgmdhurhgmnylhfiomhdbuethemfldtddmgif
Iwofldgothewyagefithfimlehouldbeetuoexpeuee--Ilhouldbe
hiemeemateandhiscompunion;undifloouldcmyanythingwithme,
Iehouldhavealltheadvuntugeofitflmtthetmdewonldadmit;md,
pahepglmightmeetwithsomoencoungement. Iembmeedtheofi'er,
mdmterhigintoamictffimdehipwiththieoeptuimwhomuuhoneet
mdplaindedingmmlwentthevoyugewithhim,andoaniedamfll
edventurewith me,which,bythedisinfereeted honestyofmyfiiendthe
euptnimIinereaeedvm'y considerably; for I carried about fortypounde
inmohtoysandhifleeuethecaptaindimetedmetobuy. Thieforty
poundeIhadmus'aezedtogetherbytheassietmeeofeomeofmyreletione
whom I comspouded with, and who I believe got my father, or, at
least, my mother, to contribute up much as that to myfirst adventure.
Thiswusthe onlyvoyagewhichImaymywaeeucoeesfulinallmy
adventures, and which I owe to the integrityandhoneety ofmyfriend
the captain, under whom also I got a competent knowledge of the
mathematics and the rules of mfigafiomleamedhowtokeepuuaoeount
oftheahip'ecourse,tekeanobeervution,und,inehort,tonnderetund
somethingthatwereneedfultobeundmtoodbyaeuflorzfor,uhe
tookdefighthhehuctmeltook delighttnleam;aud,inawotd,
thievoyagemedemebothaeailorundamemhunt:forlhmughthome
five pounds nine ounces of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded
meinLoudomatmymtmmalmostthmehuudredpoundgandflfie
fiIIedmewiththoseespifingthoughtewhichhaveeineeeooompleted
myruin. YeteveniuthievoyugeIhad_lniymiefortlmegtoo;per-
ficululythatlweeconfinueflydchhehgthmwnintoaviolentodeu-
ture'bytheexceeeiveheatoftheclimete--ourprinoipelh'adingbeing
upnthewugfiomfiehfimdeoffifimndemnmmhthe
Lineibelf.
IwusuoweetupforaGuineetrader:endmyfiiend,tomygxeet
misfortunedyingeoonufterhieuuiveLIresolvedtogothemewyege803117603 0311303. - . 15

hthehmawynggmdhadnowgotfluoommflafmahip. This
wastinuhappiedzvoyagothatammmade;iorthoughldidnot
'myquitanhundredpoundaofmym--gninedwmlth--mthntlhad
.twohundredpounda'lefi, andwhichIlodgedwifhmyfi-iand'swidow,
whomveryjusttome--yetlfiellhfiotufiblemisfofiunasinthis
voyage:andtheflntwasthis,yiz.--mahip,mkingherwuneh--
wudatheCmuyIdmdgmrflherbetweenflxmiflmdsandthe
Afimshmwumrprisedinthegrayofthemoming'bynl'urkish
mmdsmmwhognnchmtomvfithallthenflsaheoouldmflw
Wemwdedalsoumuchcmm umyudnwofldMormmuu
my,hhavegotcleu;butfindingthepimtagahednponuamdwuuld
catfinlymnpwithminufewhommpmpuedhfighfim
ahiphnvingtwelvegmandthemeighteen. Aboutthreeinflm
afiammheeamenpwithmgmdfbrhginghmymistakedmtathwm
ourquarter,insteadofathwutmmuheintended,whaught
eightofougmsmbmmthatddgmdpomedinabmadsideupon
mchhmadehimaheuofagmmerntumingmfimmdpoms
inginalsohicmnllahotfi-amnmtwohundmdmenwhiehhehad
onboud. Howem,wehadnotnmtunched,auonr,menkeeping
close. Hepmthoabhckungaimandwetodefendonnelm;
buthyinguaonboudthenextfimanponmoflxerqumter,heenfiued
dztymmupmmrdechwhoimmedinmlyfelltocntthgmflhacking
thedecksandfigging.Wedefhem1fithmnllnhot,hflf-pikeg
pwda-chatqmdmchmmmmdechoflhemm Haw-
cver,tocntahortthismelancholyputofoursfary,onrahipbeingdib
abledandthmeofonrmenkilledandeightwaundetwemobligedfn
fideWdempmmmm'apmwongingbm
Moors.
Thensgelhndthmmnotmdreadfuluatflntlappmhefided;
numleufiedupfhewmtrytothehpunfamhuflmwd
mmenwmhntmkeptby'theoaptainofthemuhiapropa
Mondaadahisdsvgbeingymgandnimblgmdfitforhinbud-
nus. Atfithismpfidngchmgeofmyoifimmmmammhm-
toamiaemble slave, 11m pufecflyamwhglmed; andmelookedbacl
"Mmyfathu'sprophefiodimtomqthatlahouldbemimble
mdhmmhmfimmwhiohlflmughtmnowmeflectmfly
Wfipaagflmtlwuldnotbewm--Mmithn-hmdd
Heavenhadoverhakenmmdlwnsmdongwithoutmgiempfiot But,

s

._ in,_--.xmu'PS1:x4.;x..i. _-' -...--'.,fl -. 4
mlmhmbntnMofthemieuyImhgoihronghuwfll
appearintheeequelofthisstery.

Anmynowpatromormaster,hadtakenmehometohishoue,e01
minhopeethethewonldtskemewithhimwhenhemttomegnin,
befiavhgthatitmddwmetimeerothaflehiafiatetobotnkmby '
:1 SpanishotPox-tuguoee man-of--wnr, and that then I should be set at
liberty. Butthishope of minewaeeoontakenawny,forwhen he went
toseehelefimeonshomtolmknfierhisfitfiegmdmanddothe
common drudgery of slaves about his house; andwhen he came home
againfromhiacruise,he orderedmetolieinthecnbin,tolookafier
theship.

Ben I meditated nothing but my escape, andwhnt method I might
take toefi'ect it, but found no way thnthnd the least probability in it.
Nothing presented to make the supposition of it rational; for I had
nobody to communicate it to thatwould embark with me,--no fellow-
dnvgnoEnglishmmIfiahmnmorScotchmnnthombntmyaclf: Iothnt
for two years, thoughI ofl'enpleesedmynelf with the imagination,th
neverhadtheleastenoomgingprospectofputtingitinpmctice. -

AfierabouttwoyeamenoddcimummneepresentedituaEwhichput
the old thought of makingsome attempt for my libertyagaininmy head.
My patron lying at home longerthanusnnl,withont fitting onthisship
--which,asIhenrd,wssfor want of money--heusedeonetantly, onceor
twiceaweek, sometimes ofiener," theweatherwas fair,totnketheship'e
pimmdgooutintotherooda-filhing;andaehenlwnyehokmo
andeyonnghioreacowithhimtorowthoboat, wemadehimverymmy,
and I proved very dexteroue in catching fish, ineomuch that sometimes he
would Ind me with a Moor, one of hiskimmen, and the youth, the
Homo,utheyenlledhim,toeatohndiehofflshforhim.

Ithnppcnedonetimethat, going e-fishinginastarkmlmmomingn
fogroseao thick thntthoughwewere nothnlfaleeguefinmtheahore,
we lost sight of it; androwingwe knew not whither, or which way, We
hhomedufldnyandnflthenutfightmdwhmthemrningmmwu
foundwehndpulled ofitosoqinsteadofpnllinginfdr the ahere,nnd
thntwewereat leasttwo leaguesfromthe shone: however, we gotwcll
inngain,thonghwithagrentdealoflnbour,endsomednngor,fortbe
windbcgnntoblowprettyfieshinthemorning,'bnt,porticulnrly,we
mallvmyhungry.

Bntmpau-omwnmedbythisdieaster,molvedtotnkemoreoumot3031380! 03080]. . l1

hhnsclfforthcfntureg-sndhovinglyingbyhimthclongbootd'onr
Engfishfliiphehsdtokmhcmolvcdhewofldnotgosflshingsny
mmwithcntscomposssndsomspmvisiongsohcorderedthecorpenfiw
dhisshinvhovosdsoonEnglishflqutcbnildslitflostsh-mor
ubhhthsmiddlcdthelwgbmglikcthstdsbmwithophectc
studbchindittcstcamdhsnlhunothdmsinshechsndmombefore
fin-ahandortwotostsndcndworkthssoils. Bhossiledwithtbstwo
mflcfiofldmfi-muthnnfimdthsboomjibbedmthetopdflm
mbimwhiohlsyverysnugsndbwflndhodinitroomforhimtolic,
withsshwmtwqmdotcbhhmtmwithsomemenlookmtopnt
inmsbotflesotmohfiquwuhcthoughtflttcdfinhpcrticohflyhis
Mficqsndoofi'oc.

Woven fieqnonflyoutwithflfisbcato-flshingsndoslwasmost
duhmusbcahhfishmehsmwentwithmtm Ithsppened
thsthchsdoppointsdhgooutinthhboahsitherforplessmortdr
MMMMthmnwnofmdisfinefiminthotpMsndtor
whcmhchadpmvidcdutnordinsry,sndhadtherefmoscntonboud
thcbochovcrnighhslsrgormdprovisionsthonordinerynndhod
ordemdmtogetmdyflnmfoseqvithpowdumdshogwhichwm
mbmdfisshinfoxthnttheydesignedsomcsportoftowlingoswdlss
fishing.

IgotsflthingsrudyuhehnRWmdwaifedflmnextmming
withthsbootwuhcddmhorsncicntondpcndmtsmgsndnerything
hsecommodsbhisguosts:whon,bysndhy,mypm<<meonbom
dongmdtddmchisgoauhodputoflgohguponmbusinaslthat
falloutsndordcredmsviththemnndboy,ssusool,togoootvith
thobootmdmwhthmmefimforthathisfiiendswmtompsthis
housc;ondccmmondcdthstsssoonos1hodgotsomcflsh,lshonld
bringithcmctohishcnsc:onwhioh1pmpmedtodo.

This momentmyfomolnofionsofdelivmoadsrtedintomy
thoughhformwlfonndlwoslikofnhavoslitfloshipstmycom-
md;mdmymsterboinggme,lprepuedtohnfishmyselfnotfor
fishingbnfinugbutfusvoyoge; thmghlhewnotneithsrdidl

somuchssconsider, whithsrlshonldstaor: fowmywhmtogetmtofv

Mplmmmywy;

Hyfirstccnh-ivonncwsstososhu-pmtaosctospesktcfliismorL

bsammmmmmmm; fol-Itoldhilnvsmost
notmumtoestofcurpstron'sbmd. Houiithotwutmsgu
he hroughtelargehesketodmekorbieouitoftheirkindmndthreejm'
withfreehweterintothehoet. Iknswwheremypetron'ecaselofbottleo
Mwhichitmeevidmtbytbemehewmtehenoutofsomefinglhh
prize, endIoonveyedthemintotheboatwhiletheMoorwuonehu-e,>>
it'theyhedbeentherebeforeforourmuter. Ieonveyedalsoegmet
lump of bees-wax into the boat, which weighed ebove halt a hundred-
weight, withepuedoftwineuthmedehemheheeaw,mdehommer,
aflwhichwemofgmtmmueflerwerdgapedenythemtomeke
candles. Another trickItried upon him, whiohheinnooentlycameinto
also. Hisnume was Ismael, whom theyeollMuley,orMoley; eoIcelled
to him: "Holey," said I, "our patron's guns are on board the heat, can
you not get a little powder and shot? it may be we may kill some
alcamics (a fowl like our curlews) for ourselves, forIkuowhekeepe the
gunner's storesinthe ship." "Yes," seyehe, "Iwillbring some ;" and
accordingly he brought a great leather pouch, which held about a. pound
endehalfofpowder,ornthummwdmotherwithshotthathedfive
orsixpounde, with some bullets, andput all into the boat: at thesame
timeI had found some powder ofmymasfer's in the greatcahimwith
whichIfilled oneof the lergebottles inthemsqwhiohwunlmoetempty,
pouring whetwasinitintoanother; andthus furnishedwith everything
uoedfuhwesniled out ofthe porttofish. The costle,whichis atthe
entrance of the port, knewwho weweze, and tookno notioeofus; and
we were not above a. mile out of the port, before we hauled in our sail,
and set us down to fish. The wind blew fi-om N.N.E., which was
contrary to my desire; for, had it blown southerly, I had been some to
havemndethewestofflpain, and at least reached to thebeyof Cadiz;
but my resolutionewere, blow which way it would, Iwouldbegouefi'om
thethonidphwwhemImmdleevethereettofste.

After-we had fished some time and eetohed nothing, forwheuI'hnd
fish on my hook I would not pull them up that he might not see them, I
snidtntheMoor,"Thiewillnotdo; ourmasterwillnotbethuseerved;
wemustetandfiertherofl'." He,thinkingnohnrm,egreed,endheingin
thehadofthebmgeetthesefls;endu1hsdthehelm,lmtheboet
outneereleegueflrther,endthenhroughtherto,uiflwouldfieh. Then
givingtheboythehelm,Ietepped rmudeowhmthemmma
mahngufiIebowdfmwmethinghehmdhimItookhimhymrpfiu,
with mynmmduhhtwieg'endtoeeedhimoleeroverhoerdintotha

'Ihehollowonthoinn'doythethigh.
sea. Hemefinmodiahelyflorheswamlikaaoorhmdoalledtomo
Mggedhhmmmmmhewoqldgoaflmtheworldwith
me. Hemwstrongafiutheboatflmthewonldhnemchedm
veryquicklyfiherebeingbutlitflewind; uponwhichI ateppedintothe
ubhmdfehhhgmdthehwfing-pimlpmhdfiuhmm
toldhhnIhaddomhimmhuhandifhewonldboqniethonlddo
himnone. "But,"said1,"yonawimwenenoughtomhthenhore,md
theseaiscalm;makethebestofyonrmytoshoredewilldoyauno
harm;butifyouoomeneortheboathfllahootyonthroughthehead;
forIamreaolvedfohavemylibgrty." Sohetnmedhimselfabouhand
swmfortheshorqmdlmakenodonbtbnthareacheditwithmfor
homanexoeflentswimmer.
Imfldhambemmfenthhunmkenthhflwrwithmandhm
drownedthoboy,bntthereyasnoventnfingtohmthim. Whenjxe
wasgoneItumedtofheboywhomthaycnIlequry,andsfidfohim,
"Xury,ifyonwfl1befaithfnltomo1winmakeyouapeatm; butif
youwfllnotsh'okeyourfaoefobetruetome(thatis,mearbylfahomet
andhisfixthel'sbeard),lmmtthrowyunintothemfioo." Theboy
smfledhmyhmmdlpokewinnooenfly,thatloonldnotmistruthhn;
mdmomhbefnithfdtomqmflgouflaverthewofldwithme.
WhfleIwasinviewoftheMoorfhatmswimmingIstmdmt
muyhmwiththeboatnthanhehhinghfindwmmm
mightthinkmegonatowardsthe Bhuit'smonth(uindeedmyonethat
hndbeenintheirwib musthavebeenmpposedtodo);forwhowould
Mmmpposdmmudledmhthewufiwuihflmfinlme
bnfimwastwhmwhnlemfionsofNegmeswmmhmmundm
withthehmnoumddesmyugwhmwaeouldneveronoegodnuhon
butweshofldbedewmedbynvugebeuuormommemfleunngu
ofhumankind?
ButnasoonuitgrewtinskintheeveningIohangedmywmnnd
shaddhwflymuthwdbymhbandingmymmoafitflew
themfithatlmightkeepinwiththenhon;mdhningnkirPSmh
Mofifinflmflamfiqfiflmlmflmfinmwlbefimby
ihenextdny,atflneeo'elockinthedfemoon,whenlfintmndethelmd;
Impldnotbelenthmmhundredandfifiymfluwnthoffiaflogquih
beymdtheEmpabranm'sdminimorhdeedofmyotherfing:
"Manhunt; forwasawnopeople. .
Yetnchmthefiightlhndhkendthelmmdtho'dredful20 ADVIITIJRES 0!

apprehensionsI hadoffalling intotheir hands, thathouldnotstnp,or
goonshore,orcometoanauchor,thewindconfinuiugfair,fllllhad
seiledinthutmsnnerfivedziys;aud thenthe windshiitingtothe
mthwarLImdudedalmthatifanyofonrvesselswerehrehase
ofme,thcy alsowonld now give over: soIventured tomalre tothe
coast, and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river; I knew
not what or where, neither what latitude, what country, what nation, of
what river. I neither saw, not desired to see, any people; the principal
thing stnted was fresh water. We came intothis creek in the evening,
resolving to swim on share as soon as it was dark, and discover the country;
but as soon as it was quite dark, we heard such dreadfirl noises of the
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of we knew not what
kinds, that ihepoorhoywasreadytodiewithfcar, andheggcdofmenot
to go on shore tillday. "Well, any," saidI, "thenI won't; but it may
bewemayseemenbyday,whowillheashadtousasthoselious."
"Then we may give them the shoot-gun," says Xury, laughing, "make
them runwey." Such English Xury spoke by conversing amongnsslnves.
However,IwasgladtoseetheboywcheerfuhandIgavehimsdmm
out of our patron's case of bottles to cheer him up. After all, Xury's
advice was good, and I took it. We dropped our little anchor, and lay
still all night. I say still, for we slept none: for in two or three hours
we saw'vast great creatures (we knew not what to call them), of many
sorts, come down to theseashore, audrnn into thewster, wallowingsnd
washing themde for the pleasure of cooling themselves; and they
made such hideous howlings and yellings, that I never indwd heard
the like.

Xury was dreadfully frighted, andindcedsowasItoo; hutwewere
both more frighted when we heard one of the mighty creatures come
swimmiugtowards our boat: we could not see him, but we mightheu
himhyhisblowingtoheamonstmushugeandfuriousbeast. Xury
saiditwssalian, and it might be so for ought I lmow, butpoorXury
cried to me to weigh the anchor, and row away. " No," says I, "Xury,
weccnslip mmblowithebuoyhitandgotosea; theycannottollow
nsfar." Ihadnosoonersaidso,hut1perceivedthe creature (whateveril
was) within two oers' length, which something sarprisedme; however, I
immedimelysteppedtothecchindoor, mdtskingnpmygumflredat
him, upon which he immediately turned about, and swam towards the
shore again.
Butltiehpom'bletodemibethehoniblenoieognndhideomuiee
mdhowfianmrdmduwenupontheedgedtheehmn
highwwithhtheeountry,uponthenoieewreportoflhegun'; ethingJ
bdievgthueueahreehadnemheudhefme. Thieeomheedmethm
wumgoingonehomforuinthenightupontheteoeehmdhowto
ventureonehoreintheday,wumotherqueefiontoo;fortohevefallen
inhthehmdeofmyofthemvegqhndbeenubedutohnvefnflen
intothepaweofliomendtigm:etlenetwemequellyappmhemive
ofthednngerofit.

Bohtuitwoddmwmobfigedtogounehmeomewhmw
otherformterfiorwehednoteyintlefiintheboetzwhenuwhm
togetitwasthepoint. Xuyefidiflwouldlethimgoonehmwith
oneofthejmhewouldfindifflmemenyweter,endhringeomefo
me. Inekedhimwhyhewonldgo;why1ehouldnotgo,mdheeteyin
theboat? Thebuymweredwithnmuclefleefiomthnthemndeme
lovehimovu-ama. Snyehe,"nwfldmmeome,theyeatme,yongo
away." "Well,Xury,"euidI,"wewillbothgo;endifthewildmm
comc.wewillkfllthem;theyehnlleatneitheiod'ua." SoIngm-y
opiemofmakheadhengandadmonfiofourpehon'emofbotflee,
whichImentionedbefore; endweheulodtheboatinuneartheehoreu
we thonghtwuproper, mdwadedhehmmmyingnothinghntmm
nndtwojmforwuter.

Ididnotmmhgomtofdghtdtheboefitenn'ngtheoomingof
canocewitheavegeedmthefiwr;butthebov,eeeingeloypleee

aboutemflenptheeeuntry,rmbledtoit; and,bymdby,leewhimi

eomemnningtmm'deme. Ithoughthewupmuedbyeomemnggu
fightedwflhwme'wfldheeefimfllthmefiemmfiormdetehelphim;
butwhmImmenmmeIeaweomethinghangingamhie
shoulders, which we: 3 Mia that he had Mllke-ahare,lut

fllfl'erentineolour,endlengerlege: homegwewueverygladofit, _

anditwuverygoodmeet: hntthegxeatjoythetpoorXuryeemewifll,
wahtellmehehndfoundgoodwdernndmmwildm
Butwefenndefterwudethatwaneednottekemehpuneform;
forelittlehighuupthemekvhere wemmfonndflxewefierheeh
whenthehdemmhwhichflowehntolitfleweyup; "refilled
mjmudhutedonthehmwehndfilled; endprepuedfiqgo
mmmy,hevingeeennotoobtcluefenyhmnnaeutueinthnt
partoftheeonntry.
As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I knew very well that
the islands of the Canaries, and the Cape do Verd Islands also, lay not far
from the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an observation, to
know what latitude we were in, and did not exactly know, or at least
remember, what latitude they were in, I knew not where to look for
them, or when to stand off to sea towards them, otherwise I might now
easily have found some of these islands. But my hope was, that if I
stood along this coast till I came to that part where the English traded, I
should find some of their vessels upon their usual design of trade, that
would relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation, the place where I now was must be
that country which, lying between the Emperor of Morocco's dominions
and the Negroes, lies waste and uninhabited, exceptby wild beasts; the
Negroes having abandoned it, and gone farther south, for fear of the
Moors, and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its
barrenness; and, indeed, both forsaking it because of the prodigious
numbers of tigers, lions, leopards, and other furious creatures which
harbour there: so that the Moors use it for their hunting only, where
they go like an army, two or three thousand men at a time; and, indeed,
for near a. hundred miles together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a
waste, uninhabited country by day, and heard nothing but howlings and
roaring of wild beasts by night.

Once or twice, in the day time, I thought I saw the Pieo of Tenqu
being the high top of the mountain Tenerifl'e, in the Canaries, and had a
great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither; but having tried
twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds, the sea also going too
high for my little vessel: so I resolved to pursue my first design, and
keep along the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, alter we had left
this place; and once, in particular, being early in the morning, we came
to an anchor under a little point of land which was pretty high; and the
tide beginning to How, we lay still, to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes
were more about him than, it seems, mine were, calls softly to me, and
tells me that we had best go farther ofi' the shore; " For," says he, " look,
yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock, fast asleep." I
looked where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was a
terrible great lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the shade of a
piece of the bill that hung, as it were, over him. "Xury," says I,
    
 

" you shall go on shore and kill him."
Xury looked frighted, and said, "Me
kill! he cut me at one mouth"--1
one mouthful he meant. However, I
said no more to the boy but bade him _
he still; and I took our biggmt gun, which was almost musket bore
and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with two slugs, and
laid it down; then I loaded another gunwith two bullets; and a third,
for we had three pieces, I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took
the beat aim I could with the first piece, to have shot him into the
head; but he lay so, with his leg raised a little above hie nose, that
the slugs hit his leg above the knee, and broke the bone. He started
up, growling at first, but finding his leg broke, fell down again, and
thengot up nponthmekggandgave the mosthideoueroarthat
evethemd-Iwualittleeurprieedthatlhadnothithimonthe
heed; however, I took up the second phee immediately, and though
hBbegantomerveofi',fired egaimund ehothiminto thehead,and
had the pleuuretoeeehimdrop,andmakebut littlenoiee,butlie
Itmggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would have me let
him go on shone. "Well, go," said I; so the boy jumped ineoths
watnr,sndtskingslitfleguninonshnnd,swmfothsshorswiththe
otherhnnd, sndwmingolmtotheaeatnmputthsmunle of-ths
pieoeliohism,and shothiminbthshmdsgfimwhichfispatehsd
himquifo.

Thhmgnmqhdeeitonghutitwasnofood; sndessveu-ysorry
tolossthmechnrgesofpowdermdshotuponamtursthntmsgood
fornothingtous. Howsver,Xurysaidhewonldhmsomsofhim;so
hewmssonbosrdmdukedmetogivehhnthshstchsf. "Fox-what,
any?"saidI. "Mssutoifhishesd,"ssidhe. HowevsrXuryoould
notcutofl'hishesd;huthewtofisfoohmdhoughtitwithhmw
itwassmonstlwsgrestons. Ibethoughtmynlfihoweverfihntpen
hapsthesfinoffimmighhonewayuothsrfleofsomevalushus;
dermdvedtotsksofihisshimifIcould. BoXurysndeonth
work with him:butX\u'ywssmush the bsflerwwkmm-utihfor]
knewveryfllhowtodoit. Indeciitbokusbothupthewholsdny:
butstlnstwsgotofi'thehideofhim,andspmadingitonthetopof
cumbmwemefisctufllyddsdfihhodays'fimqanditnfierwmds
servedmstolienpon. -

AM this stop, we made on to the southward continually, for ten or
twelve days, living very sparingly on our provisions, which began to
abate very much, and going no ofioner into the shore than we were
ohligcdtoforfi'eshwatar. Hydefignmthigwutomnkeflmfim
GmbimorScnegul;thatistossy,mywhemsboutthe Cape deVerd,
whmensinhopostomeetwithsomeEmpeanship:andifIdid
not,I know not what course I hndtotnke, butto seek for the islands,
orperishsmongtheNegxocs. IkncwthstallthsshipsfmmEnmps,
whehnfldfimmthemutoffluhcmuthflwbtheEm
Indies,madethis0npe,arthoseislnnds: sndinawordlputthewhols
ofmy fortune uponthissingle point, sitherthatl mm meotwithsoms
ship,ormustperish.

WhenIhndpnmedthismsolnfionahouttsndsyslonger,ssIhsvs
sfitlbegmtnwethntthelmdminhshited;mdintwoorthrse
plumaswosniledby,ws snwpsoplestsndupontheshore'tnlookst
us: weeouldalsopemeiveflleywmqnitoblmk sndstnrknsksd.
stsoneeinolinsdtohsvogonoonshorstothsm;hntlurywumy
hettaroonnseflor,sndsaidtoms,"Nogo,nogo." Hmver,IhmIedin
mtbshomthntlmighthlktothem:mfllfauudtheymdongw,.!_r'..--_.--'L'-~ 7. A. . . V.--

nonmson cnuson. '25

theaholebymeagoodwuy. Iohearvedtheyhndnomponeintheir
handguneptmwhnhadnlmgnlendeufinhvhicthtynidma
lamandthnttheyvouldthmwthemeyutwayvifltgoodaim;no
Ikeptatadistmoe,hnttalkedtothembyeigne.uwellulwn1d.md
parficnlerlymadeeignsforeomethingtom Theyheokonedtometo
supmybutmdtheywouldfietchmmmeet:uponthiallowemd
thetapofmynEIndhyby,nndtwoofthemnnnpinfntheeonnh-y,
and in less than human-hour came back md hmught with than two
pioeuofdryfleehmflmewmmchuisthepmduoooflheineountry:
hutweneitherknewwhattheoneortheotherm;hom,wewete
wfllingfomptit. Buthowhmefiitwmnutdispnhfor
Iwunotforventuringonahmtothem,nndtheymumnchafi-aid
ofne:hnttheytookneatewayforuealldortheyhronghtittothe
ahole,andhiditduwn,lndwentmdetoodegwetmyofltfllwe
fetcheditmbmdandthencemeoloeetouengain.
Wemadedgneofthnnhhthmforwehndnothingtemakethem
amendmlbutnnopportunity offered thatveryinetant tooblige them
wonded'nlly; for while we were lying by the ehore, me two mighty
meatnmone punuingthe other(eewetookit)withglmtfnry,fi'om
the mountains towaxds the ear. whether it was the male pursuing the
fmdqorwhethertheymineportorinmgeweeouldnottelhmy
monthanweoouldtellwhetheritmnsunloretnngeghntlbelievait
wuthehttm,beeause,inthefintplnce,thoeemvenounmtumaeldom
appeubntinthenight;md,inthewoondplnoe,wetoundthepeople
toniblyfrighted,eepecinllythewomen. Themmthathedthelanoe,
mdnrtdidnotflyfiomthemhntthereetdidghowever,nthetwo
matmeemndirecflyintotheweterfiheydidnoteeemtoofiettofdl
uponmyoftheNemhutplungedthemndmintothemandnm
aboutuiftheyhadoomeforflleirdivaeion. Atlutoneofthemhegun
toeomeneareronrhoatflmnlatfintexpeoted;hutllaymdy-forhim,
forlhudloudednygunwithdlpouihlfiupedifimmdhadeXury
leadhoththeothen. hmuhmehiflyfitfinmymnhlfired,
Indlhothimdhectlyintothehead: immediatelyhemnkdownintothe
water, hntmeeinetmtly,mdplnngedupmddawn.ufl'hemetmggfing
hmmdnindeodhem. heinmedintalymndetothaehm; but
betwmthewmdwhichwuhhmuhlhmtendtheetnngfingofthe
water,hediedjusthdorehezeachedtheahm

Itiaimponibletoexpruethe astonishmentoftheeepoormtwud

,n.' x ...u. h M.- l4;;.. AVh1.nAuMo.u.L._-_|- -_n t-'
thenoineendfimofmygun. BomotthemwemmdyeMMdie
forfear,eudfelldownaedeadwiththeverytezmi;butwhentheyeuw
themetuiedeed,andsunkintheweter,eudthet1mndesignatothem
tommhtheehomtheytookheurtuudcemefptheshore,andbeguuto
ecerchforthecrenture. Ifoundhimbyhiebloodshfiningthewutcr;
and by the help of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the
Negroestohuul, theydraggedhimonehore, oudfoundthetitwue
moatcurioueleopud,epotted,endfinetoanadmimbledegme;mdthe
Negroes held up their hand: with ndmirufiomtothinkwhut it wellhead
killedhimwith. -

The other creature, frighted with the flash offire and the noise of
thegun,ewun. onehommdmnupdirectlyto the mounteinafrom
whence they me; nor could I, at that distance, know what it was.
Ifound quickly the Negroeewere for eating the flesh ofthiecreaturc,>>
Iweewillingtohevethemtukeiteanfevourfmmme;which,whenI
madedgnsbthemthfitheymighthkefimtheywmverythenkfiil
for. Immediatelytheyfelltoworkwithhim;undthoughtheyhmlno
kuife,yetwitheehnrpened piece of wood,thcytookofi'hieekinne
readily, and much more readily than we could have done with uknife.
They offered me some of the flesh, whiehI declined, making exit I
would give it then, but made signs for the skin, which they gave me
varyfreely, andbrought meagreet deal moreof theirproviaious, which,
thoughIdiduotundentend, yetIeceepted. ThenImadeeignsfibthem
fox-somewater,mdhddoutweofmyjmhthmturningithottom
upwudgtoehowthatitweeemptymndthntIwuutedtohaveitfilled.
Theycdledimmedietelytommeoftheirfiiendgendtherecmetwo
wmemmdhoughtupeetvmelmadeofurmmdbmhulmp'
poee,iuthesun;thietheyeetdownforme,esbefore,mdleeutXury
onehnrewithmyjurs,undfilledthemullthree. Thewomeuweteaa
eturknekedesthemeu

Imnowfurnishedwithmumdmmchu-itmnndweter;
atlavhgmyfieudlyNegoegImadeforwexdforaboutelevendaye
mmwithoutofi'erhgtogoneartheehmh'llIeawthelendmoutu
gt'eetlengthintothemeteboutthedisteuceoffourorfiveleegueo
befoxeme;audtheaeebdngveryeelm,1keptulergeoflng,tomeh
thiepeiut. Mlmgthdoublingthepoinfietehouttwoleegueefiomthe
ImQInwplehlylmdontheothuddqtomwud:thmIeoneludedg
uitwumnetmfldnhdeetthetfihwuthecapedeVuflmdthm

A 4.--- _ '.. fish". xl"gnu-.vflrwfir g'fififfl'w'f'p

  
   
  
 

.,
nonmsbn causes. '

an island: called, from 11181105011116 deVenl Islands. However, they
matugmatdintaneqandloonldnntwelltellwhatlhadheutbdo;

forifIIhonldbotakenwithafi-esh ofwmmlmightneithermohone
:wrtheother.

ntmdomeuryhnvingthehelm;when,onnndden,thaboyoried
out,"Maater,mnstm-,uhipwitha,nill"andflxefoolinhboywufrighted
autofhiswitgthinkingitmnstneedsbelomoofhiamnmr'nuhips
mttopmneugwhenlhewweweregottenfuenoughontofflmir
much. I jumped ontofthe cabin, and immediately saw, not onlytho '_-'
ship, butwhntohemvimfihntitwual'ortugnmahipnntul d
thonghhwuboundtotheCoutoIGuineaforNemes. Bufiwhenl -.
ohavdfiawnmahedeemfilmmmfimedtheymbomd '-
nomeotherwaymnddidnotdesigntooomennyneamtothanhm:
uponwhiehlstrefchedonttomamnchmlmfldmolvingtospmk
withthcm,ifposaihle. v
Withdlthemfllwfldmnkqlfoumllfllouldnotbeableto-eome
intheirway,bntthattbeywauldbegonohybeforaloouldmakenny
uignaltothem;butnflerlhadmwdedtofl19nhnnat,.mdhegmb
despair.they.itwems.mwme.bytha.hdpoftheirmecfiwzlm
mdthatitwumeuopmhoagwhichtheymppmedmmbelong
hwmeshipthatwmlownotheyshorfenedsailtoletmewmnp. I
wuenooumsedwithflzigmdulhadmypm'amdentonbmd,
Imdeawafiofittofbenyforndpflofdimmmdfimdsmboth
whichtheyaaw;fortheytoldmetheyuwthemoke,thonghtheydid
nothearthegun. Upontheaesignalgtheyvm'ykindlthghtto,
andhybyforme; andinsbontthreehonn'timeloameupwith
them. .
Theyaskedmwhatlmhfuhgmmdhflpmfihmd-h
humhutlundmboodnnneofthem;but,atlast,ascofchdlor,who
lmonMflfi-bmwlmmwmmmlmm . "f
Enflhhmmthatlhadmadamympeoutddavaryfiomthelfoomat
Sallee:thenthaybadamooomoopboard'andmkindlytookmein,
Indanmygoods. ' 2'-
Itwummexpmuihlojaybmwhichmymwmbeliamthatl '
mthuddMqutemedihfimmohamiau-ablqmddmmt
hopdag-mdiaonulminmdrimmmymmxmw
flNicaytm'nfifthszlliip,<<I0261mmformytlelivm-anoe;bum>>:mammal,
hldmhewouldtnkonothingfiommbntthntalllhadshmldh
ieliveredmfetomwhenleamotothem "For,"mynhe,"lhnvo

modyourlifoonnoofiertermthmlwouldbeghdbbonvcd.

myself; anditmymnetimeorother,bomylottobetnkenupinthe
same condition. Beaideg" said he, "whenlean-y you tothomuils, no
mt:wayfiomyonrownoounhy,iflshuu1dhkefromyauwhntyon
havgyouwfllboshrvedthmandthenlonlytakemythntlifel
have givnn. No, no, Seignior Ingleae,"(l[r. Englishman),aaya he, "I
willcuryyonthithcrineharity,mdthaaethingawfllhelptobuyyour
mbdstanwthmmdyourpamgehomeagnin."
Ashemchnfitnbleinthiapmmewhewujutinthepertom~
ancetoatittle:forhemdemdthemmmthatnomahouldofl'erto
mmuythinglhad:thcnhetookevurythingintohisownpm
sion, and gave meback nnexact inventory of them, that I might have
them,evenaomnchanmythrceearthenjus.
Ashmybmfiitwasaverygoodone;mdlhnthesaw,mdfoldma
he would buy it aims for the ship's use, and asked me what Iwould
haveforit? Ibflhimhehadheenaogeneroutomeineverything,
thatIoouldnotofi'ertomnkeanypfioeoftheboat,butlefiitenfirelyto
him: uponwhichhetoldmehewouldgivemenmteofhiahnndtopay
meaightypieoeaofeightforitathdl;mdwhenitmmethmifnny
one ofl'eredtogive more, he would makeitup. Ea ofi'eredmnalsonixty
piecuofeightmoreformybayXury,whichIwulothtotuke;not
thntlmmtwflfingmletthempminhawfimbutlwuveryloth
toaellthepoorboy'sliberty,whohadanistedmeaofaithfuflyinpm--
curingmyown. Howavor,whonIlethimknowmyreuon,haowned
ithbejusgandofl'ercd mefiiamefimthnthewonldgivetheboy
anobfigafiontosothhnfieeintmymifhetumedflhfisfinn. Upon
whmdxmmyhghemwmhghphhMIletthomptain
havahim.
WehadavaygmdwyngetothaanflgandmivedintheBnyde
Todou 103 Santa, or All Saints' Bay, in that twenty-two day: ma.
Andnowlwuonee mom dalivmpdfiumthemootmimhlooflll
oondifimoffifegmdwhnttodonextwithmynelflmmto
Themhmmmfhemphingmmglmmmgh
whenhewculdtahmthingofmeformypmmmmmty
dumb fwflmlwpud'sakimmdfiyflyfmflnefion'nsfimwhichlm

.. 15.25.53.) 1
in the boat, and caused every thing I had in the ship to he punctual};
delivered to me; and what I was willing to 8011 he boughfi, such as the
case of bottles, two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of beeswax,
---for I had made candles of the rest: in a word, I made about two
hundred and twenty pieces of eight of all my cargo ; and with this stock,
I went on show in the Brazil;

 

TBHRIY".
Cnsoelzuyl Mend becomes a plum--The Portuguese east-1n continues his (and eases--m
plenum-1Mmtpmpullymmtmmmmt--Bmmnmolsmm
--Ahunimns--mshlphdrimvatwud.sndleum--mmmmm
hgwmhmpd-wmmuccptm'uhmmumm
Whmmmflmfl--nemdcunhhdeumnflwmhhpdmfl
mmbmmthmwmmmmmmmmmmphsm.

HAD not been long here, but being recommended by the captain
tothehouse ofa goodhonestmnmlikehimself,whohadun
ingenio as they call it--thut is, a plantation and a sugar-house,

 

means, with the manner of planting and of mixing sugar: and seeing
how well the planters lived,andhow theygrewrich suddenly,Iresolved,
if I could get licence to settle there, I would tum planter among
them; resolving, in the meantime, to find out some way to get my
money, which I had left inLondon, remitted to me. To this purpose,
getting a kind of a. latte: of naturelimtion, I purchased as much land
thatwnsuncuxodssmymonsyweuldreaeh,undformedeplnnformy
phnmfimmdwfllemwhendsuohsonsumightbesuitablstothe
stockwhiehlproposedtomyselftorswvefiomEnglmd.

I hsdaneighbour, ul'ortugueseoffisbon, butbornofEnglish
pumigwhosenmsmeeHgsndinmuchsucheircumstenwsasI
was. Ieunhimneighbour,beoausehisplantstionlsynexttomins,
sndwewent on very socishly together. My stockwasbut lowaswcll
ushismdwentherplnntulforfoodthnnanythingelsqforabonttwo
years. However,wsbegsntoinerease,uudour lendbsgantneome
intoorderuothstthsthirdyearweplnntedsometobameudmsds
eoohefusalsrgspieeoofgmundrsadyforplnntingeanesintheywto-
come;butwebothwuntedhelp,endnowlfound,morsthsnbefora,1
hnddonewronginperfingwithmyboanry. -

Butelnsl fumehdomthatnemdidrighhmnogzut' ,, A v. golf-"71??? FT "<<"|':-qr'."6"nmrgvr~_m;; tux. , fir",

. '

BOBXNBON 031130].

wonder. I had no remedy, but to go on: I was gotten inb'en'employ-
mentqniteremotetomygenius, and directlyeontm'ygothelifel
delightedin,ondforwhieh1forsook my fnther'shonseandhroke
tbmnghsllhisgoodsdvioe:nsy,1wesooming intothoverymiddle
summnppadewdbwfifgwhichmyintheredvisedmto
befom;mdwhich,iflresolvedtogoonwith,lmightuwellhm
stddsthommdneverhevofefignedmyselfinflieworld,ulhnd
dons:deusedofientomyfomyselLIoonldhnvedonethissswell
inEnglmimongmyh'iendgashmgone fivethonsandmilesofl
todoitmmgshnngersmduvsgeginawfldemeqendntmohs
distnneeasnevertohesrfrommypnrtofthsworldthnthndtheleest
knowledgeofms.
InthismnnnerInsedfolooknponmyeenditionwiththenhnnst
regret. Ihsdmhodymwnvmwithbntnowmdthenflfisneighbonr;
noworktohedonebnthythelnbonrofmyhnnds;andInsedtoseyJ
livedjustlikesmnneestsweynponsomedesolshislend,flmthed
nobodythere bnthimself. But howjusthnsitheen! andhowshonld
eflmreflmttbnhwhentheywmpmtbeirpresentoonditionswith
othersthntereworse,hmvmmyohfigethmbmnkethemhmgqsnd
beoonvineedoftheirformerfelicitybytheirexperienoe. Isay,how.jnst
hmitbemthsttheh-nlywfituyfifeIreflwtedminmislnndof
mere desolation, shonldbe my lot, who hedso often unjustly eompered
itwiththelifewhiehlthenled,inwhiehhadIoonfinued,Ihed,in
allpmbnbility,beenexoeedingpxosperoussndrich.
Iweghnmdemsetfledinmymmnresforeerryingonthe
pmfiomhdonmyhndfimthsoaptsinoflheshipthnttookmenp
etmwentbeok(fortheslfipremninedtben,inprovidinghisloading.
mdpnpefingforhiswyegqneuthreemonths)whsn tellinghimwhat
littlestockIhodleftbehindmehlLondomhegavomethisfiiendlynnd
sincere advice: "BeigniorInglese,"sayshe(iorsohenlwnysofledme), "i1
yonwfllgivemelettergsndnpmemtionhminfomtomqwith
,orderstothepersonwhohssyonrmonayinhndontosendyonreficcts
bLisbonhmchpmsuIshnndimchendinsuehgoodsesm
preparfiorthisoountry, Iwflbfingyonthepmdmdtmeod
vihhg,stmyretnm;bntsinoehnmnnnfl'nirsorenllmhjeettoohenges
mddinsterglweuldhsvoyungiwordersbntforonshundmdpounds

Mling,whieh,'yonssy,ishnllyonrsbck,sndletthohszordbemnfer__ .
thsflrsgwthsgifitoomsefqyonmyorderthenstthemwsy;. '

 

11/21de32 anus-mass or

nnd,ifitmiscany,youmayhnvetheofl1erhal!toheveiecoursetoPSa
yonrmpply."

Thiswuwwhohwmeadfieqmdlookedsofiendlyfihatloould
nothutbecouvinoeditwaetheheetcouneloouldtskeuolaoomdin'gly
pmparedlettentothegentlewomanwithwhomlhadleftmymoney,and
aprocnrationtnthePortugueeecaptaimashedeaired.

Iwrots the English captain's widowafull account of allmy adven-

tnree,--my slavery, escape, and how I had met with the Portuguese
captain atsegfllehnmanityofhishehaviourflndwhntconditionlwu
nowimwithallothernecmydirecfionsformysnpply: andwhenthis
houatupminmehLishomhefoudmemgbyeomeoftheEnglish
merchants there,to send over, not the order only, but nfullaocountof
my storytoamerchant at London, who represented it efi'ectuallytoher:
whereupon she not only delivered the money, but, out of her own pocket,
sent the Portuguese captain a very handsome present for his- humanity
andcharitytome.
. The merchant in London vested this hundred pounds in English
goods, such as the captain had writ for, sent them directly to hiarat
Lisbon, nndhehronghtthemallsnfetomentthenraafln: amongwhich,
without my direction (for I was too young in my busineu to think of
them),hehadtakenearetohnveallsortsoftools,ironwork,andutensils,
uecessmyformyphutafiomandwhichwereofgrutusetome.

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune made, for I was
surprisedwithjoy ofit;andmygoodsteward,thecaptaiu,hadlaid
outthe fivepoundswhichmyfriendhad eenthimforepresentfor
himself,topurchaseandbring memeservant under bondforsix
years' service, andwould not accept of anyoousideration, except alittle
tobacco, whichIwonld havehimawept, being of myownpmduce.

Neitherwaethisall: but mygoodabeingallEnglish manufactures,
mchudothgstufibdzeaudthingepartiouhrlyvaluahleanddesirahle
intheeonntry,Ifoundmeanstoeellthemtooverygreatadvantage;so
thntImaysuy,Ihadmomthnnfourtimesthevnlneofmyfirstoargo,
andwasnowinfinitelybeynndmypoorneighbour,1meanintheadmee~
mentofmyplantafion;fortheflrstthingldid,lboughtmenNegm
MandaEumpeenservuntalso--Imemanotherheddesthatwhiohtlw
captainhmughtmefiomLishon.

Butasahusedproeperityisoflentimesmadetheverymeansdm
Wodversitynowulitwithme. Iwentonthonextyearwithgreat<7L_---I"--u-v -;x-:.w~u-(J:-~_-' >1-.frr" -'.' ~ ' '

ROBINSON 0311803. 38

mceoainmyplnntntion: Inisedfifiygmetmfleoftobweoqnmym
poutmthanlhnfldispoecdetforneoeeenfieeemongnyneigh-
bonn;endthmfiPStymfle,beingeaehofeboveonehmdredponnde
wdghtwmwefleumflmdhidhyegeinstthentumofthefleetfiom
Lisbon. Andnow,increeeinginbueineeeendinwee1thmyheedbegan
tobefullofprojecteendundertukingebeyondmyxeedx; enehu'are,
indeedmfientheruinofthebestheadeinhneineee.
Hedenfinnedhtheetefioanumwithedmomfordlthe
happy thingetohnveyotbehnenmforwhich myfnthereoemeefly
mmmdedeqfietmfimdfihmdwhichhehedeoeeneiblydeecfibed
themiddleetntionoflifefobefnlld:butothuthhgsatfendedmgend
Iwueetillto'bethewilful egontofellmyownmieeriee;end,pam-
ticulnrly, to increase my fault, and double the reflecfiomuppnmyeelfi
whichinmyfuture mmIehofldhnwleimehmukgdltheee
miscnn-ingee were procumd by my epparenLobetinnte adhering to my

 
  
  
 
   
 
  

canhedictionto the elenmtvieweofdoing myeelfgoodinefeirenfl
plainpmenit dfimpmwcfimdthmmmmoffiquhichnatum
and Providence ooncurredtoprceentmewith,.endtnmnke my duty.
II AeIhedoncedonethneinbnakingewayfi'ommypareuheoIeonld
notheeententnow,hnt1mnstgoendlenvefllehappyviowlhndof
bdngefichmdthfifingmminmymphntefiomonlytopmuee
mmmmmdmmmmmvamm
admittedgendthueleeetmyeclfdownegeininfothedeepeetgulfof
humenmieerythat evermnnfellinto, orperhepe oopldbeeonsietent
wimfifemdemdhedthintheworld.
Tomthmbyjuetdegxeeetothepuficnlmofthiepertofmy
Shry:yonmayeuppoee,thethavingnowlivede1moetfouryeeninthe
Bxuile, nndboginningtothrivemflpmeperverywenuponmyplm-
hfiomlhadnotmlyhemedfllehngueggbuthadeonhmdeo-
queintanee and friendship among my fellow-planters, as well ee'emong
themerclianhet St. Salvador, whichweeonrportgenfl. Minmy
dimmmmgthmlhadquflygiventhmenwnntofmy
twovoyegeeto thewuthnianthemennez-oftradingwiththe
Nwthmmdhowmyfimhpmehmupmthemfortdflee--

2

themvieedtheBrezilghgreetmmben. _ "'

 

foolish inclination of wandering abroad, and pursuing that inclination in .

mchubeedshyghhnedmhmmmdglmendtheW"
notonly 301:1dede Memqhntfiegroegforf
They listened alwaye very attentivelytomy discourses on these heads,
but especially tothat part which relatedto the buying Negroes; which
wasatradeatthattimenot onlynotfarenteredinto,but,asfarasit
mhndhenoaniedonbytheauimtonorpeunimionofthekingsof
Spain and Portugal, and engrossed in the public--so that few Negroes
were bought, andthose excessivedear.

It happened, being in company with some merchants and planters
of my muaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly,thrce
ofthem came tomethenextmorning,andtold me theth been
musing very much upon what I had discoursed with them of the last
night, nndtheycametomakeasemtpropoaaltome:and,afteren-
joining me to semey, they told me that thsyhad a mind to fit out a
ahiptogotoGuinea;thattheyhadallplantatiousaswellasI,andwe1-e
eboitenedfornothingeomnchasservantafihatmsitwasamdethat
oouldnotheoarried on, because they could not pnhliclyeelltheNegroee
when theycamehome, so theydesh'ed tomake but one voyage,tobring
the Negroes on shore privately, anddivide them among theirownplanta-
tions; and, in aword,thequeetionwaswhethet1won1d go their super-
oargointhe ship,tomanagethetradingpartupon thecoaetoquinea?
and they offered me that I should have my equal shareof theNegroes,
without providing any port of the stock.

Thiswasafnirproposal,itmnstbeconfessed,haditbeenmadetoany
onethathadnothadaaettlementandplantationofhisowntolookafier,
whichwasinsfairwayofcomingtobeveryconsiderable,andwitha
goodstockuponit. Butforme,thatwaethusentm'edandestablished,and
hadnothingtodobutgoonthadbegnmforthreeoz-fouryearsmom,
andtohave sent for the other hundred pounds fiom England--and who
inthntfimmmdwiththathtfleaddifiomoouldacamehavefafledol
being worththree or four thousand pounds sterling, andthetinereasing
too,--formetothinkofsuchavoyage,wasthemoetprepostamusthing
thatcverman,inauchciroumstanoes,oouldbeguiltyof.

BntLthatwasbomtobemyowndeetroyer,conldnomorareeistthe
ofiuthanlwfldmhdnmyfirstmbfingdedmwhen myfather'a
goodoonnsdwasloetnponme.1naword,ltoldthem1wouldgowith
'nllmyhearhiftheywouldnndertaketolookaflmmyplantationinmy
abemcqandwonlddispoeeofittomchulahoulddhechiflmiscanied.
Thietheyanengnpdtodofindenteredintpwxifinggoroovenamtodn
so; andImade afomflwfldispoaingofmy phntatimmdefiechin

.--u n
mdmydeathmnfingthompfininofthenhipthflhudnwdrmylife,"
Mommyunivmalheirflutohliginghimfndispoaeofmyefiwbul
haddimhdhmywm--onehalfofthepmdnoebeingfnhimselgmdthe
othertobeahippedtnEngland.
Inshorhltookdlpom'hlemfimhprmrvomyeflmhmdto
keepnpmyplmtafion:hnd1usedhalfumnchpmdanootohavelooked
intomyownintmesfimdhavemadonjudgnantdwhatlonghtfohm
dmmdmtbhawdmlhndouhinlymmawayfimm
pmspmmudmhkinglemfiganfioprobabloviemdathfiving
dramatmwmdgoneuponavoyagetommdedwithdlihoommon
hmtomynothingdthammslhadtoupeotpuficnhrmis-
fortunestomyaelf. '
Butlmhmfiedommdobeyedblindlythediohtuofmyfincy,
mtherthmmymawn:mdaooordingly,theshipbeinSSfittedontmdflm
mrgomrfiahetmdujlthingpdonaubyagreemmtbymyp'artnmin
thevoyagqlwmtmbmdhmwflhouagfimthefimtoffleptember,
1659,beingthanmedayeightyeulthntlwentfrommy&thermd
motheratHnILinoxdartoacttharebeltotheiruuthofity,andthofool
tomyownintemst.
. Oushipwuaboutmhudmdandtyentymbudmmfieddx
gummdfoutemmembesidesthemster,hisboy,mdmynelf:wehqd
mboudnohrgewgoofgoodgemptofmchtoysuwmfltform
mdnwiththeNemmchubeadgbiuofglmnheugmdoddtfiflu,
upedflyfiflahfing-Mhfivfidmhflnhfimflthem
Themedaylwmtmbouiweaetafithmdinguwayhthenozth-
wadnpmmmmshwithdeaigntquhaflhmforthemm
magwhentheyeamaaboptfenortwelvodegreesofnorthemhfitude,
whchitmwuthemmarofthairminthmdayl. Wehad
verygoodweather,onlyexoeuivohof,nnthemynponourmeoast,
fillwgoametotheheightoanpeStAngnsfino;fi-omwhmee,keeping
farthuoflstmmbstdghfidmmmduifmmbound
forthciahFamandodeNomnhn,holdingonroonraeN.E.hyN.md
leavingthoseialesmthoeast. Inthisommowepamdfhofinein
abonttwelve hydfimgmdwmbymhdobmnfiminm
demtwmty-Womimtumthmhfitudgwhmafiolmttomadgor
huniomgtookuquiteoutotmhowledge: itvbegmfi'omthemth-
eutmofabanttothonorth-weagmdthenleuledhthomrth-eut,
fromwhenco_itl_>lewi11_suchuterriblemanner,gluntfortwelwdayna

 

">713;

r.'
":5
a!

J
E
together we could do nothing but drive, and seudding away before it, let
itcarryus whithcreverfateaudthefuryofthewinds directed; and,
during these twelve days, I need not say that I expected every dayto
be swallowed up, nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect to save their
lives.

Iathisdistress, we had, besidcsthe terror ofthe storm, once! our
mendiedofthe calenture, andonemanandaboywsshcdoverhoard.
About the twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master made an
observation as well as he could, and found that he was in about eleven
degrees north latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees of longitude
difi'erence, west from Cape St. Augustino; so that he found he was gotta:
upon the coast of Guyana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river
Amazons, towardsthat of the river Oroonoque, commonly called the Great
River, and began to consult with me what murse he should take, for the
ship was leaky and very much disabled, andhewas going direcflybach
to the coast ofBrazil.

I was positively against that; and looking over the charts of the sea-
coast ofAmerica with him, we concluded there was no inhabited country
forustohavereeourseto,till wecamewithinthecircleoftheCu-ihbee
islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for Barbdoes, which, by
keepingofl' st seatoavoid the indrafl: ofthe hayor gullofMexico,we
might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sum--whereas
we could not possibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa without
some assistance, both to our ship and to ourselves.

With this design, we changed our ooune, and steered away N.W. by
Minorder tomachwmeofourEnglishislandawheseIhopedtor
relief: but our voyage was otherwise determined, forbaing in the latitude
oftwelvedegreoaeighteenminutes, asecondstorm came nponugwhich
carriedus away withthe same impetaosityweetward, and drove usso out
ofthevcrywayofallhumanoomma'oe, thaghadaflourlivesbeensaved
utothesegwewereratherindangerofbeingdevouredbysavagesthan
erorretamingto our own country.

Inthisdistremthewindstillblowingveryhard,oneofourmen
oa:.y inthemomingcried out, had! and we hadnosoonm-runoutd
theahinfolwkouginhopuofseeingwhareaboutsintheworldwe
mhuttheshipahuokupmaundmdhamomenhharmofionbeing
so stopped, the seahroheoverherinsuchamaunerthatweerpectedws
shouldallhavepefishedimmedistely;andwemimmedistclydrivenv

3.0311180! ' 0811503. 81

intoonrdowquarfergtoaheltermfi'omtheveryfoamandsymyo!
theses. '
Itisnoteuyformyonowhohasnotbeoninthalikooondifionto
describeorponneivethsoomtamationofmanin'mehdmmmnou: we
knewmthingwhmwewmoruponwhnthnditmmmdfiven,
whethamiflmduthemnimwhetherinhabitedornotinhabitedgand
astharngeofthewindwaastillyeat,thoughra.therleaathanatfiut~l
waeould not-omuchuhopotohavetheshipholdmmyminuha
withmthmfinginpieeqmleuthewindgbynkindofmimcle,
ahonldhxmimmedintelyubont. hnwortwemtlookingoneupan
anathemandexpectingduthqvelymomenfiandeverynimufing
aceordingly,upmparingfor motherworld;forthmwulittleornothing
momforuntodointhis. Thatwhichwuompmentwmforhmflfll
fiewmfoanmMmmryhmupwhfiomthalhipdid
notbmkyegmdthatthemutarmidthewindbegmtoabm
Now,thonghwethaughtthatthewinddidolittlaabate,yetthenhip
hnfingwumckuponfiemmdafickingtoofutforutoexpeot
hugetfingofimmhadmdflmfifimhdeflmdhadnothing
todo,buttothinkofsavingourlimnuwelluweoonld. Wohadu
bmtatmshmjudbefmtheahmbntahewmfimmvedbyduhing
agninsttheship'smddu,md,inthenextphoe,ahehmkeuway,and
eithusmhormdrivenofi'fnsea;aothamwasflnohopofiomhu.
Wehfimothubodmhutbuthowhgetheroflinfiothemmu
doubtful thing; howeva, there wua'noroomtodebate, forwafanciedthe
ahipwould bmakinpieeesevexyminute, mdwmefnlduaahawas
netnnllybrokennlmgdy. .
hfikfiahmfiemhdmmdhnhomdthehahmflwflh
mehelpofthemtofthemmflwygotherdungoverthouhip'uide;
mmgetfingallintohufletgoflndwmmittedonnelmbeingelamin
number,toGod'ameroyandthewfldsea;forthoughthostormm
abated conniderably,yetthe mwentdreadfnlhighuponthoahom,
nndmightwellbooalledlonmumutheanchedlthemina
storm.
Andnowoumwuvaydismalindeed;forwedluwphinly
thatfleseswmtsohighflmtthobofloould notfivqandthltwe
dlonldbeinevitahlydmed. Ashmnkingnfl,welwlnm;m,
"Whiwddwehmdonemythingwithigdovoworkedattheow
hmmmtfimghfimhuwhmlgkemgoingtomfimfi
for we all knew that when the boat came nearer the shore, she would
be dashed in a thousand pieces by the breach of the sea. However, we

committed our souls to God in the most earnest manner, and the wind
driving us towards the shore, we hastened our destruction with our own
hands, pulling as well as we could towards land.

What the shore was--whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal--
we knew not; the onlyhspe that could rationally give us the least shadow
of expectation was, if we might happen into some bay or gulf, or the
mouth of some river, where by great chance we might have run our boat
in, or got under the lee of the land, and perhaps made smooth water.
But there was nothing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and
nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than the sea.

Alter we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league and a half,
as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain~likc, came rolling astern of
us, and plainly bid as expect the coup d4 grace. In a word, it took us
with such fury, that it overset the boat at once; and separating us, as
well from the boat as from one another, gave us not time hardly to say,
" 0 God!" for we were all swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt, when
I sunk into the water; for though I swam very well, yet I could not
deliver myself from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave having
driven me, or rather carried me, a vast way on towards the shore, and
having spent itself, went back and leit me upon the land almost dry, but
halfdeadwiththe water I tockin. I had so much presence of mind,
as well as breath leit, that, seeing myself nearer the main land than'I
expected, I got upon my feet and endeavoured to make on towards the
land as fast as I could, before another wave should return and take me up
again; but I soon found it was impossible to avoid it, for I saw the sea
come afierme ashigh as a greathill, and asfuriousasan enemywhich
I had no means or strength to contend with: my business was to hold my
breath, and raise myself upon the water, if I could, and so, by swimming,
to preserve my breathing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible;
my greatest concern now being, that the sea, as it would carry me a great
way towards the shore when it came on, might not carry me back again
with it when it gave back towards the sea.

The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty or thirty
foot deep in its own body, and I could feel myself carried with a mighty
force and swiitness towards the shore, a very great way; but I held my 'BOEINBOR 0311601. 39

mammdeeeietedmyselftoswimefillfotwudwithdlmymigbt. I
wasreadyfnbursiwithholding myhufiwhemulfeltmyeelfu'sing
up, eo,tomyimmedinhexelief,lfoundmyheadendbandeehootout
abovetheemfeceofthewater;endthoughitwunottwoeeemded
timethetIoonldkeepmyeelfeo,yetitre1ievedmegreafly,-geveme
breathendneweourege. Iwuooveredegainwithwateregeodwbile.
but noteo longbntIhelditcnfigandfindingtbeweterhadepent
itsdfmdbegmtomturmldmckforwudegainetthentumofthe
wavegendfeltgranndegeinwithmyfeet. Intoodefillufewmomente,
mmbmthmdfillthemmfimmendthmhokhmy
heeleendmwithwhetmengthlhedfarthutowerdethe shore. But
neitherwouldtbiedefimmefiomtbefurydtbemwhiehemepom-
inginaflermeegein;mdtwioemore1weelifiednpbyfl1emend
cardedforwudeaebefmtheehombeingvezyflet.
Thehetfimeodtheeetwobedwennmbeenfetelfiome; teeth>>
mhafinghnniedmdmgubefomhndedmgmntherdnbedme,
egainetepbeeofamchmdthntfitbmebfoieeuitlefimeeemelm
andindeedhelplemutomymdelivermoe; fieitheblowfiakingmy
ddemdhmhbeattbeheathuitvmquiteoutdmybodynnd
heditmtnrnedegeinimmedmtely,lmuethevebeenehnngledinthe
water; butlmwvuedefiwebefmthemhmeftbemvegmdeeeing
IehofldbeooveredegunmthvfeflerJreeolvedtoholdfieetbyepxeee
offiemchmdwhhqfimymfiyfipmfiihwflmmvewmtbeek.
Newahemwmmtnhghutheflnfibmgmhndlhdd
myhofifllfiemnebfiendthenfehhednothermwhiehhwght
mewneutbeihmthetthenextquthwghitwmtmmyet
didnoteoeweflawmeupeetooanymeeway,mdlfiienextmlhok,
Igothtbemfinhniwhughmfgieetmhrgldmberedupthe
difledtheahmmdeflmedownuponthemfieefiumdengermd
quiteontofthereachofthewafar.
Iwunowhndedmdmfemuhmmdbegmtolookupnndthenk
Godthetmyfikwunvedheeesewhminthmwegmheininnfu
Mmmuyroomtnhope. Ibelieveitieimpoeeibletoexpreu
tothehfewhnttheeeeheiumdhenzpuhofthewulmfivhenitie
unvedulmyeay.odtoftheyevenndldonotwepdernewettbet'
mm,Mwm.mmm,whom&emmaneak,
infiedupmdjnetgoingjobetumedofimdhuempfievebrougbt;
hhim--IuyJdonotmderfhettheybfingemrgeonwithit,"

- 3... . M,-_..--\u;;u-h_\..zu,__.'.'..;."_n ._' --_'*._.*. .
lethimblood thntvcrymomcntthcytellhimof ihthntthesnrpriae my
not drive the animal spirit: from the heart, and overwhelm him:
"For sudden joys. like griefl, confound d flat."
I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands, and my who]:
being; as I my my, mped up in the contemplnfian of my deliverance;

 

makingathmmdgestureemdmofiongwhiehlmnotdmibeueflecb
hgupmmmywmaduthatwmdmmetmdthatflwrelhouldnotbe
one Ioul saved but myselfi--for, as fax-them, I naval-saw them afterwards,
umylignoithemmxceptthreeoftheirhau, one cap, mdtwoahoel
'thntmnotfellowa

.1u3tmyeyabtheshnndedvemoLwhmthehmnch endh-othof
thembdngwbingfldhmdlymmithymfu-ofimdm
idaredde! howmitpoasibleloouldgetonnlm?
Anulhadmhcedmymindwiththecomfortahlapartofmyoon-
difiomlbegmhhokmndmmhwewhathindofaplmlmimand
what was next to be done; and I soon found my comfort: abate, Ind
thahhawmd,lhndadmdfuldelivm;forlmwet,hadno
dothahahifimgmmythingeithutoeatordfinhtooomfortmo;
neither did I see any prospect More me, but that of pet-inking with
hunger,orbeingdevomedhywildheuta:andthntwhichwupm-
culmlyaflicfingtomemthntlhndnoweaponeithertohuntmd
killsnymtueformymstenmogortodefendmyselfagaimtmyofim
creaturethntmightdeaintokfllmafortheiu. hawuiIhadnothing
nboutmbutahfifgnbbmpipqandalitfletobminnbu. This
wasdlmyprovision;nnd.thisthrewmeintotafibbngoniesdmind,
thugfornwhflglmnahoutlikeamndman. Nightmhgmml
bemwithahmvyhnaxfltoeonaiderwhatwonldhemylotifthm
were any ravenonshmla inthnt county, seeing at night they alwayl
comeabrondfortheirpmy.

Anthemedythntofimdbmythmghhntthntfimgmtoget
up into a thick bushymlikea fir,but thorny--which mnmme,
nndwhereIrcsolvedtositnllnight--mdeonsiderthanextdaywhat
duhInhoflddigforuyetIuwnopmfipectoflife. Iwalhsdahout
shrlongfiomthemtoseeifioouldfindanyfiahwatettodn'nk,
whichIdid,tomygreatjoy,mdhavingd1-unk,andpntalitfletobaoeo
inmymonthtopreventhunger,Iwenttothatree,mdgatfingnpinto
itmdeavonmdtophepmywflmnpthngiflshoulddeemlmight
not fall; andhavingcutmeaahort sfiokiikesh'unchmformy
ddmeglhokupmyldgingmflhnfingbeenexousivelyfafigued,
Ifellfastaaleep,nndaleptageomfortahlyu,lbelieve,fewoanldhnn
dmehmymfifimmdfomdmywlfthemodzmfiuhedwithitthatl
thinklmwummchanmfion.
Mmewaklnxhthemamlnmmths mplyhglmdhlshoazdmm--Ham
downhmtheuu--Swlmmtheship--csmtrmlnmwhleh he Mwflhmafi

guideswilhdmicunytotheshoHurnylthe mats-yum discovers Muhammad
minhsMhd--Shmuamthefluh ofwhich more! to he canton-Unmanned

manna--smmmmpmm hdngssseesudeargouhue--Onhlsretmh
annealed hyawfldugwhkhdheoursadlspoddon whammy--Mala stungwhlehhe
Ihrnhhu and fWflcs-Repeabhhvidhtolhe ship, which he strips 0! In contain--Banana

hhmtmsmmumuwudtqusmksmfly--mammhgflm
thus-t.

.HEN I waked it was broad day, the weather clear, and
the storm abated, so that the sea did not rage and swell
as before; hat that which surprised me most was, that
.-. theshipwaslifiedofl'inthenightfiomthesandwhere
she lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost as far
astherockwhichIfirstmentioncd, whereIhadbeenso bruisedby
thednshingme againstit. This beingwithinaboutamilefrvmthe
shore where I was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished
myself on board, that at least I might save some necessary things for
my use.

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked about
me again, and the first thing I found was the boat, which lay, as the wind
andthe seahadtossedherup uponthelaud, abouttwomiles onmyright
hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore to have got to her, but
found a neck, or inlet, of water between me and the boat, whiehwas about
halfamilehroad;soIcamebackforthepresent, beingmoreintent
upongettingattheship, whareIhopedtofind somethingformypresent
subsistence.

AlittleaflernoonIfound themmycdmmdthefideebbed
wfaroutthatIoouldeomewithinaquarter ofamile oftheship; and
here I 'aund a fresh renewing of my grief, for I saw evidently that, if
wehdhptmhnrtwehnflanbeenufe--thatistony,wehad
dlgotafeognhmandlhadnotbeennmiwableubbelefl
enfimlydeafituteofdlcomfortmdwfipmyulmm Thisfomed
temfiommyeyahgfimbututhemmfitflerdidhthahlwlwd,
ifposdhlqtogetbotheahip;m1pufledoflmydotheC/forthnwmthet
washottoextremity,andtookflmwatar:butwhenleamatotheahip,
mwamsmlmhhowhowugflmthruahe
hyagrouimdhighoutofthewaterdheromnothingwithinmy
mchflolayholdof. Immmdhutwioqmdthawoondtimal
spicdamflpimofmmwhichIwondemdIdidnotmatflrshhang
downbythefomchains,aolowasthatwithgreatdiflicultylgotholdof
it,nndbythehelpofthatropegotintothafommtleoftheahip. Here
Ifoudthattheshipwubflgfiandhndagreatdaalofminhm
hold;butmmehymmthe'adeorabmkofmmuntha
enrth,andherstemlnylifiedupuponthebnnk,andherheadlow,flmost
tothewafer. Bythismemfllhuqumwmfiemanddltbatwuin
thutpartwasdry;foryoumaybesummyflrstworkwutpaeuchmd
toseewhatwusspofledandwhatwasfme:nnflfirst1foundtbatanthe
ship's provisionswere dry and unhaohedbythe water; andbeingvery
wdldisposedtomglwmththebrad-momandfinedmypochbwith
biscuit,mdmfiulwmtaboutothuthhmforlhadmfimeblme.
Idmfonndmmrmmthegreathbimofwhichlfiooklhrgedmm,
andwhichIhadindeedneedenonghoLtospiritmforwhatwubefm
me. Now I wanted nothing but a Boat, to furnish myself with many
things which I foresaw would be very neemary to me.
Itwasinvaintositafillmdfishforwhatwaanottobehaimd
thiaextremityrousedmynpplimfion;wehndsevardspmyuds,md
twoorthmlugespmdwmfimdospmtopmstmtwointhuhip.
Imlvdhhflhmfifiththmmdflungummyofflmmw'erbmd
qufldmmagoofthairweighfityingwerymwithuropgthat
theymightnotdxivenway. Whmthhwudonqlwentdnwntha
fip'sddqafipuflhgthemhmqlfiedfouofthemfmttogetherat

both endp,uwe11aa1eould,inthefomofamft,mdlnyinghmm'

fixmelhortpiecaafplmkuponfhemmmyglfnundioonldwdk
"M'fimwembutfhatitwnotabhbbmmymmthe
membeingtoolight;m1wentfiowork,mdwiththewxpmfefiuwI
entaspambpmutintothmlensthaandaddedthemfnmyMWithl
Mdedofhbourmdpaim. Butfimhopeoffnmishhlgmyselffifl!
necessaries encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been able tn
have done upon another occasion,

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reasonable weight. My
next care was what to load it with, and how to preserve what I laid
upon it from the surf of the see. But I was not long considering this.
I firstlaidallthe planks, orboards, upon it that I could get, andhaving
considered well what I most wanted, I first got three of the seamen's sheets,
which I had broken open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my
rafi. The first of these I filled with provisions, viz., bread, rice, thmo
Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried goat's flesh (which we lived much
upon), and a little remainder of European corn which had been laid by
for some fowls which we had brought to sea with us, but the fowls were
killed. There had been some barley and wheat together, but, to my
great disappointment, I found afterwards that the rats had eaten or
spoiled it all. As for liquors, I found several cases of bottles belonging
to our skipper, in which were some cordial waters, and, in all, about five
orsixgallonsofraek. ThueIswwedbythemselveetherebeingno
need to put them into the chests, nor no room for them. While I was
doing this I found the tide began to flow, though very calm, and I had
the mortification to see my coat, shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on
shore upon the sand, swim away; as for my brooches, which were only
linen and open--kneod, I swam on board in them and my stockings.
_ However, this put me upon rummaging for clothes, of which I found
enough, but took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had
other things which my eye was more upon, as, first, tools to work with on
shore; and it was after long searching that I found out the carpenter's
chest, which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much more
valuable than a ship loading of gold would have bum at that time. I got
it down to my raft, even whole as it was, without losing time to look into
it, for I knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were two
very good fowling-pieces in the great cabin, and two pistols; these I
secured first, with some powder-horns and a small bag of shot, and two
old rusty swords. I knew there were three ban-ale of powder in'the ship,
but knew not where our gunner had stowed them, but with much search
Ifoundthem, two ofthemdryandgood, thethirdhadtakenwater.
Thoseton gottomyrait, with the arms. And new I thought myself
pretty well freighted, and began to think how I should get to shore withPS

' I'm
. {rat-j

"""s'vrr'swr-r "i:'='.C/1'.':1<"~'f!'fi'~'7

.'7

A);

a .,

a
them, having neither-sail, oar,nor rudder; and the least oapful of wind
would have overset all my navigation.

I hadthree enoouragements: 1. A smooth, calm sea. 2. The tide
rising,andsettinginto the shore. 3.Whatlittle windtherewns
blew me towards the land. And thus, having found two or three
broken oars belonging to the boot, and, besides the tools which were
inthechest,Ifoundtwosewu,anexe,andahammer;andwiththis
eargoIputto sea. Foramile,orthcreaboute,myreitwentverywell,
only that I found it drive 11 little distant from the place where I had
landed before, by which I perceived that there was some indruftof the
water, and consequentlyI hoped fofind some creekorriver there, which
Imightmnkeuseofueaporttogettolaudwithmycargo.

AeIimaginedeoitwaa: thereappem'edbeforemealittleopeningof
thaland,andIfoundashongcurrentofthefidesetintoit; eoIguitld
myreftaswellaslconld,tokeepinthemiddleofthestreum. Buthere
IthkehhvemflmdamdahipwmhwfiehfiIhadIthink
verilywould have broke my heart; for, knowing nothing of theooast,my
rafinnagroundetoneendofituponaehosl,audnotbeingagmund
sttheotherend,itwantedhutalittlethetallmyeargohsdslippedofl
"wardsthntwdthatwmaflongmdmfdlenintothewater. Ididmy
utmost, byeettingmyhackegainetthecheete,to keepthemintheir
plows, but could notthrustofi'theraftwithallmyetmngth;neither
durstIstirfi-omthepoMstain,hutholdinguptheehestewithell
mymighhstoodinthntmannernearhalfanhourfinwhiohtimethe
rising of, the water brought me a little more uponalevel; andalittle
affer,theWatersfillfising,myraftfloatedegein,undIthmstheroff
withtheoathadiutothe channehandthen, driving up higher,I at
lengthfonnd myselfin the mouthof alittle river, withlandonhothsides,
andashongcunentorfiderunningnp. Ilookedonbothsideefor
eproperplaeetogettoehoreflorlwasnotwillingtpbedriventoohigh
up the river, hoping, in time, to me some ship at sea, and therefore
molvedtoplacemyselfes'neerthecosetaalcould.

AtlengthIspiedafifllewvemthefightshomofthemhtowhieh,
withgreatpainanddiflleulty,lguidedmymft,eudatlnetgoteonoar
asthatnachinggronndwithmyou,1couldthrustherdireotlyin;but
hthadliketohavedippedallmycargointoflmeeesgaimforthet
uhoxelyingprettysteep,thatietoeay,sloping,thmwunoplaeefolnud,
bntwhmmcmddmyflomflitmmehmwouldliesohigh,and
theotherainklower,asbefom,thatitwou1dendangumyonrgoagain.
mthatlwflddomtowdtfillthefidewuatthehighasgkeeping
thenfiwithmyoar,1ikeananohortoholdthaaideofitfastfothe
nhorqnenraflntpieoeofgmnndwhichlexpectedthewatorwouldflow
ovenandsoitdid. Asmnulfomdmtummghformynftdrew
aboutafootofwohn',lthmsthernponthatflntpieoeofgmund,and
therefnstewdmrmooredherfiystickingmytwobrokenomintothe
ground,oneononaaideneoroneand,andoneontheotherside~neartho
otherend;nndthuaIlnyfiIlthewaterebbednwny,andleftmymftand
allmycargoaafeonahore. I

My next work was toviewthe country, andseekaproperplaee for
my habitation, and where to stow my goods,to securethemkom what-
ever mighthnppen. WhereIwas I yet knewnot; whetheronthe
continent or onanisland,whethor inhohifedornot inhabited, whefllarin
dangerofwildbeastsornot. Themwuahflhnotaboveamflefi'om
mgwfichmwnpvayshepmdfighmdwhichwemedtomp
someotherhflls,whichlayasinafidgefromitnorthwurd. Itookout
one ofthefowling--pieces, and one ofthephhlgmd ahom ofpowdar,
mdthumetltravelledfordisooveryupfothetopofthathflLwhexe,
afiethadwithgreatlabonranndultygotupfothetop,Imwmy
fob,tomyyeatafiiiction,viz.,thatIminanislandenvimnedovery'
mywiththemnohndmbesemexoeptsomerockswhichhya
geatwayofimdtwomfllidmdglmthmthigwhichlayaboutthree
leaguestothewut. '

Ifonndalsothattheislnndlwasinwasbmen,and,ns1uwgood
reasontobelievo, uninhabited, except bywfldbeamfiwhom, however,
Isawnone; yetIsnw abundnneeoffowls, butknewnotthairkinda,
neitherwhenIkilledthemconldltenwhatwasfitforfoodnndwhd
not. Atmyoomingbaoklshotatayeatbixfiwhichluwaitfingupon
atreeonthesideofagreatwood. Ibefieveitwuthefirstgnnthathnd
heenfiredtheresinwthocreufionofthowofld:1hadnosoonarfired,
bntfiomnllpartsofthewoodtherearoseoninnummhla'numbuof
hwlgofmymfimnfingawnfusedmmhgmduyingevery
oneaoooxdingfohisusualnote;butnotoneolthemofnnyhindthatl
knew. hfmthatmlfillemlhokithhoafindduhawhib
oolmandbeakresembfingigbnthadnotalmorohmmthm
common. Itnflmhm canionandfitfotnothing.

ContenhdwithflxildiswveryJoamobackhmymmondfellh

,-. ~ ~
worktobfingmyoubuonshom,whinhtookmoupthereetofthntdny; -
whaetodowithpyuuaznightlmwnogmindeeawmmm,
forImafi-aifltoliadownogthogrounAnot-ho'whxgbutmmewfld
bustmigfidammfigthanghulnfimwafinhunifllmwumam
noneedforthoepfean ' '
However,uwenuloould,1banicadoedmymlfmndwiththe
Mmdbomsthalhadbmughtonshmmdmadaafindofahnt
forflmtnight'alodging. AsfuMIyetaawndtwhichway'bmpply
myndfiexeeptthatlhndueentwoorfinmmtuxeglikehnmmout
ofthewoodwhmlghotthefowl.
Inowbegmtoeomidarthatlmightyetgetagmatmmythinggont
ofthenhipwhiohwouldheusefdhommdpufioflaflymotthe
figgingmdmflgmdmchothmthingsumightmhhnd; mil
resolvedfnmakemtharvoyagembomthavmeLifpouihle. Animal
knewthatthefirutstorm-thatbbwmustnmuflyhreakhenflinpieeea,
Irenalvedbosetdlotherthingpaputtflllgoteverythingmtdthuhip
thatlwuldget. ThenIoaIledaoounufl,thatistony,inmythoughh,
whethuIshouldtakebmthenfhbutthisnppeuedimprhcflcable: no
Itesohedtoggasbeforgwhenthefidpmdommdldidnonlythat
Immedbermlwmfiommymmmmhingmbutuheqwed
uhirtmdapairoffinmdmugmdapflofpumpaonmym '
Igofonboudtheahipuhefmmdpmpuednmdnfi;md
havinghadupefimwofthaflnhlfiaithermadeflfiasomwieldy,m
WRNMMyothroughfiawnymamlflfiny'wrymefulto
me:as,flrahintheearpenm'smea,1fonndtwoorthmebagfnnofmfln
andspkeguyeatmw-jiahsdommtwodhnhherugabwem,
thatmnotusefulthingoafledlgrhldsfiom'. Anthenlmuredtogeflmr,
withaevutlthingabelongingtothegunnsr,parficulnflytwouthmo
Mmflmmdmmbflehmmmmdmtha
' hwhg-phwfithmmnflqymfitydpowdummshrgobagfnn
ofmfllahogandnmhtmlldnhaetlead;blfithiahatmsohmyl
wuldnothoistituphgetitovathbahip'uide.
Beddathmthhgglmlmtham'adothuthnlwummm
aspmfmvhpmlhamoehmdmbedding;mdwiththinlloaded
mymirammdhoughtfhmannfiomnhmtomymm
comfort.
Immduwmeappehmdmdufingmymfiomthamm
C/hasSSmypmviaimmightbedwomdonghotwbnSSwlgenlmhqh .

<<fir-3'

'7'"1'?! -.--,.

     

D .
ADVENTURES 01

 

1 found no sign of any visitor, only there sat a creatiue like 3 wild out
upon one of the chats, which, when I came towards it, ran away a little
distance and then stood still. She sat very composed and unconcerned,
and looked full in my face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted with
me: I presented my gun at her, but, as she did not understand it she
was perfectly unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away, upon
which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though, by the way, I was not very
fieeofit, for-my storewasnot great; however, Isparedhersbit, Isay,
and she went to it, smelled of it, and eat it, and looked, as pleased, for
more; but I thanked her, and could spare no more, so she marched 011'.

Having got my second cargo on shore--though I was fain to open the
barrels of powder and bring them by parcels, for they were too heavy,
being large easks,--I went to work to make me a little tent with the sail
and some poles which I cut for that purpose, and into this tent I brought
every thing that I knew would spoil, either with rain or sun; and I piled
all the empty chests and cash up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it
from any sudden attempt either from man or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with some
boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without; and, spreading
one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my head,
and Inng at length hyme, Iwent tobedfor thefirsttime, and slept
very quietly all night: for I was very weary and heavy, for the night
before I had slept little, and had labouredveryhard allduy,aswellto
fetch all those things from the ship as to get them on share.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid up, I
believe, for one man; but I was not satisfied still, for, while the ship sat
upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get every thing out of her
that I could: so every day, at low water, I went on board and brought
away something or other; but particularly the third time I went, I
brought away as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small
ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece of spare canvam, which
was to mend the sails upon occasion, and the barrel of wet gunpowder.
In a word,I brought awayall the sails,firstandlast, only that I was
faintocut them inpieces, and bring asmneh ata timeas I could; for
they wereno moreusefirltobesails, hutasmereeanvass only.

Butthatwhich oomfortedme more sh'llwas,that,atlastofall, after]
had made five or six such voyages as these, and thought I had nothing
more to expect from the ship that was worth my meddling with,--I say,
nflerallthis, Ifounda greathogsheadofbread, andthreelarge rnnlets of
rumorspirits,andaboxofsugarandabarreleffineflour; thiswas
surprisingtome, beesuseIhad given overexpeeting anymore provisions,
exoeptwhatwas spoiled hythewater. I soon emptied the hogsheadot
thatbread,andwrappeditup,pareelbypareel,inpiecesofthesails,
whiehIcntout: and,inaword, Igotallthissafeonshorealso.

ThenextdayImade anothervoyage, and new, havingplunderedthe
ship ofwhatwasportebleandflttohand out,Ihegunwith theeabbes,

i

ci- s .
and cutting the great cable into pieces such as I could move, I got two
cables anduhawser onshore,withalltheironwark1eould got;und
havingcut downthesprit--sail yard and themiaon-yard, and everything
Iceuldtomako a large raft, Iloaded itwithallthoseheavygoods,and
came away: but my good luckhegen nowtoleave me; for this ratt was so
unwieldy and so overladen, thataficr Iwas entered the littlecovewhereI
hadlandedtherestofmygoods,notbeingahletoguideitsohandilyasl
did the other, it overeat, and threw me and all my cargo into the water.
Asformysclf, itwashogreatharm,for Iwes near the shore; butasto
mycargo, it wasugreatpart ofit lost, especiallytheiron, which I
expected would have been of great use to me. However, whm the tide
wasout,I gotmostofthepiecesofcahleashore,and someoftheiron,
thoughwithinfinifelabour;for1wssfain todipforitintothewater, a
work which fatigued me very much. Afier this I want every day on
hm and brought away what I could get.

Ihadbeennowthirwendeyson shore, andhadbcen eleven timeson
board the ship, in which time I had brought away all that one pair of
hands could well be supposed capable to bring; though, I believe verily,
had the calm weather held, I should have brought sway the whole ship,
piecobypieee; but, preparing the twelfth timeto goonboard,I found
the wind began to rise. However, at low water, I went on board, and
though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so effectually, as that
nothing more could be found, yet I diswvered a locker with drawers in
it,inone ofwhichIfoundtwoorthreerazors,andonepai1-oflarge
scissors, with some ten or a dozenofgoodhnives and forks; inanother
I found about thirty-six pounds value in money, some European coin,
some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold, some silver.

I smiled to myself atthesightolthismoney. "0 drug" said I aloud,
1 'what art then good for? Thou art not worth to me, no, not the taldng
of the ground; one of those knives is worth all this heap: I haveno

manner of use for thee; c'en remain where thou art, undigo to'the.

bottom, as a creature whose life is not worth saving." However, upon
second thoughts, I took it away; and, wrapping all this in a piece of
mvmlbegantethinkofmasting another-ran; butwhileIwaspre-
peringthiglfoundtheskyovercast, andthewindbegantofise,and
inaquarterofanhouritblewafreshgnlefiomtheshom. Itpresently
ocomedhmgthatitwuinvaintopretendtomakearsitwithtbe
wmdofishomandthatitwus mybusinesstobegonebeforethetideot

.'VJ'I'F'W '1vwl1r'ff'Y--'v "wzygavms-ww-.c7:yjsg.n- "fr:

ROBINSON GRUBOI. 5'

floodbegamothmwiulmightnotbeablohmohthenhonatafl.
Anooxdinglylletmynelfdownintathnm,mdlwmmthe
chmdwhiqhhybetwemfixoshipmdthamdsmdmthatwfih
diacnItyenonglyparflywithflmweightofthathinthadaboutma,
andpnrflythamughnesoftfiewatargforthowindmwryhufily,
andbafonitwuquibhighmithhwum

Buthnsgothnhmhmyfifllotmhwhmlhy,fifhflm:
wealthaboutmevamm Itmwmmmthatfishhmam
themonfing,whanllookedout,beholdnommuhipmhbem!
Imafitflempfimtbutmmdmywwflhthhnfim:
reflectionnimthatlhadloutnofimnorsbatednodfliganogbget
evayflzhgofldhuthatmfldhunefulbmgmflmmm
wufittlehftinherthatlmablatobn'nguwuyfiflhadhadmm
time.

Inwgaveommymmthwghhdthoahimorofmythingouiof
henaxwptwhatmightdrivemahmfiomharmhagindeed,
dimpiecesofherafiarwudsdidgbutthmthinywmdmfllm
tome.

My thoughhwmnow whoflyemployedaboutmuringmyaelfagaimt
eithunvagegifmynhouldappeur,orwfldbmah,ifanywmintha
inland;nnd1hadmanythonghhofthamefimdhowtodothil,md
whatfindddweningbmnkqwhethmllhouldmahmeaoaninths
eadhmratantnpontheearfluandfinshorhlreoolvednponboflythe
mmermddaaipfionofwhiahitmynotbehnpmpertogivem
nooountof.

Imfmflthephmlminwunotformymttlmmfipufimhfly
bemwitmnponalow,moofiahyound,mtheaegudlbelioved
itwouldnotbewholmoma;mdmompuficuhrlybecanuthmwuno
fi'eahwatunmit: wImolvedtofindnmorehedthyandmmm
venimtspotofgmund. '

Imfltedmuflflfingshmydtdafiomwbichlfmdwonldho
pl'oparforme:fint,fiealthmdfieahwam1jutnowmenfiomd;
secondly, 8he1hrfiomthnhmtofthem;thirdly,8eanfityfivni
ravenous WVhethumanror beast; fourthly,Aviawtothoaen,
thatifeodommyahiphdghglmightmtlmmydmhgeformy.
defiwmoqforwhichlwumtwfllingtobmiahanmyupmfionm.

Inamahdgplaoepmpafnrthiglhnndllitflaphhonthedde,

ofafidngmwhmfi-onttoyudnthin Moplninmnteepnnhqm
side, so that nothing could come down upon me from the top. 0n the
side of this rock there was a hollow place, worn a little way in, like the
entrance or door of a cave, but there was not really any cave, or way
into the rock, at all.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow place, I resolved to
pitch my tent. This plain was not above a hundred yards broad, and
about twice as long, and lay like a green before my door; and, at the end
of it, descended irregularly every way down into the low grounds by the
seaside. It was on the north-north-west side of the hill, so that it was
sheltered from the heat every day, till it came to a west-and-by-south
sun, or thereabouts, which in those countries is near the setting.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half--circle before the hollow-place,
which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from the rock, and
twenty yards in its diameter, from its beginning and ending.

In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving them
into the ground till they stood very firm like piles, the biggest end being
out of the ground about five feet and a half, and sharpened on the top:
the two rows did not stand above six inches from one another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and laid
them in rows, one upon another, within the circle between these two
rows of stakes up to the top, placing other stakes in the inside, leaning
against them, about two feet and a half high, like a spur to a post: and
this fence was so strong, that neither man nor beast could get into it or
over it. This cost me a great deal of time and labour, especially to cut
the piles in the woods, bring them to the place, and drive them into the
earth.

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a door, but by a
short ladder to go over the top; which ladder, when I was in, I liited
over after me, and so I was completely fenced in and fortified, as I
thought, from all the world, and consequently slept secure in the night,
which otherwise I could not have done; though, as it appeared alter-
wards, there was no need of all this caution from the enemies that I
apprehended danger from.

Into this fence, or fortress, with infinite labour, I carried all my
riches, all my profisions, ammunition, and stores, of which you have the
account above; and I made me alargetent, which, to preserve me from the
rainsthat in onepart of the year areveryviolent there, Imads double,
via, one smaller tent within, and one larger tent above it, and covered

\
the uppermofiwitho large tsrpeulinwhichlhndsaved emougthe
sails.

And nowIley no more, forewhile,inthebed whiohIhndbraught
onehore,hutinehnmmoek,whichweeindeedeverygoodone,efid
belonged tn the mete of the ship.

Into this tonthrought ellmy provisions, and every thing that would
spoil by the wet; and having thus enclosed oflmygoongmedeupthe
entrance, which, tillnow, I had left open,andeopeescd und repeaeedms
Isaid,byashort ladder.

WhonIhnddonethis,Ihegantoworkmywoyinto therock,end,
bringing all the earth and stones that I dug down outthroughmytent,
Ilnidthemupwithhmyfmceinthenetumolsteumqsothatit
raisedthe groundwithin aboutefootendehalf; endthusImadeacave,
juetbehindmytmhwhicheervedmelikesoellnrtomyhouse. .

'Itcostmemuchlahourendmenydnymbeforeelltheeethingewere
broughttoperfection; mdtherd'orelmustgobacktoeomeotherthings
which took up some of my thoughts. At the same time it happened,
ufiethadlnidmymhemfmtheeetfingnpmytentsndmskingthe
cove,thatastnrmofrainfullingfiomethick,dsrk cloud,aeuddenflaeh
of lightning happened, and after that a great clap of thunder, as is
netumllytheefi'ectofit. Iwunoteomnchmrprinedwiththelight-
ningeelwuwithothoughtwhighdertedintomymhduewiflzeethe
lightning itself: Oh, my powder! vaery heart eunkwithin me when I
thoughgthatetommnshdlmypwdumighthedeMyernwhich,
not my defence only, but the providing mefood, as Ithought, entirely
depended. Iwoe nothingneareonnxioue about my own danger, though,
hadthepowdertookfire,1hndneverknownwhohsdhurtme.

Suchimpressiondid this makeupmmetheteftertheetormwee
over, I laid aside all my works, my building and fortifying, and applied
myedftomekebegsmdboxegtoeeperatethepowdermndtokeepite
littlenndnlittleinepurceLinhopethatwhatevumightmmqitmight
notalltukefireatonoe;endtokeepiteoepert, thetitehouldnotbe
poesibletomukeonepartfireenother. Ifinishedthieworkineboutn
fortnight, and Ithinkmypowder,whiohinellwes shoutcnchnndred
and fortypounds weight,wes divided innotleesthnnone hundred
parcels. Aetothebmdthethadhemmtldidnotepprehendeny
dengerfmmthat;eoIplseeditinmyneweave,which,inmyPSsnoy,
IodbdmyhitchemandthereetIhidupenddowninholeemongtho
rocks, mthatmmtmightomehihmarkingverywefuflywbm
llaidit.

, Inthaiutervuloftimewhilathiswudoinngentoutatleutome
Axlexydaywithmygunmswelltodiveu-tmyselfutnseeifleonldkfll

 

mythingfit for food, and, annear as! could, to mquuint myuelfwith
what'the inland produced. The first time I went out, I presently'dia-
meredthatthexewere goabhtheidmtwhiohwuagreataafixfuo-
fionfpme; butthmitwmaflmdedfiththhmiflofluuehmfim,
thattheywemnoahy,sosubtle,andnoswifioffoot,thutitmflm
moatdiflaultthingintheworldfowmoatthmzbutlwunotdis-
wmgedatthiguot doubting butlmightmwandthenflmotona,uit
soonhappened; for,nfl:ethad found theirhaunhulfithIhidwuitin
filiamaunerforthem: Iohurvetfitheyluwminthavflleygthaugh
theywemnponthorooks, thaywonldmewayssinetsrriblefi-ightz-
butiftheywmfoedinghthevflleygmdlwnponthemehthey_

tooknonotioeofme;&omwhenneloondudedthnt,bythepositionof
tlxeiropfiqthoir sightwas sodireeted downwaxdthsttheydidnot
reedilyeeo objects thatwsxe shove them:soaftenmds,1tookflfis
method--Idmysdimbedthemhfinhtogetabovethmnndthen
hadfi'equentlyefnirmsrk. Thefintshotlmedeemongtheseeteahnes,
Ikifledeahmgoahwhichhndalittlelddbyher,whichshegmmnk
to,whichgfievedmeheurtily;butwhentheoldonefell,thekidstood
stockstillbyher,tilllcemeandtookherup;andnotonlyso,butwhen
Icerfiedtheoldmwithmgnponmyshouldmthekidfollowedqs
quitetomyenclosme, nponwhichIlfiddomthedmmdtmkthe
lddinmy.armsandeunieditover mypdqinhopesfnhavebmditup
mmegbutitwonumteahsonesfomedtokfllitmdeatitmyself.
ThuetwosuppfiedmfithfluhemtwhflmforIeatspsfinglymd
medmyprofiaimmybmdespecinllymsmuchespossihlyleould.
Hafingnwfixedmyhabitefiomlfounditsbsolntelyneeemryfn
provideeplae'etnmnkeefirein,endfuelbbum; andwhetIdidfor
thatudmhowImlmgedmyqumdemmimImnng
shullgiveet'nlleoeountofitinitspleee: butlmustflrstgiveeome
little encountof myself, and ofmy thoughtsahm living,which,itmey
well be suppowd, were not a few.
Ihededimnlprospeotofmyoandition;for,as1wesnoteestswey
uponthntielnndwithoutbeingdriven,asiseeid,byeviolentstomqnifie
outofthewumdmhhnfidwyagmmflegmetwey,viz.,some
hmdmdsufhaguaoutdthsoflhmwmdthehadeofmmfiniI
hadgmtmwnmmddmituedetammfimoffimmflieghthis
demlatephcgandinthisdesoletemmer,lshouldendmylife. The
temwonldrunplentifnllydmmyfseewhenImadethesereflections,
nndsomefimestouldexpostuhtewithmyselfwhyPravidenoeshauld
thueompletelyminitaueeMmdmderthmsoebsolutelymises-
nble,--sowithout halpabmdmetmmfiielydepmseithatiteould
hardlyberefiomltobethankfulforsnchelife.
Butsomethingalweysretumedswifiuponmetouheokthesethoughts,
andtgorepmveme; and,pnrticnlarly,onedaywalkingwithmygunin
myhmdbythewedngwssverypensiveuponthesubjeetofmy

MmdifiomwhmmsomuitMupoetuletedwithmethe'

other way, thus: "Well, you are in a desolate condition, it 1! two,
but, pray remember, where are the rest of you? Did not you come
eleven of you into the boat? Where are the ten? Why were not
they saved, and you lost? Why were you singled out? Is it better to
be here or there?" And then I pointed to the see. All evils are to
be considered with the good that is in them, and with what worse
attended them.

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for my sub-
sistence, and what would have been my case if it had not happened,
which was a hundred thousand to one, that the ship floated from the
place where she first struck, and was driven so near to the shore that
I had time to get all these things out of her: what would have been
my case, if I had been to have lived in the condition in which I at
first came on shore, without necessaries of life, or necessaries to supply and
procure them? " Particularly," said I aloud (though to myself), " what
should I have done without a gun, without ammunition, without any
tools to make any thing or to work with, without clothes, bedding, a
tent, or any manner of coverings ?" and that now I had all these to a
sufficient quantity, and was in a fair way to provide myself in such
a manner as to live without my gun, when my ammunition was spent,
so that I had a tolerable view of subsisting, without any want, as long
as I lived; for I considered, from the beginning, how I would provide
for the accidents that might happen, and for the time that was to come,
even not only alter my ammunition should be spent, but even after my
health or strength should decay.

I confess, I had not entertained any notion of my ammunition being
destroyed at one blast, I mean my powder being blown up by lightning;
and this made the thoughts of it so surprising to me, when it lightened
and thundered, M I observed just now.

And now, being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of silent
life, such, perhaps, as was never heard of in the world before, I shall
take it from its beginning, and continue it in its order.
Mflnplveodmmuvhlehhohufibutbedflsofhbhnflhmudwm

mammmmdymmmmmmmhnmm
"Edmulhsmslndmthsthe {snot altogether WWW-mu
mmtwmhmwimmusormmumtnmmIp--mum

when the sun, being to us in its autumnal equinox, was
' almost just over my head: for I reckoned myself, by observa-
tion, to be in the latitude of nine degrees twenty-two minutes north oi
the Line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve doysfit came into my
thoughts that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books,
and pen and ink, and should even forget the sabbath days from the
working days; but, to prevent this, I out it with my knife upon a
large post,inoapital letters,andmaldng it intoagreat eross,Iset
it up on the shore where I first landed, vim, "I came on shore here
the 80th of September, 1659." Upon the sides of this square post I
out every day a notch with my knife, and every seventh notch was
aslong agsinuthsmstmdeveryfintdnyofthemonthaslongagsin
as that long one; and thus I kept my calendar, or weekly, monthly,
and yearly reckoningoftime.

Intlmnextplsoe,wearetn observethstsmongthamanythings
which I brought out of the ship, in the several voyages which, as above
mentionsd,1msdeto iQIgotwveralthingsoflessvalue,butnotat
alllemusefultome,whioh10mittedsettingdownbefom,ss,inpw
ticular,pens,ink,andpsper;severslpareelsinthe captain's, mate's,
gumsfgmdearpenter'skeeping; thmeorfmroompsmsomemsthe-
maticel instruments,disls, mafives, oharts,andbooksofnsvigstion:
allwhiehIhnddledtogether,whethu-I mightwant thema no: also- r-iv-u : 'Vv'5lt,' I

58 ADVENTURES OF

Ifoundthmeverygoodhibleqwhieheamefiomeinmyeergofiom
wmwmchlmmuaupmmmympnommm-
gumbmhdnmmmgthmtwoorthreeropiahpmyerbooh,
mdwvmdofhubookgellwhiehIonefnllyeeamd. Andlmnst
notfmgetthntwehndintheahipedogmdtwomfiwhoeeminmt
historyImayhaveoceoeiontoeayeomethhghibplm; {orIearu'ed
Mththewhwithmqenduforthedog,hejmnpedoutoftheehip
himselfundswmonehomtomethednynflerIwcntonehorewiflx
myfintcugo,endweeatrnetyeervanttomemmiyyeam Immd
mthhgthnthewfldfefehmgnoranyoompmythatheeouldmnke
uptome;Ion1ywmtedtohavehhntalktome,butthatwouldnot
do. AnIobeervedbefore,Ifoundpen,ink,andpaper,andIhuebmded
themfpthenhnost;deehfllehowthehwhflemyhkluMIkept
thingsveryexmfihuhnfiuthatwugonglwuldmforlcould
notmnkeenyinkbymymeemthetlooulddevine.
AndthieputmhmindthatlmbdmythhanotvithdInding
e11thatIhadmnaeeedtogether:andoPStheee,thilofinkwuone,ea
alsospnde,picknxe,andehovel,todigormmovetheeuth;needlee,
pingendthreod. Asforfinmleoonleemedtowantthatwithont
mnchdifliculty. .
Thismtoftoolsmadeeveryworkldidgoonhmfly,mdit
wasnearewholeyeorboforelhndenfimlyfiniahedmylitflepnle,
orsunoundedhabitetion. Thepflaormkegvihichwmuheevy
asIoouldwelllifi,werealongfimeincutfingmdprepefinginthe
woodmandmmbyfarinhfinginghome;eothntlspenteomefimea
twodayuincntfingendbdnginghomemeofthoeeposhandnthird
dayindrivingitintothepoundgfoiwhichpumomlgotuheavy
piwedwoodatflmtbntethstbethoughtmyeelfofoneoftheimn
mews, which, however. though I found it, yet it made driving those
Mmpflaveryhboriomandtediouswork. Butwhntneedlhave
beenouncemedatthefedioumeeeofnnythinglhndhhseehgl
hndfimeenonghtodoitin? thadlmyothaempbymmhifthfi
hndbeenover,atleastthntloonldforeeee,exoeptthemgingthe
islandtoeeekforfood,whichIdid,mmorleu,everyday..
Inowbegentoooneidumuuelymyeondifiommdthedmumstanoe
Imreduwdto;end1dzewupflieetateofmyafi'aininwrifing,
notsomndltoleavethmntomythntwezetooomemmdorl
mlike to have but few heirs), as to deliver my thoughts from dailynonmson' 0311803.

wfingupmthmmd nfliicting mymind: miumymmhegan
nowtomutamydespondancy,lhegantooomfintmysdfuwellu
rammeomaxagoodagainstthaevmmumightmmmg
to distingninhmyoue homwornognndl ltnteditvaryimpartinlly,
likadebtor and creditor.the oomfoxhleniovedrngainat thamueriol
Imflemithu:

m coon.

rammummamnuma. But In din; anotdmwnod,
voidofdlhopoolmwuy. unllmylhip'uompunym

Imfingldonmdumbduit mrmmmmm-nm
Immmfiowdthhom Ihip'lmw,toholpcnd&onduth;md

HOMWy-ndumm

Imdividdfim madam Butlmnddnrvodndpednhingonn
mbnninhedfimhmnnndoty. mmdwdingnom. .
Ihmnoolothuhmm. Mlmhahflcfimfimfll

haddothqloouldhndlymthn.
Imuithontuymcmmh DntImoutmnifl-niwhmlm
red-tanyviolcnuolmwheut. novildhulthhnrtm-Iavanthn
mum;udvhntif I hndbeun
Ihipwmhdthmi

ihnmnflhqukmaulimu But Godwnndufnllylantth ahipin
A numghbhlhugflntlhu

Montanamywfihgluwm
- mmqmamhlomb

npplynyldgm-bngullin.
Upon the whole, hmwnnannndouhted teetiniony,thntflimwu
mmywndifimhthamfiwmhmhhhutthmmwmething
negatingumthingpodfivqtobethmflhlforinit; Indletthu
stmdundheofiomhomflmuperiancoofthemoetmimableofm
mdifimhthinmmthatwe mydwnysflndinitoomethingto
wmfortomdmfimndhwtinthedemiptionofgoodandevfl,
onflwmditnideoftheaoeonnt. '
Havhgmhmghtmymhdnlflflehmfishmyoondifimnnd
givmmhohngonttomhmilloouldspynnhip,--Iny,givmg

mthmthinalbegantoapplymyaelftowmmodatamyway_

offivmgnndtomn'kethhgsueasytoflmeuloonlfl.

Immaummmmmwmchmamm V -"

flioddodlmehmmundedwithnstrongpahofpochanduhies;
hutImightnownthei-oalllt'

  

5::
f
.':
>3
5:
'd
4
V!
2
"-
agamstitoftudgsbouttwofeetthiokmthsmhidgsndsfiersame
tims(Ithinkitwassyearandahalf)Imisedmftstsfiomit,leaning
hthemehandthntched,oroovsred,itwithboughsofheesandsuch
thingsasIoould-get,to keepoutthe ruhywhichIfound,atsomo
timesofthe year, very violent.

I have already observed how I broughtall my goods into this pale,
and into the cave which I had made behind me. But I must observe,
too, that at firstthiswosa confused heap of goods,which, ssthey loyin
noorder,sothsytookupnllmyp1ooe: Ihodnoroomtoturnmyself,so
Isetmyselftoenlsrgemycuve andworksfarthsrintntheeuth;forit
mnlommndymohwhichyioldedessflytothelnbourlbestowedon
it: andsowhenIfoundensprettysofeastobesstsofprey,1worked
sideways,tothe right hand, into the rock, andthentuming tothsright
ogsin,workedquite out, undmademosdoortocomeoutontheoutside
of my pole or fortification.

This gave me not onlyogrmsandregress, ssit wersaback wayto
my tent sndtomy storehouse, but gave me momtostow mygoods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things
as I found Imost wanted, particularlys chairandotable; for without
these I was not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world,--
I could not write, or out, or do several things, with so much pleasure,
withoutatable.

SoIwenttowork;andhereImustneedsobservethnt,asreason
is the substance and original of the mathematics, so, by stating and
squaring every thingby reason, sndhymnkingthsmostnfionaljndg--
mentofthings, evarymsnmnybe,infime,masterofevsrymeohauio
art. Ihedneverhnndledatoolinmylife;andyet,intime,bylsbour,
application, and contrivunce, I found, atlest, thsthantednothingbut
Ioouldhavemndeitqespocinllyiflhsdhsdtools. However-,1msde
sbundmmofthinggevenwithouttodsandsomowithnomoretools
mmmadzemdshamhohwmohpahspgwerewermsdethstway
befmmdthstwithinfinitelsbour. Fumplqiflwmtedsbomd,
Ihadnoothorwsybuttomtdomahsqwtitonsnsdgebefomme,
andhewitflatoneithersidowithmymfilllhadbronghtittobsu
thinassplsnhandthendubitsmoothwithmyadze. Itistrue,by
thismsthodIoouldmskebntoneboardout ofswholsttee;butthisl
hadnoremedyforhutpntianoemnymorethsnlhodiorthspmdigim
dealoffimeondhbourwhiohittookmsnptomnkesplankwbouds
hatmyfimewhhdumfiflnwmhandaoitwuweflmployad'
anewayasanothar.

Hom,1mademeatablaandachair,aslobmvodabova,intha
firstplaoe--andthialdidoutofthaahortpiaoea_ofboaxdathat1bmught
onmymftfiomtheahip. BntwhanIhadmughtoutmmebou-ds,"
abongmadehrgeahdmoffllehmdthdahotmdahflfimovar
anotherallalongonoaideofmymtohyanmytoolgmfla,and
iron-work, and,inaword,to aepuate avarythingatlargaintheir
plawgthatImighteasflycamaatthem. Iknockedpiecesintothewall
offhermhtohmgmygmgandanthingsthatwonldhnngup.

Sothahhfimyuvebembbewmitlookedlikaagenenlmagap
zineofallneaeasary_things;andIhadeverythingaomadyatmyhand,
thatitwuagmatyleuuretometoaeeallmygoodainmahorder,and
eapeeiallyfofindmyatockofaflnawmieaaograat.

And now it was whenIhegan to keep'ajaurnalof every day's
'employment; for, MatflmfiIwuinfpomnohahmry, and not
onlyhnrryasholahour,hntintoomnchdiaoompomreofmind,andmy
journal would havebeanfullofmanydull things; for emplaImuxt
haveaaidflma--"SothOtL--Afinr Igut "sham, and had escaped
drowninginateadofheingthmkfnltoeodformydefimhaving
firstvamibedwiththagreatquanfityofnltwatarwhichwasgommb
mymmmmgmyunafitflqlmabmtthe dimming-
hgmyhmdgmdbeafingmyhead'mdquexolaimingatmymisery,
andufingouhlwunndongmdmelfimfimd-mdfainglmfioreed'
toliedownonflmgronndtorepoaghutdnrstnot deemforfearof
beingdavoued."

Somedayaaflerthigandaflerlhndbeenonboardthaahipandgotan
thatIoouldoutofher,yetIoouldnotfotheargetfinguptoflwtopd
afifilemomtainmdhokingontfioaeginhopasdaeaingaahip;than
fanayatavutdiatanoelspiedaafil--pleaaemysalfwiththahopesaf
it--mdthmafierlookingateadfly,finlmalmoatblind,loaeitquife,
mddtdmmdweeplkeachfltmdfllmhmmymimyhymyfofly.

Bnhhavinggoflmmtheaethingahmmamaamandhaving
wtfledmyhmnhoflatuflmdhabitafiommadamatableanflachair,
mmuWMmuIMImhhmmyjam--of
whichIahallhmgivayouthaoopyfihoughinitwfllheuldallthm

particulmsoveragain)ulanguitlufed; _h,havingziommink,l
mbroedtoleavaitoif.'

."o
TH]! JOURNAL

89pm 30,1659.--I,poaxminerableRohimonCmaoe,heinglhip-
mckeddnfinga'dmdfulstnmintheoflngmeonahmonthh
dimalnnfommidand,whiohlcalledthomanor1)m;n,ell
themtoftheahip'ewmpuyheingdmwneLandmyaelfalmoetdeed.
Anfiemtofthedaylspentinaflficfingmylelfdzthedimaldmm-
stancestasbmnghtto,viz.,Ihadneitharfood,houae,dotheu,weqon,
norplaoetoflyto,md,indespairofanymlid,newnothingbutdem
Mmmdthuthatlahofldhedmmdhywfldbmfimmdemdby
mngegorstervedtodedhforwantoffood. Attheamrroachofnight
Ideptinamforfenrofwfldaeamhutalepemdlyfihoughit
reinednllnight.

October l.--InthemorningIsaw,tomygreatmx-pfise,theehip
hadflmwdvfiththehighfidgandmdfivenonahmagainmnch
nearertheislnnd;which,nsitwuaomeeamfortmonehmd(for
Mughudtupfighgmdnflbmhnhpimlhopdifflmwhd
aMImightgetm'Mnndgetaomefoodmdnemmiqout
of her for my relief), no, on the other hand, it renewed my grief at
theloasofmycommdeqwho,1imngined,iPSwehedellateidonboetd,
might have saved the ship, or, at least, thattheywould not have been
alldmwned,aatheywm;mdthat,hadthembeennved,we
nfight,perhnps,hnvebnfltusaboatontofthemimoftheahip,to
havecarrieduatosomeotherpartofthewofld. Ispentyeatpart
ofthiadnyinperplexingmyaelfonthesethingu;but,atlength,eeeing
theshipnlmostdry,1wentupontheaandunmuloould,and
thmswamonboard. Thhdaydmitmfinuedmthoughwifll
nowindetall.

Fromthelstof Oalaborfothe Nth--All these days enfirelyapentin
mymmalvoyegeebgetefllwuldoutofflxeehip,whichlhwugfi
onahmmwayfideoffiootuponnfie. Mnuhrainnhoinflmeeday'
thoughwitheomeintervaleoffiairweather;hutitmthiawuthl
minymeon.

Od.20.--Iovereetmyrafiandellthegoodnlhedgotuponfl;,hut
heinghnhodweter,mdthethingeheingehiefiylheavy,lreoovmd
mmyofthmwhmthefidewum

M25.--Itninedallnightmddlday,withlomegushofwinds

\
> .013

. -2;.---....-...;L. 3.1
dmingwhichfimathaahip hokainpiaoeyflmwindhlowingalitfla
hudathmbdomudmmmmtobemaxceptthemokotha,
andthatonlyatlowwam. Iapontthiadayinooveringmdaooufing
thopodawhichIhdmvetthatthorainmightnotspoilthem.

Oat. 26Pdekadahoutthoahoxaa1mostandayfloflndoutoplaoa
toflxmyhabitafion, Myoonoemedtoaaonromyaelffiommyamk
inthenight, aitharfiomwildheastaormon. Towardnnightlflxed

nponapmperplmundarntochmdmarkedoutaaemicirdofoxmy

encampment, which Imolwtoohongthmfithaworhwalhorfortifi-
ufiommadaofdonhhpflaglhadwithhwithmflgandwithoutwith
turf.

Fromthe 26thhtho'sogh1workedvaryhnrdhoarryingallmy
goodatomynewhahitnfiomfhoughaomepartofthatimoitnined
exceedinghard. >

The81d,inth.omoming, Iwentontintothoialandwithmygnn,
to weforoomafoodanddiscoverthaoonntry,whenlkflledaaha--goat,
mdhufidfoflowedmhomgwhiohlmarwudahmedmmit
wouldnotfood.

Nomuborla--Ioetupmy'tantnndaramok, andlnythmfor.tho
firstnight,makingit.aalargeuloonld,withstakaadrivenintoswing

myhnmmock upon.

Noo..2--Iaetnpa11mychestoandhouda,andthopieoeaoffimher
whiohmadomyram; mdwithfhamfomodafenwmmqualitfla
withinthaplaeolhad marked ontfiormy fortification '

News 3.--Iwentoutwithmygun,andkilledtwofowlalikadnoh,
whichwerevm'ygoodfood. Inthaaflaemoonwenttoworktomakamo
atublo.

Non. 4.--Thiamoming1begmtoordarmytimeoofwork,ofgoing
mtwithmygumfimodaleep,andfimoofdivenion,viz.,everymom-
inglwalkedoutwithmygnnfortwoorthreehonrgifitdidnotuin;
thaneznployedmyaelftoworktillabouteloveno';olook theneatwhat.

Ihndtolivaon;andPSromtwelvofntw011aydowntoaleep,theweathet'

heingexcesaivahot; mdthmhlthocmmgtowoxkagain. Tho
workin'gpartofthiadayandthenaxtwmwhollyemployedinmahing

myhflgfwlwuyethntavawnyworhnmthoughfimaand
amtymadamaaoompletenatmlmeohanwooonamr,ulhehm

itwoulddoanyonaalaa.

Nous --Thnday1wentabroadmthmygunanddog,andhmodr

i
,.
E64 ' "WINNERS 0'

awfldcat;haraldnprattyeoft,butherfleehgoodtornothing:every
mtmIfillofiIhokofl'theakineandpreeenedfhm Comingback
bytheeeaahmIeawmanyeorbofeea-fowlewhiohIdidnotundm
etand,hutwaamrpfised,andelmoetfiighfed,withtwoorthreeeeah,
whhhwhfleIwugazingatnotwellknowingwhattheymgotinh
flieeeeandeecapedmeforthnttime.

My. 6.--Afier my morning walk, I want to work with my table
again,and finiahediqthongh nottomyliking;norwaeitlnngbefore
Ileamedtomend it.

Now. 7.--Now it begnntobesettledfairweather. The7th, 8th, 9th,
10th, andpart of the 12th (for the 11th was Sunday, accordingtomy
reckoning), I took wholly up to make me a chair, and with much ado
bmughtitmewlmueuhaquntnevertopleueme;and,eveninthe
making, Ipulleditto piecee several thee--Note. I soon neglected my
keeping Sundays; for, omitting my mark for them on~my post, I forgot
whichwaswhich.

Nov. 13.--Thia day it rained, which refreshed me exceedingly, and
oooledtheearth;bntitwasaooompaniedwithbrriblethundarand
lightning, which {lighted me dreadfully, for fear of my powder. As
masitwasover,Ireeolvedtoeepuatamyetockofpowderintou
manylittleparoeleesposaible,thatitmightnotbeindanger.

Noo.14, l5, 16.--TheeethreedayeI spentinmnkinglittleaqme
chestsorboxeewhichmight holdebontapound,ortwopanndset
most, ofpowder;and so, putfingthepowder in,Ietoweditin,plaeee
usecuxe mdremotefiomomeanotheraepo'seible. Ononeoftheeo
thmdnyeIkifledalugehhdfllatwugoodmmghntIknownot
whnttocollit. ,

Nw.17.--Thieday1begantodigbehindmytant,intothemck,to-
make room for my farther oonvenieney.--Mh. Three things I wanted
exceedingly for thiawork, vim, apioknxe, a shovel, andawhoelbazmw,
orhaaket;soIdedetedfmmmywork,andbegnntooomiderhowtn
mpplythatwmgandmakemeeumetools. AefuapickugImndo
wdfiehmmwfiehmmammmfiheavysbntthe
naxtthingwasaehovelorepade:thiewaseoabeolntelyneoemry,thnt.'
mImmmgmmymmmemnrm
tomakelknewnot.

Nw.18.--Thenaxtdny,meenohingthewooda,1foundnheeofthat

Mufihifiwhhhhthehuflqthayoallthehonfieqhfll

' .
encoding baldness: ofthiq'with groothhonr, and almost spoiling my
mlmxtopieogmdhmughtithmbgwithdifloultymmm
itmuoeedinghesvy. 5&3medede
nootharny,mademoolongwhflouponthismmhinogfor1wwhodit

efootually,bylitfloondlitflo,htothofomdouhonlorupads,the-

hmdlomoflyahnpedlikoomhlnglmtonlythatthobroadput
havhgmhmahodupmitcthflmitwouldnothstmooo'long:
however, itoervodwellononghforthamwhiohlhadooouionfioput
Emhutmwuaahwohlhdiemmndommmmomoroo
longs-making.
Imatflldofioimt;forlmtedobuket,orawheelbomw. A
baskethuldnotmahebymymmghavingnomohthinglutwigo
thatwouldhmdtomahofiohmmothutnmyetfoudm, and
utothewhoelbanow, Ifanuiedlwuldmnkeanbutthowhoehbutthat
Ihadmnofionofineithadidlhowhowtogoahontit;beddu,lhad
nopomiblewoytomakohongudgoonsforthotpindlocuuoftho
whealtorunin;oolgaveitom:mdoo,toroarryingwaythoeuth
whichldugontdthoumlmodomeothhglihoqhodvhiohtho
hboumsoanymortarinwhenflleyoervomobrinhhym -
Thiswaanotoodifioolthmeufllemakingthoahovelgondyet
thiaandthoahovoLandthoattemptwhiohImndohvfinto-mahos
whoelhmow, took no up no less thmfour days--I moan, always
uwpfingmymorfingidkfifimymwhthoddmmmd
voryoeldomfifloddwofhfinginghomomethingfittom

Noo.23.--My.otherwork havingnow stood still, hem-o dmy'

makingthaoomwhon fhoywmflflshedlwmtmmd'otfing
weyday,umyohmgthmdtimoollowod,llpantoightaendnyl
onfirelyinwidmingmddeepeningmymthatitmightholdmy
goodsoommodioudy.--Mab.Dufingollflfinfimo,Ivorkadtomkoflfil

maumapaoimmghtooooommodflemouowuahomor:
Womodmmgmmdooeflu. Asfwohdgingl

hepttothotant; exooptthatmofimeghthowotmofflmymfit'
'ninodlohudthatloonldnotheepmyulldry,whinhmnede'
wardoiomanmyphoewfihmmypdamthlongpolumflwfiom.

'Mmdmlfioom
Wloplbegmmtothmkmyoanamltflmhed when
mqmddmwwmlmmfitooluzenmmtydmh

   

 

 

h - A, ,, 'I'a
1.5.3.1951. "Lb-.KNL-'L-ifira. w v'

Thu. 21': :A'

..

I'd:

PK.
.2'

.

l
'2
fell down from the top and one side--so, much, that, in short, it frighted
me, and not without reason too; for if I had been under it I had never
wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster, I had a great deal of work
to do over again, for I had the loose earth to carry out, and. which was
of more importanw, I had the ceiling to prop up, so that I might be
sure no more would come down.

Dec. 11.--This day I went to work with it accordingly, and got two
shores, or posts, pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of board
across over each post: this I finished the next day, and setting more
posts up with boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured;
and the posts, standing in rows, served me for partitions to part ofi' my
house.

Dec. 17.--From this day to the 20th, I placed shelves, and knocked
up nails on the posts, hanging every thing up that could be hung up ;
and now I began to bring every thing within doors.

Dec. 20,--Now I carried every thing into the cave, and began to
furnish my house, and set up some pieces of boards, like a dresser, to
order my vietuals upon; but boards began to get very scarce with me;
also I made me another table.

Dec. 24.--Mnch rain all night and all day: no stirring out.

Dec. 25,--Rain all day.

Dec. 26.---No rain, and the earth much cooler than before, and
pleasanter.

Doc. 27.--Killcd a young goat and lamed another, so that I caiched
1t, and led it home in a string; when I had it home, I bound and
splintered up its leg, which was broke. --N..B I took such care of it
that it lived, and the leg grow well, and as strong as over; but, by
nursing it so long, it grew tame, and fed upon the little green at my
door, and would not go away. This was the first time that I entertained
a thought of breeding up some tame creatum, that I might have food
when my powder and shot was all spent.

Dec. 28, 29, 30.--Great heats, and no breeze: so that there was no
stirring abroad, except in the evening, for food: this time I spent in
putting all my things in order within doors.

.Rmuary l.--Very hot still; but I went abroad early and late with
my gun, and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening, going
further into the valleys which lay towards the centre of the island, I
found there was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy, and hard to comecansot up ms eon.
at: however, I resolved to try if I could uol, bring my dog to hunt them
down.

Jim. 2.-----Aceordingly, the next day I went out with my dog, and set
him upon the goats; but: I was mistaken, for they all faced about upon
the dog, and he knew his danger too well, for he would not come near
them.

Jan. 3.--I began my fence, or wall, which, being still jealous of my
being attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thick and strong.--
NJI. This well being described before, I purposely omit what was said
in the journal: it is Enlllt'lmll', to observe new, thatI was no less time
than from the 3rd of J animry to the Hill of April, working, finishing,
and perfecting this wall,--though it was no more than about twenty-four
yards in length, being a half circle, from one place in the rock to mother

place about (right yards from it. the door of the cave being in the centre
'ic-himl it.
cursor: enlarges upon the circuiuslonccs noted in his Journal, and details his dimcullies--II
surprisml by the appearance of barley growing out of the ground--A: first supposes that
Providence has spooiully intervened on his behalf, but afterwards remembers that the barley
Wm; accidentally Suwn--Pmdcntly preserves the grain for seed--The Journal resumed--Is
startled by an earthquake, which is followed by a hurricane--Recovers various arLielea from
the wreck, which have been cast ashore in the storm--Finds : turtle, and cooks it--Falls ill,
and is alarmed by a terrible dream--Repronohes himself on account of his past life, and reflect>>
upon his present miseries.

LL this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering me
many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but I thought

I should never be perfectly secure till this wall was
I s finished: and it is scarce credible what incxpressible
labour every thing was done with, especially the bringing piles out of
the woods, and driving them into the ground, for I made them much
bigger than I needed to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double fenced with a
turf wall raised up close to it, I persuaded myself that if any people
were to come on shore there they would not perceive anything like a
habitation: and it was very well I did so, as may be observed hereafter,
upon 9, very remarkable occasion.

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods for game every
day, when the ruin permit-ted me, and mode frequent discoveries in thcso
walks, of something or other to my advantage; particularly I found a
kind of wild pigeons, who built, not as wood-pigeons, in a tree, but.
mther as house-pigeons, in the halos of the rocks: and, taking some
young ones, I endeavoured to breed them up tame, and did so; but when
they grew older, they flew all away, which, perhaps, was at first for
want of feeding them, for I had nothing to give them. However, I fre-
qucn'dy found their nests, and got their young ones, which were very
good meat.
Andnow,inihemamgingofmyhouaeholdafi'aiu,lfounflniynefl
mfinghmythingawhiehIthougbtatfintitwaaimpouiblefiu
mhmqwuhmfimmitvu--famlmu
nevermakeeoaaktebehoaped. IM'umellzunletorVMuI
obmedbefmbutloonldneverufivebthaaapacityofmakingone
bythmtboughIapentmyweeheboutit:Ioouldnaitherputin
thebudgnorjointbeataveaaotmetoommtherutomakethm
boldwateruolgavetbatalaoaver.

Influnextylamlwuatagreatlonforoandlgaothhaaaoonu-

emitmaduhwhichwu genunuybyaeveno'cloehlwaa'obligedto
subbed. Immbeiedthelumpofbeea-mwithwbiehlmade
mflluinmyAfiimedvmhnmbnthadmeofthatmw. Theanly
rmedbeadmtbagwmehadHlldaMImedtbet-naw,
andwithelitflediabmafleofolay,wbichlhakedinflmmtowhiab
Iaddedawiekotmemkmlmadomalamp;mflthiagnveme
figbhthonghnotaelmateadylightlikeamfle. Inthemiddled'all
myhbomithppmetfiabnmmgingmythingglhmdalitfle
beg,whieb,aa1bintedbefore,hadbeenfllledwithmforthefeeding
ofpoultrymotforthiavoyeggbutbeforgaalauppeaqwhenfheahip
eamefiomLiabm. Whatlittlsrmainderetoombadbemhtbabag
maudevumdfimtheunmdlmnoflfinginthebagbuthuh
andduat;mdbeingwifling'tobavetbebagforaomeotheruae(lthink
itmbpflwfiuhwhmldifideditfiorfiecoftbelighming,a
mmfiwxlahmktbebnakadmmtofigmmaidedmy
forhficafimnnderthemk.
Itmafitflebefmtheymtnhgjnatmmfioneithntl
threwtbiaatnflwayfiukingnonofieeofmyfifingnndnotaomnehai
mmbefingtbatlhadthmnmytbingtberegwhenaboutsmth
afiermrtlmeabontaflaawaameiewmlhofaomethinggmmahoofing
ontdfieyomtwbiehlhnoiedmightbemephntlmnotaem;
butlmaurpiaedmdpfleflyaatmiahdwhmlfierolitflelmger
Emquwabcuttmutwdvemwmaonhwhiehmparfeotgxeen
bedsyofthaaamakindaaourfiuropean,my,aamlSSngliahbarley.
Ithimpoaaibbtouprentheaatoniahmentmdmfuaiondmy
firmgbhmtbiaoeeaaion. Ihadhitharfiouoteduponnor'elip'aua
fondafimflmthIbadmhwnofimofnligionhmy
Mmbedmmhinedmymdmythhgtbathadbdnnenme.

othuwinthmuuobmu,uwelighflyaay,whnSSplwuiaodnf

  
   

%
i'
:2
:i
'r
v!
1'.
'3
'2.

i>>w... I'v"fi_fiuvx>"'-:

70 , wVBNTUBEB 0!

withoutnomuchuenquifingintotheendofrmvidanoointhmthings,
orHinoxdotingovemhgevenbintheon-ld. Butafberlaawhrley
gmwtheminaclimntewhichIknewm not properforoonynnd
especiallythntIknownothowitoumothmitstartledmemngely,
debeganfnsuggestthatGodhadmirunloualymnedthiagx-ninto
gmwwithontanyhelp ofwedmmdthntitwassodireotedpnmly
formysnatemnoeonthntwildmimmbleplaoe.

Thishuchedmyhoartnlittle,mdhmnghtteanwtofmyeyamd
Ibeganboblessmyselfthntsuohapmdigyofnatumahouldhappenupon
mynooonnt:andthiswasthemomahnngetome,beoam1mnearit
still,mdougbytheddeofthomhsomeoflicrshngglhlgsmlkgwhioh
provedtobesmlksofrioe, undwhiohIhew,beoauaeIhndmit
growinAfi'ioawheannsaahai-ethem

I not only thought these the pure productions of Providence for my

supporgbut, not doubting but thatthmm more inthephmlwmt

momthntpmtoftheiahndwhthndbembefmpeefinginenry'

oomer,andundereveryrock,tosoeformomofit; butIcouldnotfindnny.
Atlast it occnmdtomy thoughmthnt Iliad ahookabag of chicken's-
mmtontinthatplnoe,nndthenthewonderbegnntooease;and1must
confess my religious thankfulnesstoGod'a providanoe begantoabatetoo,
uponthedimveringthatallthiawasnathingbntwhatmoommon,
thonghloughttohavebeenuthankfnlforoomungeandunfmueen
mofidmmuifithadbeenmirwulous; foritwasmallythewodof
Pmfidmutomqthatahonldoidoruappointtbnttmortwalw
Mofmmahoddmdnmspoflflwhmthomhaddestmyedafl
themgaaifithadbeendroppedfmmheaven,--ualso,thntI-ahould
thmwitoutinthatparficnluplmwhmitbeinghflmnhndoofn
highmohitspmngupimmodiately,wheteas,if1hndthmwnitany
whereelsout that time, it would havebeenbumt upnnddestroyed.
Imefullyaavedtheemofthisoomyoumyheminflwir
mmwliichwuaboutthoendofhno; and,layingupovoryoom,
Imdvedbmthmdlagfimhopingfinfimefiohavemoqumtity
snfloianttompplymewithbmd. Bntitwunottfllthofonrthym
leflddlowmyadftholustgrfindthismbugmdm
thmbutspuingly,asInhaflaayafierwnrds,inihordor;forIlostnfl
thathwedthefirutmbynotobmvingthopropufidgforI
wweditjnntbefomthedrymmoothatitmmmupatdl,
ntleostnotuitwouldhmedonogofwhiohhiuplnoe.

, g H x V
-.,,.._..'un'g~,

".111{VE'K'T' ,'D' '

-.;f:- affix"; 36;" 7" ,

803111301! 03080].

Bedduthnhfleythmmunbomtwmhyufliirtym
officqwhiohlprwvedwiththsmmmdwhmmmd
themfiniuhthompurpmvix,tomnkemhead,ornflim

foodgfulfomdwaylbwokitnpwithmmmonghldidm ~

mafiamfim--Buttoretumhmylmal... _
Iworkedaxceuivolmdthesothmorfourmonthstogetmywall
done,andthal4thoprrflIdneaditup,oofixivinghgohtoit,mt
bynrhor,butovetthewdl,bynlndder,thattheremightbenofign
ontheontaideofmyhnbitafion.
Apralm--Ifininhedthaladdagaolwmtupwithflxehddu
hthohgmdthmpufleditnpnfiummdletitdownm'the
inside: thiamcmpkhmdmhmforwiflfinlhadmom
enough,mdmthingoanldoomeutme&omwithwt,unleait itoould
firstmountmywafl.
Themmxtdnyafiutfiswmmflmfllhaddmottmm
myhbonrovwflimnatmmdmynelfkflled. Tho'mewuflms:
Aanubnqhthoinddeofigbehindmyfimhjustintheenh-moo
htomymlwumiblyfiightedwithnmoetdmdfnlm-pddng
flfingindeed; for,aflonnnddnn1foundthoaattheomoemmbling
downfimthsmofofmymmdfgmthoedgeotthehfll-om

.myhuiandtwoofflmpomlhnduetupinthomemckedin _

akightfulmmner. Imhmfilymtbutthoughtnotbhgofwhnt
mflywuthemmmflyfiiinfingthatthotopdmymwmfaning
humdfihaddmhefore. Andforleulshouldbelmrisd
higlmfurwazdhmyhddhr,mdnutthinkingmynelfnfothm
neither,Igotmmywantorfearofthopieeeo-otthehfllwhieh
Iexpeutedmightrolldownuponmn. Iwgsnoaooneratappeddown
uponthafimgromdbutlphinlynwitmatmibleearthquo;

forthegwnndlstoodonlhookflimflmaatabouteightminum:
~ Wwiththmemdinhoohuwofldhavewmdthsmw.

bnflfingthntwfldhemppowdbhmmdmthammda'm

piemdthewydumokwhinhmodnbouthflflmflafmmme,

nanghomfialldownwiflinnhnmfihlenoiaoulmhmd
inmmylifn. Ipaoeiveddsotheveryuwupnthtouviolmt
mofimbyigmdlhdimthemoohwmmwnndarthewm
thanpnthailhnd. ..-1.' d'

Imnmnndmththoflimgxuelfihmgmfialttholih,

<<Wfimmypwmmlmmwwc""

 

 
  
  
  

"'4'...

jam; 5.1.2113? '

..A-;.':C/;.".z;.uc.~.u_m3.

".3 _., _
KA'AI'FII'AQI

mlwk

'4!

ti
Mpefiemmdthemofionofthaeuthmademymmmhlikem
thatmtouedatm;butthenoiuofthefnflingofthemekawaked
muitmmdmuingmefmmthentnpefiedeondifionlwuin,
filledmewithhonorflndlthoughtofnothingthenbntflgehfllfafling
uponmyhntmdaflmyhouaeholdgoodgandbnryinganatomo:
thiuunkmyvuywnlwithinmeaaecmdtime.
Amthethirflshockwuover,andlfeltnommformefimc,
Ibegmmhkawmmandyetlhndnotheaflenoughtogetwer
mywdlagdmforfeuofbeingbufiedafivqbntutsfilluponthe
gmmflyeaflymtdownmddimonsdamnotmwingwhattodo.
Aflthhwhflglhadmttholmstsefioumfigimthmghfinothing
but the common--Lord, have many you In! aniwhen it was over,
thatwantnwaytoo. _
WhfleIutthungonndthedrwmsfimflmolondy,u
ifitwouldnin:aoonnfterthatfimwindrouebylitflaafilittle,ao
thatinleuthanhalfmhouritblswamoatdmdfulhunime. The
mmdlon:mdden,eoveredoverwithfoamandfmth;theuhm
mmendwiththebmchofthem,flwtrmwmtomnphy
thermts,anflatenib19:tannitwas;andthishaldabontthreehoun
mmmmmmmtwohommitmmkcdm,
andbegantoninvayhard.
Anfiiswhflelmtupmmeyommmmuchhnifiedmd
dajecMwhmonamdden, itoameintamythonghtathatthese
findsmdrfinbdngthewnuqnmofthearthqunkqflmearth-
quakeitaelfwuopentandover,and1mightventmeinmmyoava
again. Withthhfhmghtmyspifiubegmhnfivqmdthenin
helpingdsotopmadaquwantinmdmtdmhmytenhbut
theninwumfiolmtthatmymtmmdyhbebeafimdnwn
withihmdlmforudhgoinbmymvgthmghverymnohafiaid
mdunmsyfiorfearitahonldfidlonmyhm
Thisfiolentnhfomedmetoanewworhvizgtocutaholethmugh
Aymhrfificafiomlikoadnhhlotthewatagoonhwhichmuld
duhmredrownedmycm. Afferlhadheminmymemefimgand
foundsfinnommnhoghoftheemhqmbfoflowaegmtobemm
composed. Andnow,iomyportmyspifib,whiohhdeedwmteditvary
muehlwmtbmyfitflanmdboktmaflmpdm--whioh,
hamfldidthnmandalwmverylpuinglnknowhmloofldhw
mmwhmthntmgono.
nmfinmmmgm'wmmdmmdmmaaym

Mlmnldnnt'sfir abroad;but.my;nindbeingmmoompoeed,ll
begmh'thinkdwhatlhadbutdgmdudhgthagifthommd -~

walnhjeoththeaueuthqnakegthmwonldbenofivhghmin
smbutlmustmfidaofbufldingmmlitflelmtinmopm
plneqwhichImightmmdwithude'thnddmhmmfl
aomakomyuelfuoonnmmwfldbmtsorm: 'lmtoonelnMifI
dehmlwaglnhouldoerhhfly,mfimewoflmr,bebnfiefldim
W'xththeeethoughtglresolvedtommmytentfimthsphoe
whmfiMthmjmmamahmfinsW~dm
mmwhhhflitlhofldhshakmngfimwofldmhinlyfll
nponmytent. AndIlpmtflIatwomdaygbehlgfha'lathmd
20th oiApxi], incontivingwhm mdhowtommmy habitnfion.
Thamrofbeingswaflnwedup'divomndemthatlmflept
mqfiegmdydfieqmmdmdlyhgnhofiwiflmutmyfmm,
wasdmnotequaltoit: butsfinwhmliookedaboug'mdnwhaw
mthhgwu'yuthmdar,howpleamflyooncededfmmd
hownfehmdangerfitmademverylnflltomm '
hthemmfimqitoocurndtomnthatitwouldreqnimum

dedoffimaformatodothigapflfhatlmustbooontanfedhm.

thnmtmwhmlmfilllhadfomedtmpfumyadfimdm
mitnutomhit. Sofiththismolufionlmposed
mywlffinufimghndmolvedthatlwouldgotoworkwiflxdlspeedh
bufldmswflfithpflamflmhlqminadmbuhefmmdut
mytent npinitwhmitwuflniahed;butthat1wouldvmfiuab
mywhmlwufillitwuflnishedandfittommh Thiawu
the2lat.
M22.--Thonextmomhglbegant;mddarofmmtoput
thhmohoinmmfiombntlmatlgmatloanboutmytook

Ihadthmhrgonqmduhundmofhmhebaorwe'oufiedtho-

Whebfumfiiowiththnhdimybntwithmunhahappingmd
mtfinghottyhmdwootflwymmfnnofnotnhegmddnll:

mdthmghlhadnphdahmglwnldnottmitmdgrbdmytooh .

too. Thisemsedmaumnchthonghfiu'immmwmldhaw

bestoweduponsgnndpointofpdifieqaujudgenpanfimlifoudr'

deathotum, Atlangthlemtrivodnwhadwithnstfingtotmit

-withmyfoot,-thatlmight.hmbothmyhandn atliber'bya--Nota. Iliad

notmmynnhthmngnMordleutnothhbmhawfl

3.2%. A 3' i-'-

EELS; ' -.

x l

' '47"; n

. ., ' _ 0' '
um; !~'. maxi-'4 .AM'M.
wudongthoughdneelhneobmveditiswxyoomgontbmgbeddu
Mmygfindatnnemverylmgemdhmy. Thin-chinacoctmep
fuflweek'sworktobfingithoparfeofion.
42,428,29--Thesetwowholedayalhoknpinpindingmytooh,
mymhinefortmhgmygrindabneperfominngywell.
Apn180.--Eavingpuceived mybmadhadbmnlowagxedwhflgl
mwtookssmeyofihandmducedmynelffponebiscuiteakanday,
whichmademy heartveryheovy.
Hay1.--Inthemommg,lookhngtowudsthemnide,thefidebeing
low,Imwwmethinglieontheahmbiggerthmoxdimry,nnditlookad
Iikeamykzwhmlmmetoihlfoundnmallmemdtwoar
thmpheuofthewmkdtheahigwhichwmdfivenonahmbytho
latehunimne;mdlookingtowudsthewxeckitself,lthoughtitmned
toliahigheroutoffllewuterthnnitnnedtodo. Imminedthebauel
whichwndfivmonahmandmfounditwusbanalofgunpowdu,
butithadhkenwntcrmndthepowdermmkeduhmluastpne;
however,1mlleditfartheronnhomforthepmsent,andwenton
nponthemdgunearasleouldfpthewreckoftheahip,tolook
forum-e.
Whenlcamedowntotheship,lfounditstnngelymmwed. The
fmflgwhich hybefore buriedinmd, washeaved upatleut
fixfeetandthestemWhichwubrokebpiecegandpmdfromtha
mbythefmofthemmafierlhadlefimmmngingofher)m
Muitwmup,andeutononadde,andthemdmthmwnw
highmthatddanuthamthngwhamthmmagmatpieee
ofwutubefmaothntloouldnotmwithinaqmrturofumfleolthe
wreckwit'nout swimming,~I could nowwnlkqnihe uptohm- whentha
tidewusont. Immfiudfififiisflfirfibutmnmcludeditmm
bedonebytheeuthqunke;andashythiaviolencetheuhipwaamom
broken openthnnformerly,somythinga mednflymahmwhioh
memhadlmetmdwhichthewindsmdmtermlledbydegxemh
thelnnd.
Thiswhollydivertedmyihonghbfiogthedeaipofnmovingmy
habitfiommdlbuiedmynelfmighfilyfihntdayeapecinflyfinmuhing
whethulwnldmnkemywsyintothoship;bntlfoundnnthingm
ummammmmmmamfipmmkdup
withnnd. Hm,u1hadlenmadnottodespairoPSmything,l
nulvedhpnnevaythingtopiqeesthatlwuldotthelhip,"

a"

 

FYI],#031880! 031150!- '75' '

cludingflmteverythingloouldgethomherwouldhed'meneeor
othertome.
Jtay8.--Ihegenwithmyeewflndcutepieceofeheunflimngh,
whichIthonghthcldsomeofthonpperpertorqmrter--deckfegcther;
undwhenIhedcutitthronglyIcleuednweytheeenduvelluI
couldfmmthesidewhichleyhighest; hntthetidecomingin.1wes
obligedfegiveoverforthnttime.
Hoyt--IMI-flehinghnteenghtnotonefiahthetIdursteet
ofifinlmweeryotmysport;when,jnetgoinefeleeveofl,lmght
oyonngdolphin. Ihedmedemeehnghmofmempe--ymhut
Ihednohooks; yetlfiqumflymditfiehmmghumnohulcered
mutanwhiohlddedinfliemmdeatthemdry. '
Hay6.--Workedonthewxeck: cntenotharbemeeunfler,mfl
haughtthmymthplmhoflhmthedechwhichlfiedtogether,
undmndeswhncnshomwhenthetideoffloodcmeon.
Hay6.--Workedonfhewreck; gotseverelironbolhontofhernml
otherpiecesofimnwork; workedveryhexd,endcemehomeverymueh
Mendhedflioughhofgivhigitcver.
Hayl--Wenttothewreckeguimhntwithenhflentmttowork;
hutfomdtheweightdthewrmkhedhmkeitedidewmtheheem
beingcngthnteeverdpieouuftheshipseemedtofielmsgendthe
insideoftheholdhysoopenthnt!oouldeeeintnit,hntelmoetfolld
mternndeend.
Mya--Wenttothemchmdcuriedenirmmtowmnohnp
theieck,whichlaynoquiteclenrofthewoterusamh Iwrenohed
opentwoplmkgendhmughtthemonahmoleowiththefide. Ileit
theironmwhithewreckfiornextdey.
Hayfi--Wenttothewrechendwiththeuvwmndeweyintethe
bodyofthewmhmdfeltwvuflmkgmdlooeenedthemwiththe
m,hutcon1&notbxeekthefiup. IfialtaleotherollofEngliahlead,
mflcouldefirighutitwutooheevyhmove.
Iaylo,11,18,14.--Wenteverydeytothevmk,endgotegxeet
dealotpiecuotfimhernngihoardgorplenhsndtwoorthnehunflred
weightofimn.
Haylb.--Iesniedtwohetoheln,totryiiloculdnotmepieceofl
'therollotleambypleeingtheedgedonehetohetmddrivingitwiih
themhntuitlnyebontefootmdnhelilnthemleoultlnot
mekeenyhlowtodxivethehetchet. '

o.
IayIG.--Ithadblownhnrdinthenight,mdthewnckappeued
morebrokenbyflwforeeofthewaherfintlstnidaolonginflmwoodn
togetpigwnsfmfootthatthefidepreventedmegoingtothemeck
thntday.

Ilayl7.--Inweomepieoeeofthewxeokhlownonahoxe,atagxmt
distancefiwomilesofi'meflutreeolvedtoaeewhfltheywmnndfmd
itwuapieoeofthehuibnttooheavyfermetobzingawny.

MayM.--Everyday,fothiaday,lworkedonflxewmk,nndwith
hardhbourllooeenedsomethhxguomnehwiththeerow,thntthefirst
blowingtideeevemlcuhflonted out, and two oftheaeamen's chaste;
butthevdnduowingfimtheahmnothingmebolmdthatdaybnt
piecesofthnber,andahogsheadwhichhndmme3mzflporkinit,but
theaaltwaterandthemdhadspofledit. Iconfinnedthisworkevery
daytnthe l5thof1muoeptthefimaneeemrytogetfood,whiohl
always appointed, during this pm ofmy employment, to be when the
fidemumthatlmightbereadywhenitwuebbedout;andhythia
tixneIhadgottenfimher,andplank,andimnwork,enoughfohm
bnfltagoodbmhifIhadhonhowgmddegofiatmeralfimee,
mdinwvmdpiemnmmehmdmdwdghtoftheaheetlead.

Jm16.--Going domhthesmfidqlfmdalmgehrhisqor
turtle. Mmfiefimtlhdmwanitmmoflymymh-
fortune,notanydefectoftheplaoe,oreeemity;forhnd1happenedb
hmfieofiadfledtheiflmtImighthavehadhmdredaoft'nm
everyday,u1foundafierwuds,bntperhapshnvepfiddearmughfior
them.

J'ml'lIspentinoookingtheturfle. Ifoundinherthreeaoon
emudhuflmhmbmetthatfimgthemostnvowymflpleam
MWflIWhmyfifqhfinghadebutofMandfowls,
sinoeIlnndedinthiahonibleplace.

Jm18.--Bainednllday,andlshidwithin. Ithoughtetflfis
fimetherdnfdtodLandeasaomethingchflly,whinhIhewm
notmalhthathfitude.

Im19.--Veryillendahivering,uiftheweethuhndbeenoold.

Jm20.--Nomtallnight;violentpeimhmyhead,mdfiavefiah.

Jm21.--Veryfll;highteddmoeSSfodeathwiththeapprehmaim
ofmysadeondition,tobeaink,undnohelp: prayedtoGodfiortbe
firstfimesineetheshm'ofl'finll; butmhewwhtlumawhy,
mythanghtubeingnflmhned.IIOBIRBOI 031180].

In>> 22...; new: better, but under dreadful apptehmuim ot~
aiekness.

'Jm23.--Vayudm;mmmmm&mam;fim
headanhe. '

Jm24.--Munhbethr.

Juno 25.--An aguo'vuyviolentzthefit'heldmmhmeold
figmdhoh'withhintmmerit.'

Jun 26.--Bethr;and,havingmfictuahtoent,bokmygun,m
fmflmymuvayveskzhowmlkifledulhe-Mmdwiflxmnoh
mmcygotithmqmabmnoamammhat. 1mm
hawdeweditmdmadewmehothbuthadnopot.

Jm27.--Theagusngahsoviolantthatlhya-bedallday,md
neithereatnordrnnk. Imradybpefiahfuthhshbutmweahl
hadnotahmgthhahnflmartogetmynelfmymmdn'nh
MMWMMMWWWMWMIWMIWM
ignmntthntlhnwnotwhatbay.C/nly11ayanduied,"hrd,look
upmml'IArLPityme! mun'macyupmml" ImppoaeI
didmthhgdnmtwoathuhommthefitmrhgofilfen
demoddidnotwakefillfarinthenight.' WIMIW
mysdfmuchrefiaheibntweakmflexceedingthhsty: Mammal
hadnomhmywhohhnbihfiomlmforeodtoliafinmoming,
undwanttouleepagain. Inthilaeeondfleeplhadthiltam'hladream;

Ithoughtthatlmfitfingmthegmundontheoufidoofmywfll,
whmIaatwhenflmstombleyaftathaeuthquakmandMI-w
amdmfimumbhckduuflhahightflmadmud
lightnponthegmnnhhawumoverubfightutflmmthntl
oonldbutjustbmblooktowudahim:hisoountanmoommostinaxe
prem'blydreadfnLimpossiblaforwoxdaiodewibe;ivhefiheC/epped
mtbepmdfifihhfwfilthmghtfiamthfimbhijmtuii

haddombefonhthowlhquakqmddltheuirlookedgbmyuppm- .

hmdmuifithndbeenfilledwithfluheloffln..lemnom
huddupmthewmmhamvedhrwmdhwardnmwithtlmg

spmmmpmhhhhmflhfinmgmdwhmhembofidngh'
ymdatmdistmmhaspokabmgalhmduwfioonmfihh '

fhatitia'hnpoaiblehupteathotanorofit; Inthntlomnyl

mmumu ' mmmmmmfitmm;
repenhnoe,mthoushdtdie,"--atwhichwoxdalthough{helifigdup :_

7"
93'

a
.vA '?

j. ' .u u M

.vc.u|.<<l.ul\h'.. .

.4.-
.. -.

Is.

'ws'Vf'maui;i::'n72u.';t'...wm;.n.'.. .. .vstmfisMJTX'Lr}.

LII:-

, .3311 kn.'
Nomthatshnflmmfithismmwfllexpeetthstlshouldbe.
nbletodeserihethehorrorsofmysonletthisteuiblevisionrlmeen,
mehfleitmehnlevendreemedofthosehm;nerie
itenymorepossihletodesen'betheimpzessionthntnmeineduponmy
mindwhmIanmdfonnditwubutedream.

Ihed,elss!nodivineknowledge;whet1hsdreoeivedhythegood
instrncfionofmyfatherwuthenwomonthymnninteunptedsofias,
fordghtymdmfadngwhkednmnndeoonmteonvmfionwith
nothhgbutsuchuwerqfikemysclfiwickedandprofnnetoflielast
degree. I do not remember that I had, in all that time, one thought
thntsomnchastendeddthuhlwldngupwnxdshwudsGodorinwnrd:
towardserefleetion upon myown weys;buteeextninstupidityofsoul,
without desire of good, or conscience of (5va entirely overwhelmed
mgdemflthntthemosthudwedmfiinfingwickedaeetue
among our common seilorseen be supposed to be, not having the least
sonseeitherofthefenrofflod,indnnger,orofthankfu1neutofiod,in
delivemoo.

Inthexelntingwhntisnlreadypastofmystory,thiswillhethe
mmeesflyhfievedwhmlshflddthnfithmnghallthevafietyof
miseriesthethedtnthisdnyhefnllenmeJneverhndeomnchuone
thwghtditbdngthehmdofGodorthetitwasajustpnnishment
for my sin--my rebellious behaviour against my father, or my present
dugwhichwmgreehorsomuchasepnnishmentforthegeneml
eonrseofmywiokedlife. Wheanesonthedespereteexpeditionon
thedeMshoresofAfi-ichneverhadsomuehnsonethonghtofwhat
wonldbecomeofme,oronewishtoGodtodireetmewhitherIshould
norto'keepmsfi'omthednngerwhioh apparentlymrroundodme,
uwellhomvomciousereetnreeasomelmveges;bntlwmsrely
flioughflmdedwnrmfidmmeetedlikenmmmfiomflm
pfinfipluofmmrgmdbythedictetesoteommonsenseonly,"
indeedherdlythet.

WheanudnlivmedandtakennpetseebyfheI'mtugueseesptein,
weflnndanddefljusflymdhmmfllymuwenuohmitebly,
Ihadnottheleutthnnkfulnsesinmythoughte. When,egain,Ivm
shipmhedrnined,endindangerofdmwningmthieislnnd,1m
uferfimmmorhokingonitunjndgment: Ionlysnidto
myselfoihen,thnt1wuanunfortnnafedog,mdbomhbealwayl
miacmble.
IthMWhmIgotmahomfirntMmdtounddlmyship'j
mdmnatmdmysdfqmfilwmpfiudfithtfinddmm,
mimohaannanHohhadthoydequMmight
hwwmnptotuothmfluhugbntitmdedihmitbemin.
mmoommonflightotjoy,uu1mxyuy,beingglndlmdhe,
withoutthaleastmfleofionuponthadisfingnishinggoodneudthehmd
whichhadprmvedmmdhaddngledmouthbeprwvedwhan
mthsMWmduhoMmminquhywhmefidmmhadbemthu
mudhlbmg--evenjutfihemaoommsortofjoywhinhm
gmmflyhaveaflwrtheyhnve 301; safe aahom-fiomsnhipwreck, which
theydmmanhthsnmhwldpmchnndiorgetdmnstumuit
isom:hndn]1therutofmylifewmlikeit.

Emwhmlmnfiawudgmdunmfiduafiammaflamfibho!
mymdifim--howlmoastmthisdieadfulplmcntdthema
hmfinmoutdmhapeofmfinfiawpeotdredempfim.um
ulnwbutawpeotdfivhgmdflmtllhofldmtmwpmish
forhunga,nnthemoPSmyufllicfimwmofl,md1begnntohevery
oasy,appliedmyaelftothaworhpmperformypmarntinnmflmpply,
nndwufaranonghfimheingaflioteddmyamdifiomusjudgmmt
fiomfimmoruthahandofeodagaimtmeztheeewmthonghu
whiuhveryaeldnmenteredinhmyhead.

Thegzuwingnpdthamuinhintedinmylomalflaiatflnt,
mfiflleinflmwupmmmdbegmtonfieotmwithsefiomw'u
longuIthonghtithadwmethingminculominigbuteugonum
Mputdthothouguwmommthaimpedmwhinhmm
fiomitwmofldmulhmnohddmady. '

Emthemdhquakgthmghmthinsmfldhomutfilflqinih'
Mummymhmhfidflohwuwmm'
dirwumohthinggyotmmwthefirptkightmmntthehnpu-
donithndmadewmtqfidso. Ihadmmdeodgothisjudg-
mhmohleuofthnpmtuflicfimdmydrmstanmbeingm
mmwmiflhndbeminflmmostpmspmmmdifionotfife.

But nonwhmlbegmtobolink, mdnleisurelyviewoftho
mhmiaddeathmhplmihekbefonm--whmmyapidhbegan_
todnknnderflmbmdenotnstmngdistemper,mdmtmamathmd'
"withtheviolennodtham,--oonuienoe,thathaddeptaolong,begm
hawakqmdlbegmhmpzmohmymlfwithmyputfifqinwhiohl
hadnevidenflyflynnmmonwickednempmwkedthejufioeo'tapd.

 

{151'}; . .

hr '

--_ : .'.L.v2_ gnu. 134-18deg nonmson censor.

to lay me under uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in so vindictive
a manner.

These reflections oppressed me for the second or third day of my dis-
temper, and in the violence, as well of the fever as of the dreadful
reproachcs of my conscience, extorted some words from me like praying
to God, though I cannot say they were either a prayer attended with
desires or with hopes; it was rather the voice of mere fright and distress.
My thoughts were confused, the convictions great upon my mind, and the
horror of dying in such a miserable condition raised vapours in my head
with the mere apprehensions; and in these hurries of my soul I know not
what my tonguo might express, but it was rather exclamation, such as,
"Lord, what a miserable creature am I! If I should be sick, I shall
certainly die for want of help ; and what will become of me '1'" Then the
tears burst out of my eyes, and I could say no more for a good while.

In this interval, the good advice of my father came to my mind, and
presently his prediction, which I mentioned at the beginning of this
story, viz., that if I did take this foolish step God would not bless
me, and I would have leisure hereail'er to reflect upon having neglected
his counsel, when there might be none to assist in my recovery. " New,"
said I, aloud, "my dear father's words are come to pass: God's justice
has overtnken me, and I have none to help or hear me. I rejected the
voice of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a posture or station
of life wherein I might have been happy and easy, but I would neither
see it myself, nor learn to know the blessing of it from my parents. I
left them to mourn over my folly, and now I am left to mourn under the
consequences of it: I refused their help and assistance, who would have
lifted me into the world, and would have mode every thing easy to me;
and now I have difficulties to struggle with, too great for even nature
itself to support, and no assistance, no comfort, no advice." Then I cried
out, "Lord, be my help, for I am in great distress." This was the first
prayer, if I may call it so, that I had made for many years. But I
return to my Journal.
{Lo Journal resumed--Crew's thought- during hi. mum--m- rcflceuonl on the dump of
Providence with unmana- n Bible in n mm'l chest which in cut on than, and h consoled
Ind cneounxed by the reading of it--Tohuwe a I medial quit--Bis In: payer--Had-
delivenneo hon: lin u grena- hie-slug than damn-nee {tom talcum--Conw--
Taunmmdmmmmwmumlmmmm
mewmu--Guhmmmummdlmmwmupfwmmmtww
return: with I Emily 0! kittens.

UN E 28.--aning been somewhat refieahed with the sleep I
had had, and the fit being entirely of, Igot up, andthongh
the fright and terror of my dream was very great, yet I
considered that the fit of the ngue would return again the
nextdny,nndnowwasmytimetagetwmethingtorefieeh
andmpportmyself whenIahonldheill; andthefirstthing
IMIflhdahrgesqumcase-botflewithwaternndaet
ituponmytahle,inxeuehofmyhed,andtotakeofithechilloraguieh

dispodtionofthe wow-,1putaboutaqunrterofepintofrnmintoit,
' I
andmixedthemtogethar. .ThenIgotmathdthegWaMmd
hmfleditouthewdghuteouldeatvuryliflle. Imlkeduboughutwu
vm-yweuknndwithalvexyndandheavy-heartedinthelenseofmy
mimflsmfifimdxmdingthemtumdmydimperthenmday.
Atxfighglmndemymppaofthmofthoturfls'gegggwhiohI-mted
inthonhegmdugumomigiuthesheugndfifiammm
hitfimmlhflmukdmd'sblemngquddm-
ber,inmywholelife. AfterlhadMIh-iedtowulhbutfmd
myselfsoweakthntlcouldhardlyemythegunaorlmaiventout
withoutthnt);soneuthutalittlewuy,audntdownupantho
Whokingmtupmthemwhiuhwujusthefommandwry
calmandmooth. Aslaathm,somemchthoughbutheseoocuned
tome:

hitpmduced? Andwhatml,mdantheothermtumwflduud
tame,hmnanandbrutal? Wheneemwe?

Bmwemdlmadabysomeaeoretl'owmwhofomedtheeuth
mdsen,theairandnky--Andwhoiaflnt?1'honitfollowedmost
nutumfly,--ItiaGodthathaamadeitalL Wambutthon--itcameon
amugdy--ifGodhumadeallthesethinggheguidesaudgovmathem
mandallthingsthntcaucemthem;forthePowerthntoouldmakeall
thiugamusteerminlyhavepowertoguidaanddireotthem.

Ifao,nothingcuuhnppeniuthegrmtcimuitofhiaworks,eithet
without his knowledge or appoinhnent.

Andifnothhghuppmawithouthkhwledgqhehmthntlam
hem,andminthiadreadfulcondifion;andifnothinghnppenavfithout
hisappoinhnenghehuappoinfedallfhistobefnlme.

Nothing occurred to my thought to contradict any of these conclu-
dmmdthemfamitresteduponmewiththegreaterfome,thatitmust
needshethntGodhadappointadullthistobefilme--thatlwasbmnght
tothismisemble cimmstnnoebyhisdhecfion,hehnvingthesolepower,
notofmeonly,hutofeverythingthathappenndinthewofld. Imme-
diahlyitfollowed-- _

WhyhaaGoddoneflfiatome? WhathavaIdonetohethusuaed?

Mymsdmpmflyoheokedmeinflmtinquiry,asif1had
hhsphemed: mdmathoughtitapokntomelikonwioe: "Wank! dost
Mulwhdfiwhmdom? Lookhaokupouadreudfulmispmtlife,
undukthyselfwlatthoulaatmtdom? 'Ankrwlbyho'tMqu

WhatinthiaearthaudmofwhiahIhavemqomuch? Whenoe,7- r-f'r- 't'i-IH'U'e-rmv- rv--~;.~ - -----.v- ,_

80311150]! 033803. 83

"thug-gamed! WhywertthounotdrownedinYu-mmfl:
Banankillodintheflghtwhmtheahipwutakenbythofimeem-
of-wnr;dmnmdbythewfldbeashonthaooutoPSAfi-ioa;ordmwnad
nmwhannflthemwperishedhutthymlf? Dodthwasb'm
IumIdoud'" '
Iiumauafimwmmmummfimamam
notawordtomy,---_no,nottomwertomylelf;butmuppemivo
mdmiwnkedhnkhmymheafimflwmfiupwamywamuiflhnd
beengoingtobed:butmythoughhwmudlydimrbed,mdlhadno
hcfinafimmdmwlafldawnhmyehsir,mdfightedmylmp,fu
itbegantobodark. Nomuthoappu-ehemionofthentumofmy
distempetatfifledmvuymuahitmmedtomythotghtthattho
anifimtnkenophysiohnttheirtobmoforflmoatandistmpmgmd
IMapmaamnotmminmdtheohmwhichmqum
Mudmedmthatwummdnotquimomed.
' IwmgfimmdbyfiammdnubghrhthkMIfoundnm
bothforaoulandbody. Iopmedtheohuflmdfoundwhatllnoked
for,viz.,thetobaooo;and,uthafawhooh'1hadnvedlaythqmtoo,
ItookontoneoftheBibluwhichImmfionedbefingmdwhimtothis
fimglhadnotfomdleimammuohuhdinafimtohokintn--
Imy,Itookitcnt,andhroughtbothtbatmdflietobaooowiflLmh
themble.
WhatmhmakedthetobmoIhawnofiutomydisfiemmw
whetheritwugoodforitorno;but1hiedmm~alexpen'mmhwith
iguifIwasmolveditahonldhitonewayorother. Ifinttooka
pimdnlafidefihmyMwhichhMat-flnhdmm
nupefledmymmembambeingmmdmmwlm
notbeanmuchmedtoit. Thultookmemdateepeditmhmor
twoinwmarmnndmolvedtohhadouofitwhenlhydown;
and,hst1y,1bumtsomenponapanofoods,andhelrlmymuloee
omfiemohdfinlmgulwfldbarmuwenfuthaheat,"
nJmoetformfi'ocafion. .
Intheintzervalocfflfisupmtimlhykupthemblemdbegmto
MMmyheadwutnomuchdiaturbedwiththetohmootobm
reading, atleaatdthatfim;enly,havhgopmedthebookoasually,
thefirstwordathatmmedhmamtheae: "Oallonminthaday
<<trouble: Iwindafivutheqandthonlhaltglorifym"
Thewoflamveqaythmymnyflmademimpmymon'

 

' r p . , ,
t . . A ' H ,4 . .r --.- . -
__t_._a_.u_3..o~'i_.'C/u_.hqg__'__s--_______--
upon my thoughts at the time of reading them, though not so much as
they did afterwards; for, as for being delivered, the word had no sound,
as I may say, to mc--the thing was so remote, so impossible in my
apprehension of things, that I began to say, as the children of Israel did,
when they were promised flesh to eat, "Can God spread a table in the
wilderness E"--so I began to say, " Can God himself deliver me from
this place?" And as it was not for many years that any hope appeared,
this prevailed very often upon my thoughts. But, however, the words
made a great impression upon me, and I mused upon them very often.
It grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I said, dazed my head so much
that. I inclined to sleep; so I left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I
should want any thing in the night, and went to bed. But before I lay
down, I did what I never had done in all my life--I kneclcd down, and
prayed to God to fulfil the promise to me, that if I called upon him in
the day of trouble, he would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect
player was over, I drank the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco,
which was so strong and rank of the tobacco, that, indeed, I could scarce
get it down. Immediately upon this I went to bed. I found presently
it. flew up in my head violently, but I fell into a sound sleep, and
wakcd no more till, by the sun, it must necessarily be near three o'clock
in the afternoon the next day; nay, to this hour, I am partly of the
opinion that. I slept all the next day and night, and till almost three the
day after: for otherwise I know not how I should lose a day out of my
reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared some years after I had
done;for if I had lost it by crossing and recrossing the Line, I should
have lost more than one day,--but certainly I lost a day in my account,
and never knew which way.

Be that, however, one way or other, when I awaked I found my-
self exceedingly refreshed, and my spirits lively and cheerful: when
I got up, I was stronger than I was the day before, aml my stomach
better, for I was hungry;and, in short, I had no fit the next day, but
continued much altered for the better. This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went abroad with my
gun, but did not care to travel too far. I killed a seafowl or two, some-
thing like a brand goose, and brought them home, but was not very
forward to eat them, so I eat some more of the turtle's eggs, which were
very good. This evening I renewed the medicine which I had supposed
did me good the day before, viz, the tobacco steeped in mm. only 1 did
not take so much as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf, or hold my
head over the smoke: however, I was not so well the next day, which
was the 1st of July, as I hoped I should have been, for I had a little
spice of the cold fit, but it was not much.

July 2.--I renewed the medicine all the three ways, and dosed myself
with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I drank.

 

July 3.--I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not recover
myfullstrengthforsomeweeks afler. WhileIwas thus gathering
strength, my thoughts run exceedineg upon this Scripture, "I will
deliver thee," and the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon my
mind, inbarof my everexpecting it; but, as I was dimmegingmyself
wifimnhthonghhitooounedto'mymindthntlporeasomuohupon
myddivmnoofiamthemainafliofiomthatldinogmledthodelivm
Ihadreodvemmdlmuitwmmadntoaakmynlfmohquesfiom
antheoe,vix.: "HaveInotbeondelivered,ondwondarfully,too,&om
dchmfimthomutdimmedmdifionthotwfldhmdthatm
sofrightfulfpme?andwhatnofioehad1hkanofifl HodIdone
mypart? Godhnddelivemdme,butlhadnotglnrifiadhixn,--thatism
say,Ihadnotownedandbeenthnnkfulforthotosadelivennoe,and
howoouldIexpectagreatordelivm-anoe?"
Thisfnuchedmyheutvarymmh,andimmedintalylheltdownmd
gnveGodthnnksaloudformyreoovuyfiommylickneu?
July4.--InthemamhgltooktheBible,anfl,beginnidgatthaNew
Tmfilbemnfiondymmdmandhnpoaeduponmyaelftomd
owhfleeverymonfingmdleverynight--nottyingmynelftothenmnber
ofchaptergbutulongumythoughhshouldengageme. Itwunot
longafierlaetaefiondyhthisworhbutlfomdmyhmtmmdeeply
andainouelyafi'eotedwiththawickednmofmypastlife. Theimpres-

dmofmydmmmfivedmdfhewozda,"mthedthingahavenot.

bronghtthootompontanee,"mufioualyinmy thought. I was
mesflybeggingofGodtogivemamfimtanoqwhenithappenedpro--
videntially,flmverydny,thnt,mdingflxeSSoripfiun,loamefnthm
words,"Eeiaexn1tedaPrinoeandaSaviour,togivempenhnoe,md
togivomminion." Ithnwdmthobwhmdwithmyhautuwell
umyhmdsfifiedupmheamhlkindofmgfjoy,lmiedont
aloud, "Jesus,thousonof1)avid! Imthuumltndrfinoeand
Saviour! givemowpentanoo!" .
Thiswasthofimtfimethatlooulduyfinthemmofthe
wmdgthatlpmyedhoflmylife:fornow1pnyedwithasemeof
mymdifimondfithamScfiptuofiswdhopqfimndedontha
mmgamantofthewodofGod; andfimthiafimglmymy,
IbegantohavohopethntGodwouldheox-ma.
Nowaegantooonstruethewudammfianedobove,"Callonmein
thedayofhuuble:1wfl1deliverthee,"inadifi'exmtmfiomwhatl
hadmdmbefm;forthan1hadnonofinnofmythhgbeifigoafled
defivmnogbutmybeingdolivomdfiomtheoapfivitylwin:for
thoughlwuhdsedathrgehtheplnoqyettheidmdmwhiflyn
pfimhmmflthnththewwfimhthnwofld. Butnoil
homodtotakoitinmotheraense,mllookedbackuponmyputlifo

'Jfiim

. ,_ -A . Mumfr'ufl-lfiimzlmu3013111503 01111303. ' ' 81

mmohhmmdmydmappeuedsodmdfnlgthatiywnlmght
nothhgofGodbntdelivmoofi-omtholoadofgufltthtbmdnwndl
myoomfort. Anfmmymfihryfifqitmnofllinggldidnotnmnch
upmybbedefivmdfimihorthinkofitzitwudlofnooomideu-
fimhoompuinontoflfis. AndIaddedthhparthmtohintbwm
Mmditthngwhmflmyeomebltmemofthinathey
wfllfinddafivmnwfiomdnamnchmblewngthmdelivm
homafliction.
mmmmrmmmflm
Mymdifimhgmmhbgthonghnotleumimhhubmy
myofliving,yetmuoheuiertomymind;andmythaughhbeing
dimcted,byaoonshntmadingthosofiptmnmdpnyinsto(SSod,to
motsfighammlhadamwdmwimwmm
fillnow,Iknewnothhgaf;aho,umyhealthandshmgthretnmed,I
besfinndmynubfimiahmyadffithmthhgthntlwmm
mnkemymyoflivingumgularuloould.
Fromthefihofiulytothalfihlwuohieflyemployedinwalking
ubmtfifimygmhmyhnfisfifllemdafitfleatsfimiasm
thatwugfiharingnphiutrongthnfimnfitofdcheuxforitishmdly
mbehnsginedhow-bwlmmdfpwhatweahwlmmdnoed.
Theapplieufionwhiohlmadsmopredeeflynew,mdpenhaps
whathadmmedmaguabdm--neithumlmommsndith
mymtopmfisqbythisexpafimmt; nndfhoughitdidoarryoflthe
fihyetitnthuwnhihutadbwejakmhgmforlhadfiequmtmlo
nonainmynmaaandlimbsforsomathna.
Ihanztfimitdmfhiginpuficnlu,--thntbeingabmdinflu
rfinymwuthe'mootpmfinimthingtomyhadththnteonldhe,
mpeoiaflyhthoaerafinwhinhmmdedfithshmandhmfima
ofwhdgtoruthonhwhinhminsdrymwunlmysm
accompaniedwitheunhstomgnlfanndthatnin'wu-nmnhmm
dangeromflzmtheninwhiohfenhSeptemherandOotoba.
Ihadnowhem'inthhmhappyidmdsbovetenmonfisun'pod.
bflityof'dalivmfiamthhwndifionmadhboenfirdyhkmfiwi
mmdlfimlybelievoflmtnohnmmuhapehadmabtfootupunthsb
place. 'mmmmmthmulmmgmnymmy
mlm.mmmmC/ummaimuyatmm
mdhmwhatothcptnduohomlmghtMVhwhyetIhav
nothingof. "

J
A;
'3
.3
.-;1
.:1v *' r "--rzv-wgryl-r-wy-n '

88 Anumnxs 0'

Itmthelsthoflulythatlheguntohkonmmpuficulummy
dtheidmflihelf. Imtnptheawkfirshwhmulfinfil
thymflaonahm IMMIWMMmflunp,
thatthofidedidnotflowmyhigher,mdthatitwnommflnn
alittlehmokofrunningwahr,mdvmyfiuhmflgood;butthiabeing
thedrymmmthmmhndlymywminmpartaofit;atlmt,
notenonghfominmysmamsouitoouldbepmeivad.

Outhobmhofthisbmoklfoundmypleamntmvmnhsar
meadows,plnin,unooth,andoovaedwithgms;andontherisingparts
ofthmnexttnthehighergmunda(wharethewnter,uitmightbe
mpMmmovelflowed),Ifoundagmatdealoftobacoo,Mm
gmwinghagxeatandveryatrongshlk:thmwmdivenoflwrplmh
whhhlhadnonofionofimudmhndingsbouhandthatmighhper-
hupghavavirtuesoftheirownwhinhloouldnotfindout. Imuhed
futhemmnmhwhichfhehdiaminanmdhmtamahtheir
bmdofibutloonldfinflnom. Imbgeplmtnofdoahutdidnot
thenundmmdthem. Immudmgumhtwflmmm
mtofmlfivnfimimperfect. Ioontuntedmyaelfwiththeaedimvefiu
futhhfimqandcamebaokmmingwithmyuelfwhatoonmlmight
mketoknowthevixtuemdgoodneuofanyofthefi'nitaorplnnhwhidl
Ishonlddisoover,bntoouldhingittnnooonolnsion;for,inahort,Ihad
mademfittleobmafimwhfleIwuintheanflgthntIhawfitfle
dtheplmbhthafidtatlmsfiveryfitflethntmigbtmemhmy
purpoaenowinmydishw.

Thenextday,th916th,1wentupthommyagain,and,afier
goingwmethingfisrthuthmlhadgmsthadaybefmlfonndtho
bmokmdthammnnhsbegsnhmandtheoonntrybemm
woodythmbefom. kthinputlfomddiflmtfifimandpwcululy
Ifomdmdmupmfllagmnndhyutahmdmmmdgmpesnponthe
m:thovines,indeed,hadspmdmthemmdthaolum
ofmawmjmtnnwintheirprhnqvoryfipemdrioh. Thiswas
nautpfidngdimvery,mdlmexceedinggladofthmzbntl
wuwamedhymyexpefimeetneatspafinglyofthmmbm
ingthntwhanlmsashominBarba-y,theeatingofmpelkflled
defingfiahmmwlmmflnmthmhythmwingthem
inhofluxesandfevqn. Butlfioundmcxoaflmfiuaetorthmames,
mdfhstmhmwdrythmhthemudkeepthmudfied
mesornisinsmkspgwhichlthonghtwuuldbe(uindeedflwy'

r..." -AA':.-MJ'KJ.&'LPSC/LIZ
wm)sswholesomemdsssgmeeblebent,whennompesmight
hehnd.
Ispmtsnfllstnmingthmandwentmtheoktomyhshitsfim,
which,bytheway,wuthe.flrstnight,u1mightssy,1hedlsinm
home. InthonightItookmyfirstoonhivsnoemdgotnphfoshee,
whmIdeptwemmdthenextmomingptooeedednponmydisowery,
haveflingneuburmflegssImightjndgehythelengthdthonney,
kaphgsfindunmthwifluridgeothfllsonthemfhmdnorthsides
ofme.
Atthemdofthhmnchlmmetomopmingwhmtheoonntry
madtodesoendtotheweshsndslitflespringofheshwster,which
iunedontdtheddedthehmhymnntheothsrmy,thst_is,dne
east;endthooounhysppesredsofiesh,sogman,so.flonrishing,m
thhgbeinghswnmntvuquaflonfishdsprhfithstfilooked
likesplnntedguden.
Idmdedsfibflsmtheddsdthntddidmvflgmyingit

withsseoretkindofplensnmflhonghmixedwithmyothegsflicfing'

thonghh),tothinkflmSSthiswsssllmyawn;thatlwnskingsndlozd
ofellthiseounhyindefeasibly,sndhndnn'ghtofpossesdm,snd,if1
mnldomveyihlmighthnveitinhhefihneeueompletelyumylmd
ofsmnnorinEnglsnd. Isawhmsbundmoeotooeostreeywangs,
mdlmomsnddmmbumwfldmdkwheqfingmyM--st

leutnotthan. However,flxe gmenlimesthatlgathmdwmmtonly.

pleasanttoeaghntvuywhdmsndImixedtheirjnioesfiarwuds
withwnter,whiehmsdeitveryvholasomemdveryooolandmfiuhing. .

Ifomdnwlhadhnsineumghtogatherndunyhmnnd'

Insolvedtohynp:slms,nswellofgrspessslimassndlemons,to

furnishmysdftorthewetmwhiehIknewwessppmsohing.
hadatothigigathemdsgmsthmpofgrspesinmplmsnd

sleuuheapinmtherpheqmdogreatpuoeldfimessndlemmin

moths-place; udhfingsflwdmhwfihmlmvenedhmwm-

mdmdvedhmsegammlhfingshgwnohwwhatlwuld
mummmsthm '

Aeoordingly,hsvingspantfhreodayshthisjomsy,1oenmhome'

(nImanunmmedmymeyhnthsfonIgotthflhufhe

Mumspoiled: theiohnudthekdhsndthoweightdthe '

Jmhafinshmkenthsinsndhruisedthemtheymgoodforlitfleuoo' _ mum or

Thenextdaybeingthe 19th,!wentbeok,hxvingmdemetwo
mallbegetobfinghomemyhmeet;hutlmnrprieedwhen,eoming
tomyheupofmpegwhiehmeorlehendfinewhenlgathetedthem,
Ifmdthemalllpreadahouhhodtopiemmddraggednbm--me
here, wmthmandahundenoeeatenenddevoured. BythieIeon-I
dudedthemwmmmewfldmmnethmbounwhiehhnddmthie,
but what theywereIknew not.

However,quon that therewne no laying them uponheupe, and
no' carrying them away in a. suck, but that one way they would bede-
stroyed, and the other way they wouldbeoruahed with their own weight,
Itook anotheroouree; for Iguthered elm-3e quentityofthe grapes, and
hung them upon the out-branches of thetmee, that theymightcureand
dryinthesun:andasforthelimesnndlemone,1eaniedumybuck
usIeouldwelletendunder.

When I came home from this journey, I contemplated with glut
pleasure the fruitfulnessof that valleyand the pleueautueee of the situa-
tion, the eecurityfi'om atoms on that side the wuter,andthewood; and
concludedthntIhndpitcheduponeplucetofixmy abode whichwasby
fartheworet purtof tho country. Upon the whole, I began tooonnider
of removing my habitation, and to look out for u place equally safe as
where I now was situate, if possible, in that pleasant fiuitt'ul pert of
theislnnd.

Thiethoughtmlwghmyhmiendlwuexoeedingfondofitfor
some time,the pleasantnees of theplaee tempting me; but whenIeeme
touneuerviewofitandtoooneiderthethunowhytheeeeeide,
where itwasotleeetpoeaiblethet something might happentomy adven-
tage,end,bytheeame i11~fetethnthroughtmehithenmighthrhigsome
other unhappy wretchee tothe name plum--end thoughitwnseeeme
probable that any such thing should even happen, yet to enclose myeel!
nmongthehilleendwoodeinthe centre oftheielund,weetoentieipate
myhmdngemdtomdermchmufleirnotoflyimpmhaflehuthn-
possible--endthatthereforeloughtnothyanymeombmove.

However, I was so enamomed of this place, that I spent much of
my time than for the whole remuiningpart of themonth of July; and
though, nponeecondthougthreeolvetuebmuottommmyet
Ibuiltmeelittle.ldndofebower,andmroundeditutu-distenee
witheehongfmeqheingedenble hedgguhighulwddmchwell
etukeiunxlfilledhetweeuwith bruehwood;end-herellnyveryeeeuxe,
mmfimpstwohrthnenighhfogetharfdwaylgoingm iii-with.
ladder,u'befom,--aoflntlfimniadm1hadmyoounhy--houuandmy
Whom ' Andfhhworktookmupfinthebeginningofhgm

Ihndhntmwlyfininhedmyfeuoqmdhegmtomfioymyhbonr,
huttharfinseunooumdmndemsfickeloutomyflnthnhihfion;
fog-though!hadnademeutentliketheotherwith.pieoeof'hfl,.mfl
lpread itvawemyetlhadnotthsshalter of'ahflltokeepmofi'om
Muurumvebehindmetoretreatinwwhnthenimwmm

AboutthobeginningdAugusfiuIsaid, Ihadfinishedmybowor,
andbegantomjoymyself. ThedehMIhnMfismpuI

hadhmgupwmperfioflydfietmdindeedwmexmflmtgoodnfifim'

ofthem: "Ibegantohkethemaownfiomthaheegmditm
veryhnppythatIdidsqforthoniuswhiohfollowedwouldhavospofled
thmandIhadlmtfhebestpartofmyvfinfnrfood;fothadabova
twohundredlargehumheuofthem. Nomerhadltnkenthman
dommduniedmostdthmhmehmymbutitbegantomin;

mdfivmhmoqwhinhwuthe 14thofAuguat,itnined,moreorleu,'

everydnyfill the middle of October, and sometimes Iofiolsnflythatl
couldnotsfirontofmyuvefoneveraldnys.

In flfiemlwmnohmyfiud'withthoinmofmyfimfly.
Ihndhemmmedhtfhabuofmofmymhwhommyfiom
mor,u1flmught,hndbeandend,andlhaudnomom Moot-tidings
ofher,tfl1,tomyasboninhment,nhemahome,nbouttheendofAugut,
withthmkittang. MWtthmmmgehmmthough
Ihadhfladawfldwhulufldmwithmymyetlthonghtitw
aqnitedifimtfindfimmmmpemm;yetthaymgmm
themekindofhonse--heedlikethaoldmmdbothofmycatsbeing
females, Ithonghtitvuystrhnge;hnt,fiomtheeethmooats,luflm~
wudaomabhewpumdwithmthntlmfmedtokfllthem
McMawfldmmmdfiwthmfmmmymumnch
"pounds.

Ftomthe 14thofAugnst fo-tho 26th,inoe~mtnin,aothatloon1d

notsfir,mdmnowverymefnlnotbbemuchwet Inthisoonfino-,

mglhganbh atmitenedtorfood;hnt,_ventufingouttwioe,1m
dayfilledagoafimdthalastday,whiohwuth026th,foundnm
hrgohrkfisgwhiohwaumtoma, andmyfoodmngulmathug:

Intuhmhdmhmyheflfiamdhwfisflmmd'

1'
.1
'4

'n'.

l . . ' v ' , . I
mm; 1 .d..u.a.v;n.5mmz.\a"Luau \-

"_.'

'3themrflgformydinnar,hmfled(for,tomygxmtmisfortum,lhadno
veneltoboiloeranything),uultwoorthmofflmturfla'sewh
my l"Mil-'9"- . rt." - ""1-

Dufingthisconfinmenthmyoom,bythenin,lworhddaflytwo
orthmehomatmhrgingmymmdbydegmeswotkeditonm
midnfifllmehthewhideofthehfllmdmadeadoogorway
ougwhiuheamebeyondmyfanoeorwall;andsoloameinandoutfllis
way. Buthunot perfeoflyeasyatlyingaoopan: {01385111311
manngedmyaelfbefm,1wasinapetfeetenclosure,whereunaw,l
thoughtllnyerposed; mdyetloouldmtpemeivathattherewu
mylivingthingtofenr,thehiggeatcmhnethatlhadyetmupon
theialnndbeingagoct.'l'HE ANNIVERSARY 0F CRUSOE'S LANDING.
no Jam-l wmmmmawmnmmw-m
M-thmumthhyknhbhth--Eshkhdmh'bmhmym
mmunJm-mummhmmummm
ummmmmmwsmmumm--
mmmmamumhmm--mnmw
mmmmmgmvmmmnmm Winn-minus
haulinudmhkauthhm-hbm--w-ndmn
mw--mmmdumg-Wmum
napkin".

9.post,nndfaund1hndbeenonshorsthmhnndmdnnfl
,. sixty-fivedays. Ikeptthisdnyuawhmnfnsgsetfing
itnpnrtfo:religiousexerciss,pomfingmyselfonthagmnndwiththe
most serious humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging his
dghteoujndgnmunpmmnndpmyingfohimtohmmmyonm
thronghIesusChrist;sndhnvingnotmdflmleastnfmshmnntfm
twdwhoumwmfinthagohgdonofthesnmlthmeatnbiscnit
mkeandahnnhdynpegmdmthbedfinishingthndnyul
besanit
Ihadallthistimeobsarvednoaabbafll-dny;fior,ustfirst1hndno
mdflxgimupmmyflndlhnflafiamafimmomifiedhdis-
fingnishtheweekgbymnkingalongernotchfhanoxdimryforfhs . i
sabbath-day,and.sodidnotmllyknowwhntmyotflmdaysm;bnt _:
mhfingmstnpthedaygunbovglfomdlhsdbemthmayw, . ,
soIdividedithnhoweekgsndsetapu-teverymenthdnyfusnbbath:
goushlhmmnthomddmymnhlhadlostndnynrminmy
reckoning. T .
Afittlsnfiathigmyhkbegnnbfnflmmdsoloonmtedmysdf
bmitmmspuingly,mdtovn'fadownonlythammtmsrhhis
events of my life, without continuing a. daily manorandam of other

The rainyssason smiths dryreasonbegsnnewtosppeursgalsrto
me, andIleamedtodividethansoaetoprwidsforthsmsoooadingly;
but Iboughtsll myexpefimwbefomlhadiganflthia Imgoingtp
relatswssoneofthemostdisoomgingexpefimentathatlmsdeatafl.
IhsvsmentionsdthatIhad savedtha fewearaofbarleysndricewhich
Ihedso sm-prisinglyfonnd springup,ssIthought,ofthmnselves,and
believetherewereaboutthirtystslksofriee, sndabonttwentyofbarley,
and nowIthought itaproper fims tosow itafiuthsmhgthe m
beinginits southemposition, goingfiom me.

Accordingly, Idngup spiecsof groundaswellasloouldwithmy
woodenspde,and,dividingitintotwoparts,1wwedmygrsin; but,"
Iwassowing,itcasuallyoccnrrsdtomythonghtsthat1wouldnotsow
it all at first, because Idid not knowwhenwnstheproperfimsforit;
soIsowedabouttwo--thirdsofthsseed, leavingabontahsndfulofeoch.

ItwasagrsatcomforttomsaflerwardsthatIdidsofiornotons
grainofthat Isowedthis time me toanything; fox-the drymonths
following, theearth havinglmd no rain afiertheseedwas sown, ithed
nomoistuns toassist its growth, and never cameupstall tillthswst
seasonhnd come again,nnd then it gmwae ifithsdbeenbnt newly
sown.

Findingmyfimtseed did not grow,whichIsasilyimaginedwasby
thedmugthsoughtfox-amoisterpieoe ofgroundtomakeanothsrtrial
mdedngnpaphosofgronndnsarmynswbowarnndsowedthe
restofmyseedinFebrnary,alittls bsfmthevemslequinox; andthis
having therainymonthsostrahand Apfilmwaterigsprangupvery
pleasanfly,andyisldsdavsrygoodmp; buthavingpsrtofflrsseedleft
only,andnotdaringtesowallthat1had, Ihadbutamallqmntityat
last, mywhole crop not amonntingto above halfapsckofsaehkind.
Butbythieexperimsnthasmsdsmseterofmybnsiness,andknew
enctlywhsn thsproperseasonwasfosow,andthst1mightupesttwo

seed-timesmdtwoharvestsmveryyesr.

' Whilsthiscomwasgrowing,1madsslitflsdissomry,which'was
ofnsstomesfierwsrde. Aesoonutherainswmommdthswesther
beganbutflqwhichwnsabont thsmonthofNovsmbeI-Jmadeavinit
uptheoountzytomybower,where,thoaghIhsdnotbqensomemonthl,
yctIfonndaIl thingajastasllefttham. 'l'lmimle,ordoublehedge,~' "F"~'--:'T.1:.'PS3>>1W:war-'2" g-v 11mm: 71.;

I.~4

nonmsos onueon. ' 95

thatIhsdmsdgmnotanlyfimmdmfimbutthestaheswhichIhad
miutdmetreestbstgmwtbereaboutgmaflnbotoutmdm
fithlmghmehqumhnhasswfllaw-munnnyshoobflmflrstym
maloppingihheafl. Ioouldnotteflwhnttmotocaflitthntthese
Mummtfmn. Immfieetmdyetvayweflpluwttosee
fheymmgtmes gramsndlpmnedthemmdledflxmnptogmwu
mnehdikeulmuldgmditismmdiblehowbeaufifuleflgm

theymintohthmeyeug--sothst, thoughthehedgemndenoimlev

ofnbouttwenty-flvoyaxdsindimeter, yettheteegforsuohlmight
munfhmmwvuedmmditmswmplehsbsdgmfidentto
iodgeundera'llthedryseason._'flfismsds monsolvetocutsomemoro
stekegmdmakemahedgeliketbiqinesemieirdemdmywdl
(Imeanthatofmyfirstdwalling),whieh16id;andplseingthetmes,
orstskeg insdonblerow,atebonteightyardsdistanoefiom.myfint
famtheymwpsesenfly,endwmstfintsflneoovertomyhsbitsfion,
mddtawudsmvedforsdefenmdegulshaflobmveinitsozdm
Ifioundnnwthnttheseaspnsdtheymmight generallybedivided,
nothtosummermflwintu,esin1SSnmp6,butintotbersinyseesonsand
tbedrymmwhichwuegenmllythus:e
mm"
MAP!"
MA

131'. Dmiwmbsingflmtothsnorthdhmw

July
mm
mombu In

women
November
Dumb:- Dmthembeingthmtothumtbolflwfim.

mfl'i'fq

Theminyseasonsometimesheldlongeruflmrter,asthewinds
happenedhblow,butthiswastbegeneralobservetion1msdeSS_m1'
hadhuqbyupadmogthefllmsequmofbeingshmadinthenin,
Ibokmhhmisbmysdffitbpofidmbehrehmifimtlmightmt
heobhgedtogoougandlntmthmdmrsumuoheepossibledunng'
thewetmonths. ' ' 1""1'5'7"

} Rehnthsmbeingmnomcmhcqnimx.96 ADVERT!) 338 01'

In this time I found much employment, and very suitable also to the
time, for I found great occasion of many things which I had no way to
furnish myself with but by hard labour and constant application; par-
ticularly, I tried many ways to make myself a basket, but all the twigs I
could get for the purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing.
It proved of excellent advantage to me now, that, when I was a boy, I
used to take great delight in standing at a basket-maker's, in the town
where my father lived, to see them make their wicker-ware; and being,
as boys usually are, very ofiicious to help, and a great observer of the
manner how they worked those things, and sometimes lending a hand, I
had by this means so full knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted
nothing but the materials,--when it came into my mind that the twigs of
that tree from whence I cut my stakes that grew, might possibly be as
tough as the sallows, and willows, and osicrs, in England; and I resolved
to try.

Accordingly, the next day, I went to my country-house, as I called
it, and cutting some of the smaller twigs, I found them to my purpose as
much as I could desire; whereupon I came the next time prepared with
a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon found, for there was
great plenty of them. These I set up to dry within my circle, or hedge,
and when they were fit for use, I carried them to my cave; and here,
during the next season, I employed myself in making, as well as I could,
agreatmanybaskets, bothtocarryearth, ortocarryor lay up anything
as I had occasion: and, though I did not finish them very handsomely,
yet I made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose; and thus, after-
wards, I took can never to be without them,--and as my wicker-ware
decayed, I made more, especially I made strong deep baskets to place my
corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity
of it.

Having mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of time about
it, I bestirred myself to see, if possible, how to supply two wants. I
had no vessels to hold anything that was liquid, except two runlets,
which were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles, some of the
common size, and others, which were ease-bottles, square, for the holding
of watch. spirits, eto. I had not so much as a pot to boil anything,
except a great kettle which I saved out of the ship, andwhichwastoo
bigforsnch useasI desired it for, viz.,to make brothandstewa bit of
meat by itself. The second thing I would mummwasmbme-
pipe, but it was impossible for me to make one: however, I found a
oontrivnnoe for that, too, at last.

I employed myself in planting my second row: of stokes or piles, and
in this wicker-work, all the summer, or dry season, when another buniner
took me up more time than it could be imagined I could spare.

 

Imenfionadbefomthatlhndngrentmindtoseethewholeielond,
andthntIhndtmvelledupthebrook,andsoontowhererufltmy
bower,nndwhm1hadanopenmgquitetothemontheothereideof
theisland. Immdvedtomvdquimmosemthemshorgonthnt
side. so, taking my gun, and hatchet, and my dog, and a. larger quantity
ofpowdernndehotthnnumnl,withtwohiecuit-mkesandngmotbunoh
ofmifinnhmypouohformyebrqlbegunmyjoumey. WhenIhnd
pauaithevdewhmmthaoMasabove,Icamewithinviewof

7
themfiotheweet;anditbemgeverydmday,1fairlydeeuiedlenfl,
whethumiflmdwmfinmtlwfldnethmbutithymhigh,
extendingfiomfhewesttothawabmth-Meteverygmatdim:
bymyguemiteouldnotbelemthenfifteenortwmtyleagueaofl.
Ioouldnottellwhetputoftheworldthiemightbgotherwieethm
MIhwitmufiMputdAmeficgmfiuIconcludedbyallmy
observations, must be near the Spanish dominione, endperhnpe was all
hhabihdbymmgwwhmfllehofldhwhndeilhadbeenine
woreeconditionthanlweanow; endfhereforelacqniescedinthedispo-
sifiomomevidenWWhicthegannowtomandtobelimordared
everythingforthebest,--Isay,1quietedmymindwiththie,andlefl:
nfiiicfingmyeelfwithfi'uiflesswieheeofbeingthere.
Bedhqafl'ereomepaueeuponthieefihir,loonxidmedthat,ifthis
hndwuthespaniahmhlehouldeertainly,onefimeorother,eee
maveaeelpassorrepeesonewnyorother;bntifnot,thenitwuthe
mvegecuatbeWemtheSpmiahcauhymflBmfltheinhebitanhof
whichmindeedthewantofmvagegfortheyuemnflflgormen-
eehzmmdfnilnottomurder nnddevourallthehnmmbodiesthntfiall
intotheirhende.
Withthueconsidemtionelwalkedurileimielyforward. Ifound
MddeoftheielandwhmInowmnmnehplmmthmmmthe
upmarsaMfieMeswmfiomedwifhflowmmdmmdfunof
veryfinewoods. Inwfimdmofpmohmdfifinlwonldhnve
mughtmfipowqhhwkeptittobemmdbmghtittoepeak
tome. ImeMMmpdmtekmcheyomgpmhwa
hockditdonfith'esfinhmihavingrmvuediglbmughtit
home:bnt!twneeomeyembefomloau1dmnkehimipeak:however,et
lastltauahthimtoofllmebymynmeveryfamilinrly. Butthe
midwtfintfoflwefithmgliitbeehiflqwfllbeverydivufingin
itspluce.
Iwaaexceedinglydivefledwithtlfiejoumey.1fonnd,inthelow
Mina--eelmouglitthmtobe--mdfombutflieydiflered
yeeflyfimdltheothufindelhadmdwimnorconldlmfiafy
myedftoeatthmthoughlkfllodeeverfl. Butlhadnoneedtohe

mmIMMmdfmdeWhflmmm'

tomapedanythuethreeeorbnimgodgpigeongmdturflqormu,
--whinh,eddedtomygnpee,laeadenhellmnketoqfldnothnvefhrniahed
Iteblebettertthm pmportionioflle company; Infltheughmycese'- '3':W"W'w1rv-- --yyrr,rrrr':v'. 155--, .-------. '1 ,- 5" V"

ROBINSON 0317503. 99

miephrablsanoufiyetlhadgreatoaueforthmkfuhmthstlm
mtdfivmhmyuhemifiufummthndnthmplenty,mto
dahties.
ImWMhtfisiomq,Metmmflmmfighthadq,
orthereaboutsflutltookpomytumsmflremmgtomwhatdis-
mvmimlwfldmnkgthntlmoweadedmmghtoflxephoawhm
Imdvedtouitdownfmaflnightmdthanleitherreposedmyaelfina
bee, mammdedmyulfwithamof ntakeguet'upfightinthe
Mdtherfmmmtmetoanothermraounowfldmtmeoould
comeatmewithoutwakingme.
AsmulcmotothemahmlwumrpfisedtomthntIhad
takmnpmylotontheworltaideoftheislmd;forhen,hdeed,the
shmwumuedvfithinnmmbhtnrflegwhmontheothu-ddo
Ihadfoundbntflmeinaymandahalf. Emwudmaninfinih
nmbuoffowhofmmyhnflgmeofwhichIhadnotmbdmmd
mmyofthmvuygoodmeatbutmohulknewnotflmmesof,
exwptthosecalledpahguim.
Imfldhvefiotummjulplmuthutmveryspafingofmy
powdamdahotmdthudmhndmmmhdhfiflaahegoatfll
oonld,whichIoou]dbettafeedon; andthonghthmwmmygoau
hmmmthmmtheothuddedtheflmiyetitwuwithmnch
mmdificfltythfllwuflmemthmtheoonfiybeingflntand
emmdtheyaawmemuohmerthmwhanlmonthehflh.

Iconfeuthiuideoftheoounhywu much pleasmmthanmina; but

yetIhndnotthelusthdhaflmhmovgflor,quufixedinmy
habitafiomitbeumsnntunltomfidemedallthewhfleImhm
tobeuitwmnponajoumeymndfiomhama. EowavarItmvelled
flougthenhmdthemtowudathemtImppooeabouttmlwmfla,
mdthmntfingupngmatpoleupmthahhmfwamhlmcluded
IwouldgohmsMMdthatthenextjoumeyIfmkshauldbeonfhe
other ddsdthezdmimtfiommydweflnmmdaomundfinlma
hmypogtagain, ofwhiohi'nitlplms. 7 .-_. '
Itookmothamytoobmabmkthmti'ntlmfgthinflngloofld
'eaxilykeepdltheidandiomuohinmyviewflmtlwnldnotminmyfint
dwallhgbyviewingflmoahntry; butlfoundmyndfmiatukayfiorbehg
oomeabouttwoorthreemfleqlfonndmynelfdmdedintouury
hrgevnlhy, butmnmonndedwithhmgmdthoeohflkoov'eredwith
voodgthatloouldnotmwhiohmmymbymyglimfionhtflnt
of thesun,nor even tben,nnleesIknewverywen the positionoftho
sun ntthat time of the day.

It happenedfionyfarthermiafortnnqthattheweaflmiprovedhuy
forth-eeorfour dayawhilelwuinthiavnlley,and,notbeingableto
wethemmlwendemdaboutvetyunoomfortably,andatlastwae
obligedtofindouttheeeaaide,lookformypoet,andoomebackthename
wawaent; andthenbyeasyjourneyaltumed homewud, theweather
being exceeding hotaudmygnn, ammunition, hatchet, and otherthinga
veryheavy.

In this journey, my dog'euwrised a young kid, and seized upon it,
andIruuningintotakeholdofit,mghtigandsaveditalivefi-omthe
dog. Ihadegmtmindtobringithomeifleould,for1hndofien
beenmusingwhetberitmightnotbeposaihletogetakidortwo,andeo
raise a breed of tame genus, which might supply me when my yowder
and shot shouldbeallepent.

Imadeacollarforthislitflemflumnndwithastfingwhichl
made outof somerope yarn, whichI alwayeean-iedaboutme, Iledhim
dongtboughwithsomediflcultyfiflllcametomybower,andtheml
enclosedhimandlafihim,for1waave1yimpafienttobeathome,fiom
wheneeIhndbeenabmnt aboveolmontb.

Icannotaxpreeswhatasatisfactionitwnstometooomeintomyold
huhhmdhedowninmyhammockbed. Thielittlewanderingjourney,
without settled place of abode, had been no unpleasant to me that my
ownhouee,aaIealledittomyself,wasaperfeoteetflementtome,eom-
paredtothat;anditrenderedeverytbingaboutmelooomfortable,thnt
Iresolvchwouldnevergoagreatwayfiomitagaimwhfleitahould
bemylottoetayontbeialund.

Immedmyedfhmaweehtoreatandmgalemyeelfaflamylong
journey, during which most of the time was taken up in the weighty
afl'nirofmnldngaeageformyPolehobegannowtobeamexedomeetic,
mdtabemightywellaoquaintedfitbme. ThenIbegantothinkof
thepoorkidwbiehIhadpmtinwitfinmyfitflechdgandruolvedtogo
.mdfetch it home, and give iteomefqod: wwxdinglwamtmdfoundit
whaelhftitfmindeeditwfldnotgetougbutwualmoetm
forwantoffood. Iwmtmdmtbougheoiteegandbmahuofmeh
Wuloofldflntmdtbnwitwerflndhavingfeditlfieditu
Ididbeforqtoleuditaway;hutitwasaotamewithbeiughmglyfihnt
Ihaduoncedtohwefieditfwitfoflwdmfikeadogmfiul----w- .wmwrW-v-wvv-pn'WIH-o-- v- ups--1v. .'-"1"'v Fit-twist --~q,3<< p
r

nonmson cannon. . ' ' - 101

mfinuenyfeditfliembemmembvingmgmflgmdmlond,
thatfibemmefimthntthnemdmydmmfimdmmdwofldm
Theninymofflaemtnmndequinoxmmmmdlkept
flieSOthdfleptembuinthemmlmnmmmubdegflm ' "
mivqumykndhgmtheidmthnvingmbemthmm ..-
ymmdmmmpmpeotofbeingdelivaedthmthefintdaylom '
than Ispentflmwhole'dayinhumblemdthmkhlmhowledgmmb
ofthemnywondafnlmeroieowhichmymlitnryoondifionmltmded ,
fithmdfithoutwhiohitmighthnvabeminfiniflalymmimubla. '
Igawhmmmmmmeodhadhemplmum
tomomthatitwupomlmightbemmhappyhthi-mfihry
oonditionflmnlshmfldhavebeenholibertyofmoiety'mdinenthe
phonmdfiewoflt--flmtheeouldfnflymahnptometbedefl-
cinncieoofmymlihryotateandflmwnntofhnmmmoiety,hyhis
pmoeudthemmmnnimfiauofhiognoetomymuhmpporfing,
wmfotfingmdmwmgingmetodependnponhnpmvidmhmmd'
'hopeforhisemalpmenoehereaflm.
Itwunowthatlbeganmnsiblytofeelhowmuohmmhsppythe
fifeInowledmwithanibmhuabhcimnmstanmflmnflmwieked,
cumd,ubominablelifelleddlthepastputoPSmydayl;mdmw
Ichangedbofhmymmmmdmyjoyg--myverydeohmdbreimy
nfi'ecfiouchmgedtheirgnstqmdmydefighumpmflymwfmm .
whattheywematmyfirstoamingorindeedforthotwoymput.
Momulwflkedabontdtbummyhmfinguforfiawingflw
wunhyfiheongnishotmymulatmyoondifionwouldbreakontnpo'
mmamddemmdmymyhmtwoulddiewithinmgtothhzkofflm
woodsthemomtfingthedemmlmmmdhowlmspfimer
Lockednpwiththeeterndhanmdhluoftheminmnninhnbited
wildemeos,wiflmutredemption. Inflxemidstofthemtutnompomru
ofmymmhwofldbmkontupmmlikeommmem
wfingmyhnndamdweeplikeoohfldzmmefimmitwouldtahmh
themiddledmywhmdlwofldhnmedhfelyfitdofinmddghmd
lnoknponfliegronndfarmhonrutwotogethergmdthilmotfll
mhmforiflwuldbmtmtinfphugoruntmynlfbywordl,
u'wmmvogmmmmuhmwmmmu .
BntmIbegantoexexfisemynolfwiflimthoughh. Iflnilyzeud
theWmddGondnpplieddlflmcmforbofittomypmentshfie'
One morning, being very sad, I opened the Bible upon these words, "1
will never leave thee, nor forsake thee." Immediately it occurred that
these words were to me: why else should they be directed in such a
manner, just at the moment when I was mourning over my condition as
one forsaken of God and man? "Well, then," said I, "If God does not
forsake me, of what ill consequence can it be, or what matters it, though
the world should all forsake me, seeing, on the other hand, if I had all
the world and should lose the favour and blessing of God, there would be
no comparison in the loss 5'"

From this moment I began to conclude in my mind that it was pos-
sible for me to he more happy in this forsaken, solitary condition, than it
was probable I should have ever been in any other particular state of the
world, and with this thought I was going to give thanks to God for bring-
ing me to this place.

I know not what it was, but something shocked my mind at that
thought, and I durst not speak the words. " How eanst thou be such a
hypocrite," said I, even audibly, "to pretend to be thankful for a condi-
tion which, however thou mayest endeavour to be contented with, thou
wouldest rather pray heartily to be delivered from ?" So I stopped
there; but, though I could not say I thanked God for being there, yet I
sincerely gave thanks to God for opening my eyes, by whatever inflicting
providences, to see the former condition of my life, and to mourn for my
wickedness, and repent. I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my
"(cry soul within me blessed God for directing my friend in England,
without any order of mine, to pack it up among my goods, and for assist-
ing mc afterwards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and,
though I have not given the reader the trouble of so particular an account
of my works this year as at the first, yet in general it may be observed
that I was'very seldom idle, but having regularly divided my time accord-
ing to the several daily employments that were before me,--such as, first,
my duty to God and the reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set
apart some time for, thrice every day: secondly, the going abroad with my
gun for food, which generally took me up three hours every morning, when
it did not rain: thirdly, the ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking what
I had killed or catched for my supply: these took up great part of the
day. Also it is to he considered that, in the middle of the day, when the
sun was in the zenith, the violence of the heat was too great to stir out,
so that about four hours in the evening was all the time I could be sup-
posed to work in, with this exception, that sometimes I changed my
hours of hunting and working, and went to work in the morning, and
abroad with my gun in the afternoon. *-

To this short time allowed for labour I desire may be added the
exceeding laboriousness of my work, the many hours which, for want of
tools, want of help, and want of skill, everything that I did took up out
of my time: for example, I was full two and forty days making me
a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cove, whereas, two
sawyers, with their tools and sowpit, would have out six of them out of
the some tree in half a day.

My case was this--it was to be a large tree which was to be cut down,
because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I was three days
cutting down, and two more cutting off the boughs and reducing it to a
log or piece of timber. With inexpressible hacking and. hewing, I re-
duced both the sides of it into chips, till it began to be light enough to
move; then I turned it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a
board from end to end: then, turning that side downward, cut the other
side, till I brought the plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth
on both sides. Any one may judge the labour of my hands in such a
piece of work, but labour and. patience carried me through that and many
other things: I only observe this in particular, to show the reason why
so much of my time went away with so little work, viz., that whet might
be a little to be done with help and. tools, was a. vast labour, and required
9. prodigious time to do alone, and by hand.

But notwithstanding this, with patience and labour I went through
many things, and, indeed, every thing that my circumstances made neces-
sary for me to do, as will appear by what follows.
Crusoe In trouble about his growing crops, which are allcckud hy goals and hlnls--lle nlolirurs
himself from these enemies, and reaps his corn--ls perplexed how to make bread of it, and
determines to preserve the whole crop for seed--Make: n spodc--ln-door employment in
the rainy season--Teaches his parrot to talk--Makes pottery, and a mortar to grind his cum In--
His first baking--A new hnrvest--Contemplaxes escaping flom (he island--Construct! A
boat, but is unable to launch it--Bcgins to cut I canal, but film up the attempt in despair--
l-'resh reflections.

'WAS now, in the months of November and December, ex-
pecting my crop of barley and flee. The ground I had mnnured
or dug up for them was not. great, for, as I observed, my need
of each was not above the quantity of half a peck, for I had
lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season; but now my crop
promised very well, when, on a sudden, I found'I was in danger of
losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarce pos-
sible to keep from it; as, first, the goats and wild creatures which I
called hares, which, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night
and' day, as soon as it came up, and eat it so close that it could get no
time to shoot up into stalk.
This I saw no remedy for, but hymahng an enclosure about it with
shedge,whichIdidwithagreatdealoftofl,andthemcmhecauseit
mquiredagreatde'alof'speed, theoreatnresdailyspoilingmyoom.
Eowever,asmyarablelandwashutemall,sditedtom'ycromlgotit
totallywellfencedinaboutthreeweeka'time,and.shoofingsomeof
themeatumsmthedayfimaIsetmydogtpguuditinthenighttying
himuptcastaheatthegate,wherehewouldstandandhukallnight
long;soinalitflefimethe memiufoflookthephmmdtheeomgrew
very strong and well, andbegantoripen space.

Butas the beasts ruined me'before, while my corn wasinthe blade,
sothebirdsweroaslikelytcruinmenow,whsnitwasintheear;
for, going along by the plaeeto see how it thmve, Isaw my little crop
surrounded with fowls, ofIlmcwnot how manysorts,whiehstood, asit
were,watchingtill I shouldhegone. Iimmediately let ilyamongthem
(forIalweyshadmygunwithme);.Ihednosoonershot,butthererose
npa little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at alLfi'om among the
cornitself.

Thistouched me sensibly, forIforesaw thetinafew days they would
devour-all my hopes; thatI should bestarved, and neverheabletoraise
acrop at all; and what to do I could not tell: however-,1 resolved not
tolose my corn,if possible, thoughIshonld watch it nightmd day. In
the first place, I went among it, to seowhat damagewas already done,
and found they had spoiled a. good deal of it; but that, asit was yetteo
greenforthem,thelosswasnotsoMbutthatthammainderwaslike
toheagoodcrop,iPSitcouldbeseved.

I staid by itfo load mygun,and then, coming away, I could easily
seethethievessittingnpmdlthemeahoutmguiftheyonlywaited
tillIwasgonoaway;andtheeventpmveditfnbeso,foras1walked
off,asiPSIwasgone,Iwa|nosooneroutoftheirsight,bnttheydrapped
downonebyoneintcthocomagain. Iwassoprovokedthatlcould
uothavepafieneefcstaytfllmmcameomknowingthateverygmin
thattheyeatnowwsgasitmightbesaidmpeckloaffemeinthecon-
sequence, hutwminguphfhehedgaIfiredagfimandkflledthreeof
them. Thiswaswhathishedfor;soItcokthemnp,andservedthe1n
uwemenowfimthiemmmglmdvizqhmgedthemmohainafor
atemrtoothers. Itisimpossihletoimaginealmostthatthisshould
havesuchanefl'eetesit'hed;forthefowlswonldnotonlynotomneat
theoom,but,inshort,flmyfomokallthatpartofflleisland,andl
couldneverseeebirdneertheplaceaslongssmyscamowshung
there.

Thistasverygladof, you maybe sum, andabout thelatterendof
December, which was our second harvest of the year, I reaped my corn.

Iwas sadlyput toitforascythe or sickle to cut it down: sndallI
could do was to make one as well as I could out of one of the broad-
swords, or cutlasses, which I saved among the arms out of the ship.
However, as my crop was but small, I had no great diEculty to cut it
down: in short, I reaped it my way, for I cut nothing of but the ears,
and carried it away in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed it
outwith my hands, and at the end of all my harvesting, I found that out
of my half peek of seed I had near two bushels of rice, and above two
bushels and a half of barley; that is to say, by my guess, for I had no
measure at that time.

However, this was great encouragement to me, and I foresaw that in
time it would please God to snpplyme with bread; and yet here I was
perplexed again, for I neither knew how to grind nor make meal of my
corn, nor indeed how to clean it and part it; not if made into meal, how
to make bread of it; and, if how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake
it: these things being added to my desire of having a good quantity for
store, and to secure a constant supply, I resolved not to taste any of this
crop, but to preserve it all for seed against the next season, and, in the
mean time, to employ all my study and'hours of working to accomplish
this great work of providing myself with corn and bread.

It might be truly said, that now I worked for my bread. It is a
little wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought much upon,
viz., the strange multitude of little things necessary in the providing,
producing, curing, dressing, making, and finisbingthis one article of bread.

I, that was reduced to a. more state of nature, found this to be my
daily discouragement, and was made more and more sensible of it every
hour, even after I had got the first handful of seed-corn, which, as I have
said, came up unexpecmdly, and indeed to-a surprise.

First, Ihsdnoploughtoturn up the earth, no spadeorshoveltodig
it: well, this I conquered by making a wooden spade, as I observed before;
but this did my work but in a wooden manner, and, though it cost me a
great many days to make it, yet, for want of iron, it not only were out
the sooner, but made my work the harder, and made it be performed
much worse. x
However,this1bomwith,too,andwascontentfowonkl!ontwith
patience, endhearwiththehsdnessoi'thepedonnmoe. Whonthscorn
wassowed,Ihsdnohsuow,hntwasfmedtngooveritmyself,and
dmgamathhnghdemeovaiuwmhmsMssitmy
becaueirsthsrthsnreksorhmowit.

Whenitwugrowingendgz-owthaveobserved alreadyhowmany
thingstantedtofienceit, minnowormpigmmendwryit
home,thmh,pmitfiomthechmandmeitz theanantedunfllfa
grindit,sievestodmihymtmdsdthmskeithmbmdendenoven
tobakeit; mdyetdlthemthhgsldidwithonhushfllbeobservod:
nndyetthe oomwasaninesfimablo comforth sdvmhgemmgtoo.
Butallthis,asIsaid,msdeeverythinglsboriousendtsdioustpme,bnt
thatthere was no hs1p~forgneitherwas mytime so much loss to me,
beesuse,esIhaddifidedihaoertainpmtofitwsseverydsysppointed
totheseworks;and,asIresolvedtonsenoneoftheoomforbxeadtfll
Ihsdsgreeterqnsntitybyma,Ihndthsnoxtdxmonthstospply
myself wholly, by labour and invention, to furnish myself with utensils
proper for the pelforming all the operations necessary for the making
the corn, when I had it, fit for my use.

ButfirstI wastoprepare more land, fothsdnowseedenoughfn
sow abovoonwcroof ground. BeforeIdidthis, Ihsdewoek's work,"
least, tomakemeaspade,which,whenitwnsdone,wssbntasorry
one indeed, andvery heavy, and reqnimd donblelsbourto work with it:
however, Iwent through that,and sowed my'seodintwohrgeflstpieces
of ground, asnearmyhonseasIoouldfindthemtpmymind,andfenled
theminwithagoodhsdge,thoatakesofwhiohweroellontoflthatww!
whichIhadsetbefore,whichIknswwon1dgtow; sothat,inoneyes.r's
time, IknewI should have a. quick, or living hedge, that would want
butlittlerepair. Thisworkwasnotsolittleastotskemenplsssthan
thmemonthgbecansegmetpsrtofthattimewasinthewetseeson,
whenIcouldnotgoahrosd.

Withindoorgthstis,whon1tramed,andloonldnotgoout,1fonnd
employment on the following occasions, always observing that all the
whflonustwuhIdivutedmysdfwiththfingtomypemtsnd
teachinghimfpspeek;endlquiok1ylesmthimtoknowhisownnme,
andetlssttospeskitontprettyloud, "Poll,"whiahwas-fhsfirstword
Ieverheerdspokenintheislandby anymonthbutmyown; fins,
therefore, wasnol_mywork,bnt enessistanttomywmszornow,asl
said, I had a great employment upon my hands, as follows: via, I had
long studied, by some means or other, to make myself some earthen
vessels, which indeed I wanted sorely, but knew not where to come at
them: however, considering the heat of the climate, I did not doubt but,
if I could find out any suitable clay, I might batch up some such pot
as might, being dried by the sun, be hard enough and strong enough
to bear handling, and to hold anything that was dry, and required to
be kept so; and, as this was necessary in the preparing corn, meal, ate, .
which was the thing I was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I
could, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold what should be put into
them. ' .
It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell how .
many awkward ways I took to raise this paste,--what odd, misshapen

ugly things I made, how many of them fell in, and' how many fell out,

the clay not being stifi' enough to bear its own weight; how many cracked

by the over violent heat of the sun, being set out too hastily, and how

many fell to pieces with only removing, as well before as after they were

dried; and, in a word, how, after having laboured hard to find the slay,

to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home, and work it, I could not make

above two large earthen ugly things (I cannot call them jars) in about

two months' labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard, I lifted them
very gently up, and set them down again in two great wicker baskets,
which I had made on purpose for them, that they might not break; and
as, between the pot and the basket, there was a little room to spare,
I stufi'ed it full of the rice and barley straw, and these two pots being to
stand always dry, I thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the
meal, when the corn was bruised. _

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet I made
several smaller things with better success, such as little round pots, flat
dishes, pitchers, and pipkins, and anything my band turned to, and the
heat of the sun baked them strangely hard. _

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen
pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the fire, which none of these could
do. It happened, after some time, making a pretty large fire for cooking
my meat, when I wentto put it out after I had done with it, I found a
broken piece of one of my earthenware vowels in the fire, burnt as hard
sasstone,endredasafile. Iwasagzeeablysurpfisedtoseeigand~.:;(,1;[[:vr:7 ---:;-w:1--_- rag; x_--_ ' -. _V_

ponmson cannon. . ' 109

midtomymlnthatoutdflytheymightbomndohbmwholgiflhey
wouldbumbmken.
Thisutmeto-studyhowtomdermyflrqlo-utomnkeitbumm
mpots. Ihadmnofimdufilmmohufiepommmorof
ghzingthmfithluAthonghIhndmleadtodditfithgbutI
phoedthmlugopipfinsmdtwowthmpohinnpflgmnpm
methanmdplnoedmyfirewoodmmpdihfithagreathupofembm
underthem. Ipfledthefimwififiahhdmmdtheoflddmmdupon
mmtmlmwthepohhthahddexedhotqdbthmghmdobmved
thattheydidnotmckatall:whanllawthemolearred,lletthem
atandhthatheataboutfiwudxhomfifllfoudmofthmflmngh
itfidnotmohdidmaltum--fiorthemndwhiohwumindwiththa
daymdtedbythefiolmofthehwfimdwofldhmminfiovgluif
Ihadgonem;m1dmkedmyfimmflunfly,fillmypohbegmtom
oftheredoolourfindwamhingfhemaflmightfihatlmightnotlettho
finsbahhofiashinflmmominglhndthxuvorygood--Iwfllnotmy
hmdwme--pipfingmdMothaurfimMaahudbumtuomldh
dedfimdonoofflmmphrfeoflyghmdviththemnningqfthamd.
Amuthhexpefimmlneednotnythatlmtedmmtofeuthm-
mformyme:bnt1muatneednay,ufnthnahapesofflmm,they
mmimliflemguanymmynppmwhenlhadnomyof .
makingthembntuthaohfldmmakodirtpieguuavommwauld
makepiesthntnemlmedtominepuw.
Nojoyatathhgofmmmnnntmemmoqudhmhgwhenl
fdeMmfiemmfimpfiMwauthfioMmAIhad
Mypfimmmmyfintheywmwmwmlwtmuponthaflm
mwmmmmmhmtoboflmmmhwhichitdidadm
blywell;andwifluphoeofakidlmadnwmoverygoodbmth,flmlgh
Imbdoahnealmdmvaralotherifigtedienbnqnifitetomkeitao
goodulwonldhnvohadit.
Mynutmmmhgetmammmhshmpmbeatm
comingfor,utofhemillpthmwunothaughtofurivingtothatpu~
Monotartwith.mpairothanfla. Tonpplyflfismtlmatn
MM!0r,ofdlhadminthowofld,I~wuupedooflynnqmfified.
' gorlstonacutterufumywhmu;mithuhadlmytoohiogoabout
itwith. Ispentmyadny'tofinflonts-gxmtmbigmghhout'
honow,mdmakofitfotamomr,nndoould.flndnonantdl,exuptwhat
th'mfldmhudWMIhadmmyhdigmmm;m,
Wmthemchhtheidmfldhardnsumfldmfibutmafl
ofamdycrnmbfingstanqwhiohwonldmithsrbeuthewoightofa
heavypesfle, norwould breakthe comwithoutfllling it with sand: so,
Wayeatdedoffimelosthmohhgforamlgaveitow,"
mdvedhlmkmtamtflookofhudwoflwbinhlfonndinfleed
mucheasiar,andgetfingoneasbi-gasIhadstlmgthfosfir,Imnnded
it, ondfomeditontheontsidewith myuemdhauhehmd'thmwith
thehdpdfirgandinfinifshbour,madsahollowplaoeinit,asths
Indinnsianzflmnketheireanoes. AfisrthigImsdeayoatheavy
pestle,orbeater,ofthewoodcalledtheixmwood,andthislpmpfland
laidbyagainstIhndmynutmpofwmwhenIproposedtomysel!
togfind,ormtherpound,myoomintomealtomakemyhread.
Mynextdificdtymsbmakaafimqormm,todmssmymsal
andtopMitfimthebmmdthehnahwithontwhichIdidnotsee
itpossibleIccnldlmvamy'bmad. Thiswuammtdificultthhgso
muchubuththinkamfortobesthndnoflfinglikethanmwy
thingstomskeitwith--Immnfinothineanvmmstufitomthe
mealtlzrough. Andhmlwuatafuflswpfumymthgnordidl
reallyknowwhattodo. Enmlhsdnnnelsftbutwhstwssmmrags;
I hsdgoats'-hnir,butneither knethowfoweove it norspinit; andhsd
Iknownhow,herewerenotoolstoworkitwith. .Anfhemmedythat
IfoudfathismthstntlnstIdidm-bthstongflaeseap
men'sdotheswhichwmsavedoutoftheship,somsnsckclothsofcdieo
umudimandwithsomspieceaoftheseImsdethmmnlldsmbnt
pmperenonghforthework; andthnsImsdeshiftforsomeym- How
Ididafierwudglshallahowinifisplwe.
Thebakingpartwasthenextthingtobeoonsidemd, andhowl
shonldmakolneadwhenleametohavecom;for,first,Ihadnnyeast
whtbstparhthmwunosupplyhgthewmfisoIdidnatooneem
myselfmuchaboutit;butforanoven1wosindeedingnatpm At
lmgfiIfmdmtmupefimtfuMdmwhichwuflfis--Imada
mamfimvmdamMMMM--flmtishny,abouttwo
feetdimem,mdnotsbovenheinchssdsep:thesolbnmhthsfin,
asIhsddonstheofimgaMlsidfinembynndwhsanmtedtoMs,
Imadeagmatflreupohthehmth,whioh1hsdpavedwithmssqum
tflss'otmymmakingsndbmhgalso,bnt1ahouldnotoallthm:

squats.
Whmfiefiawwdmhggtmflygfifitgemflufivsm
lhwfimhwfimfiishmhmuhmitanom,md
thereIletthmliatifltbeheu-thwuvahbt;then,sweepingawayall
flambmlmdommyhafiulmumdfldmingdmtha
earthenpotuponflwmdmwtheembenanmnndthnoutfideofthopat,
bkeepinmdaddtothohefl;mdthns,uwenuinfhsbestmin
thewlilbdedmybnlaylmmdbeumghufitflafimgsgood
pashyeookinbothebargain;for1mndomynalfoevmaloakeaoffherioe
mdpuddingu--indsedlmdemphgneiflmhadlmythingtopntinto
thmsuppodngIMexneptthefleaheitharoffowlsorgoab.
Itnwdnotbemdaedagflflltheseflfingafiookmnpmstpm
ofthethixdyeuofmyabodehm:fnr,itisfobeobsewedthstintho
intenalsofflmethinga Ihndmymharvestmdhnsbmdryto
mmge;for1mpedmycominiuseason,andemiedithomeaswell
asLoouldflndlnidituphthemfinmykrgebuketgtfllIhadfime
fpmbitout;fothadnofloortothreahiton,otinsh'umenttothmah
itwith.
Andnaw,indeed,mystookofoominmaing,lreallywnntodto
bufldmybamsbiggur:lwanfedaplaoetolayituph,forflieinm
offiewmmwyiddedmmmmthntlhadofthebaday'abonfl
tmtybushdgmddthefiwumuchorminsomuohthatlm
resolvedtobegintouaeitfi'eely,formybmdhadbeenqnitegmagreat
while: dsolmdvedtoseewhatqumfitywonldbemfidentformel
wholeyear,nndtombutomenyear.
Uponthewhdqlfonndthatthefoxtyjuhehofhdeyandrioe
wmmuchmomthmImfldbonshmehayear;soIresolvedhm
limthemequmfitymywthatlmedfihehshinhopesthnt
mehaqumfitywofldfullypmvidamewithbmim.
Anthowhfiethmthingawmdohg,youmybesnremythonghh
mmmyfimesuponthepmspectdthelandwhiahlhndaeenfi-amthe
othmddodtheiflmtmdlwunotwiflmnt'mtwiahesthstlm
mahmthmfinayingthahneingthemahlmdndm'inhabiud
wanky,1mightflndaomamyuothafooonvaymymlffarthar,md
puhnpsathatfindmmmnofmpa!
.Bntnflthinwhflolmademaflmforthadmgmofmoham-
difimmdhowlmightfallintothelmndsofmngegmdperhmmnh
ailmighthawmhthinkfarmthnthefimmdfiguuof
Abig--thatiflonnemimnthairmlshouldmnhmrd0PS
mthm'ufiamdh'mdbdngmmdpefiapsdbfinsm, <<
fothedheerdthatthepeopleqfthe Caribbean eoastwereoannibale,"
mm-eatergmdlknew,hythehfitade,thatlcouldnothefaroflfiom
thetehorg--that, mppowtheywmnotmnibdqyet they mightkill
mgummyEumpeenewhohedfallenintotheirhendehedheeneerved,
evenwhentheyhnvebeentenortwentytogether;mnchmore1,thet
was but one, and could make little or no defence. All these things, I
say, which I ought to have considered well of, and I did oostnpinmy
thoughts Myst took up noneof my apprehensioneetfint; and
my heedrenmightily upon the thought of getting overtothat shore.

NowIwiahed for my boy Xury, and the long-boat withtheshoulder-
of-muttonsailwith which I sailed eboyeathousand miles on thecoeatof
Africa; butthisweeinvain: thenIthoughthonldgoend look on our
ship's boat, which, 351 have mid,wesblown upnpon the shore ogreet
wey,inthe storm when we were first cast away. She lay almost where
she did ntfirehbut not quite, and was turned by the force of the wave-
end the winds almost bottom upward against the high ridge of beochy
rough sands, but no water about her, as before.

If Ihod had handstohave refitted her, andtnhave hunched her into
the water, the boat would have done very well, and I might have gone
beekinto the Brazils with hereusyenough; batImight have eonilyfore~
seenthetIcould no moretnm her and set her upright upon hex-bottom,
than I could remove the island. However, I went to the wood, and cut
lemsmdmflmmdbmughtthemtothe bmtmeolvingtotrywhatl
could do, auggestingtpmyeelf,thetif Icouldbnttnraherdown,1
mghtmfilympnhthedamageeahehedmcdvemendshewoaldbeavery
goodboagandImightgotoeeoinhervexyeoafly.

Ispmdnopmmdoedmthispieceofkuiflmtommdspmgl
think, threeor fourweeks about it: atlast. finding it imposeibletoheave
it up with my little strength, I fell to digging away the send, to under-
mineit, mdmmmakeitfnudowmeettingpiooeeofwoodtothmt
endgnideitrightinthefall.

Batwhmlhnddonethiglwuunabletoefiritupageinwrmget
uaduihmuchleeetommitforwardstowardsthewater;eolwu
forcedtogiveitover,mdyetthmghlgaveoverthehopeeoftheboet,
mydedrewvmtmomfmthemamwntherthmdemed,
astliemeansforiteeemedimpouible.

Thisetlengtheetmeupontlfinkingwhetheritweenotponibletn
makemyedfacanoqufifinsflflnwhuthemtiveodthoeeofim
makemwmwithonttoola,or,uImigMuay,withonthandn,viz.,oPSthoI

trunkolsgreattne. ThisInotanlythoughtpouibla,buteuy,md_

Mmyflflmdyfiththothouglghdmnfingigmdfithmy
havingmnuhmmoonvenienoeforitthmmydtheNegxoum-Inflim;
butnotatanoomidaingtheparticuhrinoonvmimmwhiohlhymda
mmfimfhehfimfiivizwwmtdhmdatomifiwhenitm
mndqinfnflmwm--adifllcnltymunhhudafarmtomountthandl
thaoomeqnmoeaofwantoftmlsoouldhetothm; forwhatmittom
thagwhmlhadohmavastbeeinfhawmdglmightwiflzgreathunua
cutitdown, ifafierImightbonblewith mytoolstohewanddubtho
outsideintoupmpushapeofabmhmdbnmorcntouttheimideto
makeithollow, sob makeaboatofit--ifi mmthiglmnstleaveit
justthmwhmlfomdigmdmnotablefnhunchithtothem!

Onawanldhnvaflmughtleouldmtllmhadtheleastnflecfion

uponmymhdofmydrcnmshnoqwhflelmmnfingthbbmgbutl

Vshauldhsveimmediatelythonghthowllhouldgetitintothom;hnt .

mythoughuwmwhflmtupmmywyngamthemhigtfintl
nemonoeoonaideredhowlshonldgetitofl'thalud;anditmreally,
inihmnatummmmyformetoguideitomforty-flvomflemhea,
than:boutforty-fivePSathnmsoflnnd,whm ithy,tosetitafloatintho
water.
Imttoworknponfifisboatthamoatlikeafoolthntovamdid,
whohadanyofhiamawake. Ipleuedmynelfwiththe'deaip,
withoutdefeminingwhetherlwemnbletomdutakeitgmtbntthnt
thediflcdtydhunchhgmyhoflmeofimhhmyhutbntlpnta
stoptomyowninquifiuhhihbythiatoofishmwhichlgavo
myself: "IntufirstmakbitJ'llwmmtI'llfindmwuyorothe:
bogetitalongwhmitis'done."
ninwuumostpnpostaonlmethod;bnttheeagameuofmyhncy
Wandtoworklwantmdfellednoedarhee--Iquufimmch
whetherolomoncmhadsuchuonefor'thebnfldingottheTmpleat
Inadam;itwufivefieethninohudimefaatthsloweSSpartnnxt
thnntump, mdhnrfeetelemhnhudimaterattheenfloftwenty--two
Mafiawfinhflhmedfmawhflgmflthmputedintobnmhn
Itwumtwithautinfinitohbouthatlfafledthismglmtwmty
daphaokingmdhewingatitattheboflom;1wufourteenmm
getfingthebmnchumflfimbgmdthevutsptudingheadofitoutofl,
'whichlhmkedmdhewedthmughwithmygxemdhmhehyithinu-
pressihle labour: afterthis, it cost me a month to shape it anddubitto
aproportion, undtosomethinglikethebottomofaboet,tbatitmight
swim upright as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more to
eleartheinside, andworkitoutsoastomakeanexaotboetofit:this1
did, indeed, without fire, by mere mallet and chisel, and bytho dint of
hardlabour,ti111hadbroughtittobeaveryhandsomepefiagua, and
big enough to have carried six-and-twenty men, and consequently big
enough to have carried me and all my cargo.

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely delighted with
it. The boat was really much bigger than I ever saw a canoe, or
periagua, that was made of one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke
it had cost, you may be sure, for there remained nothing but to get it into
the water; and had I gotten it into the water, I make no question but I
should have begun the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be per-

formed, that ever was undertaken.
' But all my devices to get it into the water failed me, though they cost '
me infinite labour, too. It lay about one hundred yards from the water,
and not more; but the first inconvenience was, it was up hill towards the
creek. Well to take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into
the surface of the earth, and so make a deolivity: this I began, and it
cost me a prodigious deal of pains--but who grudge pains that have their
icliverance in view? but when this was worked through, and this dim.
culty managed, it was still much at one, for I could no more stir the
canoe than I could the other heat.

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to out a dock
or canal, to bring water up to the canoe, seeing I could not bring the
canoe down to the water. Well, I began this work, and when I began
to enter upon it, and calculated how deep it was to be dug, how broad,
how the stuff was to be thrown out, I found that by the number of hands
I had, being none but my own, it must have been ten or twelve years
before I should have gone through with it; for the shore layhigh, so that
at the upper end, it must have been at least twenty feet deep: 'so at
length, though with great reluctance, I gave this attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily, and now I mw, though too late, the folly
ofbeginningawork beforewe wuntflrewsgandheforewejudge
rightlyof ourstrengthtogothronghwithit.

Inthemiddle ofthiswork,Ifinishedmyfourthyear-inthisplaoe,
ind karat my anniversary with the some devotion, and with as much com-
foxtueverberom;fior,byammntm&ymdaeriouapplimfionoPSths
Mdmmwmmdfismlgfindnfim
howhdgefiomwhztlhad'before. Immtnofiomof
things. Ilwkdmupmfinyorhuathhgmohwhichlhmi
nofihghdofithnoexpmhfimkmmihdeetmdefimm:
maMIhAdnothingiandowithmmmmliketo
have;mIthoughtithoanaswemaypeflmpslooknponithmfier,
vim,unphcalhflfivedeutwascomeontofig--mdwellmight'l
say, asfnthor Abraham to Dives, "Between mo and you themizngmt
gulfflm-Yl
htheMMImrmmedfiomdlthewickednmofthewofld
hem:Ihadneitherthelmtoftheflesh,theluatoftheeye,nm-thopfide
oflife. Ihndnothingtomvegforlhadfllthatlwu-noweapableof
enjoying: Iwulordofthewholemanor;or,iflpleased,1might
callmyselfkingoremperoroverthewhole oonntrywhichlhadpocseo-
sionof. Therewmnofivak;1hadnncompetita,nonehdispufe
sovereigntyor oommandwith me: Imighthavenisedship-loadings of.
comhutlhadnouseforit; soIletulitflegroquthaughtenough
forulyoocnsion. Ihadfprhimorturflesenoughbutnowandthmone
wasasmnchaa'lconldputtomyuse. Ihudfimberenoughfohavo
bufltafleetofships;1hadgmpesannughtohavemadewine,ortohavo
cuedhtnmsingtohnveloadedthatfleetwhmtheyhndbeenbnflt.
Butallloouldmakemeofwasallthntwumlubh. Ihadenough
weatmdtompplymymhmdwhatmthemsthme?IfIldlled
momfleshthmlmfldefithedogmuatmtihorflwvminfifl

cudomwmlyhghmtmtheyom--I odnldmakemmmmof
thmfimmMmdthatIhadnooooasimforlmttodmmyfood.
hawortflxemtumandupefimwofthingndictatadfiomupon
justmfleofimthatmthegoodthingsofflfiswofldmmfirthergood
wmthmutheymfumuaandthatwhahemwemgyhmp
uptogiveothmwemjoyummhummmmdmmm
Themostoovetousgfipingmiminfheworldwonldhavebemmedd
thevieedwvewmmifhehadbeeninmymfnrlpomuedinfl-
nihlymmflmllmwwhattodowith. Ihadnomohfordeaire,
exceptihwuofthingswhichlhndnohmdtheymbutuiflu,
thoughhdeedofgreatusotome. IMthintedbefmnpm-celot
money, unwell golduuilver,abovuthizty-aix pounds aim-ling: Alas! '-
therothennsty,sony,uselessstufi'ley:1hadnomennerofhnsinessfu
it,deoflenthoughtvdthmyeelfithethouldhsvegivenehendful
ofitforsyoubftohwooLpipegorfornhsnd-mflltoyindmyoom;
ney,Iwould have given it allforesixpenny-worthof turnipandoenot
wedoutdEnglmiorforehmdfulofpessmdheennmdebotfleof
ink. AsitwanIhudnottheleostadmhgehyigorbenedthom
it, but there it lay in 3 drawer, and grew monldy with the damp of
themveinthewetseosan; andifIhedhadthedmwerfullofdiemonds
ithndbecnthe same case,andtheyhndbeenofnomenuerofvulue
wmghemusoofnousc.

I had now brought my state of life to be much easicrin itself then it
matfimfimdmucheasiertomymind,oswellnstomybody. I
frequentlysat down to meet with thenlcfulness, and ndmiredthe hendof
God's providence, which had thus spread my table in the wilderness.
I learned to look more upon the bright side of my condition, and less
upon the dark side, and to consider whet I enjoyed, rather then what
I wanted; and this gave me sometimes such secret comforts, that I
cannot express them, and which I take notice of here, to put those
discontented people in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what
God has given them, because they see and covet something that he
hesnot given them. All ourdiscontents about what we went appeared
Itometospringfiomthewuntofthmfldhlnessforwhetweheve.

Another reflection was of greotusetome, anddoubtlesswouldbe
sotounyonethntshpuldfnllintosuohdistmssasminewas;andthis
was, to compare my presenteonditionwithwhetIetfir-stexpeeted
it should be,--nny, with what it would certainly have been, if the
goodguovidenoeofGodhednotwonderfullyorderedtheshiptnhe
osstnpneartotheshore,where1noton1yoou1doomeather,but
oauldhringwhatIgotoutofherfotheshmformymliefendoomfort;
withoutwhieh,1hsdwantedfortmlstnwork,weaponsfordefenoe,or
gunpowdermdshotforgetfingmyfood.

Ispmtwhohhournlmymywhohdnyginrepresenfingtomyself
inthemostlivelyoolomshowImustheveeetodifIhedgotnothingout
oftheship;howIeouldnothavesomuohasgotanyfood,exoeptfish
Mmmmuitmlmgwmlmamyamrmm
hmperishedfirst;thntlshonldhnvelived,ifIhadnotpedshed,like
smmmge;thet,if1hsdhflledsgostorafowlhysnyoonhinnee,
Ihsdmwuyhflaymopmigorpertthefleshfiomtheskinmdthe

(
bcwdgorcntitumhntmustgnnwitwithmyteethmdpnlliewith
myclnw-likesbeast.
Theeereflecfionsmndemevelyeensibleofthegoodnwofhwidmee
hmgmdvuythmkfulfumypmtwndifiomwith'nllihhudahipe
andmisfortunee;mdthiepmm1cannatbutmcammendtothezefleo-
tion of thosewho an apt hthcirmieerybny, "Ismyeiflicfionlike
mine?" Iatthemconaidorhowmuchwanethemofaemepeopleue,
undtheirmmighthewbemifl'mvidencehadthoughtfit.
Ihednnothcrmflecfionwhiehueis'bedmenleotocomfortmymind
with hopegnndthiswu--compming mypreeent condition with whatI
haddeeerved,andhadthexeforemontoexpeetfromthehandoPShn-
vidence. Ihndfivededieadfulfifqpetfeeflydesfihteottheknowledge
andimrofGod. Ihndbecnwellinntmctedhyfnthermdmoflmfieiflm
hadtheybcmmfinghmgintheireaflyendeawuntoinfuaen
religioueaweafGodintomyminieeensecfmydnty,mdofwhatthe
mtmeandnndofmyheingxeqnimdofme. Buhdaslfallingeerlyinto
thennhfingfiffiwfichdmfivaiethemmtdeefimhdthefmrof
God, thouthietei'rox-em alway- before film--I eay,fnllingearly,
hmthemhrmgfimmdinto-eofirmgmpmynnthntfitflemof
religionwhichIhedmterteinedmhughedoutofmebymymeemme,
--byahnrdaneddeepising'ofdangen,mdthevieweoPSdeeth,which
mhabitudtomq--bymylongebeenccfi'omallmmer'ofoppon
tmifieetomnvemwithmythinghutwufikemyedgortohearmy
thhgofwhntmgoofiortendedtowmdeit.
BovddmIdevuyflimgthathwofthelmsteemecf
whtlmumwhgthaginthegmmtdelivmlenjoyed
(mchumympefiomflnneqmyheingtekennphythorormgume
mmterofaahinmybcingplnntedsowellmBmaiLmyzeceivmsthe
cargofiomEngland,andthelike),Ineverhndoncethoworda,"Thank
God,"somuchuonmymind,orinmymcuth;nor,inthegreabeatdie-
MMIwmnchunmwglitbpethMm-umchuheay,
"Minnvemucynponmel"--no,nottomenfionthenmeofGod,
nnleeeitmtoswearhy,andhlnsphemeit.
Ihadteniblemfleefimupmmymindfiormmymmihgthm_
Myobmefiontheeccountcfmywiokedmdhudenedlifeput;
mflwhmIlwkednboutmmdconaidemdwhatparficulnrpmvidencee
hadafl'endedmefincemycmingmtothhphcqendhoweodhnddealt ._~
bounhfunymthmq--hadnotcnlypmahedmcleathmmqumty:
hhddnmved,buthsdsoplenfifu11y pmfidodfmmq--this gave magnet
hopesthnt mympentonoewas mpMmdthntGodhndyetmsroissin
storeforme.
Withthesersflecfions,1worksdmymindup,notonlytomsigmfion
tothsvfinofGodinthepremtdispodfionofmydmmshnmbut
wentoasincerethmkfulneuformywndifiomandthuthhownsyet
sliving man ought not to complain, seeingI had not the due punish-
msntofmysins;that1enjoyed so mnnymercieswhichlhndnorsason
tohnvuoxpsctedinthntplnce,thntloughtnevermozstompinsntmy
condition, but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that daily bread
which nothing butsu'owd of wonders could have brought; thutI ought
toconsidothndbesnfedsvanbyomiraslsasgmntasthntoffeeding
EHjahhyruvens,--nny,byslongseriesofmimoles; sndthstIoould
hudlyhnvennmedoplsceintheuninhsbitedpu'toftheworldwharsl
oouldhnvshsencastmoretomy.ndvantsge,--oplaoewhore,nsIhndno
society, which was my affliction on one hand, so I found no ravenous
beasts, no furious wolves or tigers, to threaten my 1ife,--no venomous
croutons, or poisonous, which I might have fed on to my burg--no
savages, to murder and devour me.
Inoword,osmylifewusolifiaofsonowonewny,soitwusnlifoof
marcyonother,ond1wantednothingtomukeitslife of wmforgbutto
benflohmnkemymmofGod'sgwdneummqmdmmmqin
thiswndifiombemydnflyconsolafion;sndafim-Imndeojustimpmve-
mentofthssethingslwentowayandwasnomomsad.
Ihsdnawbesnhsrssolong,thatmnythingswhioh1broughton
shoroformyhslpwore eitherquitc gonquvuymuothanflnou
spent.
Mymhulobmefihndhmgomfmmfimqsllhutsvery
Htflqwhichleksdontwithwater,olittlemdufifilqfillitwusso
pdgitsmselsfianyappeomnoeofhlackuponthepaper. Aslongas
ithMImsdsmofitmmhubdomthadaysofthemmmon
whichsnymnnkahlsthinghsppenedtoms;andflrst,byoasfingup
fimsspashlmembmdthsttherewsssstnngeoonomvneeofdsysin
thsvu'ions pofidmmwhichbefdmgmdwhichiflhsdbsensupu-
sfifiouslyinclinsdtoohservedsysasfatulorfortmts,lmighthavohnd
ressontohsvelooksduponwithogmstdeolofcuriosity.
MIMohmsdthntthsmedaythntIhmksmnyfimmy
hthaondmyfiimdfimdmamyhfiuminmdmtogotomthe

<<
~
mmdhynfierwudslwuhkmbyfheflnlleemm-of-w,mdmnde,n
Ilavegflmnmedayofthelymthatleswpedontodthewmckofthe
shipinYamwthBoadgthatmdayoftheymafiawudsImada

myeumpefiomflnlleehthaboutfihamedayofflmymlmhom'

on, vil.,th930thoPS86ptmber,fhesamadaylhadmylifiasomim
culmslymedtwmty-zixymbafiar,whenlmoastonahminthis
lam--mthatmywiokedfifgmdmywfihryfifgbegmbothon
nday.

ThenmmhgbmyhkbdngWWMofmyM--I
mmthebiscuitwhiothmughtantoftheahip: thiIIhadhusbanded
hthehstdemlflowingmymlfhntmmkeofhmdsdaylorabow
ayeu;andyethuquitawithantbmadformayearbeforoIgot
myomofmymandgmatmanlhadtobethankfnlthatlhad
myatdhthegetfingfibdngufihmdmadyhmobmeinmto
mimoulous. ' .

My clothes, too, began!>> decay mightilyz'hs tolinan, Ihadnone
ngoodwhflgexoeptaomechequemdahirtawhichIfoundhtheohests
oftheothamemmdwhinhImfnflbeemusemmyfimes
Ieofldbmmdothumbutaahhhmditmamgmathelptom
MIMmongallfhemen'solotheaoftheship,almostthreodom
ofshirts. Thmwueflmwmalthiokwmmwthaaeamwhich
mkfihdmdbuttheywmfioohottom,mdthoughitistmn
thatfheweathermsoviolanflyhotthntthmmmneedofdofllw
yetIcouldnotgoquiteunked, nqthmghlhndbeeninnfinedtoif,
whiohlwunngmwuldlabidathethoushtditthoushlwasafl
alone. . _

Onemmwhyloouldnotgoqtfifemkedwas--Ioouldmtbeuthe
heutnfthomuowellwhen quite naked. umthsomedotheson, my,

filevmyheatfiequmflybfimmmyafimwhmwithaahhtomtho

airiudfmadnmmofiomandwhisflingunderflwahirgwutwofold-

coolerthanwithontit. NomoouldIeva-ln'ingmysglftogoantin
thehedtotthemwithontuuaporhat: theheatofthambeafing
withsuchfidmuuitdmhthatphngwuuldgiwmtheheadaoho
Myfiydufingaodimflyonmyheadnrithontaoaporhatm,>>

thatImuMnotbeufi--whmiprntmmyhagitwluuldpzuenfly
sonny.

UpmthenfimIbegmtoomsiderabontpntfingthefewngaI-
Mwhichledbddothaghfimoxder. Ihad-womoutalltho.
waistcoats I had, andmybasinesswasnowtoh'yif Ieouldnotmaks
jackets out of the great watch-coats which I had by me, and with such
other materials as I had; so I set to work mtailoring, or rather, indeed,
apbotching, for I made most piteous work of it. However, I made shift
to make two or three waisteoats, which I hoped would serve me a great
while: as for brooches, or drawers, I made but very sorry shift, indeed,
till alterwards.

l have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the creatures that I
killed,--I mean four-footed ones; and I had hung them up, stretched out
with sticks, in the sun, bywhich means some of them were so dryand
hard that they were fit for little, but others, it seems, were very useful.
ThefirstthingI made ofthoso wasagreat cap formyhead, withthe
haironthe outside, to shoot ofi' the rain; and this I performed so well
that, after this, I made me a suit of clothes wholly of those liking--that is
to say, a waistcoat, and brooches open atthe knees, and both loose, for they
were rather wanted to keep me cool than to keep me warm. I must not
omit to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made, for, if I was a had
carpenter, I was a worse tailor; however, they were such as I made
very good shift with, and when I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the
hair of the waistcoat and cap being outmost, I was kept very dry.

Afierthialspentagmatdculoffimeandpainstomakemean
umbrella. I was indeed in great want of one, and had a great mindto
make one. I had seen them made in the Brazils, where they are very
useful in the great heats which are these, and I felt the heats every jot as
great here, and greater, too, being nearer the equinox; besides, as I was
obligedtobemueh abroad, itwasamostusefulthingtome, aswell
forthe rainsnsthe heats. I took aworld of painsatit, andwasagreat
while before I could make anything likely to hold,--nay, after I thought
I hadhitthe way, I spoiled two orthree beforeImade onetomymind;
but at last I made one that answered indifi'erently well. The main
difieulty I found waste make it to let down; I oouldmake itto spread,
but if it did not let down too, and draw in, it would not be portable for
me any way but just over my head, which would not do. However, at
last,asIsaid,Imadeenetoanswes-; vameditwithskinathehair
npwardawthatiteastofitherainlikeapmthousqmdkeptofl'the
sunsoefl'eetuallythatl eouldwalkoutinthehottestof theweather with
greater advantage than I could before in the coolest; and, when I hadno
needof it, Ieouldcloseit, andearryitundermym-m.
Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being entirely composed
by resigning to the will of God, and throwing myself wholly upon the
disposal of his providence. This made my life better than sociable; for
when I began 1:0 regret the want of conversation, I would ask myself
whether thus conversing mutually with my own thoughts--and, as 1
hope I may say, even with my Maker, by ejaculations and petitions--was
not better than the utmost enjoyment of human society in the world?
mmmam-mo--anmmammhumm Mud-Imam
mum--nomormmm--Mbmnmmnmm
mumwmmdmwm--thmma "thaw-round
Wmufimmhmwem'mmwmflomflm Mn
--AC/ hmwlmhhhnfly--mmhkmummnomjm no-

' CANNOT mythngoflerthiqfor fiwymany extraordinary
thinghopponedfome,bnt11ivodoninthommeoomo,intho
somepoMondplnce,justasbefore;theohiefthingIm
employed in, besides my yearly planting my borloyondrice and
mfingmyrnisingof bothwhichIolwoyn kept up justenoughtohaveo
mfldmt stock of the year's provisions befmhnnd,--I say, besides this
ymrlylabour,ondmydnilylubourofgoingantwithmygmlhadone
hboun--tomokemeounoqwhichathstlflnished;aofimtbydigging
aconnlfoitofoixfeetwideandfourfeetdoep,lhwghtitintothe-
cmk,olmoathnlfamile. Aaforthofinhthatmmwaflybig--ul
madeitwithontoonnidmingbeforohand,uloughttodo,howlahyld
boablotolounohit--oo,naverbeingnhletobdngittothowater,or
hfingthomhrbifilwuobfigedtoletitliewhmitmuo
memorandumtoteachmofnbemnextfimo. Indeed,thonaxttime,
thoughlwfldnotgotaheopmpuforigmdwuinophoowhml
mudnflgetWMhfiumyhadimmMthwniiol
mhflfomflqyetulmitmpmfimbhothsfilmmgovoit
ovor;ondflmugh1wuneartwoyeonoboutit,yet1nommflgedmy
labonrfinhopeoofhavingaboottogoofltooeoatlut.
Hm,thoughmyfitflepefiagmwufiniahed,yetthsuinotit"'"~'="wrv"EURir:'f'q , T"

   

- at:

' ROBINSON CRUSOI. I
thtmmdhwdedmudmlthoughtmmmd 3
it. Butnlhndohoagmynextdedpmtomakeotouxound ',SS
theialnnd;for,u1hndheonontheothersidoinonoplnoe,uouing, j;
thnanyWigomthohninthedimvu-iulmadah (j
thatjomeymndem-veryeoguhmtheotherpntbdthooout:md g
nothndnhmfiIthoughtotnothinghutnflingmndtheiflnnd. ' j

Forthispmpmndthatlmightdoevuythingwithdimfionmd "
muddmfiomlfittednpontflomnsthmyhoatmdmadenmilbit :
wtofmmedthepweudtheahip'ssfilnwhichhyhmmw -.i
whichIhadngxmmhym ~ ':

Huhgfittedmymaatmdnlmdhiedthnbmglfomdahawwld
nflvuywan:fl1mlmndalitflolookars,orboxegateithstmdoPSmy .j
hmfitopntpvfidmmmmdmmifimmfinmtohohpt . e
dry,eitherfmmninorflwnpmyotthem;mdulifilelonghollow '
phmlouthltheinddeoftheboatwhmloouldhymygungmnking
ofloptohangdownoverittokeepitdry.

Ifixedmymhmfladminampatthom'likolmattomd
mmyheatmdkeepthnheatofthemofimlikemwning;ind
thusIevarynowmdfhentookalitflnwyugauponthemhutm
mtfilrmnorfarfi'mthefittlemek. Bntathshheingeager
hfiawthedmmfmmwofmyfittbkingdmlmolvednpmmym;
mdamxdinglylfiotnafledmynhipfmthewputfinghtwo
dozenofmyloavu(eokasIahonldmherodlthm)dhafleyhnad,m
mthmpothhofpmhedrice-(afoodleatagxutdedof),slitfln
bouleofrmhalfugoagnndpawdermdshotforkflfingmndtwo
krgewntohmud'thmwhhhulmfimndhdmlhadmedmt
dthemmen'schem; thaerohmbHoupommdtheotherh
commeinflienight.

ItwasflmnixthofNovembmintheaixthymofmymiglyot.
my captivity--which you please--that I sat out on this voyage, and
Ifonnditmuchlongerthmlaxpooted;for,thonghthaialanfliuelf
mnotmyhrgqyetwhmlemobmmddadifilfomfi
amtledgeofroohliemabouttwoleogueaintothnmmanbon _
watp,moundarit,qdheymdflfinanhoaldund,lyingdryhflf_
:Ileagusmm--mfhatlmobfigedtogolglmtwayonthm.,'
todonblethatpoint.

WhmIMfimudfhmeugoingbginmmyenm-pfin,
udmhokagfimnothowinghawfaritmightobfigombgoont'

| V>> l _' T ~ ' I

13.". _,
I I A

mm:mm~.:;.;..; _ _ 1

1 -
:ufl-J.

. ..'

l

tan:

.1 .-'-L-."

   
 
   
   

; k 54.1.."- .'.

I" A
4'3 .umnfi' 3'11"

A .- I wont
to see, and, above all, doubting howIshonld getbockagoin; soIeoms
tounanehor, fothadmademeakindofananchorwithopieoeof
broken grappling which I got out of the ship.

Havingsecured myboat, I tool: mygun andwentonshore, climbing
up a hill which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw the full
extent of it, and resolved to venture.

 

Inmyviewingtheeeafi-omthathillwhm'elstood,lpereeived
a strong, and indeed a most furious current, which ran to the east,
and even come elm to the point; and I took the more notice of it,
because I saw there mightbesome danger that,whenIeeme intoit,
Imigbtbecnniedouttoseebythestrengthofit, and notbeehlo
tomaketheislandagain: and, indecd,hsd Inot gottenfirstupon
this bill, I believe it would have been so, for there was the/same
cumnt on the othersido of the island, only that it set ofi'atafartherdis--
tance. and I saw there was a strong eddy under the shore,--so I had
nothingto do hutto get out of the first current, andIshould pmently
beinaneddy.

I lay here, however, two days, because the wind blowing pretty
fiesh(at eost-south-eest, andthat being just conhnrytothe said cunent)
msdeugreatbreochofthesenuponthepoint,sothatitwosuoteefefor
metokeeptooclosetotheshom,forthebreech,nortogotoofiiroff,
becauseofthestteem.

Thethizddeyfinthsmorningthewindbavingabatedovunigbt,
theseawascolm,andIventu1ed;butIamawsnningpieoeagaintodl
mahmdignomtpflotgfmmmmstmetothepohfiwhenI
mnotmyboat'lhngthhomtheahombutlfioundmyadfintgzut
depthofmter,mdtmtliknthednioodumfll;iburriedmym
dmgfithitwithmohfiohthhntdlIooulddooonldmtkeephm
nomuchuonthaodgeofit;but1fonndithnniedmefarthetand
tartherontfiomthoeddy,ihiohwuonthelefihanfl. Thmwuno
windsfiningbhdpmandallthatlooulddovithmypafldlu
signifiednnthing. Andnowaegantogivamycelfoverforlost;for
uhamdtmmbothdfludfiahlmilhwinnfewlmgues'
distanwtheymustjoinagaimmdthmlwuinmvaahlymmdid
Iaeeanypom'bflityofavoidhgit;wthntlhadnoprospeotbeforem
butafpefiafingmtbythemhrflflwueflmmmbutd
starvingforhungw. IhndindeedfoundafmfoineonthoMubig
almoatasIoauldliRmndhadtoueditinfothoboatgandIhadagmat
jaroffi'cahwater,thatiatoaay,oneofmyurthenpot;butwhatm
aflthhtnbeingdfivminbthavastoeemwhmtobemthfmm
mfiomnomdnhnduflmfihrnthonmdlmguesntleut?
AndnowluwhoweasyitwuforthopmvidenoeofGodhmm
themostmimablemdifimthatmmkindmuldbeimwouo. Now,
Ibokodbflupmmydmmwhryiflmdufihemoatpmtphm
hthawmlmanddlthshappinmmyhmtoouldwishfotwtobe
thmagain. Imtohedoutmyhmdltoihwithmwinhes. "0
happydeaart!" midI,"Iahallnevaraeetheemm. Omherable
<<autumnal, "whitheramlgoing!" ThenImpx-omhedmyaell
withmynnthankfnltempermndhowlhadrepinedatmyaolituyoonfliy
fion;nndnuwwhatwouldlgivetobeunahorethmaguihl Thuwo
mmtbotushtedmmdifimfinithmummubyiu
oontmies,norknawhawtovaluswhatweenjoy,hutbythawmtdit
Rhmpodhhhimagineflommfimlmmhingdm
bommybelovedinland(forsoitappeuedhomomhbe)intothe
wideoomflmoottwoleaguegmdinthouhmstdupairofavarre-

ooveringitagain. Howeveerotkedhnrdfifllindeedmymgthwu'
dmootuhmMQdkeptmybmtumunhtothanmthwud--thatiy'

tpwudatheddoofthacmmtwhiohtheeddyhym--upmihlyl
'Mwhmaboutnmuvthompamedthemafidhmlflmughtlfit
infitflahmedwindhmybegapfingingupfmmthemnth--wnthm
macadmyhmtafimmmmywhmhmmm

hounmitflewupsfiynfllgmflogfla. BythisfimoImgottm,'

u.mghumaimmmmma.mdhadthemaogaum,
weather intervened, I had been undone another way too, for I had no
compass on board, and should never have known how to have steered
towards the island, if I had but once lost sight of it; but the weather
continuing clear, I applied myself to get up my mast again, and spread
my sail, standing away to the north as much as possible, to get out of the
current.

Just as I had set my mast and sail, and the boat began to stretch
away, I saw, even by the clearness of the water, some alteration of the
current was near; for where the current was so strong the water was
foul, but perceiving the water clear, I found the current abate, and
presently I found, to the cast, at about half a mile, a breach of the sea
upon some rocks: these rocks, I found, caused the current to part again,
and as the main stress of it ran away more southerly, leaving the rocks to
the north-east, so the other returned by tho repulse of the rocks, and
made a. strong eddy, which ran back again to the north-west with a very
sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon
the ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder them, or
who have been in such like extremities, may guess what my present
surprise of joy was, and how gladly I put my boat into the stream of this
eddy, and, the wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, run-
ning cheerfully before the wind, and with a strong tide or eddy under feet.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again directly
towards the island, but about two leagues more to the northward than the
current lay which carried me away at first,--so that when I came near
the island, I found myself open to the northern shore of it, that F to say,
the other end of the island, opposite to that which I went out from.

When I had made something more than a league of way by the help
of this current or eddy, I found it was spent, and served mo no farther.
However, I found that being between the two great currents, viz. that on
the south side, which had hurried me away, and that on the north, which
lay about two leagues on the other side,--I say, between these two, in the
wake of the island, I found the water at least still, and running no way;
and having still a breeze of wind fair for me, I kept on steering directly
for the island, though not making such fresh way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within about a league
of the island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this dis-
tance stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, and casting
ofi' the current more southwardly, had, of course, made another eddy to
the north; and this I found very strong, but not directly setting the way
my course lay, which was due west, but almost full north. However,
having a fresh gale, I stretched across this eddy, slanting north-west;
and, in about an hour, came within about a mile of tho shore, where, it
being smooth water, I soon get to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks for my
deliverance, resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my
boat; and refreshing myself with such things as I had, I brought my boat
close to the shore, in a little cove that I had spied under some trees, and
laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of
the voyage. ' -

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat:
I had run so much hazard, and knew too much the cause,to think of
attempting it by the way I wentout; and what might be at the other
side (I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any mind to run any
more ventures: so I only resolved in the morning to make my way west-
ward along the shore, and to see if there was no creek where I might lay
up my frigate in safety, so as to have her again if I wanted her. In
about three miles, or thereabouts, coasting the shore, I came to a very
good inlet, or bay, about a mile over, which narrowed till it came to
a very little rivulet or brook, where I found a. convenient harbour for my
boat, and where she lay as if she had been in a little dock made on pur-
pose for her. Here I put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I
went on shore to look about me and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place where I had been
before when I travelled on foot to that shore, so taking nothing out of my
boat but my gun and my umbrella, for it was exceeding hot, I began my
march. The way was comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had
been upon, and I reached my old bower in the evening, where I found
every thing standing as I left it, for I always kept it in good order, being,
as I said before, my country house.

1 got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade, to rest my limbs,
for 1 was very weary, and fell asleep; but judge, if you can--you that
read my story--what a surprise I must be in, when I was awaked out of
my sleep by a voice, calling me by my name several times, "Robin,
Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe; Whereaie you, Robin Omsoe'?
Where are you? Where have you been '1'"
I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, or paddling,
as it is called, the first part of the day, and walking the latter part, that
I did not awake thoroughly, and dozing between sleeping and waking,
thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to me; but, as the voice con-
tinued to repeat, " Robin Crusoe, Robin Crusoe," at last I began to awake
more perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frighted, and started up in the

  

' "7."; 4,,,_9 ' f??? .

utmost consternation: but no sooner were my eyes open, but I saw my
Poll sitting on the top of the hedge, and immediately knew glint this was
he that spoke to me, for just in such bemoaning language I had used to
talk to him and teach him, and he had learned it so perfectly, that he
would sit upon my finger and lay his bill close to my face and cry, " Poor
Robin Crusoe: Where are you? Where have you been? How come
you here ?" and such things as I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed it
could be nobody else, it was a good while before I could compose myself.
First, I was amazed how the creature got thither; and then, how he
should just keep about the place, and nowhere else: but, as I was well
satisfied it could be nobody but honest 1'01], I got over it, and holding
out my hand, and calling him by his name, "Poll," the sociable creature
came to me and sat upon my thumb, u he used to do, and continued
talking to me, "Poor Robin Crusoe!" and 'how did I come here? and
where hadIbeen? justasif hehadbeenoveijoyedtp seemeagnin: and
so I carried him home along with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had enough
todo formanydsys, tositstillandreflectuponthe dsngethadbeenin.
I would have beenvery glad to have had my boat again on my side of
the island, but I knew not how it was practicable to get it about. As to
the east side of the island, which I had gone round, I know well enough
there was no venturing that way; my very heart would shrink, and my
very blood run chill, but to think of it; and as to the other side of the
island, I did not know how it might be there, but, supposing the current
ran with the same force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on
the other, I might run the same risk of being driven down the stream
and carried by the island, as I had been before of being carried away
from it. So with these thoughts, I contented myself to be without any
boat, though it had been the product of so many months' labour to make
it, and of so many more to get it into the sea.

In this government of my temper I remained near a year, lived a very
sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and my thoughts being
very much composed, as to my condition, and fully comforted in resigning
myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought I lived really very
happy in all things, except that of society. I improved myself in this
time in all the mechanic exercises which my necessities put me upon
applying myself to, and I believe could, upon occasion, have made a very
good carpenter, especially considering how few tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthen-
ware, and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which
I found infinitely easier and better, because I made things round and
shapeablc, which before were filthy things indeed to look upon. But
I think I never was more vein of my own performance, or more joyful
for anything I found out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe;
and though it was a very ugly clumsy thing when it was done, and only
burnt red like other earthenware, yet as it was hard and firm and would
draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it, for I had been
always used to smoke : and there were pipes in the ship, but I forgot them
at first, not knowing there was tobacco in the island; and afterwards,
when I searched the ship again, I could not come at any pipes at all.

9
In my wiekerware also I improved much, and made abundance of
necessary baskets, as well as my invention showed me,--though not very
handsome, yet convenient for my laying things up in, or fetching things
home m. For example, if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang it up in
a. tree, flay it and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it home in a
basket; and the like by a turtle--I could cut it up, take out the eggs,
and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough for me, and bring them
home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also large deep baskets
were my rccciv crs for my corn, which I always rubbed out as soon as it
was dry, and cured, and kept it in great baskets instead of a granary.

I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably, and this was
a want which it was impossible for me to supply, and I began seriously
to consider what I must do when I should have no more powder,--that is
to say, how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as I observed, in the
third year of my being here, kept a young kid, and bred her tame: I was
in hopes of getting a he--kid, but I could not by any means bring it to
pass, till my kid grow an old goat, and I could never find in my heart to
kill her, till she died at last of mere age.

But being new in the eleventh year of my residence, and, as I have
said, my ammunition growing low, I set myself to study some art to trap
and snare the goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them alive ,
and particularly I wished to possess a she-goat great with young.

For this purpose, I made snares to hamper them, and believe they
were more than once taken in them; but my tackle was not good, for I
had no wire, and I always found them broken, and my bait devoured.

At length I resolved to try a pitfall, --so I dug severpl large pits in
the earth, in places where I had observed the goats used to feed, and over
these pits I placed hurdles of my own making, too, with a. great weight
upon them, and several fimes I put ears of barley and dry rice, without
setting the trap; and I could easily perceive that the goats had gone in
and eaten up the corn, for I could see the marks of their feet. At length
I set three traps in one night, and going the next morning, I found them
all standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This was very discouraging.
However, I altered my traps; and, not to trouble you with particulars,
_ going one morning to see my traps, I found in one of them a large old
he-goat, and in one of the other, three kids--a male and two females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was so fierce,
I durst not go into the pit to him,--that is to say, to bring him away
alive, which was what I wanted: I could have killed him, but that was
not my business, nor would it answer my end: so I even let him out, and.
he ran away, as if he had been frighted out of hiswits. But I didnot
then know, what I afterwards learned, that hunger will--tame a lion.
If I had let him stay there three or four days without food, and then have
carried him some water to drink and then a little corn, he would have
been as tame as one of the kids, for they are mighty segacious and
tractable creatures, where they are well used. A

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that time:
then I went to the three kids, and taking them one by one, I tied them
with strings together, and with considerable difficulty brought them home.

It was a good while before they would feed; but throwing them some
sweet corn, it tempted them, and they began to be tame. Andnow I
found that if I expected to supply myself with goat's flesh when I had no
powder or shot left, breeding some up tame was my only way; when,
perhaps, I might have them about my house like a flock of sheep.

But then it presently occurred to me that I must keep the tame from
the wild, or else they would always run wild when they grew up ; and
the only way for this was '03 have some enclosed piece of ground, well
fenced, either with hedge or pole, to keep them in so effectually that those
within might not break out, or those without break in.

This was a great undertaldng for one pair of hands; yet, as I saw
there was an absolute necessity for doing it, my first piece of work was to
find out a proper piece of ground, where there was likely to be herbage for
them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.

Those who understand such enclosures will think I had very little
contrivanee, when I pitched upon a place very proper for all these (being
a plain open piece of meadow land, or savannah, as our people call it in
the Wesfem colonies), which had five or three drills of flesh water in it,
and at one end was very woody,--I say they will smile at my forecast,
, when I shall tell them I began my enclosing of this piece of ground in
such a manner that my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles
' about. Nor was the madness of it so great as to the compass, for if it

was ten miles about, I was like to have time enough to doitin; butI
did not consider that my goats would be as wild in so much compass as
iftheyhadhadthewhols island, and I shouldhave somuehroomto
chase them in, that I should never catch them.

Myhedgewssbegunandcaniedon, Ibelieveaboutfiftyyards, when
this thought occurred to me; so I presently stopped short, and for the
first beginning, I resolved to enclose a piece of about one hundred and
fifty yards in length, and one hundred yards in breadth, which, as it
would maintain as many as I should have in any reasonable time, so, as
my flock increased, I could add more ground to my enclosure.

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work with
courage. I was about three months hedging in the first piece, and, till
I had done it, I tethered the three kids in the best part of it, and used
them to feed as near me as possible, to make them familiar; and very
often I would go and carry them some cars of barleyI or a handful of rice,
and feed them out of my hand,--so that, after my enclosure was finished
and I let them loose, they would follow me up and down, bloating after
me for a handful of com.

This answered my end, and in about a year and a half I had a flock
of about twelve goats, kids and all; and in two years more, I had three
and forty, besides several that I took and killed for my food. And after
that I enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in, with little
pens to drive them into, to take them as I wanted, and gates out of one
piece of ground into another.

But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's flesh to feed on
when I pleased, but milk too, a thing which, indeed, in my beginning,
I did not so much as think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts,
was really an agreeable surprise: for now I set up my dairy, and had
sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a day. And as Nature, who gives sup-
plies of food to every creature, dictates even naturally how to make use of
it, so I that had never milked a cow, much less a gut, or seen butter or
cheese made, very readily and handily, though after many miscarriages,

made me both butter and cheese at last, and never wanted it afterwards.
' How mercifully can our great Creator treat his creatures, even in
those conditions in which they seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction.
How can he sweeten the bitterest providences, and give us cause to praise
him for dungeons and prisons. What a table was here spread for me in a
wilderness where I saw nothing at first, but to perish for hunger.

It would have made a. stoic smile to have seen me and my little family
sit down to dinner. There was my majesty, the prince and lord of the
whole island: I had the lives of all my subjects at my absolute command;
I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take it away,--and no rebels among
my subjects. Then to see how like a king I dined too, all alone, attended
by my servants! Poll, as if he had been my favourite, was the only per-
son permitted to talk to me. My dog, who was now grown very old and
crazy, and had found no species to multi ply hiskind upon, sat always at my
right hand, and two cats, one on one side of the table, and one on the other,
expecting now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of special favour.

But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at first, for
they were both of them dead, and had been interred near my habitation
by my own hand; but one of them having multiplied by I know not
what kind of creature, these were two which I had preserved tame;
whereas the rest ran wild in the woods, and became indeed troublesome
to me at last, for they would often come into my house, and plunder me
too, till at last I was obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great many:
at length they left me. With this attendance, and in this plentiful
manner, I lived; neither could I be said to want anything but society,
and of that in some time utter this, I was like to have too much.

I was something impatient, as I have observed, to have the use of my
boat, though very loth to run any more hazards, and therefore sometimes
I sat contriviug ways to get her about the island, and at other times I sat
myself down contented enough without her. But I had a strange
uneasiness in my mind to go down to the point of the island where, as I
have said, in my last ramble, I went up to the hill to see how the shore
lay, and how the current set, that I might see what I had to do. This
inclination increased upon me every day, and at length I resolved to
travel thither by land, following the edge of the shore. I did so; but had
any one in England been to meet such a man as I was, it must either have
frighted him or raised a great deal of laughter; and, as I frequently
stood still to look at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my
travelling through Yorkshire, with such an equipage and in such a dress.

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's skin, with a flap
hanging down behind, as well to keep the sun from me as to shoot the
min 011' from running into my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these
climates as the rain upon the flesh, under the clothes. I had a short jacket
of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to about the middle of my thighs,
and a pair of open-heed breeches of the same, made of the skin of an old
he-goat, whose hair hung down such a length on either side, that, like
pmtaloons, it reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I had
none, but I had made me a pair of something--I scarce know what to'csll
them--like buskins, to tap over my legs, and lace on either side like spat-
terdashes, but of a most barbarous shape, as were all the rest of my clothes.
I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together with
two thongs of the same, instead of buckles; and in a kind of a. frog on
either side of this, instead of a sword and a dagger, hung a. little saw and
a hatchet--one on one side, and one on the other. I had another belt,
not so broad, and fastened in the same manner which hung over my
shoulder; and at the end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches,
both made of goat's skin too, in one of which hung my powder, in the
other my shot. At my back I carried my basket, on my shoulder my
gun, and over my head a great clumsy ugly goat's skin umbrella, but
which, after all, was the most necessary thing I had about me, next to
my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was really not so mulatto-likc
as one might expect from a man not at all careful of it, and living within '
nine or ten degrees of the equinox. My beard I had once suffered to
grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long; but as I had both scissors
and razors sufficient, I had cut it pretty short, except what grew on my
upper lip, which I had trimmed into a large pair of Mnhometan whiskers,
such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallcc--for the Moors did not
wear such, though the Turks did: I will not say they were long enough
to hang my hat upon them, but they were of a length and shape monstrous
enough, and such as, in England, would have passed for frightful.

But all this is by the bye; for, as to my figure, I had so few to
observe me that it was no manner of consequence, so I say no more to
that part. In this kind of figure I went my new journey, and was out
five or six days. I travelled first along the seashore, directly to the place
where I first brought my boat to an anchor, to g\t upon the rocks, and
having no boat now to take care of, I went over the land a nearer way
to the same height that I was upon before, when looking forward to the
point of the rocks which lay out, and which I was obliged to double with
my boat, as I said above, I was surprised to see the sea smooth and quiet,
--no rippling, no motion, no current, any more there than in other places.

I was at a strange loss to understand this, and resolved to spend some
time in the observing it, to see if nothing from the sets of the tide had
occasioned it: but I was presently convinced how it was, viz., that the
tide of ebb setting from the west, and joining with the current of waters
from some great river on the shore, must be the occasion of this current;
and that, according as the wind blew more forcibly from the west, or from
the north, this current came nearer, or went farther from the shore: for
waiting thereabouts till the evening, I went up to the rock again, and
then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current again as before,
only that it ran farther 011', being near half a league from the shore,--
whereas, in my case, it set close from the shore, and hurried me and my
canoe along with it, which at another time it would not have done.

This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do but to observe
the ebbing and flowing of the tide, and I might very easily bring my boat
about the island again: but when I began to think of putting it in
practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at the remembrance of the
danger I had been in, that I could not think of it again with any
patience; but, on the contrary, I took up another resolution, and this
was, that I would build, or rather make me another periagun or canoe,
and so have one for one side of the island, and one for the other.

You are to understand that now I had, as I may call it, two planta-
tions in the island; one my little fortification or tent, with-the wall
about it under the rock, and with the cave behind me, which by this
time I had enlarged into several apartments or eaves, one within another.
One of these, which was the driest and largest, turd had a. door out beyond
my wall or fortification--that is to say, beyond where my wall joined to
the rock--was all filled up with the large earthen pots of which I have
given an account, and with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would
hold five or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores of provision,
especially my corn, some in the ear, cut off short from the straw, and the
other rubbed out with my hand. As for my wall, made, as before, with
long stakes or piles, those piles grow all like trees, and were by this time
grown so big and spread so very much, that there was not the least
appearance, to any one'a view, of any habitation behind them.

, Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land, and

upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn ground, which I kept culti-
vated, and which duly yielded me their harvest in its season; and when-
ever I had occasion for more com, I had more land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this I had my country seat, and I had new a tolerable planta-
tion there also; for first, I had my little bower, as I called it, which I
kept in repair,--that is to say, I kept the hedge which circled it in con-
stantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder standing always in the
inside: I kept the trees, which at first were no more than my stakes, but
were now grown very firm and ta]1,--I kept them always so cut, that
they might spread, and grow thick and wild, and make the more agree- '

5 "IP-

r I. min/an."'36 norzissON caoson.

able shade, which they did effectually to my mind. In the middle of this
[had my tent always standing, being a piece of a sail spread over poles,
set up for that purpose, and which never wanted any repair or renewing;
and under this 1 had made me a couch, with the skins of the creatures I
had killed, and with other soft things, and a blanket laid on them, such as
belonged to our sea bedding, and a great watch-coat to cover me ; and here,
whenever absent from my chief seat, I took up my country habitation.

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle,--that is to say,
my goats ; and as I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and
enclose this ground, so I was so uneasy to see it kept eat-ire, lest the goats
should break through, that I never left otf till, with infinite labour, I had
stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one
another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce
room to put a. hand through between them; which afterwards, when
those stakes grew, as they all did in the next rainy season, made the
enclosure strong like a wall, indeed, stronger than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and that I spared no
pains to luring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfortable
support; for I considered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures thus
at my hand would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese
for me as long as I lived in the place, if it were to be forty years; and
that keeping them in my reach depended entirely upon my perfecting my
enclosures to such a degree that I might be sure of keeping them together.

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I principally
depended on for my winter store of raisins, and which I never failed
to preserve very carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of my
whole diet; and, indeed, they were not agrc\cable only, but physical,
wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the last degree.

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation and the
place where I had laid up my boat, I generally staid and lay here in my
way thither; for I used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all things
about, or belonging to her, in very good order. Sometimes I went out in
her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, not
scarce ever above a stone's east or two from the shore, I was so apprehen- '
sive of being hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents, or winds,
or any other accident. But now I come to a new scene of my life.
Crusoe in surprised by the print of a man's naked foot. on the shore, and {can an nuack hmn gauges
--Erccla I second fortification round his dwelling--Discovers the remains of n {can of cannibal;

T happened one day, about noon, going towanis my boat, I was
exceedingly surprised with the print of n man's naked foot on

 

like one thunderstruck, or as if I had seen an apparition: I
listened, I looked round me; I could hmr nothing, nor see anvthing. I
went up to a rising ground, to look farther--I went up the shore, and
down the shore; but it was all one,--I could see no other impression but
that one. I went to it again to see if there were any more, and to observe
if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room for that, for there
was exactly the very print of a foot--toes, heel, and every part of a
foot: how it came thither I know not, nor could in the least imagine,
but, after innumerable fluttering thoughE, like a man perfectly confused
and out of myself, I came home to my fortification, not feeling, aswe say,
the ground I went on, but terrified to the last degree--looking behind me
at every two or three steps, mistaking every bush and tree, and fancying
every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor is it possible to describe how
many various shapes afl'righted imagination represented things to me in,
how many wild ideas were found every moment in my fancy, and what
strange unaccountable whimsios came into my thoughts by the way.

When I came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after this),
I fled into it like one pursued; whether I went over by the ladder, as
first contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock, which I called a door,
I cannot remember: no, nor could I remember the next morning; for
never frighted hare fled to cover, or fox to earth, with more terror of
mind than I to this retreat.

I slept none that night: the farther I was from the occasion of my
fright, the greater my apprehensions were, which is something contrary
to the nature of such things, and especially to the usual practice of all
creatures in fear; but I was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas
of the thing, that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself,
even though I was now a great way of? it. Sometimes I fancied it must
he the devil, and reason joined in with me upon this supposition; for how
should any other thing in human shape come into the place? Where
was the vessel that brought them? What marks were there of any other
footsteps ? And how was it possible a man should come there? But then
to think that Satan should take human shape upon him in such a place,
where there could be no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print
of his foot behind him, and that even for no purpose too, for he could not
be sure I should see it,--this was an amusement the other way. I con-
sidered that the devil might have found out abundance of other ways to
have terrified me, than this of the single print of a foot: that, as I lived
quite on the other side of the island, he would never have been so simple
as to leave a mark in a place where it was ten thousand to one whether I
should ever see it or not, and in the sand too, which the first surge of the
sea, upon a high wind, would have defaced entirely: all this seemed
inconsistent with the thing itself, and with all the notions we usually
entertain of the subtilty of the devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all
apprehensions of 'its being the devil; and I presently concluded, then,
that it must be some more dangerous creature, viz., that it must be some
of tho savages of the main land over against me, who had wandered out
to sea in their canoes, and, either driven by the current or by contrary
winds, had made the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away
again to sea; being as loth, perhaps, to have staid in this desolate island
as I would have been to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very thank-
ful in my thoughts that I was so happy as not to be thereabonts at that
time, or that they did not see my boat, by which they would have con-
cluded that some inhabitants had been in the place, and perhaps have
searched farther for me: then terrible thoughts racked my imagination
about their having found my boat, and that there were people here; and
that if so, I should certainly have them come again in greater numbers,
and devour me: that if it should happen so that they should not find me,
yet they would find my enclosure, destroy all my corn, carry away all my
flock of tame goats, and I should perish at last for more want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope: all that former confi-
dence in God, which was founded upon such wonderful experience as I
had had of his goodness, now vanished, as if He that had fed me by
miracle hitherto, could not preserve by his power the provision which he
had made for me by his goodness. I reproached myself with my easiness,
that would not sow any more com one year than would just serve me
till the next season, as' if no accident could intervene to prevent my
enjoying the crop that was upon the ground; and this I thought so just
a. rcproof that I resolved for the future to have two or three years' corn
beforehand, so that whatever might come, I might not perish for want of
bread.

How strange a. chequer-work of Providence is the life of maul and by
what secret differing springs are the afi'ections hurried about, as diifering
circumstances present! To-day we love what tar-marrow we hate,
May we seek what to-morrow we shun; to-day we desire what to-
morrow we fear, nay, even tremble at the apprehensions of: this was
exemplified in me at this time, in the most lively manner imaginable;
for I, whose only affliction was that I seemed banished from human
society, that I was alone, circumscribed by the boundless ocean, cut off
from mankind, and condemned to what I called silent life; that I was as
one whom Heaven thought not worthy to be numbered among the living,
or to appear among the rest of his creatures; that to have seen one of my
own species would have seemed to me a raising me fiom death to life, and
the greatest blessing that Heaven itself, next to the supreme blessing of
salvation, could bestow--I say, that I should now tremble at the very
apprehensions of seeing a man, and was ready to sink into the ground at
but the shadow, or silent appearance, of a man's having set his foot on
the island.

Such is the uneven state of human life; and it afforded me a great
many curious speculations afterwards, when I had a little recovered my
first surprise. I considered that this was the station of life the infinitely
wise and good providence of God had determined for me; that as I could not
foresee what the ends of divine wisdom might be in all this, so I was not
to dispute His sovereignty, who, as I was his creature, had an undoubted
right, by creation, to govern and dispose of me absolutely as he thought
fit; and who, as I was a creature who had offended him, had likewise a
judicial right to condemn me to what punishment he thought fit, and
that it was my part to submit to hear his indignation, because I had
sinned against him. I then reflected that God, who was not only
righteous but omnipotent, as he had thought fit thus to punish and afflict
me, so he was able to deliver me; that, if he did not think fit to do it, it
was my unquestioned duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to his
will; and, on the other hand, it was my duty also to hope in him, pray
to him, and quietly to attend to the dictates and directions of his daily
providence.

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay,--I may say weeks
and months; and one particular efl'ect of my cogitations on this occasion I
cannot omit, viz., one morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with
thoughts about my danger from the appearance of savages, I found it dis-
composed me very much; upon which these words of the Scripture came
into my thoughts, " Call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver
thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Upon this, rising cheerfully out of my
bed, my heart was not only comforted, but I was guided and encouraged
to pray earnestly to God for deliverance: when I had done praying, I

a
took up my Bible, and Opening it to read, the first words that presented
to me were, "Wait on the Lord, and be of good cheer, and he shall
strengthen thy heart; wait, I say, on the Lo ." It is impossible to
express the comfort this gave me. In answer, I thankfully laid down the
book, and was no more sad, at least, not on that occasion.

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions, and reflections, it
came into my thought one day, that all this might be a mere chimera of
my own, and that this foot might be the print of my own foot, when I
came on share from my bout: this cheered me up a little too, and I began
to persuade myself it was all a delusion; that it was nothing else but my
own feet; and why might I not come that way from the boat, as well as
I was going that way to the boat? Again, I considered also, that I could
by no means tell, for certain, where I had trod, and where I had not;
and that if, at last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had played
the part of these fools who strive to make stories of spectres and appari-
tions, and then are frighted at them more than any body.

Now I began to take courage, and to poop abroad again, for I had not
stirred out of my castle for three days and nights, so that I began to
starve for provision; for I had little or nothing within doors but some
barley cakes and water. Then I knew that my goats wanted to be
milked too, which usually was my evening diversion, and the poor crea-
tures were in great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and indeed, it
almost spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their milk.

Hear'wning myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing
but the print of one of my own feet, and so I might be truly said to start
at my own shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went to my country
house to milk my flock; but to see with what fear I went forward, how
often I looked behind me, how I was ready every now and then to lay
down my basket and run for my life, it would have made any one have
thought I was haunted with an evil conscience, or that I had been
lately most terribly firighted; and so, indeed, I had. -

However, as I went down thus two or three days, and having seen
nothing, Ibeganto be a littlebolder, andto think there was really
nothing' in it but my own imagination; but I could not persuade myself
fullyofthis till I should go downtp the sho'reagain, andseethisprint
of a foot, and measure it by my own, and see if there was any similitude
or fitness, that I might be assured it was my own feet: but when I came
tothe place, fimaitappeared evidentlytome, thatwhenI laid up my
boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabont; secondly,
when I came to measure the mark with my own feet, I found my foot
not so large by a great deal. Both these things filled my head with new
imaginations, and gave me the vapours again to the highest degree, so
that I shook with cold like one in an aguc, and I went home again, filled
with the belief that some man or men had been on shore there; or,
in short, that the island was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I
was awarc,--and what course to take for my security I knew not.

Oh, what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear!
It deprives them of the use of those means which reason offers for their
relief. The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down my
enclosures and turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, that the
enemy might not find them, and then frequent the island in prospect of
the same or the like booty; then to the simple thing of digging up my
two corn fields, that they might not find such a grain there, and still be
prompted to frequent the island; then to demolish my bower and tent,
that they might not see any vestiges of habitation, and be prompted to
look further, in order to find out the persons inhabiting, '

These were the subject of the first night's oogitations after I was come
home again, while the apprehensions which had so overrun my mind were
fresh upon me, and my head was full of vapours as above. Thus fear of
danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger itself, when
apparent to the eyes; and we find the burden of anxiety greater, by
much, than the evil which we are anxious about: and, which was worse
than all this, I had not that relief in this trouble from the resignation I
used to practise, that I hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like Saul
who complained not only that the Philistines were upon him, but that
God had forsaken him; for I did not now take duo ways to compose my
mind, by crying to God in my distress, and resting upon his providence,
as I had done before, for my defence and deliverance; which if I had
done, I had at least been more cheerfully supported under this new sur-
prise, and perhaps carried through it with more resolution.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all night; but in the
morning I fell asleep, and having, by the amusement of my mind, been
as it were tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and
waked much better composed than I had ever been before. And now I
began to think scdately; and upon the utmost debate with myself, I con-
cluded that this island, which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no
further from the main land than asIhadseen, wasnot soentirelyaban-
doned as I might imagine; that, although there were no stated inhabitants
who lived on the spot, yet, that there might sometimes come boat 06
from the shore, who, either with design, or, perhaps, never but when they
were driven by cross winds, might come to this place; that I had
lived here fifteen years now, and had not met with the least shadow or
figure of any people yet; and that, if at any time they should be driven
here, it was probable they went away again as soon as ever they
could, seeing they had never thought fit to fix there upon any oo-
cusion to this time: that the most I could suggest any danger from, was
from any such casual accidental landing of straggling people from the
main, who, as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were here against
their wills, so they made no stay here, but went off again with all
possible speed--seldom staying one night on shore, lest they should not
have the help of the tides and daylight back again; and that, therefore,
I had nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in case I should
see any savages land upon the spot.

Now I began sorelyto repent that I had dug my cave solarge asto
bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out beyond
where my fortification joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering
this, therefore, I resolved to drew me a second fortification, in the same
manner of a semicircle, at a distance from my well, just where I had
planted a double row of trees about twelve years before, of which I made
mention: these trees having been planted so thick before, there wanted
but a few piles to be driven between them, that they should be thicker
and stronger, and my wall would be soon finished.

So that I had now a double wall, and my outerwall was thickened with
pieces of timber, old cables, and every thing I could think of to make it
strong, having in it seven little holes, about as big as I might put my
am out at. In tlie inside of this, I thickened my well to about ten feet
thick, with continually bringing earth out of my cave, and laying it at
' the foot of the wall, and walking upon it; and through the seven holes '
I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took notice that I got
sevenonshore outof theship: theseIsayIplantedlikemycannonand
fitted then into frames, that held themer a carriage, that soIcouldfiro
allthe sevenguns intwo minutes' time. ThiswallIwasmanyaweary
mouthinfinishing,andyetnsverthouglitmyself safefillitwssdone. .
' Whenthiswudonalstuckullthegmundwithautmywallfiora
great way every way, as full with stakes, or sticks, of the osier-nko
wood, which I found so apt to grow, as they could well stand; insomuoh,
that I believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them, leaving a
pretty large space between them and my wall, that I might have room
to see an enemy, and they might have no shelter from the young trees, if
they attempted to approach my outer wall.

Thus in two years' time, I had a thick grove, and in five or six years'
time I had a wood before my dwelling, growing so monstrous thick and
strong, that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no man, of what
kind socver, would ever imagine that there was anything beyond it, much
less a habitation. As for the way which I proposed to myself to go in
and out (for I left no avenue), it was by setting two ladders, one to a
part of the rock which was low, and then broke in, and left room to place
another ladder upon that: so, when the two ladders were taken down, no
man living could come down to me without mischiefing himself, and if
they had come down, they were still on the outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for my
own preservation; and it will be seen, at length, that they were not
altogether without just reason, though I foresaw nothing at that time
more than my more fear suggested to me.

\Vhile this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other
affairs; for I had a great concern upon me for my little herd of goats:
they were not only a present supply to me on every occasion, and begin to
be sufficient for me, without the expense of powder and shot, but also
without the fatigue of hunting after the wild ones; and I was 10th to
lose the advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up over again.

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could think of but two
ways to preserve them; one was, to find another convenient place to dig a
cave under ground, and to drive them into it every night; and the other
was, to enclose two or three little bits of land, remote from one another, and
as much concealed as I could, where I might keep about half a dozen
young goats in each place, so that if any disaster happened to the flock in
general, I might be able to raise them again with little trouble and time,-
and this, though it would require a great deal of time and labour, I
thought was the most rational design.

Aceonlingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired parts of
the island; and I pitched upon one, which was as private, indeed, as my
heart could wish for: it was a little damp piece of ground, in the middle'
of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed, I almost lost myself
once before, endeavouring to come back that way from the eastern part of
the island. Here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres, so sur-
rounded with woods that it was almost an enclosure by nature; at least,
it did not want near so much labour to make it so as the other pieces of
ground I had worked so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground, and in less
than a month's time I had so fenced it round, that my flock, or herd,
call it which you please, who were not so wild now as at first they might
be supposed to he, were well enough secured in it. So without any
further delay, I removed ten sheogoats and two lie-goats to this piece;
and when they were thero, I continued to perfect the fence, till I had
made it as secure as the other, which, however, I did at more leisure, and
it took me up more time by a great deal.

All this labour I was at the expense of, purely from my apprehen-
sions on the account of the print of a man's feet which I had seen; for,
as yet, I never saw any human creature come near the island, and I had
new lived two years under these uneasinesses, which, indeed, made my
life much less comfortable than it was before, as may well be imagined by
any who know what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of man.
And this I must observe, with grief too, that the discomposure of my
mind had too great impression also upon the religious part of my
thoughts; for the dread and terror of falling into the hands of savages
and cannibals lay so upon my spirits, that I seldom found myself in a
due temper for application to my Maker,--at least not with the sedate
calmness and resignation of soul which I was wont to do. I rather
prayed to God as under great afiiiction and pressure of mind, surrounded
with danger, and in expectation every night of being murdered and
devoured before morning; and I must testify from my experience, that a
temper of peace, thankfulness, love, and afl'eetion, is much the more
proper frame for prayer than that of terror and discomposure; and that,
under the dread of mischief impending, a man is no more fit for a
comforting performance of the duty of praying to God, than he is for a
repentance on a sick bed, for these disoomposunes afl'ect the mind as
the others do the body, and the disoomposure of the mind must necessarily
be as great a disability as that of the body, and much matey-pram to

God being properly an act of the mind, not of the body. 0-
Butto go on: Alter I had thus secured one part of mylittle livi'
10
stock, I went about the whole island searching for another private place
to make such another deposit; when, wandering more to the west point
of the island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I thought
I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance. I had found a perspective
glass or two in one of the seamen's chests which I saved out of our ship;
but I had it not about me, and this was so remote that I could not tell
what to make of it, though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to
hold to look any longer: whet-her it was a boat or not, I do not know;
but as I descended from the hill I could see no more of it, so I give it
over, only I resolved to go no more out without a. perspective glass in my
pocket.

When I was come down the hill to the end of the island, where
indeed I had never been before, I was presently convinced that the
seeing the print of a man's foot was not such a strange thing in the
island as I imagined; and, but that it was a special providence that I
was cast upon the side of the island where the savages never came, I
should easily have known that nothing was more. frequent than for the
canoes from the main, when they happened to be a little too far out at
sea, to sheet over to that side of the island for harbour : likewise, as they
oilen met and fought in their canoes, the victors, having taken any
prisoners, would bring them over to this shore, where, according to their
dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they would kill and eat them,--of
which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, being
the south-west point of the island, I was perfectly confounded and
amazed; nor is it possible for me to express the horror of my mind at
seeing the shore spread with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of
human bodies; and, particularly, I observed a place where there had
been a fire made, and a circle dug in the earth, like a cockpit, where I
supposed the savage wretchus had sat down to their inhuman feastings
upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things, that I entertained
no notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while; all my
apprehensions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman,
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human nature,
which, though I had heard of often, yet I never had so near a view of
before; in short, I turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my
stomach grew sick, and I was just at the point of fainting, when naturetonlssos chosen. 147

discharged the disorder from my stomach, and having vomited with an
uncommon violence, I was a little relieved, but could not bear to stay in
the place a moment. So I got me up the hill again with all the speed I
could, and walked on towards my own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still
awhile as amazed, and then recovering myself, I looked up with the
utmost afi'ection of my soul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave
God thanks, that had cast my first let in a part of the world where I was
distinguished from such dreadful creatures as these; and that, though
I had esteemed my present condition very miserable, had yet given me
so many comforts in it, that I had still more to give thanks for than to
complain of; and this, above all, that I had, even in this miserable
condition, been comforted with the knowledge of Himself, and the hope
of His blessing, which was a felicity more than sufliciently equivalent to
all the misery which I had suffered or could suffer.

In this frame of thankfulness, I went home to my castle, and began
to be much easier now, as to the safety of my circumstances, than ever I
was before; for I observed that these wretches never came to this island
in search of what they could get,--perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or
not expecting any thing here, and having often, no doubt, been up in
the covered woody part of it, without finding any thing to their purpose.
I knew I had been here now almost eighteen years, and never saw the
least footsteps of human creature there before; and I might be eighteen
more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not discover myself to
them, which I had no'manncr of occasion to do, it being my only
business to keep myself entimly concealed where I was, unless I found a
better sort of creatures than cannibals to make myself known to.

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage wretches that I
have been speaking of, and of the wretched inhuman custom of their
devouring and eating one another up, that I continued pensive and sad,
and kept close within my own circle for almost two years after this:
when I say my own circle, I mean by it my three plantation, viz., my
castle, my country seat--which I called my bower,--and my enclosure
in the woods: nor did I look after this for any other use than as an
enclosure for my goats; for the aversion which nature gave me to these
hellish wretches was such, that I was fearful of seeing them as of seeing
thedevilhimself. Nordid I so much as go to look aitermyboatinall
this time, but began rather to think of making me another; for I could148 anvnn'rumcs or

Mt think of ever making any more attempts to bring the other heat round
"he island to me, lest I should meet with some of these creatures at sea,
in which, if I had happened to have fallen into their hands, I knew what
would have been my lot.

 

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger of
being discovered by these people, began to wear off my uneasiness about
them, and I began to live just in the same composed manner as before,--
only with this difl'crence, that I used more caution, and kept my eyes
more about me than I did before, lest I should happen to be seen by any
of them; and particularly, I was more cautious of firing my gun, lest any
of them, being on the island, should happen to hear it. And it was there-
fore a very good providence to me that I had furnished myself with a tame
breed of goats, and that I needed not hunt any more about thefwoods,
or shoot at them--and if I did catch any of them after this, it was by
traps and snares, as I had done before: so that'i'or two years after this,
I believe I never fired my gun once off, though I never went out without
it; and, which was more, as I had saved three pistols out of the ship, I
always canicd them out with me, or at least two of them, sticking them
in my goat's-skin belt. I also furbishcd up one of the great outlasscs
that I had out of the ship, and made me a belt to put it in also; so that
I was now a most formidable fellow to look at when I went abroad, if
you add to the former description of myself, the particular of two pistols,
and a great broudsword hanging at my side in a. belt, but without a
scabbard.

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time, I seemed, except-
ing these cautions, to be reduced to my former calm sedate way of living.
All these things tended to show me, more and more, how far my condi-
tion was from being miserable, compared to some others--nay, to many
other particulars of life, which it might have pleased God to have made
my lot. It put me upon reflecting how little rcpining there would be
among mankind at any condition of life, if people would rather compare
their condition with those that are worse, in order to be thankful, than
be always comparing them with those which are better, to assist their
murmurings and complainings.

As in my present condition there were not really many things which
I wanted, so, indeed, I thought that the flights I had been in about
these savage wretches, and the concern I had been in for my own preser-
vation, had taken off the edge of my invention for my own conveniences,
and I had dropped a good design, which I had once bent my thoughts too
much upon,--and that was, to try if I could not make some of my barley
into malt, and then try and brew myself some beer. This was really a
whimsical thought, and I reproved myself often for the simplicity of it;
for I presently saw there would be the want of several things necessary
to the making my beer, that it would be impossible for me to supply,--
ns, first, casks, to preserve it in, which was a thing that, as I have
observed already, I could never compass--no, though I spent not only
many days but weeks, nay, months, in attempting it, but to no purpose.
In the next place, I had no hops to make it keep, no yeast to make it
work, no copper or kettle to make it boil; and yet, all these things not-
withstanding, I verily believe, had not these things intervened--I mean
the flights and terrors I was in about the savages--I had undertaken it,
and perhaps brought it to pass too; for I seldom gave any thing over
without accomplishing it, when I once had it in my head enough to
begin it.

But my invention now ran quite another way; for, night and day I
could think of nothing but how I might destroy some of these monsters in
their cruel, bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim they
should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a larger volume than
this whole work is intended to he, to set down all the eontrivanees I
hatched, or mther hroodcd upon in my thoughts, for the destroying these
creatures, or at least frightening them, so as to prevent their coming
hither any more; but all was abortive,--nothing could be possible to take
effect, unless I was to be there to do it myself; and what could one man
do among them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them
together, with their darts, or their bows and arrows, with which they
could shoot as true to a mark as I could with my gun ?

Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place where they made
their fire, and put. in five or six pounds of gunpowder, which, when they
kindled their fire, would consequently take fire, and blow up all that was
near it; but as, in the first place, I should he very 10th to waste so much
powder upon them, my store being now within the quantity of one barrel,
so neither could I he sure of its going all at any certain time, when it might
surprise them, and, at best, that it would do little more than just blow
the fire about their ears and fright them, but not sufiicient to make them
forsake the place: so I laid it aside, and then proposed that I would
place myself in ambush in some convenient place, with my three guns all
double-loaded, and, in the middle of their bloody ceremony, let fly at
them, when I should he sure to kill or wound perhaps two or three at
every shot ; and then falling in upon them with my three pistols, and my
sword, I made no doubt but that, if there were twenty I should kill them
all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some weeks, and I was so full of
it that I often dreamt of it, and sometimes that I was just going to let fly
at them in my sleep.

I went so far with it in my imagination, that I employed myself
several days to find out proper places to put myself in ambuseade, as I
said, to watch for them; and I went frequently to the place itself, which
was now grown more familiar to me: and especially while my mind was
thus filled with thoughts of revenge, and of a bloody putting twenty or
thilty of them to the sword, as I may call it, the horror I had at the
place, and at the signals of the barbarous wretches devouring one another
abetted my malice.

Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill, where I was
satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any of their boats coming: and
might then, even before they would be ready to come on shore, convey .
myself, unseen, into thickets of trees, in one of which there was a hollow .
large enough to conceal me entirely, and where I might sit and observe
all their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when they
were so close together as that it would be next to impossible that I should
raise my shot, or that I could fail wounding three or four of them at the
first shot.

In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design; and, accordingly, I
prepared two muskets and my ordinary fowling-piece. The two muskets
I loaded with a brace of slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets, about
the size of pistol bullets; and the fowling piece I loaded with near a
handful of swan-shot, of the largest size; I also loaded my pistols with
about four bullets each: and in this posture, well provided with ammuni-
tion for a second and third charge, I prepared myself for my expedition.

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and, in my imagina-
tion, put it in practice, I continually made my tour every morning, up to
the top of the hill, which was from my castle, as I called it, about three
miles, or more, to see if I could observe any boats upon the sea, coming
near the island, or standing over towards it; but I began to tire of this
hard duty, after I had for two or three months constantly kept my watch,
but came always back without any discovery, there having not in all that
time been the least appearance, not only on or near the shore, but not on
the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach every way.

As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long also
I kept up the vigour of my design, and my spirits seemed to be all the
while in a suitable form for so outrageous an execution as the killing
twenty or thirty naked savages, for an ofi'ence which I had not at all
entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any further than my passion!
were at first fired by the horror I conceived at the unnatural custom of
the people of that country, who, it seems, had been sufi'ered by Providence, '
in his wise disposition of the world, to have no other guide than that
of their own abominable and vitiated passions; and, consequently, were
left, and perhaps had been so for some ages, to act such hon-id things, and
receive such dreadful customs, as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned
of Heaven, and actuated by some hellish degeneracy, could have run them
into. But now, when, as I have said, I began to be weary of the fruit-
.hss excursion, which I had made so long and so for every morning in
rain, so my opinion of the action itself began to alter; and I began, with
cooler and calmer thoughts, to consider what it was I was going to engage
in--what authority, or call, I had to pretend to be judge and executioner
upon these men as criminals, whom Heaven had thought fit, for so many
ages, to suffer, unpunished, to go on, and to be, as it were, the execu-
tioncrs of his judgments one upon another; also how far these people
were offenders against me, and what right I had to engage in the quarrel
of that blood which they shed promiscuously one upon another. I debated
this very often with myself, thus :--" How do I know what God himself
judges in this particular case? It is certain these people do not commit
this as a crime; it is not against their own consciences reproving, or their
light reproaching them. They do not know it to he an offence, and then
commit it in defiance of divine justice, as we do in almost all the sins we
commit. They think it no more a crime to kill a captive taken in war,
than we do to kill an ex; nor to eat human flesh than we do to eat
mutton."

When I had considered this a little, it followed necessarily that I was
ccr'minly in the wrong in it,--that these people were not murderers in
the sense that I had before condemned them in my thoughts, any more
than those Christians were murderers who often put to death the prisoners
taken in battle; or more frequently, upon many occasions, put whole
troops of men to the sword, without giving quarter, though they threw
down their arms and submitted.

In the next place, it occurred to me, that albeit the usage they gave
one another was thus brutish and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to
me: these people had done me no injury,--that if they attempted me, or
I saw it necessary, for my immediate preservation, to fall upon them,
something might be said for it; but that I was yet out of their power,
and they had really no knowledge of me, and consequently no design
upon me, and therefore it could not be just for me to fall upon them:
that this would justify the conduct of the Spaniards in_all their har-
baritics practised in America, where they destroyed millions of these
people, who--however they were idolators and barbarians, and had
several bloody and barbarous rites in their custom, such as sacrificing
human bodies to their idols--were yet, as to the Spaniards, very innocent
people, and that the rooting them out of the country is spoken of with
the ntmoat abhorrence and detestation by even the Spaniards themselves,
atthistime, andbyall other Chrisfiannations of Europe, asamsre
bntehery--a bloody and unnatural piece of cruelty, unjustifiable either to
God or man, and such as for which the very name of the Spaniard is
reckoned to be frightful and terrible to all people of humanity, or of
Christian compassion; as if the kingdom of Spain were particularly
eminent for the product of a race of men who were without principles of
tenderness, or the common bowels of pity to the miserable, which is
reckoned to be a mark of generous temper in the mind.

These considerations really put me to a pause, and to a kind of a full
stop; and I began, by little and little, to be off my design, and to con-
clude I had taken wrong measures in my resolution to attack the savages
--that it was not my business to meddle with them, unless they first
attacked me, and this it was my business, if possible, to prevent; but
that if I were discovered and attacked, then I knew my duty.

0n the other hand, I argued with myself, that this really was the .
way not to deliver myself, but entirely to rain and destroy myself; for
unless I was sure to kill every one that not only should be on shore at
that time, but that should ever come on shore afterwards, if but one of
them escaped to tell their country-people what had happened, they would
come over again 'by thousands to revenge the death of their fellows, and
I should only bring upon myself a certain destruction, which at present I
had no manner of occasion for.

Upon the whole, I concluded that neither in principle nor in policy
I ought, one way or other, to concern myself in this affair; that my
business was by all possible means to conceal myself from them, and not
to leave the least signal to them to guess by that there were any living
creatures upon the island,--I mean of human shape.

Religion joined inwith this prudential resolution, and I was convinced .
now, many ways, that I was perfectly out of my duty when I was laying
all 'my bloody schemes for the destruction of innocent creatures,--I mean
innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were guilty of towards one
another, I had nothing to do with them; they were national, and I
ought to leave them to the justice of God, who is the governor of nations,
and knows how, by national punishments, to make a just retribution for
national ofl'ences, and to bring public judgments upon those who offend in
a public manner, by such 'ways as best please Him.-'54 ROBINSON (mason. ~ ,.

This appeared so clear to me now, that nothing was a greater satisdoo.
tion to nae--than that I had not been sufi'ered to do 4: thing which I now
saw so much reason to believe would have been no less a. sin than that
of wilful murder, if I had committed it; and I gave most humble thanks
on my knees to God, that had thus delivered me from blood-guiltn'ness,
beseeching him to grant me the protection of his providence, that I might
not fall into the hands of barbarians, or that I might not lay my hands

upon them, unless I had a more clear 0qu from Heaven to do it in defence
of my own life.
Crusoe takes precautions against an incursion o! the savages--Lives n more rchircdliic--Iiio Frill-
cipul cumloyment, the milking of his goals, and the management of his flock--~18 surprised by
an old lie-goat in a cni'c--Discovcm a party of cunnibuls on the shore--A ship in timeless-Find]
the body of a. drowned boy cast on shore--Luments (hat not one of the crew has boon saved,
and feels more solitary than oven--Goes on' to the wreck in his boat, and finds one only living
thing on board to to n dog--Loads his boat with money-bugs, clothes, cic., and returns to the
shore--Reflections.

/

(gig/{r N this disposition I continued for near a. year after this; and
5 so far was I from desiring an occasion for falling upon these
Wretchos, that in all that time I never once went up the hill
to see whether there were any of them in sight, or to know
whether any of them had been on shore there or not, that I
might not be tempted to renew any of my conirivanecs against
them, or be provoked by any advantage which might present
itself, to fall upon them: only this I did, I went and removed
my hoot, which I had on the other side of the island, and carried it down
to the east end of the whole island, where I ran it into a little cove which
I found under some high roe-ks, and where I knew, by reason of the
currents, the savages durst not, at least would not, come with their boots,
upon any account whatsoever.

\Yith my boat I carried away every thing that I had left there
belonging to her, though not necessary for the hero going thither, viz.,
u must; and soil which I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor,
but, indeed, which could not be called either anchor or grappling; how-
ever, it was the host; I could make of its kind. All these I removed,
that. there might not he the least shadow of any discovery, or any appear-
ance of any boat, or of any human habitation, upon the island.

Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired than over, and
seldom went from my cell, other than upon my constant employment,
viz, to milk my she-goats, and manage my little flock in the Wood,
which, as it was quite on the other part; of the island, was quite out of
danger; for certain it is, that these savage people who sometimes haunted
this island, never came with any thoughts of finding any thing here, and
consequently never wandered off from the coast, and I doubt not but
they might have been several times on shore after my apprehensions of
them had made me cautious, as well as before; and, indeed, I looked back

 

with some hon-or upon the thoughts of what my condition would have
been if I had chopped upon them and been discovered before that, when
----naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and that loaded often only
with small shot--I walked every where, peeping and peeling about the
island to see what I could get,--what a. surprise should I have been in,
if, when I discovered the print of a man's foot, I had, instead of that,
seen fifteen or twenty savages, and found them pursuing me, and, by the
swiftncss of their running, no possibility of my escaping them?

The thoughts of this sometimes sunk my very soul within me, and
distressed my mind so much that I could not soon recover it; to think
what I should have done, and how I not only should not have been able
to resist them, but even should not have had presence of mind enough to
do what I might have done, much less what now, after so much eon-
sidemtion and preparation, I might be able to do. Indeed after serious
thinking of these things, I would be very melancholy, and sometimes it
would last a great while; but I resolved it at last all into thankfiilness
to that Providence which had delivered me from so many unseen dangers.
and had kept me from those mischiefs which I could no way have been
the agent in delivering myself from, because I had not the least notion of
any such thing depending, or the least supposition of it being possible.

This renewed a contemplation which often had. come to my thoughts
in former time, when first I began to see the merciful dispositions of
Heaven in the dangers we run through in this life,--how wonderfully we
are delivered when we know nothing of it; how, when we are in a quan-
dary (as we call it)--a doubt or hesitation whether to go this way or that
way, a secret hint shall direct us this way, when we intended to go that
way; nay, when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps business, has
called to go the other way,--yet a strange impression upon the mind, from
we know not what springs, and by we know not what power, shall over-
rule us to go this way, and it, shall aftenvards appear, that had we gone
that way which we should have gone, and even to our imagination ought
to have gene, we should have been mined and lost. Upon these, and
many like reflections, I afterwards made it a certain rule with me, that
whenever I found those secret hints or pressings of my mind, to doing or
not doing any thing that presented, or to going this way or that way, I
never failed to obey the secret dictate, though I knew no other reason for
it than that such a pressure, or such a hint, hung upon my mind. I could
give many examples of the success of this conduct in the course of my
life, but more especially in the latter part of my inhabiting this unhappy
island; besides many occasionswhich it is very likely I might have taken
notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then that I saw with now.
But it is never too late to be wise; and I cannot but advise all consider-
ing men, whose lives are attended with such extraordinary incidents as
mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to slight such secret inti-
mations of Providence, let them come from what invisible intelligence
they will: that I shall not discuss, and. perhaps cannot account for, but
. certainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and a secret commu-
nication between those embodied and. those unembodied, and such a proof
as can never be withstood--of which I shall have occasion to give some
very remarkable instances in the remainder of my solitary residence in
this dismal place.

I believethe readerof thiswillnot thinkitsh'angeifIconfessthst
these anxieties--these constant dangers I lived in, and the concern that
wasnowuponme--pntmendtosllinvenfiomandtoalltheoontrivmees
that I had laid for my future accommodations and conveniences. I had >

;159 amxrnass or

the care of my safety more now upon my hands than that of my food. I
cared not to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear the noise I
should make should be heard; much less would I fire a gun, for the same
reason, and, above all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest
the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the day, should betray
me; and for this reason I removed that part of my business which
required fire, such as burning of pots and pipes, etc., into my new apart-
ment in the woods, where, after I had been some time, I found, to my
unspeakable consolation, a more natural cave in the earth, which went in
a vast way, and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the mouth
of it, would be so hardy as to venture in, nor indeed, would any man
else, but one, who, like me, wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a great rock, where,
by mere accident (I would say, if I did not see abundant reason to ascribe
all such things now to Providence), I was cutting down some thick
branches of trees to make charcoal; and before I go on, I must observe
the reason of my making this charcoal, which was thus:

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation, as I said before;
and yet I could not live there without baking my bread, cooking my
meat, etc.: so I contrived to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in
England, under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal; and then, putting
the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home, and perform the services
for which fire was wanting, without danger of smoke.

But this is by-the-bye. While I was cutting down some wood here,
I perceived that, behind a very thick branch of low brushwood or under-
wood, there was a kind of hollow place: I was curious to look into it,
and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found it was pretty
1arge,--that is to say, sufficient for me to stand upright in it, and per-
haps another with me ; but I must confess to you I made more haste out
than I did in, when, looking farther into the place, and which was
perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of some creaturehwhether
devil or man I knew not--which twinkled like two stars, the dim light
from the cave's mouth shining directly in, and making the reflection.

However, after some pause, I recovered myself, and began to call
myself a thousand fools, and tell myself that he that was afi'aid to see
the devil was not fit to live twenty years in an island all alone, and that
I durst to believe there was nothing in this cave that was more frightful
than myself. Upon this, plucking up my courage, I took up a great
firebrand, andinIrushedagain, withthe stiokflsminginmyhand:
I had not got three steps in, but I was almost as much frighted as I
was before, for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in some pain,
and it was followed by a broken noise, as if of words half expressed, and
then a deep sigh again. I stepped back, and was indeed struck with
such a surprise that it put me into a cold sweat; and if I had had a hat
on my head, I will not answer for it that my hair might not have lifted
it ofi'. But still plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and encourag-
ing myself a little with considering that the power and presence of God
was every where, and was able to protect me--upon this I stepped
forward again, and by the light of the firebrand, holding it up a little
over my head, I saw lying on the ground, a most monstrous, frightful,
old hegoat, just making his will, as we say, and gasping for life, and
dying, indeed, of more old age.

I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out, and he essaycd to
get up, but was not able to raise himself; and I thought with myself he
might even lie there, for if he had frighted me so, he would certainly
fright any of the savages, if any of them should be so hardy as to come in
there while he had any life in him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began to look round me,
when I found the cave was but very small,--that is to say, it might be
about twelve feet over, but in no manner of shape, either round or square,
no hands having ever been employed in making it but those of mere
nature. I observed also that there was a place at the farther side of it
that went in further, but was so low that it required me to creep upon
my hands and knees to go into it, and whither it went I knew not: so,
having no candle, I gave it over for some time, but resolved to come
again the next day, provided with candles and a tinderbox, which I had
made of the lock of one of the muskets, with some wildfire in the pan.

Accordingly, the next day I came provided with six large candles of
my own making, for I had made very good candles now of goat's tallow ;
and going into this low place, I was obliged to creep upon all fears, as I
have said, almost ten yards, which by the way, I thought was a venture
bold enough, considering that I knew not how far it might go, nor what
wasbeyondit. Wheanasgotthroughthestrait, Ifoundtheroofrose
higher up, I believe near twenty feet; but never was such a glorious
light seen in the island, I dare say,.as itwasto lookronndthesides'and
r'oot of thisvaalt or cave. The wallreileotedahundred thousand lights160 ' anvssroass or

to me from my two candles; what it was in the rock, whether diamonds,
or any other precious stones, or gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I
knew not.

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity or grotto of its kind,
as could be expected, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level,
and had a sort of small loose gravel upon it, so that them was no
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen, neither was there any damp
or act on the sides or roof: the only difficulty in it was the entrance,
which, however, as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a conveniencc,--so that I was really rejoiced
at the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to bring some of those
things which I was most anxious about to this place; particularly, I
resolved to bring hither my magazineof powder, and all my spare arms,
viz., two feuding-pieces (for I had three in all), and three muskets (for
of them I had eight in all), so I kept at my castle only five, which stood
ready mounted like pieces of cannon, on my outmost fence, and were ready
also to take out upon any expedition.

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I took occasion to
open the barrel of powder which I took up out of the sea, and which had
been wet, and I found that the water had penetrated about three or four
inches into the powder on every side, which coking and growing hard,
had preserved the inside like a kernel in a shell, so that I had near sixty
pounds of very good powder in the centre of the cask; and this was an
agreeable discoch to me at that time: so I carried all away thither,
never keeping above two or three pounds of powder with me in my castle,
for fear of a surprise of any kind: I also carried thither all the lead I had
left for bullets.

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants, which were said
to live in caves and holes in the rocks, where none couid come at them;
for I persuaded myself while I was here, if five hundred savages were to
hunt me, they could never find me out; or, if they did, they would not
venture to attack me here. '

The old goat, which I found expiring, died in the mouth of the cave
the next day after I made this discovery, and I found it much easier to
dig a great hole there, and throw him in and cover him with earth, than
to drag him out; so I interred him there to prevent offence to my nose.

I was now in my twenty-third year of residence in this island, and
was so naturalized to the place and to the manner of living, that could I

s
have but enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come to the place
to disturb me, I could have been content to have capitalated for spending
the rest of my time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me
down and died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also arrived at some
little diversions and amusements, which made the time pass more plea-
santly with me a great deal than it did before; as, first, I had taught my
Poll, as I noted before, to speak, and he did it so familiarly, and talked
so articulately and plain, that it was very pleasant to me, and he lived
with me no less than six-and-twcnty years: how long he might live
afterwards I know not, though I know they have a notion in the Brazils
that they live a hundred years. Perhaps poor Poll may be alive there
still, calling after " Poor Robin Crusoe" to this day. I wish no English-
man the ill-luck to come there and hear him; but, if he did, he would
certainly believe it was the devil. My dog was a very pleasant and
loving companion to me for no less than sixteen years of my time, and
then died of more old age. As for my cats, they multiplied, as I have
observed, to that degree that I was obliged to shoot several of them at
first, to keep them from devouring me and all I had; but, at length,
when the two old ones I brought with me were gone, and after some
time continually driving them from me, and letting them have no pro-
vision with me, they all ran wild into the woods, except two or three
favotu'ites, which I kept tame, and whose young, when they had any, I
always drowned, and these were part of my family. Besides these, I
always kept two or three household kids about me, which I taught to
feed out of my hand; and I had two more parrots, which talked pretty
well, and would all call Robin Crusoe, but none like my first, nor, indeed,
did I take the pains with any of them that I had done with him. I
had also several tame seafowls, whose names I knew not, which I caught
upon the shore, and cut their wings; and the little stakes which I had
planted before my castle well being now grown up to a good thick grove,
these fowls all lived among these low trees, and bred there, which was
very agreeable to me. So that, as I said above, I began to be very well
contented with the life I led, if it might but have been secured from
the dread of the savages.

But it was otherwise directed; audit may not be amiss for all people
who shall meet with my story, to make this just observation from it, via,
how frequently, in the 'course of our lives, the evil which in itself we
seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into, is the most

11
dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door of our deliverume,
by which alone we can be raised again from the alllietion we are fallen
into. I could give many examples of this in the course of my unaccount-
able life, but in nothing was it more particularly remarkable than in
the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in this island.

It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-
third year; and this, living' the southern solstice--for winter I cannot call
it--was the particular time of my harvest, and required my being pretty
nun-h abroad in the fields: when going out pretty early in the morning,
even before it was thorough daylight, I was surprised with seeing a
light of some fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about two
miles, towards the end of the island where I had observed some savages
had been, as before; but not on the other side, but, to my great aflliction,
it was on my side of the island.

I was, indeed, terribly surprised at the sight, and stopped short
within my grove, not daring to go out, lost I might be surprised; and
yet I had no more peace within, from the apprehensions I had that, if
these savages, in rambling over the islauid, should find my corn standing
or out, or any of my Works and improvements, they would immediately
conclude that there were people in the place, and would then never give
over till they had found me out. In this extremity, I went back directly
to my castle, pulled up the ladder after me, and made all things without
look as wild and natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of defence:
I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is to say, my muskets,
which were mounted upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and
resolved to defend myself to the last gasp; not forgetting seriously to
commend myself to the divine protection, and earnestly to pray to God to
deliver me out of the hands of the barbarians.

After sitting awhile, and musing what I should do in this case, I
was not able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer; so, setting up my
ladder to the side of the hill, where there was a. flat place, as I observed
before, and then pulling the ladder up after me, I set it up again, and
mounted to the top of the hill, and pulling out my perspective glass,
which I had taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly on the
ground, and began to look for the place. I presently found there were
no less than nine naked savages, sitting round a small fire they had made,
not to warm them--for they had no need of that, the weather being
extremely hot--but, as I supposed, to dress their barbarous diet of human
flesh, which they had brought, whether alive or dead I could not know.

They had two canoes with them, which they had haled up upon the
shore; and as it was then tide of ebb, they seemed to me to wait for the
return of the flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what
confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing them come on my side
the island, and so near me too; but when I observed their coming must be
always with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more sedate
in my mind, being satisfied that I might go abroad with safety all the time
of the tide of flood, if they were not on shore before: and having made
this observation, I went abroad about my work with the more composure.

As I expected so it proved; for as soon as the tide made to the west-
ward, I saw them all take boat, and row (or paddle, as we call it) all
away. I should have observed, that for an hour or more before they
went off they went to dancing, and I could easily discern their postures
and gestures by my glasses; I could not perceive by my nicest observation
but that they were stark naked, and had not the least covering upon them;
but whether they were men or women, that I could not distinguish.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two guns upon my
shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle, and my great sword by my side,
without a seabbard, and with all the speed I was able to make, I went
away to the hill where I had discovered the first appearance of all. As
soon as I got thither, which was not less than two hours (for I could
not go apace, being so loaden with arms as I was), I perceived there had
been three canoes more of savages on that place; and looking out farther,
I saw they were all at sea together, making over for the min.

This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when, going to the shore,
I could see the marks of horror which the dismal work they had been
about had left behind it, vii, the blood, the bones, and part of the flesh of
human bodies, eaten and devoured by those wretches with merriment and
sport. I was so filled with indignation, that I began now to premeditete the
destruction of the next that I saw there, let them be who or how many soever.

It seemed evident to me that the visits which they thus made to this
island were not very frequent, for it was above fifteen months before any
more of them came on shore them agaim--thnt is to say, I never saw them
nor any footsteps or signals of them, in all that time; for, as to the rainy
seasons, thentheysresurenottoeome abroad, atleestnotso far: yetall
the while I lived uncomfortably, by reason of constant apprehensions I

n_'
was in of their coming upon me by surprise. From whence I observe
that the expectation of evil is more bitter than the sufl'cring, especially
if there is no room to shake ofl' that expectation, or those apprehensions.

During all this time I was in the murdering humour, and took up
most of my hours, which should have been better employed, in contriving

 

how to circumvent and full upon them, the very next time I should see
them, especially if they should be divided, as they were the last time,
into two parties; nor did I consider at all, that if I killed one party
suppose ten or a dozen, I was still the next day, or week, or month, to kill
another, and so another, even ad :"nfim'lum, till I should be at length no less a
murderer than they were in being men-eaters, :md perhaps much more so.

I spent my days now in great perplexity and anxiety of mind,
expecting that 1 should one day or other fall into the hands of these
merciless creatures; and if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not
without looking round me with the greatest care and caution imaginable.
And now I found, to my great comfort, how happy it was that I- had
provided a tame flock or herd of goats; for I durst not, upon any account,
fire my gun, especially near that side of the island where they usually
came, lest I should alarm the savages: and if they had fled from me now,
I was sure to have them come back again, with perhaps two or three hun-
drcd canoes with them, in a few days, and then I knew what to expect.
However, I wore out a year and three months more before I ever saw
any more of the savages, and then I found them again, as I shall soon
observe. It is true, they might have been there once or twice, but either
they made no stay, or at least I did not hear them; but in the month of
May, as near as I could calculate, and in my four-and-twentieth year, I
l'ad a very strange encounter with them,--of which in its place.

The perturbation of my mind during this fifteen or sixteen months'
interval was very great; I slept nnquiet, dreamed always frightful
dreams, and often started out of my sleep in the night: in the day, great
troubles overwhelmed my mind, and in the night I dreamed often of
killing the savages, and of the reasons why I might justify the doing of
it. But to waive all this for a while: it was in the middle of May, on
the sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would
reckon, for I marked all upon the post still; I say, it was on the six-
teenth of May that it blew a very great storm of wind all day, with a
great deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night it was after it.
I know not what was the particular occasion of it, but as I was reading
in the Bible, and taken up with serious thoughts about my present
condition, I was surprised with the noise of a. gun, as I thought fired at
sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite different nature from
any I had met with before; for the notions this put into my thoughts
were quite of another kind. I stated up in the greatest haste
imaginable, and in 0. tries clapped up my ladder to the middle place
of the rock and pulled it after me, and mounting it the second time, got
to the top of the hill the very moment that a flash of fire bade me listen for
a second gun, which accordingly, in about half a moment, I heard, and
by the sound knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was
driven out with the current in my boat.

I immediately considered that this must be some ship in distress, and
that they had some comrade, or some other ship in company, and fired
these guns for signals of distress, and to obtain help. I had this presence
of mind at that minute, as to think that though I could not help them, it
might be they might help me: so I brought together all. the dry wood I
could get at hand, and, making a good handsome pile, I set it on fire upon
the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely, and though the wind
blew very hard, yet it burnt fairly out, so that I was certain, if there was
any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it; and no doubt they did,
for as soon as over my fire blazed up I heard another gun, and after that
several others all from the same quarter. I plicd my fire all night long,
till day broke; and wh-.,u it was broad day, and the air cleared up, I saw
something at a great distance at sea, full cast of the island,--whether a
sail or a hull I could not distinguish, the distance was so great, and the
weather still continuing hazy also--at least it was so out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that it did
not move, so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor: and
being eager, you may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand,
and ran towards the south-east side of the island, to the rocks where I
had formerly been carried away with the current; and getting up there,
the weather by this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my
great sorrow, the wreck of a ship cast away in the night upon these con-
cealed rocks which I found when I was out in my boat,--aud which rocks,
as they checked the violence of the stream, and made a counter-stream, or
eddy, were the occasion of my recovering then from the most desperate,
hopeless condition that ever I had been in in all my life.

Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's destruction; for it
seems these men, whoever they were, being out of their knowledge, and
the racks being wholly under water, had been driven upon them in the
night, the wind blowing hard at east and east-north-east. Had they seen
the island, as I must necessarily suppose they did not, they must, as I
thought, have endeavoured to have saved themselves on shore by the help
of their boat; but the firing of their guns for help, especially when they saw,
as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts: First, I imagined
that upon seeing my light, they might have put themselves into their
boat, and have endeavoured to make the shore, but that the sea going
very nigh, they might have been cast away; other times I imagined that
they might have lost their boat before, as might be the ease many ways---
as, particularly by the breaking of the sea upon their ship, which many
times obliges men to stave, or take in pieces, their boat, and sometimes to
throw it overboard with their own hands; other times I imagined they
had some other ship or ships in company, who, upon the signals of dis-
tress they had made,'had taken them up and carried them ofi'; other
whiles I fancied they were all gene of to sea in their boat, and being
hurried away by the current, were carried out into the great ocean, where
there was nothing but misery and perishing,--and that, perhaps, they might
by this time be starving, and in a condition to think of eating one another.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the condition I was
in, I could do no more than look on upon the misery of thepoor men, and
pity them,--which had still this good effect on my side, that it gave me
more and more cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily and com-
fortably provided for me in my desolate condition, and that of two ships'
companies, who were now cost upon this part of the world, not one life
should be spared but mine. I learn there again to observe, that it is very
rare that the providence of God casts us into any condition of life so low,
or any misery so great, but we may see something or other to be thankful
for, and may see others in worse circumstances than our own.

Such certainly was the ease of these men, of whom I could not so
muchas see room to suppose any of them were saved; nothing could
make it rational so much as to wish or expect that they did not all perish
there, except the possibility only of their being taken up by another ship
in company; and this was but more possibility indeed, for I saw not the
least signal or appearance of any such thing.

I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words, what a strange
longing or hankering of desire I felt in my soul upon this sight--break.
ing out sometimes thus: "Oh, that there had been but one or two, nay,
or but one soul saved out of the ship, to have escaped to me, that I might
but have had one companion, one fellow-creature, to have spoken to me
and to have conversed with!" In all the time of my solitary life, I
never felt so earnest, so strong a desire after the society of my fellow-
crcntures, or so deep a. regret at the want of it.

There are some secret moving springs in the afi'cctions, which, when
they are set a-going by some object in view--or be it some object though
not in view, yet rendered present to the mind by the power of imagina-
tion--that motion carries out the soul, by its impetuosity, to such violent
eager cmbracings of the object, that the absence of it is insupportable.

Such were these earnest wishings, that but one man had been saved.
Oh, that it had been but one! I behave I repeated the words, " Oh, that
it had been but one!" a thousand times, and my desires were so moved
by it, that when I spoke the words my hands would clinch together, and
my fingers press the palms of my hands, that if I had had any soft thing
in my hand it would have crushed it involuntarily; and my teeth in my

head would strike together, and set against one another so strong, that for
some time I could not part them again.

Letthenaturalist explain these things, andthereesonandmannerof
them: all I can say to them is--to descrihc the fact, whieh was even
surprising to me, when I found it; though I knew not from what it
should proceed, it was doubtless the effect of ardent wishes, and of strong

ideas formed in my mind, realising the comfort which the conversation of
one of my fellow Christians would hnvo been to me.

 

lint it was not to be: either their fate or mine, or both, forbade it;
for till the last year of my being on this island, I never knew whether
any were saved out of that ship or no; and had only the adlietion, some
days alter, to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on shore at the end of
the island which was next the shipwreck. He had on no clothes but u
senmnn's waistcoat, n pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a blue linen
shirt; but nothing to direct me so much us to guess what nation ho was
of : he had nothing in his pockets but two pieces-of-eight and n tobneeo-
pipe ; the last was to me of ten times more value than the first.

It was new calm, and I had a great mind to venture out in my boat
to this wreck, not doubting but I might find something on board that
might be useful to me; but that did not altogether press me so much as
the possibility that there might be yet some living cronturenon board,
whose life I might not only save, but might, by saving that life, comfort
my own to the last degree. And this thought clung so to my heart, that
I could not be quiet night not day, but I must venture out in my boat on
board this wreck; and committing the rest to God's providence, I thought
the impression was so strong upon my mind that it could not be resisted,
that it must come from some invisible direction, and that I should be
wanting to myself if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back to my castle,
prepared every thing for my voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great pot
of fresh water, a compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a
great deal of that left), and a basket full of raisins; and thus leading
myself with every thing necessary, I went down to my boat, got the
water out of her, and got her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then
Went home again for more. My second cargo was a great bag full of rice,
the umbrella to set up over my head for a shade, another large pot full of
fresh water, and about two dozen of my small loaves or barley-cakes,
more than before, with a bottle of goats' milk and a cheese: all which,
with great labour and sweat, I brought to my boat, and praying to God
to direct my voyage, I put out: and towing, or paddling, the canoe along
the shore, I came at last to the utmost point of the island on the north-
east sidc. And now I was to launch out into the ocean, and either to
venture or not to venture. I looked on the rapid currents which ran con-
stantly on both sides of the island at a distance, and which were very
terrible to me, from the remembrance of the hazard I had been in before,
and my heart began to fail me; for I foresaw that if I was driven into
either of those currents, I should be carried avast way out to sea, and per-
haps out of reach or sight of the island again, and that then, as my boat was
but small, if any little gale of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began to give over my
enterprise, and having halcd my boat into a little creek on the share, I
stepped out, and sat me down upon a little spot of rising ground, very
pensive and anxious between four and desire about my voyage; When, as
I was musing, I could perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood
came on, upon which my going was for so many hours impracticable.
Upon this, it presently occurred to me that I should go up to the highest
piece of ground I could find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of the
tide or currents lay, when the flood came in, that I might judge whether
if I was driven one way out, I might not expect to be driven another
way home, with the same rapidness of the currents. This thought was
no sooner in my head but I cast my eye upon a little hill which sum-
eiently overlooked the sea both ways, and from whence I had a clear view
of the currents or sets of the tide, and which way I was to guide myself
in my return. Here I found that, as the current of the ebb set out close
by the south point of the island, so the current of the flood set in close by
the shore of the north side, and that I had nothing to do but to keep to
the north side of the island in my return, and I should do well enough.
Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next morning to set
out with the first of the tide; and reposing myself for the night in my
canoe, under the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out. I first
made a little out to sea, full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the
current which set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate, and
yet did not so hurry me as the southern side current had done before, and
so as to take from me all government of the boat; but having a strong
steer-age with my paddle, I went, I say, at a great rate directly for the
wreck, and in less than two hours I came up to it. It was a dismal sight
to look at: the ship, which, by its building, was Spanish, stuck fast,
jammed in between two rocks: all the stem and quarter of her was
beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her forecastle, which stuck in the
rocks, had run on with great violence, her maiumast and foremost were
brought by the beard,--thut is to say, broken short otl' ; but her holtsprit
was sound, and the head and bow appeared firm. \Vhen I came close to
her, a do: appeared upon her, which, seeing me coming, yelped and cried,
and as soon as I Pulled him jumped into the sea to come to me, and I took
him into the boat, but found him almost dead for hunger and thirst. I
gave him a cake of my bread, and he eat it like a ravenous wolf that had
been starring a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor creature some
fresh water, with which, if I had let him, he would have burst himself.
After this, I went on board. The first sight I met with was two
men drowned in the cook-room, or forecastle of the ship, with their arms
fast about one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that when
the ship struck, it being a storm, the sea broke so high andse con-
tinually over her, that the men wore not able to bear it, and were
strangled with the constant rushing in of the water as much as if they
had been under water. Besides the dog, there was nothing left in the
ship that had life, nor any goods, that I could see, but what were spoiled
by the water. There were some casks of liquor, whether wine or brandy
I knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and which, the water being
ebbed out, I could see; but they were too big to meddle with. I
saw several chests, wheh I believe belonged to some of the semen, and
I got two of them into the boat, without examining what was in them.
Had the stern of the ship been fixed, and the fore part broken ofl', I am
persuaded I might have made a good voyage; for, by what I found in
these two chests, I had room to suppose the ship had a great deal of
wealth on board: and, if I may guess from the course she steered, she
must have been bound from Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the
south part of America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havanna, in the Gulf
of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt, a great treasure
in her, but of no use at that time to anybody; and what became of the
rest of her people I then knew not.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of about
twenty gallons, which I got into my boat with much difficulty. There
were several mnskets in the cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about
four pounds of powder in it: as for the muskets, I had no occasion for
them, so I left them, but took the powder-horn. I took a fire-shovel and
tongs, which I wanted extremely: as also 'two little brass kettles, a
copper pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron: and with this cargo and
the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to make home again; and the
same evening, about an hour within night, I reached the island again,
weary and fatigued to the last degree. '

I reposed that night in the boat, and in the morning I resolved to
harbour what I had gotten in my new eavc,--not to carry it home to my
castle. After refreshing myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and began
to examine the particulars. The flask of liquor I found to be a kind of
rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils, and in a word, not at all
good; but when I came to open the chests, I found several things which
I wanted,---for example, I found in one a fine case of bottles, of an extra,
ordinary kind, and filled with cordial waters, fine and very good: the
bottles held about three pints each, and were tipped with silver. I
found two pots of very good suecwdes, or sweatmeats, so fastened also on
the top that the salt water had not hurt them; and two more of the
same, which the water had spoiled. I found some very good shirts,
which were very welcome to me; and about a dozen and a half of white
linen handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths: the former'were also very
welcome, being exceeding refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day. Be-
sides this, when I came to the till in the chest, I found three great bags
of pieces-of--eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces in all; and in
one of them, wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of gold and some small
bars or wedges of gold,--I suppose the}r might all weigh near a pound.

, The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but of little value:
but, by the circumstances, it must have belonged to the gunner's mate,

 

my>>. ._ , ,
though there was no powder in 1t, but about two pounds of glazed powder
in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their fowling-pieces on
occasion. Upon the whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of
much use to me: for as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for
it; it was to me as dirt under my feet, and I would have given it all
for three or four pair of English shoes and stockings, which were things
I greatly wanted, but had not had on my feet now for many years. I
had indeed gotten two pair of shoes now, which I took OR the feet of the
two drowned men whom I saw in the wreck, and I found two pair more
in one of the chests, which were very welcome to me; but they were
not like our English sheer, either for ease or service, being rather what
we call pumps than shoes. I found in this seaman's chest about fifty
pieces-of-eight in royals, but no gold ; I suppose this belonged to a poorer
man than the other, which seemed to belong to some officer.

Well, however, I lugged the money home to my cave, and laid it up,
as I had done that before which I brought from our own ship; but it was
great pity, as I said, that the other part of this ship had not come to my
share, for I am satisfied that I might have loaded my canoe several times
over with money, which, if I ever escaped to England, would have lain
here safe enough till I might have come again and fetched it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and secured them, 1
went back to my boat, and rowed or paddled her along the shore to her
old harbour, where I laid her up, and made the best of my way to my
old habitation, where I found every thing safe and quiet. So I began
to repose myself, live after my old fashion, and take care of my family
affairs; and, for a while, I lived easy enough, only that I was more
vigilant than I used to be, locked out oftencr, and did not go abroad so
much; and if at any time -I did stir with any freedom, it was always to
the east part of the island, where I was pretty well satisfied the savages
never came, and where I could go without so many precautions and such
a load of arms and ammunition as I always carried with me if I went the
other way.

I lived in this condition near two years more; but my unlucky head,
that was always to let me know it was born to make my body miserable,
was all these two years filled with projects and designs, how, if it were
possible, I might get away from this island; for sometimes I was for
making another voyage to the wreck, though my reason told me that
there was nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage,--sometixnes
for a ramble one way, sometimes another; and I believe verily, if I had
had the boat that I went fiom Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea,
bound any where--I knew not whither.

I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento to those who are
touched with that general plague of mankind, whence, for ought I know,
one half of their miseries flow,--I mean that of not being satisfied with
the station wherein God and nature hath placed them; for, not to look
back upon my primitive condition, and the excellent advice of my father--
the opposition to which was, as I may call it, my original sin--my subse-
quent mistakes of the same kind had been the means of my coming into
this miserable condition; for had that Providence, which so happily had
seated me at the Brazils as a planter, blessed me with confined desires,
and I could have been contented to have gone on gradually, I might have
been, by this time,--I mean in the time of my being in this island,--
one of the most considerable planters in the Brazils. Nay, I am17" Romsson CliLihOE.

persuaded, that by the improvements I had made in that little time I
lived there, and the increase I should probably have made if I had staid,
I might have been worth a hundred thousand moidores. And what busi-
ness had I to leave a settled fortune, a well-stocked plantation, improving
and increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea to fetch negrees, when patience
and time would have so increased our stock at home, that we could have
bought them at our door from those whose business it was to fetch them;
and though it had cost us something more, yet the difference of that price
was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard?

But as this is ordinarily the fate of young heads, so reflection upon the
folly of it is as ordinarily the exercise of more years, or of the dear-
bought experience of timc,--and so it was with me now; and yet so deep
had the mistake taken root in my temper, that I could not satisfy myself
in my station, but was continually poring upon the means and possibility
of my escape from this place. And that I may, with the greater pleasure
to the reader, bring on the remaining part of my story, it may not be im-
proper to give some account of my first conceptions on the subject of this
foolish scheme for my escape, and how, and upon what foundation, I acted.
The fnnr-:m:l-twnntinfih yvn? of (Zrnsue's sojourn on the ml--l'lo dreams about the savages--ll:
(he (lfiJ'J'Cl of genius a savage into his punk The cnnlfh'ils visit. rm. uid again,

and proceed ln slay um prisoners they L-ring \ullh them--The (1m Is mlfilled--One or the
saw: as cscapns, but is nnmml--(Zruson knucks down one of the pmsnrnz, and shoots the other

      

0 ("RCA

    

---Ilc welcomes the fugitive, whom he encourages v.0 slay the FPGOHd of his eucmics~-.\':\mes
Friday~lnatructs and clothes him~--11umau wmpuniunshlp almost reconciles him 10

 

 

lute voyage to the wreck--my flight ~ laid up and secured under

water, as usual, and my condition restored to what. it was

before: I hall. more Wealth, indeed, than I had before, but W113
not at all the richer, for I had no more use for it than the Indians of
Peru had before the Spaniard: cnmc thither.

It. was one of the nights in the rainy season in March, the four-and
twentieth year of my first setting foot on this island of solitiu'incss, I was
lyingin my bed, or hammock, awake and very well in healt-li,----had. no
pain, no distemper, no uneasiness of body, no nor any uneasiness of
mind, more than ordinary, but could by no means close my eyes, that is,
so as to sleep; no, not a wink all night long, otherwise than as follows:

It is m impoasiblc as neodloes to set down the innumerable crowd of
thoughts that, whirled through that; great thoroughfare of the brain, tho
mummy, in this night's time: I ran over the Whole history of my life
in miniature, or by uhridginont, as I may call it, to my coming to this
island, and also of that part of my life since I came to this island. In
my reflect-ions upon the state of my case since I came on shore on this
island, I was comparing the happy posture of my affairs in the first years
of my habitation here, to that course of anxiety, fear, and care which I
had lived in ever since I had seen the print of a. foot in the sand;--not
that I did not believe the savages had fmqncntcd the island even all the
while, and might have been several hundreds of them at times on shore
there; but as I had never known it, and was incapable of any apprehen-
sions about it, my satisfaction was perfect though my danger was the
some, and I was as happy in not knowing my danger as if I had never
really been exposed to it. This fumished my thoughts with many very
profitable reflections, and particularly this one: How infinitely good that
l'rovidenee is, whieh has provided, in its government of mankind, such
narrow hounds to his sight and knowledge of things; and though he
walks in the midst of so many thousand dangers, the sight of which, if
diseovered to him, would distraet his mind and sink his spirits, he is kept
serene and calm, hy having the events of things hid from his eyes, and
knowing nothing of the dangers whieh surround him.

Atler these thoughts had for some time entertained me, I came to
retleet seriously upon tho real danger I had been in for so many yeru's in
this very island, and how I had walked about in the greatest security,
and with all possihlo tranquillity, even when perhaps nothing but a brow
ot' a hill, a great tree, or the easual approach of night, had been between
me and the worst kind of destruction, viz., that of falling into the hands of
eaunihals and savages, who would have. seized on me with the same view
as 1 did on a goat or a turtle, aml have thought it no more a erime to kill
and devour me, than I did of a pigeon or eurlew. I should unjustly
slander mysell', if I should say I was not siueerely thankful to my
great l'reserver, to whose singular proteetiou I aeknowledgml, with great
humility, that all these unknown deliveranees were due, and without
which 1 must inevitably have fallen into their merciless hands.

When these thoughts were over, my head was for some time taken
up in eonsidering the nature of these wretched erentures,--I mean the
run-ages, and how it mine to pass in the world, that the wise Governor of
all things should give up any of his creatures to such inhumanity, nay,
to something so nun-h helow even brutality itself, as to devour its own
kind; but as this ended in some (at that time) fruitless speeulations, it
oeeurred to me to inquire what part of the world these wretches lived
in? how far otl' the coast was from whence they came? what they ren-
tnred so far from home for? what kind of boats they had? and why
I might not order myself and my business so, that I might be as able
to go over thither as they were to come to me?

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should do with
myself when I came thither; what would become of me, if I fell into
the hands of the savages; or how I should escape from them, if they
attempted me;--no, nor so much as how it was possible for me to reach
the coast, and not be attempted by some or other of them, without any
possibility of delivering myself; and if I should not fall into their hands,
what I should do for provision, or whither I should bend my course:
none of these thoughts, I say, so much as came in my way; but my mind
was wholly bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat to the
main land. I looked upon my present condition as the most miserable
that could possibly be; that I was not able to throw myself into any
thing, but death, that could be called worse; that if I reached the shore
of the main, I might perhaps meet with relief, or I might coast along, as
I did on the shore of Africa. till I came to some inhabited country, and
where I might find some relief; and after all, perhaps, I might fall in
with some Christian ship that might take me in; and, if the worst came
to the worst, I could but die, which would put an end to all these
miseries at once. Pray note, all this was the fruit of a disturbed mind,
an impatient temper, made, as it were, desperate by the long continuance of
my troubles, and the disappointments I had met in the wreck I had been on
board of, and where I had been so near the obtaining what I so earnestly
longed for, viz., somebody to speak to, and to learn some knowledge from,
of the place where I was and of the probable means of my deliverance,--
I say I was agitated wholly by these thoughts. All my calm of mind, in
my resignation to Providence, and waiting the issue of the dispositions of
Heaven, seemed to be suspended, and I had, as it were, no power to turn
my thoughts to any thing but to the project of a voyage to the main,
which came upon me with such force, and such an impetuosity of desire,
that it was not to be resisted.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with such
violence that it set my very blood into a ferment, and my pulse beat as
high as if I had been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary fervour of
my mind about it, nature--as if I had been fatigued and exhausted with
the very thought of it--threw me into a sound sleep. One would have
thought I should have dreamt of it, but I did not, nor of any thing relat-
ing to it; but I dreamt that as I was going out in the morning, as usual,
tram my castle, I saw upon the shore two canoes and eleven savages .
coming to land, and that they brought with them another savage whom
they were going to kill, in order to eat him--when on a sudden, the
savage that they were going to kill jumped away, and ran for hislifc;
and I thought, in my sleep, that he came running into my little thick

'13
grove before my fortification, to hide himself, and that I, seeing him
alone, and not perceiving that the others sought him that way, showed
myself to him, and smiling upon him, encouraged him; that he kneelcd
down to mo, seeming to pray me to assist him, upon which I showed
my ladder, made him go up, and carried him into my cave, and he became
my servant ; and that as soon as I had gotten this man, I said to myself,
"New I may certainly venture to the main land; for this follow will
serve mo as pilot, and will tell me what to do, and whither to go for pre-
visions, and whither not to go for fear of being devoured; what places to
venture into, and what to escape." I walrcd with thisthought, and was
under such inoxpressihlo impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape
in my dream, that the disappointments which I felt upon coming to
myself and finding it was no more than a dream, were equally extra-
vagant the other way, and threw me into a very great dejcetion of
spirit. '

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion--that my only way to
go about an attempt for an escape was, if possible, to get a savage into
my possession; and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners whom
they had condemned to be eaten, and should bring hither to kill. But
these thoughts still were attended with this difiioulty, that it was
impossible to effect this without attacking a whole caravan of them, and
killing them all: and this was not only a very desperate attempt, and
might miscarry, but, on the other hand, I had greatly scrupled tho
lawfulness of it to me, and my heart trembled at the thoughts of shedding
so much blood, though it was for my deliverance. I need not repeat
the arguments which occurred to me against this, they being the same
mentioned before: but though I had other reason to offer new, viz.,
that those men were enemies to my life, and would devour me if they
could; that it was self-preservation, in tho highest degree, to deliver
myself from this death of a life, and was acting in my own defence as
much as if they were actually assaulting me, and tho liko;--I say,
though these things argued for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human
blood for my deliverance were very terrible to mo, and such as I could by
no means reconcile myself to a great while.

However, at last, after many secret disputes with myself, and after
great perplexities about it (for all these arguments, one way and another, '
struggled in my head a long time), the eager provailing desire of
deliverance at length mastered all the rest; and I resolved, if possible,
target one of these savages into my hands, cost what it would. My next
thing, then, was to contrive how 'to do it, and this indeed was very
dilueult to resolve on ; but as I could pitch upon no probable means for
it, so I resolved to put myself upon the watch, to see them when they
came on shore, and leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as
the opportunity should present, let be what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself upon the scout as

often as possible, and indeed so often, till I was heartily tired of it; for
I it was above a year and a half that I waited, and for great part of that
tiino went out to the west end and to the south-west corner of the island,
almost every day to see for canoes, but none appeared. This was very
discouraging, and began to trouble me much, though I cannot say that
it did in this ease--as it had' done some time before that--wear off the
edge of my desire to the thing; but the longer it seemed to be delayed,
the more eager I was for it; in a word, I was not at first so careful to
shun the sight of these savages, and avoid being seen by them, as I was
new eager to be upon them.

Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one,--nay, two or three
savages, if I had them, so as to make them entirely slaves to me, to do
whatever I should direct them, and to prevent their being able at any
time to do me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself with
this affair, but nothing still presented; all my fancies and schemes came
to nothing, for no savages came near me for a great while.

About a year and a half after I had entertained these notions, and by
long musing had, as it were, resolved them all into nothing, for want of
an occasion to put them in execution, I was surprised, one morning early,
with. seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together on my side the
island, and the people who belonged to them all landed, and out of my sight.
The number of them broke all my measures,--for seeing so many, and
knowing that they always came four or six, or sometimes more, in a
heat, I could not tell what to think of it, or how to take my measures to
attack twenty or thirty men single-handed; so I leystill in my castle,
perplexed and discomfortod: however, I put myself into all the same
postures for an attack that I had formerly provided, and was just ready for
action, if anything had presenud. Having waited a good while,
listening to hear if they made any" noise, at length, being very impatient,
I set my guns at the foot of myladder, and clambered up to the top-of
the hill by my two stages, as usual, standing so, however, that myhed
did not appear above the hill, so that they could not perceive me by any
means. Here I observed, by the help of my perspective glass, that they
were no less than thirty in number, that they had a fire kindled, and
that they had had meat dressed; how they had cooked it, that I knew
not, or what it was, but they were all dancing, in I know not how many
barbarous gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived, by my perspective,
two miserable wretches dragged from the boats, where it seems, they
were laid by, and were now brought out for the slaughter. I perceived I
one of them immediately fell, being knocked down, I suppose, with' a
club or wooden sword, for that was their way, and two or three others
were at work immediately, cutting him open for their cookery, while the
other victim was left standing by himself, till they should be ready for
him. In that very moment this poor wretch, seeing himself a little at
liberty, nature inspired him with hopes of life, and he started away from
them, and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands directly towards
rue--I mean towards that part of the coast where my habitation was.

I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge) when I perceived
him to run my way, and especially when, as I thought, I saw him
pursued by the whole body; and now I expected that part of my dream
was coming to pass, and that he would certainly take shelter in my
grove,--but I could not depend, by any means, upon my dream for the
rest of it, viz., that the other savages would not pursue him thither, and
find him there. However, I kept my station, and my spirits began to
recover when I found that there were not above three men that followed
him, and still more was I encouraged when I found that he outstripped
them exceedingly in running, and gained ground of them, so that, if he
could but hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he would fairly get away
iromthem all. '-

There was between them and my castle the creek, which I mentioned
mum at the first part of my story, when I landed my cargoes out of the
ship; and this I saw plainly he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wmtch would be taken there: but when the savage escaping came
thither, he made nothing of it, though the tide was then up, but plunging
in, swam through in about thirty strokes, or thereabouts, landed, and ran
on with exceeding strength and swiftness. When the three persons
came to the creek, I found that two of them could swim, but the third
could not, and that, standing on'the other side, he looked at the others,
but went no feather, and soon after went softly back again, which, as it
happened, was very well for him in the main.

I observed that the two who swam were yet more than twice as long
swimming over the creek as the fellow was that fled from them. It
came now very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that
now was my time to get me a servant, and perhaps a companion or
assistant, and that I was called plainly by Providence to save this poor
creature's life. I immediately ran down the ladders with all possible
expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both but at the foot of
the ladders, as I observed above; and, getting up again with the same
haste, to the top of the hill, I crossed toward the sea, and having a very
short cut, and all down hill, clapped myself in the way between the pur-
suers and the pursued, hallooing aloud to him that fled, who, looking
back, was at first, perhaps, as much frighted at me as at them; but I
beckoned with my hand to him to come back, and in the meantime I
slowly advanced towards the two that followed, then rushing at once
upon the foremost, I knocked him down with the stock of my piece. I '
was loth to fire, because I would not'have the rest hear, though, at that
distance, it would not have been easily heard, and being out of sight of
the smoke too, they would not have easily known what to make of it.
Having knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued him stopped, as
if he had been frighted, and I advanced apace towards him; but as I came
nearer, I perceived presently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting
it to shoot at me,--so Iwas then necessitated so shoot at him first, which
I did, and killed him at the first shot. The poor savage who fled, but
had stopped, though he saw both his enemies fallen and killed (as he
thought), yet was so fiighted with the fire and noise of my piece, that
he stood stock-still, and neither came forward nor went backward, though
he seemed rather inclined to flystill, than to come on. Ihallooedagain
to him, and made signs to come forward, which he easilynnderstood, and
came a little way-then stopped again, and then a little farther, and
stopped again; andI oouldthenperceivethathestoodtrembling,asif
hehadbeentakenprisoner, andhadjustbeentobekilled,eshistwo
enemieewere. Ibeckonedhimagsintoeemetome,andgavehimall
thesignsofencmiregementthatlcouldthinkof;andheomenearer
and nearer, kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of ac-
knowledgment for my saving his life. I smiled at him, and looked
pleasantly, and beckoned tohim to some still nearer; atlengthheeams
close to me, and then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and laid
his head upon the ground, and, taking me by the foot, set my foot upon
his head: this, it seems, was in token of swearing to be my slave for ever.
I took him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all I could.
But there was more work to do yet; for I perceived the savage whom
I knocked down was not killed, but stunned with the blow, and began
to come to himself: so I pointed to him, and showed him the savage,
that he was not dead: upon this he spoke some words to me, and though
I could not understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to hear,
for they were the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my own
excepted, for above twenty-live years. But there was no time for such
reflections new: the savage who was knocked down recovered himself so
far as to sit up upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage began to
be afraid; but when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the man,
as if I would shoot him; upon this my savage, for so I call him now,
made a motion to me to lead him my swurd which hung naked in a belt
by my side ;--so I did: he no sooner had it, but he runs to his enemy,
and, at one blow, cuts oil" his head as cleverly, no executioner in Germany
could have done it sooner or better,--which I thought very strange for
one who, I had reason to believe, never saw a sword in his life before,
except their own wooden swords: however, it seems, as I learned after-
wards, they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy, and the wood
is so hard, that they will cut 011' heads even with them, aye and arms, and
that at one blow too. When he had done this, he comes laughing to
me, in sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and with
abundance of gestures which I did not understand, laid it down with the
head of the savage that he had killed, just before me.

But that which astonished him most was to know how I had killed
the other Indian so far 011'; so, pointing to him, he made signs to me
to let him go to him: so I bade him go, as Well as I could. When
he came to him, he stood like one amazed, looking at him,--tumed him
first on one side, then on the other, looked at. the wound the bullet had
made, which it seems was just in his breast where it had made a hole,
and no great quantity of blood had followed; but he had bled inwardly,
for he was quite dead. He took up his bow and arrow, and came
back; so I turned to go away, and beckoned to him to follow me, making
signs to him that more might come alter them. Upon this, he signed
to me that he should bury them with sand. that they might not be
seen by the rest, if they followed; and so I made signa again to him to
do so. He fell to work, and in an instant he had scraped a hole in the
sand with his hands big enough to bury the first in, and then dragged
him into it and covered him, and did so also by the other: I believe
he had buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling him
away, I carried him, not to my castle, but quite away, to my cave on
the farther part of the island; so I did not let my dream come to pass
in that part, viz. that he came into my grove for shelter.

Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat, and a draught
of water, which I found he was indeed in great distress for, by his
running; and having refreshed him, I made signs for him to go lie
down and sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great parcel
of rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, which I used to sleep upon myself
sometimes. 80 the poor creature lay down, and went to sleep.

He was a comely, handsome fellow--perfectly well made, with
straight, strong limbs, not too large--tall, and well shaped, and, as I
reckon, about twenty-six years of age. He had a very good countenance,
not a fierce and early aspect, but seemed to have something very manly
in his face; and yet he had all the sweetness and softness of an Euro-
pean in his countenance too, especially when he smiled. His hair was
long and black, not curled like wool; his forehead very high and large,
and a great vivacity and sparkling sharpness in his eyes. The colour
of his skin was not quite black, but very tawny, and yet not of an"
ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians and Virginians, and
other natives of America are, but of a bright kind of a dun olive colour,
that had in it something very agreeable, though not very easy to
describe. His face was round and plump; his nose small, not flat
like the Negroes; a very good mouth, thin lips, and his fine teeth well
set, and white as ivory. After he had slumbered--rather than slept--
abeut half an hour, he waked again, and comes out of the cave to me,
for I had been milking my goats, which I had in the enclosure just
by: when he espied me, he came running to me, laying himself down
again upon the ground, with all the possible signs of an humble, thank-
ful disposition, making a past many natio gestures to show it. At
last, he lays his head flat upon the ground, close to my foot, and sets
my other foot upon his head, as he had done before; and after this
made all the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and submission imagin.
able, to let me know how he would serve me as long as he lived. I
understood him in many things, and let him know I was very well
pleased with him. In a little time I began to speak to him, and teach
him to speak to me; and, first, I made him know his name should be
Funny, which was the day I saved his life: I called him so for the
memory of the time. I likewise taught him to say "Heston" and
then let him know that was to be my name: I likewise taught him to
say "Yes" and "No," aml to know the meaning of them. I gave
him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see me drink it before
him, and sop my bread in it; and I gave him a cake of bread to do
the like, which he quickly complied with, and made signs that it was
very good for him.

I kept there with him all that night, but as soon as it was day I
heekoued to mm to come with me, and let him know I would give
him some clothes, at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark
naked. As we went by the place where he had buried the two men,
he pointed exactly to the place, and showed me the marks that he had
made to find them again, making signs to me that we should dig them
up again, and eat. them. At, this I appeared very angry, expressed
my abhorreuee of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it,
and beckoned with my hand to him to come away, which he did imme-
diately, with great submission. I then led him up to the top of the
hill, to see if his enemies were gone; and pulling out my glass, I
looked and saw plainly the place where they had been, but no appear-
ance of them or their canoes,--so that it was plain they were gone,
and had left their two comrades behind them, without any search after
them.

But I was not content with this discovery; but having now more
courage, and consequently more curiosity, I took my man Friday with
me, giving him the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his
back, which I found he could use very dextcrously, making him carry
one gun for me, and I two for myself; and away we marched to the
place where these creatures had been, for I had a mind now to get
some fuller intelligence of them. When I came to the place, my very
blood ran chill in my veins and my heart sunk within me at the horror
of the spectacle: indeed, it was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to
me, though Friday made nothing of it. The place was covered with
human bones, the ground dyed with their blood, great pieces of flesh
left here and there, half-eaten, mangled, and scorched, and, in short, allCRUSOE MEETING WITH FRIDAY.
the tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making there, after
a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls, five hands, and the
bones of three or four legs and feet, and abundance of other parts of
the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they
brought over four prisoners to feast upon--that three of them were
eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself, was the fourth; that there
had been a great battle between them and their next king, whose sub-
jects, it seems, he had been one of, and that they had taken a great
number of prisoners, all which were carried to several places by those
that had taken them in the fight, in order to feast upon them, as was
done here by these wretches upon those they brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh, and whatever
remained, and lay them together in a heap, and make a great fire upon
it, and ham them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a hankering
stomach after some of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature;
but I discovered so much ubhorrenee at the very thoughts of it, and at
the least appearance of it, that he durst not discover it,--for I had,
by some means, let him know that I would kill him if he offered it.

When we had done this we came back to our castle, and there I
fell to work for my man Friday; and first of all, I gave him a pair of
linen drawers which I had out of the poor gunncr's chest I mentioned,
which I found in the wreck, and which, with a little alteration, fitted
him very Well; then I made him a jerkin of goat's skin, as well as
my skill would allow, and I was now grown a tolerable good tailor;
and I gave him a cap, which I made of a here's skin, very convenient and
fashionable enough: and thus he was clothed for the present, tolerably
well, and was mighty well pleased to see himself almost as well clothed
as his master. It is true, he went awkwardly in these things at first:
wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and the sleeves of the
waistcoat gelled his shoulders, and the inside of his arms; but a little
easing them where he complained they hurt him, and using himself to
them, at length he took to them very well.

The next day, after I came home to my hutch with him, I began
to consider where I should lodge him; and that I might do well for
him, and yet be perfectly easy myself, I made a little tent for him, in
the vacant place between my two fortifications, in the inside of the
last, and in the outside of the first: and as them was a door or entrance
there into my cave, I made a formal framed doorcuse, and a. door to it
of boards, and set it up in the passage 9. little within the entrance;
and, causing the door to open on the inside, I barred it up in the
night, taking in my ladders too; so that Friday could no way come at
me in the inside of my innermost wall, without making so much noise
in getting over that it must needs woken me: for my first wall had
now a complete roof over it of long poles, covering all my tent, and
leaning up to the side of the hill, which was again laid across with
smaller sticks, instead of laths, and then thatched over a great thickness
with the rice-straw, which was strong, like reeds; and at the hole or
place which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had placed a kind
of trapdoor, which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would not
have opened at all, but would have fallen down, and made a great
noise: and as to weapons, I took them all into my side every night.

But I needed none of all this precaution; for never man had a more
faithful, loving, sincere servant than Friday was to me: without pas-
sions, sullcnncss, or designs, perfectly" obliged and enghged, his very
affections were tied to me like those of a child to a father; and I dare
say he would have sacrificed his live for the saving mine, upon any
occasion whatsoever: the many testimonies he gave me of this put it out
of doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use no precautions
as to my safety on his account.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder,
that however it had pleased God, in his providence, and in the govern-
ment of the works of his hands, to take from so great a part of the
world of his creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the
powers of their souls are adapted,--yet that he has bestowed upon them
the same powers, the same reason, the same affections, the same senti-
ments of kindness and obligation, the same passions and resentments of
wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity, and all the
capacities of doing good, and receiving good, that he has given to us;
and that when he pleases to offer them occasions of exerting these, they
are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to the right uses for
which they were bestowed, than we are. And this made me very
melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions presented,
how mean a use we make of all these, even though we have these
powers enlightened by the great lamp of instruction, the Spirit of God,
and by the knowledge of his word added to our understanding; and
why it has pleased God to hide the like saving knowledge from so many
millions of souls, who, if I might judge by,this poor savage, would
makeamuchbetteruseof itthanwedid.

From hence I sometimes was led too far to invade the sovereignty
of Providence, and, as it were, anaign the justice of so arbitrary a dis-
position of things, that should hide that light from some, and reveal it
to others, and yet expect a like duty from both; but I shut it up, and
checked my thoughts with this conclusion--first, that we do not know
by what light and law these should be condemned; but that, as God
was necessarily, and by the nature of his being, infinitely holy and
just, so it could not be but that if these creatures were all sentenced
to absence from himself, it was on account of sinning against that light,
which, as the Scripture says, was a law to themselves, and by such
rules as their consciences would acknowledge to be just, though the
foundation was not discovered to us; and, secondly, that still, as we
are all clay in the hands of the potter, no vessel could say to him,
"Why hast thou formed me thus P"

But to return to my new companion. I was greatly delighted with
him, and made it my business to teach him every thing that was proper
to make him useful, handy, and helpful, but especially to make him
speak, and understand me when I spoke: and he was the aptest scholar
that ever was; and particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent,
and so pleased when he could but understand me, or make me under-
stand him, that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. And now

.my life began to be so easy, that I began to say to myself, that could
I but have been safe from more savages, I cared not if I was never to
remove from the place while I lived.

I.\

"A . "law's-3n}
crimi- nllompll to reclaim Friday n-nm cannibalism. and converse: with him about his country and
its lnlmhimnls--lnslrllcls him in the knowledge a! the (me God, and exposes the delusion o!

l'ngnn priestcrnn--Frhlny limb: it difllcult to account {or the existence of evil--Tho lavage
becomes a Chl'inlinu, and ('rllsue in cumpleu'l)' happy.

A N FTER I had been two or three days returned to my castle,
' I thought that, in order to bring Friday off from his
horrid way of feeding, and from tho relish of a cannibul's
18- stomach, I ought to let him tuste other flesh; so I took
him out with me one morning to the woods. I went, indeed, intending
to kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring it home and dress it;
but us I was going, I saw a she-gout lying down in the shade, and two
young kids sitting by her. I catched hold of Friday. " Hold," said
I; "stand still ;" mid made signs to him not to stir. Immediately
I presented my piece, shot, and killed one of the kids. The poor
creature, who had, at a distance indeed, seen me kill the savage--his
enemy, but did not know, nor could imagine, how it was done, was
sensibly surprised, trembled and shock, and looked so amazed, that I
thought he would have sunk down. He did not see the kid I had
shot at, or perceived that I had killed it, but ripped up his waistcoat,
to feel if he was not wounded; and, as I found presently, thought I
was resolved to kill him, for he came and kncoled down to me, and,
embracing my knees, said a great many things I did not understand,--
but I could easily see that his meaning was, to pray me not to kill
him.

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do him no harm;
and, taking him up by the hand, laughed at him, and, pointing to the
kid which I had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which
he did: and while he was wondering, and looking' to see how the
creaturownskilled,Iloadedmyganagain: and, byandby,Isawagrest
fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a tree, within shot ;--so', to let Friday under-
stand a little what I would do, I called him to me agtdn, pointing at
the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought it had been a
hawk,--I say, pointing to the parrot, and to my gun, and to the
ground under the parrot, to let him see I would make it fall, I made
him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird. Accordingly, I
fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw the parrot fall. He
stood like one {lighted again, notwithstanding all that I had said to
him; and I found he was the more amazed, because he did not see me
put anything into the gun, but thought there must be some wonderful
fund of death and destruction in that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird,
or any thing, near or far off : and the astonishment this createdin him was
such as could not wear off for a long time, and I believe, if I would
have let him, he would have worshipped me and my gun. As for the
gun itself, he would not so much as touch it for several days after;
but would speak to it and talk to it as if it had answered him, when
he was by himself; which, as I afterwards learned of him, was to desire
it not to kill him.

Well, after his astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to
him to run and fetch the bird I had shot, which he did, but stayed
some time; for the parrot, not being quite dead, had fluttered a good
way from the place where she fell: however, he found her, took her
up and brought her to me; and as I had perceived his ignorance about
the gun before, I took this advantage to charge the gun again, and not
let him see me do it, that I might be ready for any other mark that
might present. But nothing else offered at that time,--so I brought
home the kid, and the same evening I took the skin OE, and cut it out
as well as I could; and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or
stewed some of the flesh, and made some very good broth. After I had
begun to eat some, I gave some to my man, who seemed very glad
of it, and liked it very well; but that which was strangest to him,
wastoseeme eotsaltwithit. Hemadeasigntomethatthesalt
was not good to eat; and,,putting a little into his own month, he seemed
to museum it, and would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth
with fresh water after it : ' on the other hand, I took some meat in my
mouth without salt, and I pretended to spit and sputter for want of
salt, as fast as he had done at the salt; but it would not do--he would
never care for salt with his meat or in his broth, at least not a great while,
and then but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I was resolved
to feast him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid: this I did,
by hanging it before the fire in a string, as I had seen many people do
in England, setting two poles up, one on each side of the fire, and one
cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross stick, letting the
meat turn continually. This Friday admired very much; but when he
came to taste the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he
liked it, that I could not but understand him, and at last he told me
that he would never eat man's flesh any more, which I was very glad
to hear.

The next day I set him to work to beating some corn out, and
sifting it in the manner I used to do, as I observed before; and he soon
understood how to do it as well as I, especially after he had seen what
the meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of: for after that
I let him see me make my bread, and bake it too; and in a little time
Friday was able to do all the work for me, as well as I could do it
myself.

I began now to consider that, having two mouths to feed instead of
one, I must provide more ground for my harvest, and plant a larger
quantity of corn than I used to do: so I marked out a larger piece of
land, ,and began to fence in the some manner as before, in which
Friday not only worked very willingly and very hard, but did it very
cheerfully: and I told him what it was for--that it was for corn to
make more bread, because he was new with me, and. that I might have
enough for him and myself too. He appeared very sensible of that part,
and let me know that he thought I had much more labour upon me on
his account than I had for myself: and that he would work the harder
for me, if I would tell him what to do.

This was the pleasantcst year of all the life I led in this place.
Friday began to talk pretty well, and understand the names of almost
every thing I had occasion to call for, and of every place I had to send
him to, and talk a great deal to me,--so that, in short, I began newto
have some use for my tongue again, which, indeed, I had very little .
occasion for before, that is to say, about speech. Besides the pleasure
of talking to him, I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow. himself:
his simple, nnfeigncd honesty appeared to me more and more every day,
and I began really to love the creature; and, on his side, I behave he
loved me more than it was possible for him ever to love any thing before.

Ihedamind oneetotryifhe had snyhsnkering inelinstidntohis
owneountrysgein; and,hsving learnedhimEnglishsowellthathe
could answer me almost any questions, I asked him whether-the nation
that he belonged to never conquered in battle? At which he smiled,
and said, "Yes, yes, we always fight the better,"--thst is, he meant,
slwsys get the better in fight; and so we began the following discourse:
" You always fight the better?" said I, "how came you to be taken
prisoner then, Friday ?"

Fnrnsr. My nation bout much, for all that.

Mum. flow heat? If your nation beat them, how came you to be
taken?

Fnrnsr. They more many than my nation in the place where me was;
they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overheat them in the
yonder place, where me no was; there my nation take one, two, gent
thousand; _

Lissa-n. But why did not your'side recover you from the hands of
your enemies, then?

anu. They run one, two, three, and me, and make go in the canoe;
my nation have no canoe that time.

Mums. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the men
they take? Do they carry them away and eat them, as these did?

Fnrnsr. Yes, my nation eat mans too; eat all up.

Meme. Where do they carry them?

FRIDAY. Go to other place, where they think.

Mssrsn. Do they come hither?

Fmsr. Yes, yes, they come hither: come other else place.

ann. Have you been here with them?

Emu. Yes, I have been here; (points to the north-west side of the
island, which, it seems, was their side.)

By this I understood that myman Fridsyhsd formsrlyheen among
the savageswho used to come on shore onthefiartherpertof theislsnd,
on the said nauseating occasions that he was new brought for; and
sometimeafter, whenI-tooktheeonrsgetoearryhimto that'side, being
thesemsIformerlymentioued, hepressntlyhnswtheplsee, sndtold
mshewuthmmeewhmtheyestnptwentymemtwommd ,-
oneohild: he could nottelltwentyin English, but henumbeledthem

.45.: ;..-.v _ fim.&;l.'
by laying so many stones in a row, and pointing to me to tell them
over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what follows,--that
after I had had this discourse with him, I asked him how far it was
from our island to the shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost.
He told me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost; but that, after
a little way out to sea, there was a current and a. wind, always one way
in the morning, the other in the afternoon.

This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide, as going
out or coming in; but I afterwards understood it was occasioned by the
great draft and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoque, in the mouth of
which river, as I found afterwards, our island lay; and that the land
which I perceived to the west and north-west was the great island
Trinidad, on the north point of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday
a thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the
coast, and what nations were near: he told me all he knew, with the
greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the names of the several
nations of his sort of people, but could get no other names than Caribs:
from whence I easily understood that these were the Caribbees, which
our maps place on that part of America, which reaches from the mouth -
of the river Oroonoque to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. He told
me that up a great way beyond the moon--that was, beyond the setting
of the moon, which must he west from their country, there dwelt white
bearded men, like me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I
mentioned before, and that they had killed much mans--that was his
word,----by which I understood, he meant the Spaniards, whose cruclties
in America had been spread over whole countries, and were remembered
by all the nations, from father to son.

I enquired if he could tell me how I might come from this island, and
get among those white men: he told me, "Y )5, yes, I might go in
two canoe." I could not understand what he meant, or make him
describe to me what he meant, by two canoe, till at last, with great
difficulty, I found he meant that it must be in a large great heat, as big
as two canoes.

This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me very well;
and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one time or other, I
might find an opportunity to make my escape from this place, and that
this poor savage might be a means to help me do it.
.0

During the long time that Friday had now been with gne, and that he
began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to lay a foun-
dation of religious knowledge in his mind. I asked him, one time, who
made him 1' The poor creature did not understand me at all, but thought

              

;_.v'",, 4"n._ 3--" 53-"

x,

I had asked who was his fatbcr? but I took it by another handle, and
asked himwvho made the sea, the ground we walked on, and the hills
and woods? He told me, it was one old Benumuckee, that lived beyond
all: he could describe nothing of this great person, but that he was "61'"

la
old, much older, he said, than the sea or the land, than the moon or the
stars. I asked him then, if this old person had made all things, why did
not all things worship him? He looked very grave, and with a perfect
look of innocence said, "All things said O to him i" I asked him if the
people who die in his country went away any where? He said, "Yes;
they all went to Benamuckee." Then I asked him whether those they
eat up went thither too? He said, "Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the
true God. I told him that the great Maker of all things lived up there,
pointing up towards heaven; that he governs the world by the same
power and providence by which he made it; 'that he was omnipotent,
could do every thing for us, give every thing to us, take every thing from
us; and thus by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great
attention, and received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being
sent to redeem us, and of the manner of making our prayers to God, and
his being able to hear us, even in heaven. He told me one day, thatif
our God could hear us up beyond the sun, he must needs be a greater
God than their Benamuckee, who lived but a little way of, and yet could
not hear till they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt to
speak to him. I asked him if ever he went thither to speak to him?
He said, "No; they never went that were young men: none went
thither but the old men," whom he called their Oowookakee,--that is, as
I made him explain it to me, their religious, or clergy; and that they
went to say, " 0" (so he called saying prayers), and then came back, and
told them what Benamuckee said. By this I observed, that there is
priestcraft even among the most blinded, ignorant pagans in the world;
and the policy of making a secret of religion, in order to preserve the
veneration of the people to the clergy, is to be found among all religions
in the world, even among the most brutish and barbarous savages.

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man Friday, and told him
that the pretence of their old men going up to the mountains to say
" 0" to their god Benamuekee was a cheat, and their bringing word from
thence what he said was much more so; that if they met with any
answer, or spoke with any one there, it must be with an evil spirit; and
then I entered into a long discourse with him about the devil, the original
of him, his rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the reason of it, his
setting himself up in the dark parts of the world to be worshipped instead
of God, and as God, and the many stratagems he made use of to delude

A
mankindto their ruin; howhe had a secret access to our passions and
to our affections, to adapt his mares so to our inclinations as to cause as
even to be our own tempters, and to run upon our destruction by our own
choice.

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about
the devil, as it was about the being of a God: nature assisted all my
arguments to evidence to him even the necessity of a. great First Cause,
and overruling governing Power, a secret, directing Providence--and of
the equity and justice of paying homage to him that made us, and the
like. But there appeared nothing of all this in the notion of an evil
spirit--of his original, his being, his nature, and, above all, of his
inclination to do evil, and to draw us in to do so too; and the poor
creature puzzled me once in such a manner, by a question merely natural
and innocent, that I scarce knew what to say to him.

Ihadbeentalldngagreatdealtohimofthepowerof God, his
omnipotence, his dreadful aversion to sin--his being a consuming fire to
the workers of iniquity,--how, . as he had made us all, he could
destroy us and all the world in a. moment; and he listened with great
seriousness to me all the while. After this, I had been tellinghim'how
the devil was God's enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his malice
and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence, and to ruin the
kingdom of Christ in the world, and the like. " Well," says Friday,
"but you say God is so strong, so great: is he not much strong, much
might as the devil?"--"Yes, yes," says I, "Friday, God is stronges-
than the devil: God is above the devil, and therefore we pray to God to
tread him under our feet, and enable us to resist his temptations, and
quench his fiery darts." "But," says he again, "if God much strong,
much might as the devil, why God no kill the devil, so make him no
more do wicked ?" '

I was strangely surprised at his question; and, after all, though I
was now an old man, yet I was but a young doom-{and ill enough
qualified for a easnist, or a solver of diificnlties,---and, at' first, I could
not tell what to say, so I pretended not to hear him, and asked him what
he said? but he was too earnest for an answer, to forget his question,
so that he repeated it' in the very same broken words as above. By this
timeIhadreooveredmyself alittle, andIeaid, "Godwillatlastpunish
himseverely; heis reservodforthe judgment, and istnbecastintothe
bottomless pit, to dwell with everlastius fire." This did not using

. .1 _ ,,
Friday; but he returns upon me, repeating my words, "Reserve at last:
me no understand; but why not kill the devil now--not kill great ago P"
"You may as well ask me," said I, "why God does not kill you and me,
when we do wicked things here that ofl'end him? We are preserved to
repeat and be pardoned." Ho muses a while at this. "Well, well,"
says he, mighty affectionately, "that well: so you, I, devil, all wicked,
all preserve, repent, God pardon all." Here I was run down again by
him to the last degree; and it was a testimony to me, how the mere
notions of nature, though they will guide reasonable creatures to the
knowledge of a God, and of a worship or homage due to the supreme being
of God, as the consequence of our nature, yet nothing but divine revela-
tion can form the lmon'ledge of Jesus Christ, and of a redemption
purchased for us; of a Mediator; of a new covenant; and of an Inter-'
censor at the footstool of God's throne: I say, nothing but a revelation
from Heaven can form these in the soul. and that, therefore, the gospel of
our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean ths Word of God, and the
Spirit of God, promised for the guide and sanctifier of his people, are the
absolutely necessary instructors of the souls of men in the saving know-
ledge. of God, and the means of salvation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my man,
rising up hastily, us upon some sudden occasion of going out: then
sending him for something a gmat way oil', I seriously prayed to God.
that he would enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage, assisting,
by his Spirit, the heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive the light
of the knowledge of God in Christ reconciling him to Himself, and would
guide me to speak so to him from the word of God, as his conscience
might be convinced, his eyes opened, and his soul saved. When he came
again to me, I entered into along discourse with him upon the subject of
the redemption of man by the Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine
of the gospel preached from heaven, viz., of repentance towards God, and
faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to him, as Well as I
could, why our blessed Redeemer took not on him the nature of angels,
but the seed of Abraham: and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had
no share in tho redemption,--thut he come only to the lost sheep of the
house of Israel, and the like.

I had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the methods
I took for this poor creature's instruction, and must acknowledge, what I
believe all that act upon the same principle will- find--that, in laying
things open to him, I really informed and instructed myself in many
things that either I did not know, or had not fully considered before, but
which occurred naturally to my mind upon my searching into them, for
the information of this poor savage: and I had more affection in my
inquiry after things upon this occasion than ever I felt before: so that,
whether this poor wild wretch was the better for me or no, I had great
reason to be thankful that over he came to me. My grief sat lighter
upon me; my habitation grew comfortable to me beyond measure; and
when I reflected that, in this solitary life which I had been confined to,
1 had not only been moved myself to look up to Heaven, and to seek to
the hand that brought me thither, but was now to be made an instrument,
under Providence, to save the life, and for aught I lmew, the soul, of a
poor savage, and bring him to the true knowledge of religion, and of the
Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus, to know whom is
life eternal ;--I say, when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy
ran through every part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I
was brought to this place, which I had often thought the most dreadful
of all afliictions that could possibly have befallen me.

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my time, and
the conversation which employed the hours between Friday and me was
such as made the three years which we lived there together perfectly and
completely happy, if any such thing as complete happiness can be found
in a suhlunary state. The savage was now a good Christian, a much
better than I,--though I have reason to hope. and bless God for it, that
we were equally penitent, and comforted, metered penitents. We had
here the word of God to read, and no farther off from his Spirit to in-
struct, than if we had been in England. I always applied'myself to
reading the Scripture, and to let him know as well as I could the mean-
ing of what I read; and he again, by his serious inquiries and question-
ings, made me, as I said before, a much better scholar in the Scripture-
knowledge than I should ever have been by my own more priyate reading.
Another thing I cannot refrain from observing here also, from experience
in this retired part of my life, viz., how infinite and inexpressible a bless-
ing it is that the knowledge of God, and of the doctrine of salvation by
Christ Jesus, is so plainly laid down in the word of God,--so easytobe
received and understood, that, as the bare reading the Scripture msde'me
capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry me directly on to
the great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and laying hold of a
Saviour for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in practice, and
obedience to all God's commands, and this without any teacher or in-
structor, I mean human,--so, the same plain instruction suilloiently served
to the enlightening this savage creature, and bringing him to be such a
Christian as I have known few equal to him in my life.

As to the disputes, wrangling, strife, and contention, which have
happened in the world about religion, whether nicetics in doctrines, or
schemes of church government, they were all perfectly useless to us, as for
ought I can yet see, they have been to all the rest in the world. We had
the sure guide to heaven, viz., the word of God; and we had, blessed be
God, comfortable views of the Spirit of God teaching and instnicting us
by his word, leading us into all truth, and making us both willing and
obedient to the instruction of his Word. And I cannot see the least use
that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points in religion, which have
made such confusion in the world, would have been to us, if we could
have obtained it. But I must go on with the historical part of things,
and take every part in its Ol'llul'.
Cresne (I -1(.-h(>1 Friday the. use or fire-31,111: :mcl desmibes to him the coxmules 01 l' move--The,
make :1 ho 1t, and fit it with um": 15 11nd ~'- 'lw--l-nd 1'; 311 instruck'rl how to navigate it--The
savaga: again 1' ' ' land--They me attached and round--(1111500 rescues a Spaniard, their
prisoner, and 1 day Vera his in then.

  
      

FTER Friday and I became more intimately acquainted,
and that he could understand almost all I said to him,
and speak fluently, though in broken English, to me, I
acquainted him with my own story, or at least so much

of it as related to my coming into this place; how I had lived here, and

how long: 1 let him into the mystery, for such it was to him, of gun-
powder 11nd bullet, and taught him how to shoot. I gave him :1. knife,
which he was wonderfully delighted with: and I made. him a. belt with

a frog lumging to it, such as in England we wear hangers i11,--aud in

the frog, instead of :1 hunger, I gave him a. hatel1et,whic-h was not

only as good :1 weapon, in some cases, but much more useful upon other

  

occasions.

I described to him the countries of Europe, and particularly England,
which I came from ; how we lived, how we worshipped God, how we be-
haved to one another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the world.
I gave him an account of the wreck which I had been on board of, and
showed him, as near as I could, the place where she lay; but she was all
beaten in pieces before, and gone. I showed him the ruins of our boat,
which we lost when we escaped, and which I could not stir with my
whole strength then, but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon
seeing this bout, Friday stood musing a great while, and said nothing. I
asked him what it was he studied upon? At last, says he, " Me see such200 sovsuru ass or

boat like come to place at my nation." I did not understand him a good
while; but, at last, when I had examined farther into it, I understood by
him, that a boat, such as that had been, came on shore upon the country
where he lived; that is, as he explained it, was driven thither by stress
of weather. I presently imagined that some European ship must have
been cast away upon their coast, and the boat might get loose, and drive
ashore; but was so dull, that I never once thought of men making
escape from a wreck thither, much less whence they might come: so I
only inquired alter a description of the bout.

Friday described the boat to me well enough, but brought me better
to understand him when he added, with some warmth, " We save the
white mans from drown." Then I presently asked him, if there were
any white mans, as he called them, in the boat? " Yes," he said; " the
boat full of white mans." I asked him how many? He told upon his
fingers seventeen. I asked him then what became of them? He told
me, " They live, they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head; for I presently imagined that
these might be the men belonging to the ship that was cast away in
light of my island, as I now called it; and who, after the ship was struck
on the reek, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in
their boat, and were lauded upon that wild shore among the savages.
Upon this, I inquired of him more critically what was become of them;
he assured me they lived still there; that they had been there about four
years; that the savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live on.
I asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them and eat them?
He said, "No, they make brother withithcm ;" that is, as I understood
him, a truce ; and then he added, " They no out mans but when make the
war tight;" that is to say, they never eat any men but such as some to
tight with them, and me taken in battle.

It was after this some comsidcrable time, that, being upon the top of
the hill, at the east side of the island, from whence, as I have said, I had,
in a clear day, discovered the main or continent of America, Friday, the
weather being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the main land,
and, in a kind of surprise, falls a jumping and dancing, and calls out to
me, for I was at some distance from him. I asked him what was the
matter? " C) joy !" says he; " 0 glad! there see my country, there my
nation!" I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his
face, and his eyes sparkled, and his countenance discovered a strange
eagerness, as if he had a. mind to be in his own country again. This
observation of mine put a great many thoughts into me, which made me
at first not so easy about my new man, Friday, as I was before; and I
made no doubt, but that if Friday could get back to his own nation again,
he would not only forget all his religion, but all his obligation to me, and
would be forward enough to give his countrymen an account of me, and
come back perhaps with a hundred or two of them, and make a feast upon
me, at which he might be as merry as he used to be with those of his
enemies, when they were taken in war. But I wronged the poor honest
creature very much, for which I was very sorry afterwards. However,
as my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I was a little more
circumspect, and not so familiar and kind to him as before: in which I
was certame in the wrong too, the honest, grateful creature having no
thought about it, but what consisted with the best principles, both as a
religious Christian, and as a grateful friend, as appeared afterwards to my .
full satisfaction.

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I was every day
pumping him, to see if he would discover any of the new thoughts which
I suspected were in him; but I found everything he said was so honest
and so innocent, that I could find nothing to nourish my suspicion; and,
in spite of all my uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his own again:
nor did he, in the least, perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I could
not suspect him of deceit.

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy at
sea, so that we could not see the continent, I called to him, and said,
" Friday, do not you wish yourself in your own country, your own nation?"
"Yes," he said, "I be much 0 glad to be at my own nation." "What
would you do there ?" said I; "would you turn wild again, out men's
flesh again, and be a savage as you were before ?" He looked full of
concern, and shaking his head, said, "No, no; Friday tell them to live
good, tell them to pray God, tell them to eat corn-bread, cattle-flesh,
milk; no out man again." "Why then," said I to him, "they will
kill you." He looked grave at that, and then said, "'No, they no kill
me, they willing lore learn." He meant by this, they would be willing
to learn. He added, "they learned much of the bearded mans that came
in the boat." Then I asked him if he would go back to them. He
smiled at that, and told me he could not swim so far. I told him I
would make a canoe for him. He toldme hewould go,ifIwouldgo
with him. " I go?" says I; " why, they will eat me, if I come there.'
" No, no," says he; " me make they no eat you; me make they much
love you." lie meant, he would tell them how I had killed his enemies,
and saved his life, and so he would make them love me. Then he told
me, as well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen white men, or
bearded men, as he called them, who came on shore there in distress.

From this time I confess I had a mind to venture over, and see if I
could possibly join with those bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were
Spaniards, or Portuguese; not doubting but if I could, we might find
some method to escape from thence, being upon the continent, and a good
company together, better than I could from an island forty miles off the
shore, and alone, without help. So, after some (lays, I took Friday to
work again, by way of discourse; and told him I would give him a boat
to go back to his own nation; and accordingly I carried him to my frigate,
which lay on the other side of the islaml, and having cleared it of water
(for I always kept it sunk in the water) I brought it out, showed it him,
and we both went into it. I found he was a most dexterous fellow at
managing it, and would make it go almost as swift again as I could. So
when he was in, I said to him, " Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your
nation P" He looked very dull at my saying so; which it seems, was
because he thought the boat too small to go so far: I then told him I had
a bigger; so the next day I went to the place where the first boat lay
which I had made, but which I could not get into the water. He said
that was big enough: but then, as I had taken no care of it, and it had
luiu two or three-aml-twenty years there, the sun had split and dried it,
that it was in a manner rotten. Friday told me such a boat would do
very well, and would carry "much enough vittlc, drink, bread;" that
was his way of talking.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of going
over with him to the continent, that I told him we would go and make
one as big as that, and he should go home in it. He answered not one
word, but looked yery grave and sad. I asked him what was the matter
with him? He asked me again, "Why you angry med with Friday?
What me done ?" I asked him what he meant? I told him I was not
angry with him at all. "No angry?" says he, repeating the words
several times, " Why send Friday home away to my nation? ' "Why,"
says I, "Friday, did you not say you wished you were there i" "Yes,
yes," says he, " wish be both there; no wish Finlay there, no master
there." In a word, he would not think of going there without me. "I
go there, Friday!" says I, " what shall I do there 3'" He turned very
quick upon me at this: "You do great deal much good," says he;
"you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame mans; you tell them
know God, pray God, and live new life." "Alas! Friday," says I,
" thou knowest not what thou sayest; I am but an ignorant man myself."
"Yes, yes," says he, "you teaches me good, you teaches them good."
"No, no, Friday," says I, "you shall go without me; leave me here to
live by myself as I did before." He looked confused again at that word:
and running to one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it
up hastily, and gives it to me. "What must I do with this P" says I
to him. "You take kill Friday," says he. "What must I kill you
for 1'" said I again. He returns very quick, "What you send Friday
away for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away." This he spoke so
earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his eyes: in a word, I so plainly
discovered the utmost affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in
him, that I told him then and often after, that I would never send him
away from me, if he was willing to stay with me.

Upon the whole, as I found, by all his discourse, a settled afi'ection to
me, and that nothing should part him from me, so I found all the founda-
tion of his desire to go to his own country was laid in his ardent affection
to the people, and his hopes of my doing them good; a thing which, as
I had no notion of myself, so I had not the least thought, or intention, or
desire, of undertaking it. But still I found a strong inclination to my
attempting an escape, as above, founded on the supposition gathered com
the discourse, viz., that there were seventeen bearded men there; and,
therefore, without any more delay, I went to work with Friday, to find
out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large periagua, or canoe, to
undertake the voyage.

There were trees enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not
of peringuas and canoes, but even of good large vessels; but the main
thing I looked at was, to get one so near the water that we might launch
it when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed at first. At last,
Friday pitched upon a tree; for I found he knew much better than I
what-kind of wood. was fittest for it; nor can I tell, to this day, what
wood to call thetree we cut down, except thatitwasverylikethetrse
wecallfastie, or between that and the Nimaguswoodforitwssmneh
ofthe same colour and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow or

.D '\
cavity of this tree out, to make it for a boat; but I showed him how to
cut it with tools, which, after I showed him how to use, he did Very
handily: and in about a month's hard labour We finished it, and made it
very handsome; especially, when, with our axes, which I showed him
how to handle, we cut and hech the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this, however, it cost as near a fortnight's time to get her
along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers into the water; but
when she was in she would have carried twenty men with great case.

When she was in the water, and though she was so big, it amazed
me to see with what dexterity and how swift my man Friday would
manage her, turn her, aml paddle her along. So I asked him if he
would, and if we might venture over in her. "Yes," he said, "he
Venture over in her \'ery well, though great blow wind." However, I had
a further design that he knew nothing of, and that was to make a mast
and a sail, and to fit her with an anchor and cable. As to a must, that
was easy enough to get: so I pitched upon a straight young cedar tree,
which I found near the place, and which there were great plenty of in
the island; and I set Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him
directions how to shape and order it. But as to the sail, that was my
particular care. I knew I had old sails, or rather pieces of old sails
enough ; but; as I had had them new six-and-twenty years by me, and had
not been very careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should ever
have this hind of use for them, I did not doubt but they were all rotten,
and, indeed, most of them were so. However, I found two pieces, which
appeared pretty good; and with these I went to work, and with a great
deal of pains, and awluvurd stitching--you may be sure, for want of
needles--I at length made a tlu'ee-corucred ugly thing, like what we
call in England a slioulder-ollinutton sail, to go with a boom at bottom,
and a little short sprit at the top, such as usually our ships' long boats
sail with, and such as I best know how to manage, for it was such a one as
I had to the boat in which I made my escape from Barbary, as related in
the first part of my story.

I was near two months performing this last work, viz., n'gging and
fitting my must and soils; for I finished them, very complete, making n
small stay, and a sail, or foresail, to it, to assist, if we should turn to
windward; and, whiclrwas more than all, I fixed a rudder to the stern
of her to steer with; and though I was but a bungling shipwright, yet,
as I knew the usefulness, and even nectssity of such a thing, I applied
myself with so much pains to do it, that at last I brought it to pass,--
though, considering the many dull contrivanees I had for it that failed, I
think it cost me-almest as much labour as making the boat.

After all this was done, too, I had my man Friday to teach as to
what belonged to the navigation of my boat; for, though he knew very

 

well how to paddle the canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a. sail
and a rudder, and was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat
to and again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail gibbed, and filled
this way or that way, as the course we sailed changed ;----I say, when he
saw this, he stood like one astonished and amazed. However, with a
little use, I made all these things familiar to him, and he became an
expert sailor, except that, as to the compass, I could make him understand
very little of that. On the other hand, as there was very little cloudy
Weather, and seldom or never any fogs in those pasts, there was the less
occasion for a compass, seeing the stars were always to be seen by night,
and the shore by day, except in the rainy seasons, and then nobody cared
to stir abroad, either by land or sea. -

I was now entered on the seven-and-twcntieth year of my captivity in
this place: though the three last years that I had this creature with me
ought rather to be left out of account, my habitation being quite of
another kind than in all the rest of the time. I kept the anniversary of
my landing here with the same thankfiilness to God for his mercies as at
first: and if I'hnd such cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much
more so now, having such additional testimonies of the care of Providence~
over me, and the great hopes I had of being effectually and speedily
delivered; for I had an invincible impression upon my thoughts that my
deliverance was at hand, turd that I should not be another year in this
place. However, I went on with my husbandry--digging, planting, and
fencing, as usual: I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
necessary thing as before.

The rainy season was, in the mean time, upon me, when I kept more
within doors than at other times; so I had stowed our new vessel as
secure as I could ;--bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in
the beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship, and haling her up to
the shore, at high water nmrk, I made my man Friday dig a little dock,
just big enough to hold her, and just deep enough to give her water
enough to float in; and then, when the tide was out, we made a strong
dam across the end of it, to keep the water out,----and so she lay dry as to
the tide from the sea: and to keep the rain oil', we laid a great many
houghs of trees so thick, that she was as well thatched as a house, and
thus we waited for the months of November and December in which I
designed to make my adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, as the thought of my
design returned with the fair weather, I was preparing daily for the
voyage; and the first thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of
provisions, being the stores for our voyage, and intended, in a week or a
fortnight's time, to open the dock, and launch out our boat. I was busy
one morning upon something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and
bid him go to the sea-shore, and see if he could find a turtle, or tortoise,
a thing which we generally get once a week, for the sake of the eggs as
well as the flesh. Friday had not been long gone, when he came running
back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one that felt not the
ground, or the steps he set his feet on; and before I had time to speak to
him, he cries out to me, "0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad!"
"\Vhat's the matter, Friday?" says I. "0 yonder, there," says he,
"one, two, three canoe: one, two, three!" By this way of speaking, I
concluded there were six; but on enquiry, I found it was but three.
"Well, Friday," says I, "do not be frighted." So I heartenedhim up
as well as I could: however, I saw the poor fellow was most terribly
scared, for nothing ran in his head but that they were come to look for
him, and would cut him in pieces, and eat him; and the poor follow
trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with him. I comforted him
aswellasI could, and told him I wasinasmuehdangerashe, andthat
they would eat me as well as him. "But," says 1, "Friday, we must
resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Friday ?" "Me shoot," says he,
"but there come many great number." "No matter for that," said I,
again: "our guns will fright them that we do not kill." 80 I asked
him whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend me and stand
by me ; and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me die when you bid die,
master." So I went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him; for
I had been so good a husband of my rum, that I had a great deal left.
When he had drank it, I made him take the two fowling-pieees, which we
always carried, and loaded them with large swan-shot, as big as small
pistol-bullets; then I took four muskets, and loaded themwith two slugs,
and five small bullets each, and my two pistols I. loaded with a brace
of bullets each: I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side, and
gave Friday his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my perspective glass, and
went up to the side of the hill, to see what I could discover; and I found
quickly, by my glass, that there were one-and-twenty savages, three
prisoners, and three canoes; and that their whole business seemed to be
the triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies,---a barbarous
feast indeed! but nothing more than, as I had observed, was usual with
them. I observed also, that they were landed, not where they had done
when Friday made his escape, but nearer to my creek: where the shore
was low, and where a thick wood came almost close down to the sea.
This, with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these wretches came
about, filled me with such indignation, that I came down again to Friday,
and told him I was resolved to go down to them and kill them all, and
asked him if he would stand by me. He had now gotten over his fright,
and his spirits being a little raised with the dram I had given him, he
was very cheerful, and told me, as before, he would die when I bid die.

In this fit of fury, I took, and divided the arms which I had charged,
as before, between us. I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle,
and three guns upon his shoulder, and I took one pistol, and the other
threegunsmyself; and in this posture we marched out. I tookasmall
bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more
powder and bullets; and, as to orders, I charged him to keep close
behind me, and not to stir, or sheet, or do anything, till I bidhim; and,
inthe mean time, nothspeakaword. hthispostumlfeteheda

g.
compass to my right hand of near a mile, as well to get over the creek as
to get into the wood, so that I might come within shot of them before 1
should be discovered, which I had seen, by my glass, it was easy to do.

\Vhilo I was making this march, my former thoughts rctuming, I
began to abate my resolution ;--I do not mean that I entertained any fear
of their number; for as they were naked, unarmed wretchcs, it is certain
I was superior to them--nay, though I had been alone. But it occurred
to my thoughts, what. call, what occasion, much less! what necessity I was
in, to go and dip my hands in blood, to attack people who had neither
done nor intended me any wrong? who, as to me, were innocent, and
whose barbarous customs were their own disaster; being, in them, a
token indeed of God's having left them, with the other nations of that
part of the world, to such stupidity and to such inhuman courses, but did
not call me to take upon me to bc a judge of their actions, much less an
executioner of his justice! that, whenever he thought fit, he would take
the cause, into his own hands, and, by national vengeance, punish them as
a people, for national crimes; but, that, in the mean time, it was none of
my business ;' that, it was true, Friday might justify it, because he was
a declared enemy, and in a state of war with those very particular people,
and it was lawful for him to attach them; but I could not say the same
with respect to myself. These things were so warmly pressed upon my
thoughts all the way as I Went, that I resolved I would only go and
place myself near them, that 1 might observe their barbarous feast, and
that I would act then as God should direct: but. that, unless something
offered that was more a call to me than yet I know of, I would not
meddle with them.

With this resolution I entered the wood, and, with all possible wari-
ness and silence, Friday following close at my heels, I marched till I came
to the shirt of the wood, on the side which was next to them, only
that one corner of the wood lay between me and them. Here I called
softly to Friday, and showing him a great tree, which was just at the
corner of the wood, I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if
he could see there plainly what they were doing. He did so, and came
immediately back to me, and told me they might be plainly viewed there;
that they were all about their fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners,
ind that another lay bound upon the sand, 11 little from them, which, he
mid, they would kill next, and which tired all the very soul within me.
He told me it was not one of their hation, but one of the bearded men
whom he had told me of, that came to their country in the heat. I was
filled with horror at the very naming the white bearded man ; and, going
to the tree, I saw plainly, by my glam, a white man, who lay upon the
beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet tied with flags, or things
like rushes, and that he was 1m European, and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty
yards nearer to them than the phwo Where I was, which, by going a little
way about, I saw l might come at Imdiseovmrerl, and that then I should
be vdthin hult' shot of them: so I withheld my pum'on, though I was

 

indeed enraged to the highest degree, and going back Iubuut l-n-'uuty paces,
I got behind some bushes, which hold all the way till I came to the other
tree, and then I came to a little rising ground, which gave me a full View
of them, at the distance of about eighty yards.

I had not a moment to 105.0, for nineteen of the dreadful \x-'rctehes sat
upon the ground, all close-huddled together, and hud just sent the other
two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps, limb by limb,
to their fire ; and they were stooped down to untie the bands at his feet.
I tamed to Friday. "New, Friday," said I, "do as I bid thee." Friday
Enid he would. " Then, Frichy," says I, " do exactly as you see me do ;
fail in nothing." So I set down one of the muskets and the fowling-piece
upon the ground, and Friday (lid the like by his; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him do the like: then ask-

H
ing him if he was ready, he said, " Yes." "Then fire at them," said I;
and the same moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side that he
shot, he killed two of them, and wounded three more; and on my side,
I killed one, and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in a
dreadful consternation, and all of them who were not hurt jumped upon
their feet, but did not immediately know which way to run, or which
way to look, for they knew not from whence their destruction came.
Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that, as I had bid him, he might
observe what I did; so, as soon as the first shot was made, I threw down
the piece, and took up the fowling-picce, and Friday did the like: he saw
me cock and present; he did the same again. " Are you ready, Friday?"
said I. "Yes," says he. "Let fly, then," says I, "in the name of
God ! " And with that I fired again among the amazed wretchcs, and so
did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaden with what I called swan-
shot, or small pistol-bullets, we found only two drop, but so many were
wounded, that they run about yelling and screaming like mad creatures,
all bloody, and miserably wounded most of them, whereof three more fell
quickly after, though not quite (lead.

"Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged pieces, and
taking up the musket which was yet loaden, "follow me,"--which he
did, with a great deal of courage, upon which I rushed out of the wood,
and showed myself, and Friday close at my feet. As soon as I perceived
they saw me, I shouted as loud as I could, and bade Friday do so too;
and running as fast as I could, which, by the way, was not very fast,
being loaden with arms as I was, I made directly towards the poor victim,
who was, as I said, lying upon the beach, or shore, between the place
where they sat and the sea. The two butchers, who were just going to
work with him, had left him at the surprise of our first fire, and fled in
a terrible fright to the sea-side, and had jumped into a canoe, and three
more of the rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, and bade him
step forwards, and fire at them; he understood me immediately, and
running about forty yards, to be near them, he shot at them, and I
thought he had killed them all, for I saw them all fall of a heap into the
boat, though I saw two of them up again quickly: however, he killed
two of them, and wounded the third, so that he lay down in the bottom
of the boat as if he had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my knife, and cut
the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his hands and feet,
I lifted him up, and asked him in the Portuguese tongue, what he was.
He answered in Latin, " Chrisfianus," but was so weak and faint that he
could scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket, and
gave it him, making signs that he should drink, which he did; and I
gave him a piece of bread, which he eat. Then I asked him what
countryman he was, and he said, " Espagniole ;" and being a little re-
covered, let me know, by all the sips he could possibly make, how much
he was in my debt for his deliverance. " Seignior," said I, with as much
Spanish as I could make up, "we will talk afterwards, but we must
fight now : if you have any strength left, take this pistol and sword, and
lay about you. " He took them very thankfully , and no sooner had he
the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put new vigour into him, he
flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had out two of them in pieces in
an instant, for the truth is, as the whole was a surprise to them, so the
poor creatures were so much frighted with the noise of our pieces, that

they fell down for mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to-

attempt their own escape, than their flesh had to resist our shot; and that
was the case of those five that Friday shot at in the boat; for as three of
them fell with the hurt they received, so the other two fell with the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being willing to keep
my charge ready, because I had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword;
so I called to Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from whence we
first fired, and fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged,
which he did with great swiftnees; and then, giving him my musket, I
sat down myself to load all the rest again, and bade them come to me
when they wanted. While I was leading these pieces, there happened a
fierce engagement between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who
made at him with one of their great wooden swords, the same like weapon
that was to have filled him before, if I had not prevented it. The
Spaniard, who was as bold and brave as could be imagined, though
weak, had fought this Indian a good while, and had cut him two great
wounds on his head; but the savage being a stout, lusty fellow, closing
inwithhim, had thrownhimdown, being faint, andwaswringingmy
sword out of his hand, when the Spaniard, though under-most, wisely
quitting the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot the savage
through the body, and killed him upon the spot, before I, who was run.
ning to help him, could come near him.
Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches with
no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and with that he despa'whcd
those three, who, as I said before, were wounded at first, and fallen, and
all the rest he could come up with: and the Spaniard coming to me for a
gun, I gave him one of the feuding-pieces, with which he pursued two of

 

me savages, and wounded them both ; but as he was not able to run, they
both got from him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed
one of them, but the other was too nimble for him; and though he was
wounded, yet had plunged himself into the sea, and swam with all his
might 011' to those two who were left in the canoe, which three in the
canoe, with one wounded, who we knew not whether he died or no, were
all that escaped our hands of one-and--twenty. The account of the whole
is as follows: .-Three killed at our first shot from the tree; two killed at
the next shot;- two killed by Friday in the boat; two killed by Friday of
these at first wounded; one killed by Friday in the wood; three killed
by the Spaniard; four killed, being found dropped here and there of their
wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase of them; four escaped in the
boat, whereof one wounded, if not dead--twenty-one in all.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gun-shot, and
though Friday made two or three shots at them, I did not find that he hit
any of them. Friday would fain have had me take one of their canoes,
and pursue them ; and indeed, I was very anxious about their escape, lest,
carrying the news home to their people, they should come back perhaps
with two or three hundred of their canoes, and devour us by mere multi-
tude: so I consented to pursue them by sea, and running to one of their
canoes, I jumped in, and bade Friday follow me; but when I was in the
canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature lie there, bound hand
and foot, as the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with
fear, not knowing what the matter was,--for he had not been able to look
up over the side of the boat: he was tied so hard neck and heels, and had
been tied so long, that he had really little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had bound
him with, and would have helped him up; but he could not stand or
speak, but groaned most piteously, believing, it seems, still, that he was
only unbound in order to be killed.

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him, and tell him of
his deliverance; and, pulling out my bottle, made him give the poor
wretch a drum, which, with the news, of his being delivered, revived him,
and he sat up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear him speak,
and looked in his face, it would have moved any one to tears to have
seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed,
halloocd, jumped about, danced, sung,--then cried again, wrung his
hands, beat his own face and head, and then sung and jumped about
again, like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could
make him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he
came a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what ecstasy
and filial affection had worked in this poor savage at the sight of his
father, and of his being delivered from death; nor indeed, can I describe
half the extravagancics of his afi'cction after this; for he went into the
boat and out of the boat a great many times: when he went into him,
he would sit down by him, open his breast, and hold his father's head
close to his bosom half an hour together, to nourish it; then he took his
arms and ankles, which were numbed and stiff with the binding, and
chafed and rubbed them with his hands; and I, perceiving what the case
was, gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with, which did
them a great deal of good.

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other
savages, who were now gotten almost out of sight: and it was happy for
us that we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before
they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and continued blowing so
hard all night, and that from the north-west, which was against them,
that I could not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever reached
to their own coast.

But, to return to Friday, he was so busy about his father, that I
could not find in my heart to take him off for some time: but after I
thought he could leave him a little, I called him to me, and he came
jumping and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme. Then I asked
him if he had given his father any bread? He shook his head, and said,
" None, ugly dog eat all up self." So I gave him a cake of bread, out
of a little pouch I carried on purpose; I also gave him a drum for him-
self, but he would not taste it, but carried ittp his father. I had in my
pocket also two or three bunches of my 1aisins,---so I gave him a hand-
ful of them for his father. He had no sooner given his father these raisins,
but I saw him. come out of the boat, and run away, as if he had been
hewitched, he ran at such a rate,--for he was the swiftest fellow of his
foot that ever I saw: I say he ran at such a rate, that ho was out of
sight, as it were, in an instant; and though I called and hallooed too,
after him, it was all one, away he went; and in a quarter of an hour I
saw him come back again, though not so fast as he went, and as he came
nearer, I found his pace was slacker, because he had something in his
hand. When he came up to me, I found he had been quite home for an
earthen jug or pet, to bring his father some fresh water, and that he had
got two more cakes or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, but the
water he carried. to his father: however, as I was very thirst-y too, I tool:
a little sup of it. The water revived his father more than all the mm or
spirits I had given him, for he was just fainting with thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to know if there was any
water left. He said, "Yes," and I bade him give it to the poor
Spaniard, who was in as much want of it as his father: and I sent oneFRIDAY INST'RUCTED 1N "(L-LT BUILDING.
of the cakes that Friday brought, to the Spaniard. too, who was indeed
very weak, and was reposing himself upon a green place under the shade
of a tree, and whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled
with the rude bandage he had been tied with. When I saw that, upon
Friday's coming to him with the water, he sat up and drank, and took the
bread, and began to eat, I went to him and gave him a handful of raisins.
He looked up in my face with all the tokens of gratitude and thankful-
ncss that could appear in any countenance; but was so weak, notwith-
standing he had so exerted himself in tho fight, that he could not stand
up upon his feet: he tried to do it two or three times, but was really not
able, his ankles were so swelled and so painful to him; so I bade him sit
still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles and bathe them with rum, as
he had done his father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes, or
perhaps less, all the while he ""115 here, turned his head about to see if
his father was in the same place and posture as he left him sitting; and
at last he found he was not to be seem--at which he started up, and
without speaking a word, flew with that swiftncss to him, that one could
scarce perceive his feet to touch the ground as he went: but when he
came he only found he had lain himself down to case his limbs, so Friday
came back to me presently, and I then spoke to the Spaniard to let
Friday help him up, if he could, and lead him to the boat, and then he
should carry him to our dwelling, where I would take care of him. But
Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite up upon his back,
and carried him away to the boat, and set him down softly upon the side,
or gone], of the canoe, with his feet in the inside of it, and then lifted
him quite in, and set him close to his father; and presently, stepping
out again, launched the boat off, and paddled it along the shore faster
than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty haul too: so he brought
them safe into our creek, and leaving them in the boat, ran away to fetch
the other canoe. As he passed me, I spoke to him, and asked hiu'.
whither he went. He told me, "Go fetch more bout :" so away he went
like the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like him ; and he had the
other canoe in. the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land. So he
waited me over, and then went to help our new guests out of the boat,
which he did; but they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor
Fn'day knew not what to do.

To remedy tl is, I went to work in my thought, and calling to Friday
to bid them sit down on the bunk while he came to me, I soon made a
kind of a hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them up
both together upon it, between us. But when we got them to the outside
of our wall, or fortification, We were at a worse loss than before, for it was
impossible to get them over, and I was resolved not to break it down: so
I set to work again, and Friday and I, in about two homs' time, made a
very handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above that with bougha
of trees, being in the space without our outward fence, and between
that and the grove of young wood which I had planted; and here we
made them two beds of such things as I had, viz., of good rice straw,
with blankets laid upon it, to lie on, and another to cover them. on
each bod
(.'l'asoc's sub'm--ls and Lheir religions- -'l'hp <<laud bullicfi of the slain savugea m'e burial --Thc Spaniard
a father sot um. for ilze n 'nlaml to finch Europe-(ins who had been ahipwrnnlmd
thrm--m their ahscncn (trzxxuei .li , 'ihy the apponmncn of: Imam-loud oi mulinous 2.1 cm,
who bring their who s in tho i Jud to murder Lhcm~ (211509 )'(:li'u!t:s the prisimcrs--Thu

mmjner-re an; idl'deud and defmfnl.

      
  
 

  
  

 

 

Y island was now peopled, and I thought myself vary
rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection, which
I frequently made, how like a king I looked. First of
all, the whole country 'y-'Lls my own mere proprity,

.50 that I had an undoubiul right of dominion. Secondly, my people

\were perfectly siihjcctcd,--I was ahsmlutu lord and lawgiver; they

:ull owed their lives to me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if

Illlere had been occasion of it, for me. It: was remarkable, too, I had

lhut three siihj . s and they were of three difi'crent religions: my man

Friday was a. Protestant, his fad-her was a I'ugain and a. cannibal, and {he
Spaniard was a Pupist. However, I allowed liberty of conscience

throughout my dominimis. But this is: lay the way.

As soon as I had secured my two week rescued prisoners, and given
them shelter, _:md a place to rest them upon, I begin to think of
making some provision for them; and the first thing I did, I ordered
]-'x'i(l:iy to take {L yearling gout, betwixt 9. hid and a. gout, out of my
part. .ulnr flock in he killed,--whcn I out; 011' the binder quarter, and,
chopping it into small pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and
slewing, and inside them a. wry good dish, I assure you, of flesh and
bmih, having put some barley and rice also into the broth: and as I
cooked it without 6001's, for 1 made no fire within my inner wall, so I
carried it all into the new tent, and. having set a table- thcre for them, I
sat down and eat my own dinner also with them, and, us well 'as 1
could: cheered the-m and enmmmged them: Friday being my interpreter,
especially to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too,--for the Spaniar!
spoke the language of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather cupped, I ordered Friday to take one of
the canoes, and go and fetch our muskets and other fire-arms, which, for
want of time, we had left upon the place of battle; and the next day, I
ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which lay
open to the sun, and would presently be offensive. I also ordered him to
bury the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I knew were
pretty much, and which I could not think of doing myselfi--nay, I could
not bear to see them, if I went that way; all which he punctually per-
formed, and efl'aeed the very appearance of the savages being there, so
that when I went again, I could scarce know where it was, otherwise
than by the comer of the wood pointing to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with my two new
subjects; and first, I set Friday to enquire of his father what he thought
of the escape of the savages in that canoe, and whether we might expect
a return of them, with a power too great for us to resist. His first
opinion was that the savages in the boat never could live out the storm
which blew that night they went ofl', but must of necessity be drowned,
or driven south to those other shores, where they were as sure to be
devoured, as they were to be drowned if they were cast away: but as to
what they would do if they came safe on shore, he said he knew not; but
it was his opinion that they were so drezglfully fi'ighted with the
manner of their being attacked, the noise, and the fire, that he believed
they would tell their people they were all killed by thunder and lightning,
not by the hand of man; and that the two which appeared, viz., Friday
and I, were two heavenly spirits, or furies, come down to destroy them,
and not men with weapons. This, he said, he knew, because he heard
them all cry out so in their language to one another; for it was im-

possible to them to conceive that a man could dart fire, and speak
I thunder, and hill at a distance, without lifting up the hand, as was done
now. And this old savage was in the right; for, as I understood since, by
other hands, the savages never attempted to go over to the island after-
wards,--they were so terrified with the accounts given by those four men
(for, it seems, they did escape the sea), that they behaved whoever went
to that enchanted island would be destroyed with fire from the gods.

This, however, I knew not; and therefore was under continual ap-
prehensions for a good while, and kept always upon my guard, I and
all my army; for, as there were now four of us, I would have ventured
upon a hundred of them, fairly in the open field at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the fear of their
coming wore off, and I began to take my former thoughts of a voyage to
the main into consideration,--being likewise assured by Friday's father
that I might depend upon good usage from their nation, on his account, if
I would go. '

But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a serious
discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that there were
fourteen more of his countrymen and Portuguese, who, having been cast
away, and made their escape to that side, lived there at peace, indeed,
with the savages, but were very sore put to it for necessaries, and
indeed for life. I asked him all the particulars of their voyage, and
found they were a Spanish ship, bound from the Rio de la. Plata to the
Havanna, being directed to leave their loading there, which was chiefly
hides and silver, and. to bring back what European goods they could meet
with there; that they had five Portuguese seamen on hem whom they
took out of another wreck; that five of their own men were drowned,
when first the ship was lost, and that those escaped through infinite
dangers and hazards, and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to have been devoured every moment. He told me
they had some arms with then, but they were perfectly useless, for that
they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled
all their powder but a little, which they used, at their first landing, to
provide themselves some food.

I asked him what he thought would become of them there, and if
they had formed no design of making any escape. He said they had
many consultations about it, but that having neither vessel, nor tools to
build one, nor provisions of any kind, their councils always ended in tears
and despair. I asked him how he thought they would receive a proposal
from.me, which might tend. towards an escape; and whether, if they
were all here, it might not be done. I told him, with freedom, I feared
mostlytheirtreacher'yandillussgeofme, iprutmylifeintheirhands;
for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did
men always square their dealings by the obligations they had received, so
much as they did by the advantages they expected. ' I told him it would
beveryhsrdthatIshouldbetheinsta'umentoftbeirdalivmnoe, and
that they should afterwards make me their prisoner in New Spain, where

r
an Englishman was certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessity or what
accident soever brought him thither; and that I had rather he delivered
up to the savages, and be devoured alive, than fall into the merciless
claws of the priest, and be carried into the Inquisition. I added, that
otherwise I was persuaded, if they were all here, we might, with so
many hands, build a bark large enough to carry us all away, either to the
Brazils, southward, or to the islands, or Spanish coast, northward; but that
if, in requital, they should, when I had put weapons into their hands,
carry me by force among their own people, I might be ill used for my
kindness to them, and make my case worse than it was before.

He answered with a great deal of candour and ingenuity, that their
condition was so miserable, and they were so sensible of it, that he
believed they would abhor the thought of using any man unkindly that
should contribute to their deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he would
go to them with the old man, and discourse with them about it, and
return again and bring me their answer; that he would make conditions
with them upon their solemn oath, that they would be absolutely under
my leading, as their commander and captain; and that they should swear
upon the holy sacraments and gospel to be true to me, and go to such
Christian country as that I should agree to, and no other, and to be
directed wholly and absolutely by my orders, till they were landed safely
in such country as I intended; and that he would bring a contract from
them under their hands, for that purpose.

Then he told me he would first swear to me himself, that he would
never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave him orders; and that
he would take my side to the last drop of his blood, if there should happen
the least breach of faith among his countrymen.

He told me they were all of them very civil, honest men, and they
were under the greatest distress imaginable, having neither weapons nor
clothes, nor any food, but at the mercy and discretion of the savages, out
of all hopes of ever returning to their own country; and that ho was sure,
if I would undertake their relief, they would live and die by me.

Upon these assurances I resolved to venture to relieve them, if pos-
sible, and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them to treat.
But when we had gotten all things in a readiness to go, the Spaniard
himself started an objection, which had so much prudence in it, on one
hand, and so much sincerity on the other hand, that I could not but be
very well satisfied in it; and by his advice, put ofi' the deliverance of
his comrades for at least half a year. The case was thus: He had been
with us now about a month, during which time 1 had let him see in what
manner I had provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my sup-
port; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and rice I had laid up,
which, as it was more than 'suficient for myself, so it was not suflicient,
at least without good husbandry, for my family, now it was increased to
four; but much less would it be sufficient if his countrymen, who were,
as he said, fourteen still alive, should come over; and least of all would
it be sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one, for a voyage
to any of the Christian colonies of America: so he told me he thought it
would be more advisable to let him and the two other dig and cultivate
some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow, and that we
should wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of corn for his
countrymen when they should come: for want might be a temptation to
them to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out
of one difiiculty into another. You know, says he, the children of Israel,
though they rejoiced at first for their being delivered out of Egypt, yet
rebelled even against God himself, that delivered them, when they came
to want bread in the Wilderness. - W

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I could
not but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I was satisfied
with his fidelity: so we fell to digging all four of us, as well as the
wooden tools we were furnished with permittixl; and in about a month's
time, by the end of which it was seed-time, we had gotten as much land .
cured and trimmed up as we sowed two and twenty bushels of barley on,
and sixteen jars ofrice, which was, inshort, all the seed we had to spare:
nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves barley sufficient for our own food for
the six months that We had to expect our crop,--that is to say, reckoning
from the time we set.our seed aside for sowing; for it is not to be sap-
posed it is six months in the ground in that country. -

Having now society enough, and our number being saficient to put us
out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless their number had been
very great, we went freely all over the island, wherever we found ocea-
sion; and as her-ewe had our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts, it
was impossible, at least for me, to have the means of it out of mine. To
this purpose, I marked out several trees which I thought fit for our work,
andI setFriday andhis father to cuttingtbein down; andthanIoaused
the Spaniard, to whom I imparted my thought on that affair, to oversee
and direct their work. I showed them with what indefatigable pains 1
had hcwed a large tree into single planks, and I caused them to do the
like, till they had made about a dozen large planks of good oak, near two
feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to four inches thick:
what prodigious labour it took up, any one may imagine.

At the same time I contrived to increase my little flock of tame goats
as much as I could, and, to this purpose, I made Friday and the
Spaniard go out one day, and myself with Friday the next day (for We.
took our turns), and by this means we got about twenty young kids to
breed up with the rest; for whenever we shot the dam, we saved the
kids, and added them to our flock. But, above all, the season for curing
the grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung up
in the sun, that, I believe, had we been at Alicant, where the raisins of
the sun are cared, we could have filled sixty or eighty barrels; and these,
with our bread, was a great part of our food, and very good living too, I
assure you, for it is an exceeding nourishing food.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order: it was not the most
plentiful increase I had seen in the island; but, however, it was enough
to answer our end,--for from our twenty-two bushels of barley we brought
in and threshcd out above two hundred and twenty bushels, and the like
in proportion of the rice; which was store enough for our food to the next
harvest, though all the fourteen Spaniards had been on shore with me;
or if we had been ready for a voyage, it would very plentifully have
victualled our ship to have carried us to any part of the world, that is to
say, of America.

When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn, we fell
to work to make more wicker-work, viz., great baskets, in which we kept
it, and the Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this part, and often
blamed me that I did not make some things for defence of this kind of
work; but I saw no need of it.

And now, having a full supply of food for all the guests I expected, I
gave the Spaniard leave to go over to the main, to see what he could do
with those he had left behind them there. I gave him a strict charge, in
writing, not to bring any man with him who would not first swear, in the
presence of himself and of the old savage, that he would in no way injure,
fight with, or attack the person he would find in the island, who was so
kind as to send for them in order to their deliverance; but that they
would stand by, and defend him against all such attempts, and wherever
they went, would be entirely under and subjected to his command: and
that this should be put in writing, and signed with their hands. How
we were to have this done, when I know they had neither pen nor-ink,
that indeed was a question which we never asked.

Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old savage, the father
of Friday, went away in one of the canoes which they might be said to
come in, or rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners to be
devoured by the savages. I gave each of them a musket, with a firelock
on it, and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging them to be
very good husbands of both, and not to use either of them but upon
urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me, in
view of my deliverance, for now twenty-seven years and some days. I
gave them provisions of bread, and of dried grapes, suflcient for them-
selves for many days, and sufiicient for all the Spaniards for about eight
days' time; and wishing them a good voyage, I saw them go, agreeing
with them about a signal they should hang out at their return, by which
I should know them again, when they came back, at a distance, before
they came on shore. .

They went away with a fair gale, on the day that the moon was at
full, by my account in the month of October; but as for an exact reckon-
ing of days, after I had once lost it, I could never recover it again, nor
had I kept even the number of years so punctually as to be sure I was
right, though, as it proved, when I afterwards examined my account, I
found I had kept a true reckoning of years.

It was no loss than eight days I waited for them, when a strange
and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not perhaps
been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning,
when my man Friday came running in to me, and called aloud, " Master,
master, they are come, they are come 1"

I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out as soon as I could
get my clothes on, through my little grove, which, by the way, was by
this time grown-to be a very thick wood ;--I say, regardless of danger, I
went without my arms, which it was not my custom to do"; but I was
surprised, when turning my eyes to the sea, I presently saw a boat at
about a league and a half's distance, standing in for the shore, with a
shoulder-of-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair
tobringthemin: also I observed presently, thattheydidnotcomefiom

_'- \

. r
..... - "m
that side which the shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the
island. Upon this I called Friday in, and bade him lie close, for these
were not the people we looked for, and that we might not know yet.
whether they were friends or enemies.

In the next place, I Went in to fetch my perspective glass, to seer
what I could make of them ; and having taken the ladder out, I climbed
up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was apprehensive of
anything, and to take my view the plainer without being' discovered.

I had scarce set my foot upon the hill, when my eye plainly dis:
covered a ship lying at an anchor, at about two leagues and u hnlf's dis'
tance from me, south-soulh-east, but not above a. league and a half from
the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to be on English ship,
and the boat appeared to be on English long-boat. l.

I cannot express the confusion I was in; though the joy of seeing a
ship, and one that I had reason to believe was manned by my own
countrymen, and, consequently, friends, was such as I cannot describe;
but yet I had some secret doubts hung about Inc--I cannot tell from.
whence they came--bidding me keep upon my guard. In the first place,
it occurred to me to consider what business an English ship could have in.
that part of the world, since it was not the way to or from any part of the
world where the English had any trailie: and I knew there had been no-
storms to drive them in there, as in distress; and that if they were really
English, it was most probable that they were here upon no good design,
and that I had better continue as I was, then fall into the hands off
thieves and murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger, which
sometimes are given him when he may think there is no possibility of its.
being real. That such hints and notices are given us, I believe few that
have made. any observations of things can deny; that they are certain,
discoveries of an invisible world, and n converse of spirits, we cannot.
doubt; and if the tendency of them seems to be to warn us of danger,
why should we not suppose they are from some friendly agent (whether
supreme, or inferior and subordinate, is not the question), and that they.
are given for our good?

The present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of this
reasoning; for had I not been made cautious by this secret admonition,
come it from whence it will, I had been undone inevitably, and in a fat
Worse condition than before, as you will see presently. I had not kept-
myself long in this posture, but I saw the boat draw near the shore, asif
they looked for a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of landing;
however, as they did not come quite far enough, they did not see the
little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts, but nm their boat on shore
upon the beach at about half a mile from me, which was very happy for
me; for otherwise they would have landed just, as I may say, at my
door, and would soon have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have
plundered me of all I had.

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied they were Englishmen,
at least most of them; one or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not
prove so; there were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I found
were unarmed, and, as I thought, bound; and when the first four or five
of them were jumped on shore, they took these three out of the boat, as
prisoners: one of the three I could perceive using the most passionate
gestures of entrcaty, afiliction, and despair, even to a kind of extrava-
gance; the other two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes,
and appeared concerned, indeed, but not to such a degree as the first. I
was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew not what the meaning of
it should be. Friday called out to me in English, as well as he could,
"0 master! you see English mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans."
"Why," says I, "Friday, do you think they are going toeat them then ?"
" Yes," says Friday, "they will eat them." "No, no," says I, "Friday,
I am afraid they will murder them, indeed; but you-may be sure they
will not cut them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, but
stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every moment
when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the
villains lift up his'arm with a great outlass, as the semen call it, or
sword, to strike one of the poor men, and I expected to see him fall every
moment, at which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my
veins.(]' I wished heartily new for my Spaniard, and the savage that was
gone with him, or that I had any way to have come undiscovered within
shot of them, that I might have rescued the three men, for I saw no
fire-arms they had among them: but it fell out to my mind another
way. Afier I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by
the insolent seamen, I observed the fellows run scattering about the
island, as if they wanted to see the country. I observed that the three

other men had liberty to 36 also where they pleased; but they set
16
down, all three on the ground, very pensive, and looked like men in
despair.

This put me in mind of the first time when I came oh shore and
began to look about me: how I gave myself over for lost; how wildly I
looked around me; what dreadful apprehensions I had; and how I lodged
in the tree all night, for fear of being devoured by wild beasts. As I
knew nothing that night of the supply I was to receive by the providen-
tial driving of the ship nearer the land by the storms and tide, by which
I have since been so long nourished and supported: so these three poor
desolate men know nothing how certain of deliverance and supply they
were, how near it was to them, and how effectually and really they were in
a condition of safety, at the same time that they thought themselves lost,
and their case desperate. So little do we see before us in the world, and
so much reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the great Maker of the
world, that he does not leave his creatures so absolutely destitute, but
that, in the worst circumstances, they have always something to be thank-
ful for, and sometimes are nearer their deliverance than they imagine;
nay, are even brought to their deliverance by the means by which they
seem to be brought to their destruction.

It was just at the top of high water when these people came on shore;
and while partly they stood parleying with the prisoners they brought, and
partly while they rambled about to see what kind of a place they were in,
they had earelessly' staid till the tide was spent, and the water was ebhed
considerably away, leaving their boat aground. They had left two men
in the boat, who, as I found afterwards, having drunk a little too much
brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them waking sooner than the other,
and finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, halloocd for the
rest, who were straggling about, upon which they all soon came to the
seat; but it was past all their strength to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and the shore on that side being a. soft oozy sand, almost like
a quiehsand.

In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps the least of all
mankind given to forethought, they gave it over, and away they strolled
about the country again; and I heard one of them say aloud to another,
calling them ofi' from the boat, "Why, let her alone, Jack, can't you P "

she'll float next tide," by which I was fully confirmed in the main in-
quiry of what countrymen they were.
All this while I kept myself very close, not once- daring to stir out of
my castle, any farther than to my place of observation near the top of the
hill; and very glad I waste think how well it was fortified. ,I knew it .
was no less than ten hours before the boat could be on float again, and by
that time it would be dark, and I might be at more liberty to see their
motions, and to hear their discourse, if they had any.

In the meantime I fitted myself up for a battle, as before, though with
more caution, knowing I had to do with another kind of enemy than I
had at first. I ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent marks-
man with his gun, to load himself with arms. I took myself two fowling-
pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My figure, indeed, was very
fierce: I had my formidable goat's skin coat on, with the great cap I _
have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two pistols in my belt, and a
gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made any attempt till
it was dark; but about two o'clock, being the heat of the day, I found
that, in short, they were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as I
thought, laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed men, too anxious
for their condition to get any sleep, were, however, set down under the
shelter of a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile fium me, and, as I
thought, out of sight of any of the rest.

Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and learn some-
thing of their condition. Immediately I marched in the figure as
above, my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable for
his arms as I, but not making quite so storing a spectre-like figure as
I did.

I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and then, before any of
them saw me, I called aloud to them in Spanish, "What are ye, gentle-
men?"

They started up at the noise; but were ten times more confounded

' when they saw me, and the uncouth figure that I made. They made no
answer at all, but I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me,
when I spoke to them in English. "Gentlemen," said I, "do not be
surprised at me ; perhaps you may have a friend near, when you did not
expect it." "He must be sent directly from Heaven, then," said one of
them very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the same time to me,
" for our condition is past the help of man." "All help is from Heaven,
sir," said I; "butcanyouput ash-angerin themyhowto help you?
for you seem to be in some great distress. I saw-you'when you landed;

.LM..PSebn-" ' . mm223 anvrnranss or

and when you seemed to make supplieation to the brutes that came with
you, I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling,
looking like one astonished, returned, " Am I talking to God or man? Is
it a real man or an angel?" "Be in no fear about that, sir, " said I;
"if God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come better
clothed, and better armed after another manner than you see me: pray
lay aside your fears; I am a man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist
you: you see I have one servant only; we have arms and ammunition,--
tell as freely, can we serve you ? What is your case P"

" Our case," said he, " air, is too long to tell you, while our murderers
are so near us: but, in short, sir, I was commander of that ship; my men
have mutinied against me; they have been hardly prevailed on not to
murder me; and at last have set me on shore in this desolate place, with
these two men with me, one my mate, the other a passenger, where we
expected to perish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and know not
yet what to think of it."

"Where are those brutes, your enemies ?" said I: "do you know
where they are gone '9" "There they lie, sir," said he, pointing to a
thicket of trees; "my heart trembles for fear they have seen us, and
heard you speak; if they have, they will certainly murder us all."

" Have they any fire-arms P" said I. He answered, "They have only
me pieces, one of which they have left in the boat." " Well, then," said
I, "leave the rest to me; I see they are all asleep, it is an easy thing to
kill them all: but shall we rather take them prisoners ?" He told me
there were two desperate villains among them, that it was scarce safe to
show any mercy to; but if they were secured, he believed all the rest
would return to their duty. I asked him which they were? He told me
he could not at that distance distinguish them, but he would obey my
orders in anything I would direct. " Well," said I, " let us retreat out
of their view or hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve farther."
So they willingly went back with me, till the woods covered as from them.

" Look you, sir," said I, " if I venture upon your deliverance, are you
willing to make two conditions with me '1'" He anticipated my proposals,
by telling me, that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be wholly
directed and commanded by me in every thing; .and, if the ship was not
recovered, he would live and die with me in what part of the world
seever I would send him; and the two other men said the same.
" Well," says I, " my conditions are but two--First, That while you
stay in this island with me, you will not pretend to any authority here;
and if I put arms into your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give them
up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island, and, in the
meantime, be governed by my orders. Second, That if the ship is, or may
be recovered, you will carry me and my man to England passage fi'ee.'

He gave me all the assurances that the invention or faith of man could
devise, that he would comply with these most reasonable demands; and,
besides, would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions,
as long as he lived.

"Well, then," said I, "here are three muskets for you, with powder
and ball: tell me next what you think is proper to be done." He showed
all the testimony of his gratitude that ho was able, but offered to be
wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing any
thing; but the best method I could think of was to fire upon them at
once, as they lay, and if any were not killed at the firstvolley, and offered
to submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's provi-
dence to direct the shot.

He said very modestly, that he was loath to kill them, if he could
help it--but that those two were incorrigible villains, and had been the
authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we should be
undone still; for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's oom-
pany, and destroy us all. " Well, then," says I, "necessity legitimates
my advice, for it is the only way to save our lives." However, seeing
him still cautious of shedding blood, I told him they should go them-
selves, and manage as they found convenient. I '

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, and
soon after we saw two of them on their feet. I askedhim if either of
them were the heads of the mutiny? He said, "No." "Well, then,"
said I, " you may let them escape ; and Providence seems to have awakened
them on purpose to save themselves. New." says I, "if the rest escape
you, it in your fault." _

Animated with this, he took the musketIhadgivenhiminhishand,
and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades with him, each man a piece>>
in his hand: the Women who were with him going first, made some
noise, at which one of the seamen who was awake turned about, and
seeing them coming, cried out to the rest; but it was too late than, for
the moment he cried out they fired; I mean the two men, the captain23deg noamsou oneson.

wisely reserving his own piece. They had so well aimed their shot at
the men they knew, that one of them was killed on the spot, and the
other very much wounded; but not being dead, he started up on his feet,
and called eagerly for help to the others, but the captain, stepping to him,
told him it was too late to cry for help, he should call upon God to forgive
his villany, and with that word knocked him down with the stock of his
musket, so that he never spoke more: there were three more in the com-
pany, and one of them was also slightly wounded. By this time I was
come; and when they saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist,
they begged for mercy. .. The captain told them he would spare their
lives, if they would give him any assurance of their abhorrence of their
treachery they had been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him
in recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica,
from whence they came. They gave him all the protestations of their
sincerity that could be desired, and he was willing to believe them, and
spare their lives, which I was not against,--only I was obliged to keep
them bound hand and feet while they were upon the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain' s mate to the
boat with orders to secure her, and bring away the ears and sail, which
they did; and by-and- bye three straggling men, that were (happily for
them) parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired, and
seeing their captain, who before was their prisoner, now their conqueror,
they submitted to be bound also; and so our victory was complete.
tune and the captain consult how they may recover the ship them the manners--In the men-
while a fresh party come ashore--An ambusemle ll contrived, and the mntlncen lay down their
nmup'l'he captain promises mercy to all except Will Atkins--The ship taken from the man-
neon--Crusoe leaves the island, In which he had lived for twenty-eight years.

a

'5', '1' now remained that the captain and I should inquire into one
\\i another's circumstances. I began first and told him my whole
history, which he heard with an attention even to amazement,
and particularly at the wonderful manner of my being furnished
with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed, as my story is a. whole
collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. But when he reflected from
thence upon himself, and how I seemed to have been preserved there on
purpose to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he could not
speak a word more.

After this communication was at an end, I carried him and his two
men into my apartment, leading them in just where I came out, viz. at the
top of the house, where I refreshed them with such provisions as I had,
and showed them all the contrivanees I had made, duringmy long, long
inhabiting that place.

   
 

 

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly amazing; but-

above all, the captain admired my fortification, and how perfectly I had
concealed my retreat with a grove of trees, which, having been new planted
near twenty years, and the trees growing much faster than in England,
was become a little wood, and so thick, that it was impassable in any part
of it, but at that one side where I had reserved my little winding passage
into it. This I told him was my castle and my residence, but that I had
a seat in the country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat upon
occasion, and I would show him that too another time; but at present our
business was to consider how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as
to that; but told me he was perfectly at a less what measures to take, for

I '.
that there were still six-and-twenty hands on board, who having entered
into a cursed conspiracy, by which they had all forfeited their lives to the
law, would he hardened in it now by desparation, and would carry it on,
knowing that, if they were subdued, they would be brought to the
gallows, as soon as they came to England, or to any of the English
colonies; and that, therefore, there would be no attacking them with so
small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a very
rational conclusion, and that, therefore, something was to be resolved on
speedily, us well to draw the men on board into some snare for their
surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and destroying us. Upon
this, it presently occurred to me that, in a little while, the ship's crew,
wondering what was become of their comrades and of the boat, would
certainly come on shore in their other bout, to look for them; and that
then, perhaps, they might come armed, and be too strong for us: this he
allowed was rational.

Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do was to stave the
boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might not carry her elf; and
taking every thing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be fit to
swim: accordingly we went on board, took the arms which were left on
board out of her, and whatever else we found there, which was a bottle
of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder,
and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvass (the sugar was five or six
pounds), all which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy and
sugar, of which I had had none left for many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore (the oars, mast, sail
and rudder of the boat were carried away before, as above), we knocked a.
great hole in her bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master
us, yet they could not carry off the boat. Indeed, it was not much in my
thoughts that we could be able to recover the ship; but my View was,
that if they went away without the boat, I did not much question to
make her fit again to carry us to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our
friends the Spaniards in my way, for I had them still in my thoughts.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main
strength, heaved the boat upon the beach so high that the tide would not
float her off at high-water mark, and besides had broken a. hole in her
bottom too big to be quickly stopped, and were set down musing what we
should do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a. waft with
ner ancient as a. signal for the boat to come on board; but no boat stirred,
and they fired several times, making other signals for the boat.

At last, when all their signals and firing proved fruitless, and they
found the boat did not stir, we saw them (by the help of my glasses)
hoist another boat out, and row towards the shore ; and we found, as they
approached, that there were no less than ten men in her, and that they
had fire-arms with them. '

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore, we had a full view
of them as they came, and a plain sight even of their faces, because the
tide having set them a little to the east of the other boat, they rowed
up under shore, to come to the same place where the other had landed,
and where the boat lay.

By this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the captain
knew the persons and characters of all the men in the boat, of whom, he
said, that there were three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led
into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frighted; but
that as for the boatswain, who, it seems, was the chief oficer among them,
and all the rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and
were no doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly ap-
prehensive he was that they would be too powerful for us.

I smiled at him, and told him that men in our circumstances were
past the operation of {can--that, considering every condition that could be
was better than that we were supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the
consequence, whether death or life, would be sure to be a deliverance. I
asked him what he thought of the circumstances of my life, and whether
a deliverance were not worth venturing for? "And where, sir," said I, " is
your belief of my being preserved here on purpose to save your life, which
elevated you a little while ago? For my part," said I, "there seems to
me but one thing amiss in all the prospect of i " "What is that?"
says he. "Why" said I, "it is, that as you say there are three or four
honest fellows among them, which should be spared; had they been all of
the wicked part of the crew I should have thought God's providence had
singled them out to deliver them into your hands; for, depend upon it,
every man of them that comes ashore are our own, and shall die or live as
they behave to us."

As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful countenance, I found
it greatly encouraged him; so we set vigorously to our business. We
had, upon the first appearance of the boat's coming from the ship, can-
sidered of separating our prisoners, and had, indeedl secured them efi'ec-
tually. Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than ordinary,
I sent with Friday, and one of the three delivered men to my cave, where
they were remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or discovered,
or of finding their way out of the woods if they could have delivered
themselves: here they left them bound, but gave them provisions; and
promised them, if they continued there quietly, to give them their liberty
in a day or two, but that if they attempted their escape, they should be put
to death without mercy. They premised faithfully to bear their confine-
ment with patience, and were very thankful that they had such good
usage as to have provisions and a light left them, for Friday gave them'
candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort, and they did not
know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage: two of them were kept piniened,
indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them; but the other two
were taken into my service, upon the captain's recommendation, and
upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with us. So with them and
the three honest men we were seven men well armed, and I made no
doubt we should be able to deal well enough with the ten that were
coming, considering that the captain had said that there were tluee or four
honest men among them also.

As soon as they get to the place where their other heat lay, they run
their boat into the beach, and came all on shore, haling the beat up
after them, which I was glad to see; for I was afraid they would rather
have left the boat at an anchor, some distance from the shore, with some
bands in her to guard her, and so we should not be able to seize the boat.

Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their other
heat, and it was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find her
stripped, as above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom.

After they had mused awhile upon this, they set up two or three great
shouts, halleoing with all their might, to try if they could make their
companions hear; but all was to no purpose: then they came all close in
a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms, which, indeed, we heard,
and the echoes made the weeds ring. But it was all one: these in the
cave we were sure could not hear; and those in our keeping, though they
heard it well enough, yet durst give no answer to them.

They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that, as they told us
afterwards, they resolved to go all on board again to their ship, and let
them know there that the men were all murdered, and the long-boat
staved: accordingly, they immediately hunched their boat again, and got
all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed and even confounded at this, believ-
ing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving their
comrades up for lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which he was in
hopes we should have recovered; but he was quickly as much frighted
the other way.

They had not been long put off with the boat, but we perceived them
all coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their conduct,
which it seems they consulted together upon, viz., to leave three men in
the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to look
for their fellows.

This was a great disappointment to us, for we were now at a loss what
to do; for our seizing those seven men on shore would be no advantage to
us, if we let the boat escape, because they would then row away to the
ship, and then the rest of them would he sure to weigh and set sail, and
so our recovery of the ship would be lost.

However, we had no remedy but to wait and see what the issue of
things might present. The seven men came on shore, and the three who
remained in the boat put her off to a good distance from the shore, and

came to an anchor to wait for them; so that it was impossible for us to
come at them in the boat.

Those that came on shore kept close together, marching towards the
top of the little hill under which my habitation lay: and we could see
them plainly, though they could not perceive us: we could have been
very glad they would have come nearer to us, so that we might have fired
at them, or that they would have gone farther off, that we might have
come abroad. __

But when they were come to the brow of the hill, where they could see
a great way into the valleys and woods, which lay towards the north-east
part, and where the island lay lowest, they shouted end hellooed till they
were weary ; and not caring, it seems, to venture for from the shore, nor for
from one mother, they sat down together under a tree, to consider of it.
Had they thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other party of
them had done, they had done the job for us; but they were too full of

apprehensions of danger to venture to go to sleep, though they could not
tell what the danger was they had to fear neither.
The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation of
theirs, viz., that perhaps they would all fire a volley again, to endeavour
to make their fellows hear, and that we should all sally upon them, just
at the juncture when their pieces were all discharged, and they would
certainly yield, and we should have them without bloodshed. I liked
this proposal, provided it was done while we were near enough to come
up to them before they could load their pieces again.

But this event did not happen, and we lay still a long time, very
irrcsolatc what course to take. At length I told him there would be
nothing done, in my opinion, till night; and then, if they did notgeturn
to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between them and the
shore, and so might use some stratagcm with them in the boat to get
them on shore.

We waited a great while, though very impatient for their removing,
and were very uneasy, when, after long consultations, we saw them all
start up, and march down towards the sea: it seems they had such dreadr
ful apprehensions upon them of the danger of the place, that they resolved
to go on board the ship again, give their companions over for lost, and so
go on with their intended voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them to go towards the shore, 'I imagined it to
be, as it really was, that they had given over their search, and were for
going back again; and the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts,
was ready to sink at the apprehensions of it; but I presently thought 01
a stratagem to fetch them back again, and which answered my end to a
tittle.

I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little creek
westward, towards the place where the savages came on shore when
Friday was rescued, and as soon as they came to a little rising ground, at
about half a milc's distance, I bade them halloo as loud as they could, and
wait till they found the seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they
heard the seamen answer them, they should return it again, and then
keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering them when the
others halloeed, to draw them as far into the island, and among the
woods, as possible, and then wheel about again to me, by such ways as I
directed. .' .

They were just going into the boat when Friday and the mate
hallooed; and they presently heard them, and answering, ran along the
shore westward, towards the voice they heard, when they were presently
stopped by the creek, where the water being up they could not get over,
and called for the boat to come up and set them over,--as, indeed, I
expected.

When they had set themselves over, I observed that the boat being
gone a. good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbour within the
land, they took one of the three men out of her to go along with them,
and left only two in the boat, having fastened her to the stamp of a little
tree on the shore.

This was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and the
captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with me, and crossing the
creek out of their eight, we surprised the two men before they were aware,
----one of them lying on the shore, and the other being in the boat: the
fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking, and, going to start up,
the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and lmoeked him down,
and then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he was a. dead man.

There needed very few arguments to persuade a single man to yield,
when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked down; besides,
this was, it seems, one of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny
as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily persuaded not only to
yield, but afterwards to jo'm very sincerely with us.

In the meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so well managed their
business with the rest, that they drew them, by hallooing and answering,
from one hill to another, and from one wood to another, till they not only
heartily tired them, but left them where they were very sure they could
not reach back to the boat before it was dark; and, indeed, they were
heartily tired themselves also by the time they came back to as.

We had nothing new to do but to watch for them in the dark, and to
fell upon them, so as to make sure work with them.

It was several hours after Friday came back to me before they came
back to their boat, and we could hear the foremost of them, long before
they some quite up, calling to those behind to come along, and could also
hear them answer, and complain how lame and tired they were, and not
able to come any faster, which was very welcome news to us.

At length they came up to the boat; but it is impossible to express
their confusion when they found the boat fast aground in the creek, the
tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. We could hear them call to one
another in a most lamentable manner, telling one another they were
gotten into an enchanted island; that either there were inhabitants in it,
and they should all be murdered, or else there were devils or spirits in it,
and they should be all carried away and devoured.

They halloocd again, and called their two comrades by their names a
great many times; but no answer: after some time. we could see them
by the little light there was, run about, wringing their hands like men in
despair, and that sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat,
to rest themselves, then come ashore again, and walk about again, and
so the same thing over again.

My men would fain have had me give them leave to fall upon them in
the dark; but I was willing to take them at some advantage, so to spare
them, and kill as few of them as I could: and especially I was unwilling
to hazard the killing any of our men, knowing the others were very well
armed. I resolved to wait, to see if they did not separate; and, there-
fore, to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered
Friday and the captain to creep upon their hands and feet as close to the
ground as they could, that they might not be discovered, and get as near
them as they could possibly, before they offered to fire.

They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain, who was
the principal ringleader of the mutiny, and had now shown himself the
most dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards them
with two more of the crew : the captain was so eager at having the principal
rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly have patience to let him
come so near as to be sure of him, for they only heard his tongue before:
but when they came nearer, the captain and Friday, starting up on their
feet, let fly at them. '

The beatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man was shot in
the body, and fell just by him, though he did not die till an hour or two
after; and the third ran for it.

At the noise of the fire, I immediately advanced with my whole army,
which was now eight men, viz., myself, generalissimo; Friday, my lieu-
tenant-general; the captain and his two men, and the three prisoners of
war, whom we had trusted with arms.

We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see
our number; and I made the man they had left in the boat, who was now
one of us, to call them by name, to try if I could bring them to a pulley,
and so might perhaps reduce them to terms, which fell out just as we
desired, for, indeed, it was easy to think, as their condition than was, they
would be very willing to eapitulate. So he calls out, as loud as he could,
to one of them, "Tom Smith! Tom Smith!"_ Tom Smith answered
immediately, " Who's that ? Robinson?" For it seems he knew the voice.
The other answered, "Ay, ay; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down
your arms and yield, or you are all dead men this moment."

" Who must we yield to? Where are they?" says Smith again.
"Here they are," says he, "here's our captain and fifiy men with him,
have been hunting you these two hours: the boatswain is killed, Will Fry
is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield, you are all lost."

"Will they give us quarter then P" says Tom Smi , " and we will
yield." "I will go ask, if you promise to yield," says Robinson. So he
asked the captain; and the captain himself then calls out, " You, Smith,
you know my voice; if you lay down your arms immediately, and submit,
you shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins."

Upon this Will Atkins cried out, "For God's sake, captain, give me
quarter; what have I done? they have all been as bad as I,"----whieh by
the way, was not true neither, for, it seems, this Will Atkins was the
first man that laid hold of the captain, when they first mutinied, and used
him barbarously, m tying his hands, and giving him injurious language.
However, the captain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion,
and trust to the governor's mercy, by which he meant me, for they all
called me governor.

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged their lives; and
I sent the man who had parleycd with them, and two more, who bound
them all: and then my great army of fifty men, which, pmticularly with
those three, were in all but eight, came up and seized upon them all, and
upon their boat, only that I kept myself and one more out of sight for
reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat, and to think of seizing the
ship; and as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with them, he
cxpostulated with them upon the villany of their practices with him, and
at length upon the farther wickedness of their design, and how certainly
it must bring them to misery and distress in the end, and perhaps to
the gallows.

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard for their lives. As
for that, he told them they were none of his prisoners, but the com-
mander's of the island; that they thought they had set him on shore in a
barren, uninhabited island,but ithad pleasedGodsotodirectthem, that
the island was inhabited, and that the governor was an Englishman; that
he might hang them all there, if he pleased; but, as he had given than
all quarter, he supposed he would send them to England, to be dealt with
there as justice required, except Atkins, whom he was commanded by the
governor to advise to prepare for death, for that he would be hanged in the
morning. .

Though all this was but a fiction of his own, yet it had its desired
effect: Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg the captain to inter-cede with
the governor for his life; and all the rest begged of him, for God's sake,
that they might not be sent to England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come, and
that it would be a most easy thing to bring these fellows in to he hearty
in getting possession of the ship; so I retired in the dark from them, that
they might not see what kind of a. governor they had, and called the cap-
tain to me: when I called, as at a good distance, one of the men was
ordered to speak again, and say to the captain, " Captain, the commander
calls for you ;" and presently the captain replied, "Tell his excelleney I
am just a-eoming," This more perfectly amused them, and they all
believed that the commander was just by with his fifty men.

Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my project for seizing
the ship, which he liked wonderfully well, and resolved to out it in
execution the next morning.

But in order to execute it with more heart, and to be secure of success,
I told him we must divide the prisoners, and that he should go and take
Atkins and two more of the worst of them, and send them pinioned to
the cave where the others lay. This was committed to Friday and the
two men who came on shore with the captain.

They conveyed them to the care as to a prison; and it was, indeed, a
dismal place, especially to men in their condition.

The others I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have
given a full description; and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the
place was secure enough, considering they were upon their behaviour.

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was to enter into a
parley with them,--~in a word, to try them, and tell me whether he
thought they might be trusted or no to go on board and surprise the ship.
He talked to them of the injury done him, of the condition they were
brought to, and that though the governor had given them quarter for
their lives as to the present action, yet that if they were sent to England,
they would all be hanged in chains, to be sure; but that if they would
join in such an attempt as to recover the ship, he would have the gover-
nor's engagement for their pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted by
men in their condition; they fell down on their knees to the captain, and
promised with the deepest imprecations, that they would be faithful to
him to the last drop, and that they should owe their lives to him, and
would go with him all over the world; that they would own him for a
father as long as they lived. "Well" says the captain, "I must go and
tell the governor what you say, and see what I can do to bring him to
consent to it." So he brought me an account of the temper he found
them in, and that he verily believed they would be faithful.

However, that we might be very secure, I told him he should go back
again and choose out five, and tell them that they might see he did not
want men, but that he would take out those five to be his assistants,
and that the governorwould keep the other two, and the three that were
sent prisoners to the castle (my cave) as hostages for the fidelity of those
five, and that, if they proved unfaithful in the execution, the five hostages
should be hanged in chains alive on the shore.

This looked severe, and convinced them that the governor was in
earnest: however, they had no way left them but to accept it; and it
was now the business of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to
persuade the other five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition :--l. The
captain, his mate, and passenger.--2. Then the two prisoners of the first
gang, to whom, having their characters from the captain, I had given
their liberty and trusted them with arms--3. The other two that I had
kept till now in my bower pinioned, but, upon the captain's motion, had
now released--4. These five released at last; so that they were twelve
in all, besides five we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands on
board the ship; but as for me and my man Friday, I did not think it was
proper for us to stir, having seven men left behind: and it was employ-
ment enough for us to keep them asunder, and supply them with victnnls.

As to the five in the cave, I resolved to keep them fast, but Friday
went in twice a day to them, to supply them with necessaries; and I
made the other two carry provisions to a. certain distance, where Friday
was to take it.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was with the captain,
18

\
who told them I was the person the governor had ordered to look utter
them, and that it was the governor's pleasure they should not stir any
where but by my direction; that if they did, they should be fetched into
the castle, and be laid in irons: so that, as we never suffered them to see
me as a governor, I now appeared as another person, and spoke of the
gevernor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all occasions.

The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his two
boats, stop the breach of one, and man them. He made his passenger
captain of one, with four of the men; and himself, his mate, and five
more, went in the other: and they contrived their business very well, for
they came up to the ship about midnight. As soon as they came within
call of the ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell them they had
brought off the men and the boat, but that it was a long time before they
had foimd them, and the like, holding them in a chat till they came to
the ship's side; when the captain and the mate entering first, with their
arms, immediately knocked down the second mate and carpenter with the
butt end of their muskets. Being very faithfully seconded by their men,
they secured all the rest that were upon the main and quarter decks, and
began to fasten the hatches, to keep them down that were below;'when
the other boat and their men entering at the fore-chains, secured the
forceastle of the ship and the scuttle which went down into the cock-
room, making three men they found there prisoners.

When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered the
mate, with three men, to break into the round house, where the new
rebel captain lay, who having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two
men and a boy had gotten fire-arms in their hands; and when the mate,
with a crow, split open the door, the new captain and his men fired boldly
among them, and wounded the mate with a musket ball, which broke his
arm, and wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody.

The mate, calling for help, rushed, however, into the round-house,
wounded as he was, and with his pistol shot the new captain through the
head, the bullet entering at his mouth, and came out again behind one of
his ears, so that he never spoke a word; upon which the rest yielded, and
the ship was taken effectually, without any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven guns
to he fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice
of his success, which you may he sure I was very glad to hear, having
sat watching upon the shore for it till near two o'clock in the morning.
Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me down; and it having
been a day of great fatigue to me, I slept very sound, till I was something
surpised at the noise of a gun: and presently starting up, I heard a man
call me by the name of " Governor, Governor," and presently I knew the
captain's voice,--when climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and
pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms. " My dear friend and
deliverer," says he, "there's your ship, for she is all yours, and so are
we, and all that belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and there
she rode within little more than half a mile of the shore; for they had
weighed her anchor as soon as they were masters of her, and the weather
being fair, had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth of a
little creek; and the tide being up, the captain had brought the pinnace
in near the place where I first landed my rafts, and so landed just at
my door.

I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise; for I saw my
deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my hands, all things easy, and a large
ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased to go. At first, for
some time, I was not able to answer him one word; but as he had taken
me in his arms, I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the ground.

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a bottle out of his
pocket, and gave me a drum of cordial, which he had brought on purpose
for me. After I drank it, I sat down on the ground; and though it
brought me to myself, yet it was a good while before I could speak sword
to him.

All this time the poor man was in as great an ecstasy as I, only not
under any surprise as I was ; and he said a thousand kind and tender
things to me, to compose and bring me to myself: but such was the flood
of joy in nay-breast, that it put all my spirits into confusion; at last it
broke out into tears, and in a little while after I recovered my speech.

Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my delivercr, and we
rejoiced together. I told him I looked upon him as a man sent from
Heaven to deliver me, and that the whole transaction seemed to be a
chain of wonders; that such things as these were the testimonies we had
of a secret hand of Providence, governing the world, and an evidence that
the eyes of an Infinite Power could search into the remotest corner of the
world, and send help to the miserable whenever he pleased.

I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to Heaven; and what
heart could forbear to bless Him who had not only in a miraculous
manner provided for me in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate
condition, but from whom every deliverance must always be acknowledged
to proceed?

When we had talked a while, the captain told me he had brought me
some little refreshment, such as the ship ail'orded, and such as the wretehcs
that had been so long his masters had not plundered him of. Upon this
he called aloud to the boat, and bade his men bring the things ashore that
were for the governor; and, indeed, it was a present as if I had been one
that was not to be carried away with them, but as if I had been to dwell
upon the island still. \

First, he brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters;
six large bottles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two quarts each), twc
pounds of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef,
and six pieces of pork, with a bag of peas, and about a hundred weight of
biscuit: he brought also a box of sugar, 9. box of flour, a bag full of lemons,
and two bottles of lime juice, and abundance of other things. But,
besides these, and what was a thousand times more useful to me, he
brought me six eleau new shirts, six very good neekeloths, two pair of
gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and one pair of stockings, with a very
good suit of clothes of his own, which had been worn but Very little;
in a word, he clothed me from head to feet.

It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one may imagine, to
one in my circumstances; but never was anything in the world of that
kind so unpleasant, awkward, and uneasy, as it was to me to wear such
clothes at their first putting on.

Alter these ceremonies were past, and after all his good things were
brought into my little apartment, we began to consult what was to be
done with the prisoners we had: for it was worth considering whether
we might venture to take them away with us or no,--especially two of
them, whom We knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree;
and the captain said he knew they were such rogues, that there was no
obliging them, and if he did carry them away, it must be in irons, as male-
factors, to be delivered over to justice at the first English colony he could
come at; and I found that the captain himself was very anxious about it.

Upon this I told him, that if he desired it, I durst undertake to bring
the two men he spoke of to make it their own request that he should
leave them upon the island. "I should be very glad of that," says the
captain, "with all my heart."
"Well" says I, "I will send for them up, and talk with them for
you." So I caused Friday and the two hostages, for they were now
discharged, their comrades having performed their promise,--I say, 1
caused them to go to the cave, and bring up the five men, pinioned as
they were, to the bower, and keep them there till I came.

After some time, I came thither dressed in my new habit; and now I
was called governor again. Being all met, and the captain with me, I
caused the men to be brought before me, and I told them I had had a full
account of their villanous behaviour to the captain, and how they had run
away with the ship, and were preparing to commit farther robberies, but
that Providence had ensnared them in their own ways, and that they
were fallen into the pit which they had digged for others.

I let them know that by my direction the ship had been seized, that
she now lay in the road, and they might see, by and by, that their new
captain had received the reward of his villany, for that they would see
him hanging at tho yard-arm: that as to them, I wanted to know what
they had to say why I should not execute them as pirates taken in the
fact, as by my commission they could not doubt I had authority to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had nothing
to say but this, that when they were taken, the captain promised them
their lives, and they humbly implored my mercy; but I told them I
knew not what mercy to show them, for, as for myself, I had resolved to
quit the island with all my men, and had taken passage with the captain
to go for England; and as for the captain, he could not carry them to
England, other than as prisoners in irons, to be tried for mutiny and
running away with the ship--the consequence of which they must needs
know would be the gallows; so that I could not tell what was best for
them, unless they had a mind to take their fate in the island: if they
desired that, as I had liberty to leave it, I had some inclination to give
them their lives, if they thought they could shift on shore.

They seemed very thankful for it, and said they would much rather
venture to stay there than be carried to England to be hanged: so I left
it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it, as if he
durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry with the
captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not his; that, seeing
I had offered them so much favour, I would be as good as my word; and
that if he did not think fit to consent to it, I would set them at liberty as
I found them; and if he did not like that, he might take them again if
he could catch them. I

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I accordingly set them at
liberty, and bade them retire into the woods to the place whence they
came, and I would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and
some directions how they should live very well, if they thought fit.

Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship, but told the captain
that I would stay that night to prepare my things, and desired him to go
on board in the meantime, and keep all right in the ship, and send the
heat on shore the next day for me,----erdering him in the meantime to
cause the new captain, who was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm
that these men might see him.

\V'hcn the e: iptain w as gone, I sent for the men up to me to my npart~
meat, and entered seriously into discourse with them of their circum-
stances. I told them I thought they had made a right choice; that if
the captain carried them away, they would certainly be hanged. I
showed them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm of the ship, and
told them they had nothing less to expect.

\thn they had all declared their willingness to stay, I then told
them I would let them into the story of my living there, and put them
into the way of making it easy to them: accordingly, I gave them the
whole history of the place, and of my coming to it; showed them my
fortifications, the way I made my bread, planted my corn, cured my
grapes; and, in a word, all that was necessary to make them easy. I
told them the story also of the fifteen Spaniards that were to be expected,
for whom I left a letter, and made them promise to treat them in common
with themselves.

I left them my fire-arms, viz., five muskcts, three fowling-pieecs, and
three swords. I had about a barrel and a half of powder left; for after
the first year or two I used but little and wasted none. I gave them a
description of the way I managed the goats, and directions to milk and
fatten them, and to make both butter and cheese: in a. word, I gave
them every part of my own story, and I told them I should prevail with
the captain to leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some
garden seeds, which I told them I would have been very glad of : also I
gave them the bag of peas which the captain had brought me to eat, and
bade them he sure to sow and increase them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and went on board
the ship. We prepared immediately to sail, but did not weigh that night.
The next morning early, two of the five men came swimming to the ship's
side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the other three, begged
to be taken into the ship, for God's sake, for they should be murdered,
and begged the captain to take them on board, though he hanged them
immediately.

Upon this, the captain pretended to have no power without me ; but
after some difficulty, and utter their solemn promises of amendment, they
were taken on board, and were some time after soundly whipped and
pickled, after which they proved very honest and quiet fellows.

Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore, the tide being up,
with the things promised to the men, to which the captain, at my inter-
cession, caused their chests and clothes to be added, which they took. and
were very thankful for. I also encouraged them, by telling them that if

it lay in my way to send any vessel to take them in, I would not forget
them.
Crusoe arrives in Englnnd, tum finds that most of his relations are dead, and that his henefuclor Ind
Howard has fallen into misfortune--He goes to Lisbon, where he makes himself known to the
captain of the ship who took him up at lea, and is put in the way a! reoox'erlng his property in
(he llmils--llis possessions are restored, and he finds himself n wealthy mun--Nukes nrrnngc.
menu {or the condos: of his eslnre, nnd can out for England by way of Spnin--An encounter
with wolves-Friday makes merry with a bent--Crusoe arrives in England, and settles more.

-HEN I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for
reliqucs, the grout gout-skin cup I had made, my um-
brella, and one of my parrots; also I forgot not to take
.. the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain by me
so long useless, that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly
pass for silver, till it had been a little rubbed and handled; as also the
money I found in the wreck of the Spanish ship.
And thus I left the island, the 19th of December, as I found by the
ship's account, in the your 1686, after I had been upon it eight-and-
twenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being delivered from the
second captivity the same day of the month that I first made my escape
in the bareolongo, from among the Moore of Sallee.

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in England the 11th at
J mm, in the year 1687, having been thirty and five years absent.

When I came to England, I was as perfect a stranger to all the world
as if I had never been known there. My benefactor and faithful steward,
whom I had left in trust with my money, was alive, but had had great
misfortunes in the world--was become a widow the second time, and very
low in the world. I made her very easy as to what she owed me, assur-
ing her I would give her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude
for her former core and faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little
stock would afford, which at that time would indeed allow me to do but
little for her: but I assured her I would never forget her former kindness
to me,--nor did I forget her when I had sufficient to help her, as shall be
observed in its proper place.

I went down afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father was dead, and
my mother and all the family extinct, except that I found two sisters,
and two of the children of one of my brothers; and as I had been long
ago given over for dead, them had been no provision made for me; so
that, in a word, I found nothing to relieve or assist me; and that little
money I had would not do much for me as to settling in the world.

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect;
and this was, that the master of the ship whom I had so happily de-
livered, and by the same means saved the ship and cargo, having given a
very handsome account to the owners of the manner how I had saved the
lives of the men, and the ship, they invited me to meet them and some
other merchants concerned, and altogether made me a very handsome
compliment upon that subject, and a present of almost two hundred pounds
sterling.

But after making several reflections upon the cirumstancos of my
life, and how little way this would go towards settling me in the world,
I resolved to go to Lisbon, and see if I might not come by some informa-
tion of the state of my plantation in the Brazils, and of what was become

of my partner, who, I had reason to suppose, had some years now given
me over for dead.
With this view I took shipping for Lisbon, where I arrived in Aprl
following: my man Friday accompanying me very honestly in all these
rumblings, and proving a most faithful servant upon all occasions.

When I came to Lisbon, I found out, by inquiry, and to my particular
satisfaction, my old friend the captain of the ship who first took me up at
sea oil' the shore of Africa. He was now grown old, and had left off the
sea, having put his son, who was far from a young man, into his ship,
and who still used the Brazil trade. The old man did not know me, and,
indeed, I hardly knew him; but I soon brought him to my remembrance,
and as soon brought myself to his remembrance, when I told him who I
was. ,

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance, I inquired,
you may be sure, after my plantation and my paltncr. The old man told
me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine years ; but that he could
assure me that, when he came away, my partner was living, but the
tmstccs whom I had joined with him to take cognizance of my part, were
both dead; that, however, he believed I would have a very good account
of the improvement of the plantation, for that upon the general belief of
my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account
of the produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator~fiscal, who
had appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, one-third to the
king, and two-thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended
for the benefit of the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians to the
Catholic faith; but that, if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the
inheritance, it would be restorcd,--only that the improvement, or annual
production, being distributed to chzu'itablo uses, could not be restored.
But he assured me that the steward of the king's revenue from lands, and
the provcdorc, or steward of the monastery, had taken great care all along
that the incumbent, that is to say, my partner, gave every year a faithful
account of the produce, of which they received duly my moiety.

I asked him if he knew to what height of improvement he had brought
the plantation, and whether he thought it might be worth looking otter,
or whether, on my going thither, I should meet with no obstruction to
my possessing my just right in the moiety?

He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the plantation
was improved; but this he knew, that my partner was grown exceeding
rich upon the enjoying but one half of it, and that, to the best of his
remembrance, he had heard that the king's third of my part, which was,
it seems, granted away to some other monastery or religious house,
amounted to above two hundred moidores a-year: that, as to my being
restored to a quiet possession of it, there was no question to be made of
that, my partner being alive to witness my title, and my name being also
enrolled in the register of the country. Also he told me that the sur-
vivors of my two trustees were very fair, honest people, and very wealthy;
and he believed I would not only have their assistance for putting me in
posschion, but would find a very considerable sum of money in their
hands for my account, being the produce of the form while their fathers
held the trust, and before it was given up, as above,---which, as he

remembered, was for about twelve years.
I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and

inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trustees should
thus dispose of my effects, when he knew that I had made my will, and
had made him, the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, etc.

He told me that was true, but that, as there was no proof of my being
dead, he could not not as executor, until some certain account should
come of my death: and that, besides, he was not willing to intermeddla
with a thing so remote; that it was true he had registered my will, and
put in his claim, and, could he have given an account of my being dead
or alive, he would have acted by procuration, and taken possession of the
ingenio (so they called the sugar-house), and have given his son, who was
new at the Bmzils, order to do it. "But," says the old man, " I have
one piece of news to tell you, which, perhaps, may not be so acceptable
to you as the rest; and that is, that, believing you were lost, and all the
world believing so also, your partner and trustees did offer to account
to me in your name for six or eight of the first years of profit, which I
received; but there being at that time," says be, "great disbursements
for increasing the works, building an ingenio, and buying slaves, it did
not amount to near so much as afterwards it produced. However," says
the old man, " I shall give you a true account of what I have'received in
all, and how I have disposed of it."

After a few days' farther conference with this ancient friend, he
brought me an account of the first six years' income of my plantation,
signed by my partner and the merchant trustees, being always delivered
in goods, viz., tobacco in roll, and sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses,
etc., which is the consequence of a sugar--work: and I found by this
account, that every year the income considerably increased; but, u
above, the disbursements being large, the sum at nrst was small. How-
ever, the old man let me see that he was debtor to me four hundred and
seventy moidores of gold, besides sixty chests of sugar, and fifteen double
rolls of tobacco, which were lost in his ship, he having been shipwrecked
coming home to Lisbon, about eleven years after my leaving the place.

The good man then began to complain of his misfortunes, and how he
had been obliged to make use of my money to recover his losses, and buy
him a. share in a new ship. "However, my old friend," says he, "you
shall not want a supply in your necessity; and as soon as my son returns,
you shall be fully satisfied." Upon this, he pulls out an old pouch, and
gives me one hundred and sixty Portugal moidores in gold, and giving me
the writings of his title to the ship, which his son was gone 'to the Brazils
in, of which he was a quarter part owner, and his son another, he puts
them both into my hands, for security of the rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor
man to be able to bear this; and, remembering what he had done for me,
how he had taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used me on
all occasions, and particularly how sincere a friend he was now to me, 1
could hardly refrain weeping at what he had said to me; therefore first
I asked him if his circumstances admitted him to spare so much money at
that time, and if it would not struitcn him? He told me he could not
say but it might straiten him a little; but, however, it was my money,
and I might want it more than he.

Every thing the good man said was full of affection, and I could
hardly refrain from tears while he spoke;' in short, I took one hundred
of the m'oidores, and called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for
them: then I returned him the rest, and told him if ever I had possession
of the plantation, I would return the other to him also (as, indeed, I
afterwards did); and that, as to the bill of sale of his part in his son's
ship, I would not take it by any means, but that if I wanted the money,
I found he was honest enough to pay me; and, if I did not, but came to
receive what he gave me reason to expect, I would never have a penny
more from him.

When this was past, the old man began to ask me if he should put
me on a method to make my claim to my plantation? I told him I
thought to go over to it myself. He said I might do so, if I pleased, but
that, if I did not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and immo-
diutely to appropriate the profits to my use; and as there were ships in
the river of Lisbon just ready to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my
name in a public register, with this xffidavit. adirming upon oath that I
was alive, and that I was the same person who took up the land for the
planting the said plantation at first. This being regularly attested by a
notary, and a procuration affixed, he directed me to send it, with a letter
of his writing, to a merchant of his acquaintance at the place, and then
proposed my staying with him till an account came of the return.

Never anything was more honorable than the proceedings upon this
procuration; for in less than seven months I received a large packet from
the survivors of my trustees, the merchants, on whose account I went to
sea, in which were the following particular letters and papers enclosed :--

First, There was the aecount~currcnt of the produce of my farm or
plantation, from the year when their fathers had balanced with my old
Portugal captain, being for six years: the balance appeared to be one
thousand one hundred and seventy-four moidores in my favour.

Secondly, There was the account of four years more, while they kept
the effects in their hands, before the government claimed the adminis-
tration, as being the effects of a person not to be found, which they called
civil death; and the balance of this, the value of the plantation increasing,
amounted to nineteen thousand four hundred crusadoes, being about three
thousand two hundred and forty-one moidorcs.

Thirdly, There was the prior of the Augustine's account, who had
received the profits for above fourteen years; but not being able to account
for what was disposed to the hospital, very honestly declared he had eight
hundred and seventy-two moidores not distributed, which he acknow-
ledged to my account: as to the king's part, that refunded nothing.

There was also a letter of my partner's congratulating me very afi'ec.
tionately upon my being alive, giving me an account how the estate was
improved, and what it produced a year: with a particular of the number
of squares or acres that it contained, how planted, how many slaves there
were upon it, and making two and twenty crosses for blessings, told me
he had said so many "Ave Marius " to thank the blessed Virgin that I
was alive; inviting me very passionately to come over and take possession
of my own; and in the mean time, to give him orders to whom he should
deliver my effects, if I did not come myself; concluding with a hearty
tender of his friendship, and that of_his family; and sent me, as a present,
seven fine leopard's skins; which he had, it seems, received from Africa,
by some other ship that he had sent thither, and who, it seems, had made
a better voyage than I. He sent me also five chests of excellent sweet-
meats, and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined, not quite so large as
moidorcs.

By the same fleet, my merchant trustees shipped mo twelve hundred
chests of sugar, eight hundred rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole
account in gold.

I might Well say now, indeed, that the latter end of Job was better
than the beginning. It is impossible to express the flutterings of my very
heru't, when I looked over these letters, and especially when I found all
my wealth about me; for as the Brazil ships come all in fleets, the some
ships which brought my letters brought my goods,'and the effects were
safe in the river before the letters came to my hand. In'a word, I turned
pale, and grew sieli; and had not the old man run and fetched me a
cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature, and I had
died upon the spot. Nay, after that I continued very ill, and was so
some hours, till, a physician being sent for and something of the real cause
of my illness being known, he ordered me to he let blood, after which I

.had relief, and grow well; but I verily believe, if it had not been eased
by the vent given in that manner to the spirits, I should have died.

I was new master, all on a sudden, of above fifty thousand pounds
sterling in money, and had an estate, as I might well call it, in the
lirazils, of above a thousand pounds a-year, as sure as an estate of lands
in England; and in a. word, I was in a condition which I scarce knew
how to understand, or how to compose myself for the enjoyment of.
The. first thing I did was to recompense my original benefactor, my good
old captain, who had been first charitable to me in my distress, kind to
me in the beginning, and honest to me at the end. I showed him all
that was sent to me; I told him that next to the Providence of Heaven,
which disposes all things, it was owing to him; and that it now lay on
me to reward him, which I would do an hundred-fold: so I first returned
to him the hundred moidores I had received of him; then I sent for a.
notary, and caused him to draw up a general release or discharge for
the four hundred and seventy moidores which he had acknowledged he
owed me, in the fullest and firmest manner possible. After which I
caused a procuration to be drawn, empowering him to be my receiver of
the annual profits of my plantation, and appointing my partner to account
to him. and make the returns by the usual fleets to him in my name;
and a clause in the end, being a grant of one hundred moidores n-ycar to
him during his life, out of the efi'eets, and fifty moidores a year to his son
after him, for his life; and thus I requited my old man.

I was now to consider which way to steer my course next, and what
to do with the estate that Providencehad thus put into my hands; and
indeed, I had more care upon my head now than I had in my silent state
of life in the island, where I wanted nothing but what I had, and had
nothing but what I wanted; whereas I had now a great charge upon me,
and my business was how to secure it. I had never a cave now to hide
my money in, or a place where it might lie without lock or key, till it
grew mouldy and tarnished before any body would meddle with it; on
the contrary, I knew not where to put it, or whom to trust with it. My
old patron, the captain, indeed, was honest, and that was the only refuge
I had.

In the next place, my interest in the Brazils seemed to summon me
thither; but now I could not tell how to think of going thither till I had
settled my affairs, and left my efi'ects in some safe hands behind me. At
first I thought of my old friend the widow, who I knew was honest, and
would be just to me; but then she was in years, and but poor, and, for
ought I knew, might be in debt: so that, in a word, I had no way but.
to go back to England myself, and take my effects with me.

It was some months, however, before I resolved upon this; and,
therefore, as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satisfaction,
who had been my former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor
widow, whose husband had been my first benefactor, and she, while it
was in her power, my faithful steward and instructor. So the 'first thing
I did, I got a merchant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London,
not only to pay a bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in money
a hundred pounds from me, and to talk with her, 'and comfort her in her
poverty, by telling her she should, if I lived, have a further supply: at
the some time I sent my two sisters in the country a hundred pounds
each, they being, though not in want, yet not in very good circumstances
' ----one having been married and left a widow, and the other having a has.
band not so kind to her as he should be. '

But among all my relations or acquaintances, I could not yet pitch
upon one to whom I durst commit the gross of my stock, that I might go
away to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me; and this greatly
perplexed me. .

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have settled my-

. dull
self them--for I was, as it were, naturalized to the place; but I had some
little scrapie in my mind, about religion, which insensibly drew me back.
However, it was not religion that kept me from going thither for the pre-
sent; and as 1 had made. no scruple of being openly of the religion of the
country all the while I was among them, so neither did I yet; only that, "
now and then, having of late thought more of it than formerly, when I
begin to think of living and dying among them, I began to regret my
having professed myself a l'apist, and thought it might not be the best
religion to die in.

But, as 1 have said, this was not the main thing that kept me from
going to the Bmzils, but that really I did not know with whom to leave
my etl'ects behind me: so I resolved, at last, to go to.*Englan(l with them,
where, if I arrived, I concluded I should make some acquaintance, or find
some relations that would be faithful to me; and, accordingly, I prepared
to go to England with all my wealth.

In onler to prepare things for my going home, I first--the Brazil fleet
being just going away--resolved to give answers suitable to the just and
faithful account of things I had from thence; and, first, to the prior of
St. Augustine I wrote a letter fall of thanks for his just dealings, and
the otl'er ol' the eight hundred and seventy-two moidores which were un-
disposed of, which I desired might be given, five hundred to the monas-
tery, and three hundred and seventy-two to the poor, as the prior should
direct; desiring the good padre's prayers for me, and the like.

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees, with all the
acknowledgment that so much justice and honesty called for; as for
sending them any present, they were far above having any occasion of it.

Lastly, I wrote to my partner, acknowledging his industry in the im-
proving the plantation; and his integrity in increasing the stock of the
works; giving him instructions for his future government of my part,
according to the powers I had left with my old patron, to whom I desired
him to send whatever came due to me, till he should hear from me more
particularly; assuring him that it was my intention not only to come to
him, but to settle myself there for the remainder of my life. To this I
added a very handsome present of some Italian silks for his wife and two
daughters, for such the captain's son informed me he had; with two
pieces of fine English broad-cloth, the best I could get in Lisbon, five
pieces of black bnizc, and some Flanders lace of a good value.

Having thus settled my afl'oirs, sold my cargo, and turned all my
efl'ccts into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty was, which way to
go to England: I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had
a strange aversion to go to England by sea at that time; and though I
could give no reason for it, yet the difliculty increased upon me so much, _
that, though I had once shipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered
my mind, and that not once, but two or three times.

It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea, and this might be one
of the reasons; but let no man slight the strong impulses of his own
thoughts in cases of such moment: two of the ships which I had singled
out to go in,--I mean more particularly singled out than any other, having
put my things on heard one of them, and, in the other, agreed with
the captain; I say, two of these ships miscarried, viz., one was taken by
the Algerincs, and the other was cast away on the Start, near Torbay,
and all the people drowned except three; so that in either of those vessels
I had been made miserable, and in which most, it was hard to say.

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts, my old pilot, to whom I
communicated every thing, pressed me earnestly not to go by sea, but
either to go by land to the Groyne (Commna), and cross over the Bay of
Biscay to Rochelle, from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by
land to Paris, and so to Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid, and so
all the way by land through France.

In a word, I was so preposeseed against my going by sea at all, except
from Calais to Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way by land:
which, as I was not in haste, and did not value the charge, was by much
the pleasanter way: and to make it more so, my old captain brought an
English gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon, who was willing to
travel with me; afier which we picked up two English merchants
and two young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only;
so that in all there were six of us, and five servants,--the two merchants
and the two Portuguese contenting themselves with one servant between
two, to save the charge. As for me, I got an English sailor to travel with
me as a servant, besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to
be capable of supplying the place of a servant on the road.

In thismanner I set out from Lisbon; and our company being very
well mounted and armed, we made a little troop, whereof they did me the
honour to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as
because I had two servants, and, indeed, was the original of the whole
journey.

[7
As I have troubled you with none of my son journals, so I shall
trouble you now with none of_ my land journals; but some adventures
that happened to us in this tedious and difficult joumoy I must not omit.

When we came to Madrid, wc, being all of us strangers to Spain, Were'
willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain, and to see what was
worth observing,- but it being the latter part of the summer, we hastened
away, and set out from Madrid about the middle of October. But when
we came to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed, at several towns '
on the way, with an account that so much snow was fallen on the French
side of the mountains, that several travellers were obliged to come back
to I'ampeluna, after having attempted, at an extreme hazard, to pass on.

When we came to I'ampcluna itself, we found it so, indeed; and to
me, that had been always used to a hot climate, and to countries where I
could scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable: nor, indeed,
was it more painful than surprising, to come but ten days before out of
Old Castile, where the weather was not only warm, but very hot, and
immediately to feel a wind from the Pyrencan mountains, so very keen,
so severely cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger the bcnumbing and
perishing of our fingers and toes.

I'oor Friday was really fn'ghted when he saw the mountains all
covered with snow, and felt cold weather, which he had never seen or felt
before in his life.

To mend the matter, when we came to I'ampeluna, it continued snow-
ing with so much violence, and so long, that the people said winter was
come before its time; and the roads, which were difficult before, were now
quite impassable: for, in a word, the snow lay in some places too thick
for us to travel, and being not hard frozen, as is the case in the northern
countries, there was no going without being in danger of being buried
alive every step. We staid no less than twenty days at Pampeluna;
when, seeing the winter coming on, and no likelihood of its being better,
for it was the severest winter all over Europe that had been known in
the memory of man, I proposed that we should all go away to Fontarabia,
and there take shipping for Bourdeaux, which. was a very little voyage.

But while we were considering this, there came in four French gen-
tlemen, who having been stopped on the French side of the passes, as we
were on the Spanish, had found out a guide, who, traversing the country
near the head of Langucdoc, had brought them over the mountains by
such ways that they were not much incommoded with the snow, and,
when they met with snow in any quantity, they said it was frozen hard
enough to bear them and their horses.

We sent for this guide, who told us he would undertake to carry us
the same way with no hazard from the snow, provided we were armed
sufficiently to protect ourselves from wild beasts; for, he said, upon these
great snows it was frequent for some wolves to show themselves at the
foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for want of food, the ground
being covered with snow. We told him we were well enough prepared
for such creatures as they were, if he would insure us from a kind of two.
legged wolves, which, we were told, we were in most danger from,

especially on the French side of the mountains.

He satisfied us there was no danger of that kind in the way that we
were to go; so we readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve
other gentlemen, with their servants, some French, some Spanish, who,
as I said, had attempted to go, and were obliged to come back again.

Accordingly, We all set out from I'ampeluna, with our guide, on the
15th of November; and, indeed, I was surprised, when, instead of going
forward, he came directly back with us on the same road that we came
from Madrid, above twenty miles, when having passed two rivers, and
come into the plain country, we found ourselves in a warm climate again,
where the country was pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden
turning to his left, he approached the mountains another way, and though
it is true the hills and preeipiees looked dreadful, yet he made so many
tours, such meanders, and led us by such winding ways, we insensibly
passed the height of the mountains without being much ineumbered with
the snow; and all on a sudden he showed us the pleasant fmitfizl pro--
vinces of Languedoc and Gascoigne, all green and flourishing, though,
indeed, at a great distance, and we had some rough way to pass yet.

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one
whole day and a night so fast that we could not travel; but he bade us
be easy, we should soon be past it all. We found, indeed, that we began
to descend every day, and to come more north than before; and so,
depending upon our guide, we went on.

It was about two hours before night, when, our guide being something
before us and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and
after them a bear, out of a hollow way adjoining to a thick wood. Two
of the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he been half-a-mile before us,
he had been devoured, indeed, before we could have helped him: one of
them fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with that
violence, that he had not time, or not presence of mind enough, to draw
his pistol, but hallooed and cried out to us most lustily. My man Friday
being next me, I bade him ride up, and see what was the matter. As
soon as Friday came in sight of the man, he halloood out as loud as the
other, "0 master! 0 master!" but, like a bold fellow, rode up directly
to the man, and with his pistol shot the wolf that attacked him in the
head.

It was happy for the poor man that it was my man Friday; for he,
having been used to such creatures in his country, had no fear upon him,
but went close up to him, and shot him, as above : whereas, any other of
us would have fired at a greater distance, and have perhaps either missed
the wolf, or endangered shooting the man.

But it was enough to have terrified a holder man than I, and, indeed,
it alarmed all our company, when, with the noise of Friday's pistol, we
heard on both sides the dis-molest howlings of wolves, and the noise re-
doublod by the echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if there had
been a prodigious multitude of them; and, perhaps, indeed, there was not
such a few as that we had no cause of apprehension.

However, as Friday had killed this well, the other that had fastened
upon the horse left him immediately, and fled, having happily fastened
upon his head, where the bosses of the bridle stuck in his teeth, so that
he had not done him lrueh hurt: the man, indeed, was most hurt, for
the raging creature had hit him twice, once on the arm, and the other
time a little above his knee, and he was just as it were tumbling down by
the disorder of the horse, when Friday came up and shot the wolf.

It is easy to suppose that, at the noise of Friday's pistol, we all
mended our pace, and rode up as fast as the way, which was very dim-
cult, would give us low 0, to see what was the matter. As soon as we
came clear of the trees, which blinded us before, we saw clearly what had
been the case, and how Friday had disengaged the poor guide, though we
did not presently discern what kind of creature it was he had killed.

But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a surprising
manner, as that which followed between Friday and the bear, which gave
us all (though at first we were surprised and afraid for him) the greatest
airersion imaginahle. As the bear is a heavy, clumsyr creature, and does
not gallop as the wolf does, which is swift and light, so he has two parti-
cular qualities which generally are the rule of his actions: first, as tomen, who are not his proper prey--I say not his proper prey, because,
though I can't say what excessive hunger might do, which was now their
case, the ground being all covered with snow, yet as to men, he does not
usuuliy attempt them, unless they first attack him; on the cortmry, if
you meet him in the woods, if you don't meddle with him, he won't
meddle with you: but then you must take care tobe very civil to him,
and give him the road, for he is a very nice gentleman; he won't go a
step out of his way for a prince--nay, if you are really afraid, your best
way is to look another way, and keep going on, for sometimes, if you
stop and stand still, and look steadfastly at him, he takes it for an affront,
and if you throw or toss anything at him, and it hits him though it were
but a bit of stick as big as your finger, he takes it for an affront, and sets
all other business aside to pursue his revenge, for he will have satisfaction
in point of honour, and this is his first quality: the next is, that if he
he once afl'ronted, he will never leave you, night nor day, till he has his
revenge, but follow at a good round rate till he overtakes you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to

him, he was helping him off his horse, for the man was both hurt and
frighted--and, indeed, the last more than the first--when, on a sudden,

wc espied the bear come out of the wood, and a vast monstrous one it
was, the biggest by far that ever I saw. We were all a little surprised
when we saw him; but when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and
courage in the fellow's countenance. "0! 0! 0!" says Friday, three
times, pointing to him; "0 master! you give me to leave, me shakec te
hand with him; me makes you good laugh."

I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. "You fool," says I,
"he will eat you up." "Eatee me up! eatec me up!" says Friday,
twice over again; "me catce him up; me makec you good laugh. You
all stay here, me show you good laugh." So down he sits, and gets
his boots 011' in a moment, and put on a pair of pumps (as we call the
flat shoes they wear), which he had in his pocket, gich my other servant
his horse, and with his gun away he flew, swift like the wind.

The hear was walking softly on, and offered to meddle with nobody,
till Friday, coming pretty near, calls to him as if the bear could under-
stand him, "Hark ye, hark ye," says Friday, "me speakee wit you."

We followed at a distance, for now being come down on the Gascoigne
side of the mountains, we were entered a vast great forest, where the
country was plain and pretty open, though many trees in it scattered here
and there.

Friday, who had, as we say, the heels of the bear, came up with him
quickly, and takes up a great stone and throws at him, and hit him just
on the head, but did him no more harm than if he had thrown it against
a wall; but it answered Friday's end, for the rogue was so void of fear
that he did it purely to make the bear follow him, and show us some
laugh, as he called it. As soon as the bear felt the stone, and saw him,
he turns about, and comes after him, taking devilish long strides, and
shuffling along at a strange rate, so as would put a horse to a middling
gallop: away runs Friday, and takes his course as if he ran towards us
for help; so we all resolved to fire at once upon the bear, and deliver my
man--though I was angry at him heartily for bringing the bear back
upon us, when he was going about his own business another way; and
especially I was angry that he had turned the bear upon us, and then run
away, and I called out, " You dog, is this your making us laugh? Come
away, and take your horse, that we may shoot the creature." He hears
me, and cries out, "No shoot, no shoot; stand still, and you get much
laug ," and as the nimble creature ran two feet for the beast's one, he
turned on a sudden on one side of us, and seeing a great oak tree fit for
his purpose, he beckoned us to follow, and, doubling his pace, he gets
nimbly up the tree, laying his gun down upon the ground at about five
or six yards from the bottom of the tree.

The bear soon came to the tree, and we followed at a. distance: the
first thing he did, he stopped at the gun, smelt to it, but let it lie, and up
he scrambles into the tree, climbing like a cat, though so monstrously
heavy. I was amazed at the folly, as I thought it, of my man, and could
not for my life see any thing to laugh at yet, till, seeing the bear get up
the tree, we all rode nearer to him.

When we came to the tree, there was Friday got out to the small of a
large limb of the tree, and the bear got about half way to him. As soon
as the bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was weaker,
"Ha!" says he to us, "now you see me teaches the bear dance ;" so he
falls a jumping and shaking the bough, at which the bear began to totter,
but stood still, and began to look behind him, to see how he should get
back; then, indeed, we did laugh heartily. But Friday had not done
with him by a great deal: when he sees him stand still, he calls outto
him again, as if he had supposed the bear could speak English, "What,
you come no farther? pray you come farther ;" so he left jumping and
shaking the bough, and the bear, just as if he had understood what he
said, did come a little farther; then he fell a jumping again, and the bear
stopped again. ' ' '

We thought now was a good time to knock him on the head, and
called to Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear ; but he cried
out earnestly, " 0 pray! 0 pray! no shoot, me shoot by and then ;"--he
would have said, by and by. However, to shorten the story, Friday
danced so much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing
enough indeed, but still could not imagine what the fellow would do; for
first we thought he depended upon shaking the bear off, and we found the
hear was too cunning for that too, for he would not go out far enough to
be thrown down, but clings fast with his great broad claws and feet, so
that we could not imagine what would be the end of it, and where the
jest would be at last.

But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for, seeing the bear cling
fast to the bough, and that he would not be persuaded to come any
farther, "Well, well," says Friday, "you no come farther, me go, me
go; you no come to me, me come to you," and upon this, he goes out to
the smallest end of the bough, where it would bend with his weight, and
gently lets himself down by it, sliding down the bough, till he came near
enough to jump down on his feet, and away he runs to his gun, takes it
up, and stands still. -

"Well," said I to him, "Friday, what will you do now? Why
don't you shoot him '1'" "No shoot," says Friday, "no yet; me shoot
now me no kill; me stay, give you one more laug ." And, indeed, so he
did, as you will see presently: for when the bear saw his enemy gone, he
comes back from the bough where he stood, but did it mighty leisurely,
looking behind him at every step, and coming backward till he got into
the body of the tree; then, with the same hinder end foremost, he came
down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and moving one foot at a time,
very leisurely. At this juncture, and just before he could set his hind
feet on the ground, Friday stepped up close to him, clapped the muzzle
of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead as a stone.

Then the rogue turned about, to see if we did not laugh; and when
he saw we were pleased, by our looks, he falls a laughing himself very
loud. "So we kill bear in my country," says Friday. "So you kill
them ?" says I; "why you have no guns." "No," says he, "no gun1
but shoot great much long arrow."

This was a good diversion to us; but we were still in a wild place,
and our guide very much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew: the
howling of wolves run much in my head; and, indeed, except the
noise I once heard on the shore of Africa, of which I have said some-
thing already, I never heard any thing that filled me with so much
horror.

These things, and the approach of night, called us off, or else, as
Friday would have had us, we should certainly have taken the skin of this
monstrous creature off, which was worth saving; but we had near three
leagues to go, and our guide hastened us, so we left him, and went forward
on our journey.

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep and
dangerous as on the mountains; and the ravenous creatures, as we heard
afterwards, were come down into the forest and plain country, pressed by
hunger, to seek for food, and had done a great deal of mischief in the
villages, where they surprised the country people, killed a great many of
their sheep and horses and some people too.

We had one dangerous place to pass, of which our guide told us, if
there were more wolves in the country we should find them there; and
this was a small plain, surrounded with woods on every side, and a long
narrow defile, or lane, which we were to pass to get through the wood,
and then we should come to the village where we were to lodge.

It was within half an hour of sunset when we entered the first wood,
and a little after sunset when we came into the plain. We met with
nothing in the first wood, except that, in the little plain within the wood
which was not above two furlongs over, we saw five great wolves cross
the road, full speed, one after another, as if they had been in chase of
some prey, and had it in view; they took no notice of us, and were gone
out of sight in a few moments.

Upon this our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-hearted fellow,
bid us keep "in a ready posture, for he believed there were more wolves
a-coming.

We kept our arms ready, and our eyes about us; but we saw no
more wolves till we came through that wood, which was near half a
league, and entered the plain. As soon as we came into the plain, we had
occasion enough to look about us: the first object we met with was a
dead horse, that is to say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed, and
at least a dozen of them at work,--we could not say eating of him, but
picking of his bones rather, for they had eaten up all the flesh before. '

We did not think fit to disturb them at their feast; neither did they
take much notice of us; Friday would have let fly at them, but I would
not suffer him by any means; for I found we were like to have more
business upon our hands than we were aware of. We were not gone half
over the plain, when we began to hear the wol'ves howl on our left in a
frightful manner, and presently after we saw about a hundred coming on
directly towards us, all in a body, and most of them in a line, as regularly
as an army drawn up by an experienced officer. I scarce knew in what
manner to receive them, but found to draw ourselves in a close line was
the only way: so we formed in a moment. But that we might not have
too much interval, I ordered that only every other man should fire, and
that the others who had not fired should stand ready to give them a second
volley immediately, if they continued to advance upon us; and then, that
these who had fired at first should not pretend to lead their fusils again,
but stand ready every one with a pistol, for we were all armed with a fusil
and a pair of pistols each man; so we were by this method able to fire
six volleys, half of us at a time. However, at present we had no neces-
sity; for upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full stop, being
terrified as well with the noise as with the fire; four of them, being shot
in the head, dropped; several others were wounded, and went bleeding
off, as we could see by the snow. I found they stopped, but did not
immediately retreat; whereupon, remembering that I had been told that
the fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all our
company to halloo as load as they could: and I found the notion was not
altogether mistaken; for, upon our shout, they began to retire, and turn
about. I then ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear, which put
them to the gallop, and away they went to the woods. '

This gave us leisure to charge our pieces again; and that we might
lose no time, we kept going: but we had but little more than loaded our
fusils, and put ourselves in readiness, when we heard a terrible noise in
the same wood, on our left, only that it was further onward, the same way
we were to go.

The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky, which
made it worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we could easily
perceive that it was the howling and yelling of those hellish creatures;
and on a sudden, we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one on our
left, one behind us, and one in our front, so that we seemed to be sur-
rounded with them: however, as they did not fell upon us, we kept our
way forward, as fast as we could make our horses go, which, the way
being very rough, was only a good hard trot. In this manner we came in
view of the entrance of the wood, through which we were to pass, at the
further side of the plain; but we were greatly surprised, when, coming
nearer the lane or pass, we saw a confused number of wolves standing
just at the entrance.

On a sudden, at another opening of the wood, we heard the noise of a
gun; and, looking that way, out rushed a horse, with a saddle and bridle
on him, flying like the wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him,
full speed; indeed, the horse had the heels of them, but as we supposed
that he could not hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they would get
up with him at last,--and no question but they did.

Here we had a most horrible sight; for riding up to the entrance
where the horse came out, we found the carcass of another horse and of
two men, devoured by the ravenous creatures. One of them was no
doubt the same whom we heard fire a gun, for there lay a gun just by him
fired off; but as to the man, his head and upper part of his body were

eaten up.
This filled us with horror, and we knew not what course to take, but

the creatures resolved as soon, for they gathered about us presently, in
hopes of prey; and I verily believe there were three hundred of them.
It happened very much to our advantage, that, at the entrance into the
wood, but at a little way from it, there lay some large timber trees, which
had been cut down the summer before, and I suppose lay there for carriage.
I drew my little troop in among these trees, and placing ourselves in a. line
behind one long tree, I advised them all to alight, and keeping that tree
before us for a breastworlr, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, enclosing

our horses in the centre.
We did so, find it was well we did; for never was a more furious

charge than the creatures made upon us in this place. They came on
with a growling kind of noise, and mounted the piece of timber, which,
as I said, was our breastwork, as if they were only rushing upon their
prey; and this fury of theirs, it seems, was principally occasioned by their
seeing our horses behind as, which was the prey they aimed at. I
ordered our men to fire as before, every other man; and they took their
aim so sure, that they killed several of the wolves at the first volley: but
there was a necessity to keep a continual firing, for they came on like
devils, those behind pushing on those before.

' When we had fired a second volley of fusils, we thought they stopped
a little, and. I hoped they would have gone ofi'; but it was but a moment,
for others came forward again: so we fired two volleys of pistols; and I

i
believe in these four firings we killed seventeen or eighteen of them, and
lamed twice as many,--yet they came on again.

I was loath to spend our shot too hastily; so I called my servant,-- not
my man Friday, for he was better employed,---for, with the greatest dex-
terity imaginable, he charged my fusil and his own while we were
cngagcd,--but as I said, I called my other man, and, giving him a. horn of
powder, I bade him lay a train all along the piece of timber, and let it be
a large train. He did so; and had just time to get away, when the
wolves came up to it, and some were got upon it, when I, snapping an
uncharged pistol close to the powder, set it on fire, and those that were
upon the timber were scorched with it, and six or seven of them fell, or
rather jumped in among us, with the force and fright of the fire: we
dispatched these in an instant, and the rest were so frighted with the
light, which the night, for it was now very near dark, made more temible,
that they drew back a little. Upon which I ordered our last pistols to be
fired off in one volley, and after that we gave a shout: upon this the
wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon near twenty
lame ones, which we found struggling on the ground, and fell a-cutting
them with our swords, which answered our expectation; for the crying
and howling they made was better understood by their fellows, so that
they all fled and left us.

We had, first and lust, killed about three score of them; and had it
been daylight, we had killed many more. The field of battle being thus
cleared, we made forward again, for we had still near a league to go.
We heard the ravenous creatures howl and yell in the woods, as we went,
several times; and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them, but the
snow dazzling our eyes, we were not certain. So in about an hour more
we came to the town where we were to lodge, which we found in a
terrible fright, and all in arms; for it seems that the night before, the
wolves and some bears had broke into that village, and put them in a
terrible fright, and they were obliged to keep guard night and day,
but especially in the night, to preserve their cattle, and, indeed, their
people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so much
with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no farther; so we
were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Tholouse, where we
found a warm climate, a fruitful pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves,
or any thing like them; but when we told our story at Tholouse, they
told us it was nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest at the
foot of the mountains, especially when the snow lay on the ground; but
they inquired much what kind of a guide we had gotten, that would
venture to bring us that way in such a severe season, and told us it was
very strange We were not all devoured. When we told them how we
placed ourselves, and the horses in the middle, they blamed us exceedingly,
and told us it was fifty to one but we had been all destroyed, for it was
the sight of the horses that made the wolves so furious, seeing their prey,
and that, at other times, they are really afraid of a gun; but they, being
excessive hungry, and raging on that account, the eagerness to come at
the horses had made them senseless of danger,--and if we had not, by the
continued fire, and at last by the stratagem of the train of powder,
mastered them, it had been great odds but that we had been torn to
pieces: whereas, had we been content to have sat still on horseback, and
fired as horsemen, they would not have taken the horses so much for their
own, when men were on their backs, as otherwise: and withsl they told
us, that, at last, if we had stood altogether, and left our horses, they
would have been so eager to have devoured them, that we might have
come ofi' safe, especially having our fire arms in our hands, and being so
many in number.

For my part, I was never so sensible of danger in my life; for seeing
above three hundred devils come rearing and open-mouthed to devour us,
and having nothing to shelter us, or retreat to, I gave myself over for lost;
and, as it was, I believe I shall never care to cross those mountains again:
I think I would much rather go a thousand leagues by see, though I was
sure to meet with a storm once a week.

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through
France, nothing but what other travellers have given an account of, with
much more advantage than I can. I travelled from Tholouse to Paris, and
without any considerable stay came to Calais, and landed safe at Dover,
the 14th of January, after having had a severe cold season to travel in.

I was now come to the centre of my travels, and had in a little time
all my newly discovered estate safe about me; the bills of exchange which
I brought with me having been very currently paid.

My principal guide and privy counsellor was my good ancient widow,
who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her, thought no pains too much,
or care too great, to employ for me; and I trusted her so entirely with
every thing. that I was perfectly easy as to the security of my efl'ects:
and, indeed, I was very happy from the beginning, and now to the end,
in the unspotted integrity of this good gentlewoman.

And now I began to think of leaving my effects with this woman, and
setting out for Lisbon, and so to the Brazils. But now another seruple
came in the way, and that was religion; for as I had entertained some
doubts about the Roman religion, even while I was abroad, especially in
my state of solitude, so I knew there was no going to the Brazils for me,
much less going to settle there, unless I resolved to embrace the Roman
Catholic religion, without any reserve ;--unless, on the other hand, I
resolved to be a sacrifice to my principles, be a martyr for religion, and
die in the Inquisition. So I resolved to stay at home, and, if I could find
means for it, to dispose of my plantation.

To this purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who, in return
gave me notice that he could easily dispose of it there; but that if I
thought fit to give him leave to offer it in my name to the two merchants,
the survivors of my trustees, who lived in the Brazils, who must fully
understand the value of it, who lived just upon the spot, and whom I
knew to be very rich, so that he believed they would be fond of buying it,
he did not doubt but I should make four or five thousand pieces of eight
the more of it.

Accordingly I agreed, gave him orders to offer it to them, and he did
so; and in about eight months more, the ship being then returned, he sent
me an account that they had accepted the ofl'er, and had remitted thirty-
thrce thousand pieces of eight to a correspondent of theirs at Lisbon to
pay for it. In return, I signed the instrument of sale in the form which
they sent from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man, who sent me the bills
of exchange for thirty-three thousand pieces of eight for the estate;
reserving the payment of one hundred moidores a-year to him (the old
man) during his life, and fifty moidores afterwards to his son for his life,
which I had promised them, and which the plantation was to make good
as a rent-charge.

And thus I have given the first part of a life of fortune and adven-
ture, a life of Providence's chequer-work, and of a variety which the
world will seldom be able to show the like of: beginning foolishly, but
closing much more happily than any part of it ever gave me leave so
much as to hope for. I

Any one would think, that in this state of complicated good fortune, 1
was past running any more hazards, and so indeed I had been, if othernonrxeox censor" 271

circumstances liml cont-aired: but I was inurud to a Wandering life, haul
no family, nor many relations, nor, however n'eh, had I contracted much
acquaintance; and though I had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I
could not keep that country out of my head, and had a great mind to be
upon the wing again: especially I could not resist the strong inclination
I had to see my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were in being
there; and how the rogues I left there had used them.

My true friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded me from it, and so far
prevailed with me, that almost for seven years she prevented my running
abroad, during which time I took my two nephews, the children of one of
my brothers, into my care: the eldest having something of his own, I
bred up as a gentlemen, and gave him a settlement of some addition to his
estate, after my decease; the other I put out to a captain of a ship: and
after five years, finding him a sensible, bold, enterprising young fellow, I
put him into a good. ship, and sent him to sea; and this young fellow
afterwards drew me in, as old as I was, to farther adventure-s myself.

In the meantime, I in part settled myself here; for, first of all, I
married, and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction,----and
had three children, two sons and one daughter.
C1 Lion's reflections in England--lie dreams of his island, and conceives a desire a: return to it,
which his wife discovers--Resolves lo divert his thoughts, and begins farming in Bedfordsblre--
0n the death of his wife, he determines to re-visit his island, and sets sail in an Indiaman, which
is to tuueh at the Hmzilu--Thc vessel is driven by contrary winds on to the coast of Gnlwny.
which leads to new adventures--Falls in with a French merchant vent-l on are, and delivers the
crew, who are can-led to Newruundland--Steers thence for the West Indiumnd falls in with a
Bristol ship, the crew and passengers of which are famlshlng.

HAT homely proverb used on so many occasions in England,
riz. "That what is bred in the bone will not go out of the
flesh," was never more verified than in the story of my life.
Any one would think that, after thirty-five years' aflliction,

and a variety of unhappy circumstances, which {cw men, if any, ever
went through before, and after near seven years of peace and enjoyment in
the fulness of all things, grown old, and when, if ever, it might be allowed
me to have had experience of every state of middle life, and to know
which was most adapted to make a man completely happy,----I say, after
all this, any one would have thought that the native propensity to
rambling, which I gave an account of in my first setting out in the world
to have been so predominant in my thoughts, should be worn out, the
volatile part be fully evacuated, or at least condensed, and I might, at
sixty-one years of age, have been a little inclined to stay at home, and
have done venturing life and fortune any more.

Nay, further, the common motive of foreign adventures was taken
away in me; for I had no fortune to make--I had nothing to seek: if I
had gained ten thousand pounds, I had been no richer, for I had already
sufficient for me, and for those I had to leave it to; and that I had was
visibly increasing, for, having no great family, I could not spend the
income of what I had, unless I would set up for an expensive way of
living, such as a great family, servants, equipage, gaiety, and the like,
which were things I had no notion of, or inclination to: so that I had
nothing indeed to do but to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had got, and
see it increase daily upon my hands.

Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least not enough to
resist the strong inclination I had to go abroad again, which hung about me
like a chronical distemper; particularly the desire of seeing my new plan-
tation in the island, and the colony I left there, ran in my head continu-
ally. I dreamed of it all night, and my imagination ran upon it all day:
it was uppermost in all my thoughts, and my fancy worked so steadily and
strongly upon it, that I talked of it in my sleep. In short, nothing could
remove it out of my mind: it even broke so violently into all my dis-
courses, that it made my conversation tiresome, for I could talk of nothing
else; all my discourse ran into it, even to impertinenec, and I saw it
myself.

I have often heard persons of good judgment say, that all the stir people
make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is owing to the strength
of imagination, and the powerful operation of fancy in their minds,--that
there is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a ghost walking, and the
like: that people's poring afiectionately upon the past conversation of
their deceased friends, so realizes it to them, that they are capable of
fancying, upon some extraordinary circumstance, that they see them,
talk to them, and are answered by them, when, in truth, there is nothing
but shadow and vapour in the thing, and they really know nothing of the
matter.

For my part, I know not to this hour whether there are any such
things as real apparitions, spectres, or walking of people after they are
dead; or whether there is anything in the stories they tell us of that
kind, more than the product of vapours, sick minds, and wondering fancies:
but this I know, that my imagination worked up to such a height, and
brought me-into such excess of vapours, or what else I may call it, that 1
actually supposed myself often times upon the spot, at my old castle behind
the .treeHaw my old Spaniard, Friday's father, and the-reprobste sailors
Ileft upon the island--nay, I fancied I talked with them, and looked at
them so steadily, though I was broad awake, as'at persons just before me;
and this I did till I ofien frighted myself with the images my fancy
represented to me. One time, in my sleep, I had the villany of the three
pirate sailors so lively related to me by the first 81mm and Friday's
father, that it was surprising: they told me how they barbarously
attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and that they set fire to the pro-

18
visions they had laid up, on purpose to distress and starve them,--things
that I had never heard of, and that were yet all of them true in fact.
But it was so warm' in my imagination, and so realised to me, that, to the
hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it was so, or would be,
true: also how I resented it, when the Spaniard complained to me; and
how I brought them to justice, tried them before me, and ordered them all
three to be hanged. What there was really in this shall be seen in its
place; for however I came to form such things in my dream, and what
secret converse of spirits injected it, yet there was, I say, very much of it
true. I own, that this dream had nothing literally and specifically true;
but the general part was so true, the base and villanous behaviour of these
three hardened rogues was such, and had been so much worse than all I
can describe, that the dream had too much similitude of the fact; and as I
would afterwards have punished them severely, so, if--I had hanged them
all, I had been much in the right, and should have been justifiable both
by the laws of God and man.

But to return to my story. In this kind of temper I lived some years;
I had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion,
but what had something or other of this in it; so that my wife, who
saw my mind so wholly bent upon it, told me very seriously one night, that
she believed there was some secret powerful impulse of Providence upon
me, which had determined me to go thither again; and that she found
nothing hindered my going, but my being engaged to a wife and children.
She told me, that it was true she could not think of parting with me; but
as she was assured, that if she was dead it would be the first thing I
would do, so, as it seemed to her that the thing was determined above,
she would not be the only obstruction; for, if I thought fit, and resolved
to go-- Here she found me very intent upon her words, and that I
looked very earnestly at her, so that it a. little disordered her, and she
stopped. I asked her, why she did not go on, and say out what she was
going to say? But I perceived that her heart was too full, and some
tears stood in her eyes. " Speak out, my dear," said I, " are you willing
I should go i" "No," says she, very afl'ectionately, "I am far from
willing; but if you are resolved to go," says she, "and rather than I
would be the only hinderance, I will go with you: for though I think
it a preposterous thing for one of your years, and in your condition,
yet, if it must be," said she, again weeping, "I won't leave you; for if
it be of Heaven, you must do it; there is no resisting it: and if HeavenROBINSON cnuson. 275 _

makes it your duty to go, He will make it also mine to go with you, or
otherwise dispose of me, that I may not obstruct it."

This affectionate behaviour of my wife brought me a little out of the
vapours, and I began to consider what I was doing: I corrected my wan-
dering fancy, and began to argue with myself sedately what business I
had, after threescore years, and after such a life of tedious sufi'erings and
disasters, and closed in so happy and easy a manner,--I say, what business
had I to rush into new hazards, and put myself upon adventures fit only
for youth and poverty to run into?

With those thoughts, I considered my new engagement--that I had a.
Wife, one child born, and my wife then great with child of another--that
I had all the world could give me, and had no need to seek hazards for gain
--that I was declining in years, and ought to think rather of leaving what
I had gained than of seeking to increase it--that, as to what my wife had
said, of its being a secret impulse from Heaven, and that it should be my
duty to go, I had no notion of that: so, after many of these cogitations, I
struggled with the power of my imagination, reasoned myself out of it, as
I believe people may always do in like cases, if they will; and, in a
word, I conquered it; composed myself with such arguments as occurred
to my thoughts, and which my present condition furnished me' plentifully
with; and, particularly, as the most efl'cetual method, I resolved to divert
myself with other things, and to engage in some business that might
effectually tie me up from any more excursions of this kind; for I found
the thing return 'upon me chiefly when I was idle, had nothing to do, or
any thing of moment immediately before me

To this purpose I bought a little farm in the county of Bedford,
and resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little convenient house
upon it, and the land about it I found was capable of great improve-
ment, and that it was in many ways suited to my inclination, which de-
lighted in cultivating, managing, planting, and improving of land;
and, particularly, being an inland county, I was removed from con-
versing among ships, sailors, and things relating to the remote part of
the world.

In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought me
ploughs,harrows, a cart, waggon, horses, cows, sheep, and setting seri--
ously to work, became in one half year a mere country gentleman. My
thoughts were entirely taken up in managing my servants, cultivating the

' ground,- enelosing, planting, etc.; and I lived, as I thought, the most
agreeable life that nature was capable of directing, or that a man always
bred to misfortunes was capable of being retreated to.

I farmed upon my own land--I had no rent to pay--was limited by
no articles--I could pull up or cut down as I pleased--what I planted
was for myself, and what I improved was for my family; and, having
thus left off the thoughts of wandering, I had not the least discomfort in
any part of my life, as to this world. Now, I thought, indeed, that I
enjoyed the middle state of life, which my father so earnestly recom-
mended to me--a kind of heavenly life, something like what is described
by the poet upon the subject of a country life :--

"Free from vices, free from care,
Age has no pains, and youth no snare."

But in the middle of all this felicity, one blow-five: unforeseen Prod
dence unhinged me at once, and not only made a breach upon me, inevit-
able and incurable, but drove me, by its consequence, upon a deep relapse
into the wandering disposition, which, as I may say, being born in my
very blood, soon recovered its hold of me, and, like the returns of a
violent distemper, came on with an irresistible force upon me, so that
nothing could make any more impression upon me. This blow was the
loss of my wife.

It is not my business here to write an elegy upon my wife, to give a
character of her particular virtues, and make my court to the sex by the
flattery of a funeral sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay of all my
affairs, the centre of all my enterprises, the engine that, by her prudence,
reduced me to that happy compass I was in, from the most extravagant
and ruinous project that fluttered in my head, as above, and did more to
guide my rambling genius than a mother's tears, a father's instructions, a
friend's counsel, or all my own reasoning powers, could do. I was happy
in listening to her tears, and in being moved by her entreatics, and, to
the last degree, desolate and dislocated in the world, by the loss of her.

When she was gone, the world looked awkwardly round me; I was
as much a stranger in it in my thoughts as I was in the Brazils when I
went first on shore, and as much alone, except as to the assistance of ser-
vants, as I was in my island. I knew neither what to do, nor what not to i
do; I saw the world busy round me, one part labouring for bread, and
the other'part squandering in vile excesses, or empty pleasures equally
miserable, because the end they proposed still fled from them; for the
men of pleasure only day surfeited of their vice, and heaped up work for
sorrow and repentance, and the men of labour spent their strength'in
daily sh'ugglings for bread to maintain the vital strength they laboured
with; so living in a daily circulation of sorrow--living but to work, and
working but to live, as if daily bread were the only end of n. wearisome
life, and a wearisome life the only occasion of daily bread.

This put me in mind of the life I lived in my kingdom, the island,
where I sufi'ercd no more com to grow, because I did not want it, and
bred no more goats, because I had no more use for them--where the
money lay in the drawer fill it grew mildcwed, and had scarce the favour
to be looked upon in twenty years.

All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have done, and
as reason and religion had dictated to me, would have taught me to search
farther than human enjoyments for a full felicity, and that there szs
something which certainly was the reason and end of life, superior to all
these things, and which was either to be possessed, or, at least, hoped for,
on this side of the grave.

But my sage counsellor was gone; I was like a ship without a. pilot,
that could only run before the wind; my thoughts ran all away again
into the old affair--my head was quite turned with the whimsies of
foreign adventures; and all the pleasing innocent amusements of my farm
and my garden, my cattle and my fmnily, which before entirely possessed
me, were nothing to me,---hnd no relish, and were like music to one that
has no car, or food to one that has no taste: in a word, I resolved to
leave ofi' housekeeping, let my farm, and return to London; and in a few
months after I did so.

When I come to London, I was still as uneasy as before; I had no
relish to the place, no employment in it, nothing to do but to saunter
about like an idle person, of whom it may be said, he is perfectly useless
in God's creation, and it is not one farthing matter to the rest of his kind
whether he be dead or alive. This also was the thing which, of all cir-
cumstances of life, was the most my aversion, who had been all my days
used to an active life; and I would often say to myself, "A state of idle-
ness is the very dregs of life :" and, indeed, I thought I was much more
suitably employed, when I was twenty-six days making me a deal board.

It was now the beginning of the year 1693, when my nephew, whom,
as I observed before, I had brought up to theses, and had made him
commando] of a ship, was come home from a 'short voyage to Billion,
being the first he had made. 110 came to me, and told me, that some
merchants of his acquaintance had been proposing to him to go a. voyage
for than to the East ladies and to China, as private t1 :ders. "And now,
uncle," says he, "if you will go to sea with me, I'll engage to land
you upon your old habitation in the island, for we are to touch at the
Brazils."

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state, and of the
existence of an invisible world, than the concurrence of second causes
with the ideas of things which we form in our minds, perfectly reserved,
and not communicated to any in the world.

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering was
returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in his thoughts to
say, when that very morning, before he oame'to me, I had, in a great
deal of confusion of thought, and revolving every part of my circum-
stances in my minl, come to this resolution, namely, that I would go to
Lisbon, and consult with my old sea-captain; and so, if it was rational
and practicable, I would go and see the island again, and see what was
become of my people there. I had pleased myself also with the thoughts
of peopling the place, and carrying inhabitants from hence, getting a
patent for the possession, and I knew not what; when in the middle of
all this in comes my nephew, as I have said, with his project of carrying
me thithcr, in his way to the East Indies.

I paused a while at his words, and, looking steadily at him, "What
devil," said I, "sent you on this unlucky errand?" My nephew started, as
if he had been frighted, at first; but perceiving I was not much displeased
with the proposal, he recovered himself. "I hope it may not be an
unlucky proposal, sir," says he; " I dare say you would be pleased to see
your new colony there, where you once reigned with more felicity than
most of your brother monarchs in the world."

In a word, the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to say,
with the preposscssion I was under, and of which I have said so much,
that I told him in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants, I would
go with him; but I told him I would not promise to go any farther than
my own island. "Why, sir," says he, "you don't want to be left there
again, I hope?" "Why," said I, "can you not take me up again in
your return ?" He told me, it could not be possible that the merchants
would allow him to come that way with a loaden ship of such value, it
being a month's sail out of his way, and might be three or four: " besides,
sir,- if I should ndscarry," said he, " and not return at all, then you would
be just reduced to the condition you were in before."

This was very rational: but we both found out a remedy for it, which
was, to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which, being taken in
pieces and shipped on board the ship, might, by the help of some car~
pcntcrs, whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up again in the island
and finished, fit to go to sea in a few days.

I was not long resolving; for indeed the importuuities of my nephew
joined in so effectually with my inclination, that nothing could oppose me;
on the other hand, my wife being dead, I had no body concerned them-
selves so much for me as to persuade me one way Or other, except my
ancient good friend, the widow, who earnestly struggled with me to con-
sider my years, my easy circumstances, and the needles hazard of along
voyage, and, above all, my young children: but it was all to no purpose;
I had an irresistible desire to the voyage, and I told her I thought there
was something so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind for
the voyage, that it would be a kind of resisting Providence if I should
attempt to stay at home; after which she ceased her expostulations, and
joined with me, not only in making provision for my voyage, but also in
settling my family affairs in my absence, and providing for the education
of my children.

In order to this I made my will, and settled the estate I had in such
a manner for my children, and placed in such hands, that I was per-
fectly easy and satisfied they would have justice done them, whatever
might befal me; and for their education, I left it wholly to my widow,
with a sufiieieut maintenance to herself for her care; all which she richly
deserved, for no mother could have taken more care in their education, or
understood it better: and as she lived till I came home, I also lived to
thank her for it. '

My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January 1694-5,
and I, with my man Friday, went on board in the Downs the 8th, having,
besides that sloop which I mentioned above, a very considerable cargo of
all kinds of necessary things for my colony, which, if I did not find in
good condition, I resolved to leave so.

First, I carried with me some servants, whom I purposed to place
there as inhabitants, or at least to set on work there upon my own account
while I staid, and either to leave them there or carry them forward, as
they should appear willing; particularly, I carried two carpenters, and a
smith, and a very handy, ingenious fellow, who was a cooper by trade,
but was also a general mechanic ; for he was dextcrous at making wheels
and hand-mills to grind corn, was a good tumor, and a good pot-maker;
he also made any thing that was proper to make of earth or of wood: in
a word, we called him our "Jaek-of-all-trades."

With these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go passenger
to the East Indies with my nephew, but, afterwards consented to stay on
our new plantation, and proved a. most necessary handy fellow as could b ~
desired, in many other businesses besides that of his trade; for, Is I
observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employments.

My cargo, as near as 1 can recollect, for I have not kept an account of
the particulars, conszsted of a sufficient quantity of linen, and some thin
English studs for clothing the Spaniards that I expected to find there, and
enough of them as, by my calculation, might comfortably supply them for
seven years. If I remember right, the materials which I carried for
clothing them, with gloves, hats, shoes, stockings, and all such things as
they could want for wearing, amounted to above two hundred pounds,
including some beds, bedding, and household stuff, partieularly kitchen
utensils, with pets, kettles, pewter, brass, etc, besides near a hundred
pounds more in ironwork, nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges,
and every necessary thing I could think of.

I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusils, besides some
pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, three or four tons of
lead, and two pieces of brass cannon ; and because I knew not what time
and what extremities I was providing for, I carried a hundred barrels of
powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and
halberts ; so that, in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores;
and I made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns more than he
wanted for'his ship, to leave behind if there was oecasion,--thut when
they came there we might build a fort, and man it against all sorts of
enemies; and indeed I at first thought that there would be need enough
of it all, and much more, if we hoped to maintain our possession of the
island, as shall be seen in the course of the story.

I had not such bad luck in this voyage as I had been used to meet
with: and therefore shall have the less occasion to interrupt the reader,
who, perhaps, may be impatient to hear how matters went with my colony;
yet some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad weather happened on this
first setting out, which made the voyage longer than I expected it at first;
and I, who had never made but one voyage, namely, my first voyage to
Guinea, in which I might be said to come back again as the voyage was
first designed, began to think the same ill fate still attended me,--that I
was born never to be contented with being on shore, and yet to he always

unfortunate at sea.

 

Contrary winds first pnt us to the northward, and we were obliged to
put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound two and thirty
days; but we had this satisfaction with the disaster, that provisions were
here exceedingly cheap, and in the utmost plenty; so that while we lay
here we never touched the ship's stores, but rather added to them. Here
also I took several hogs, and two cows with their calves, which I resolved,
if 1 had a, good passage, to put on shore in my island, but we found occa-
sion to dispose otherwise of them.

We set out on the 5th of Febmary from Ireland, and had a very fair
gale of wind for some days; as I remember, it might be about the 20th
of February, in the evening late, when the mate having the watch, came
into the round house, and told us he saw a flash of fire, and heard a gun
fired; and while he was telling us of it, a boy came in, and told us the
boatswain heard another. This made us all run out upon the quarter-
dcek, Where for a while we heard nothing, but in a few minutes we saw a
very great light, and found that there was some very terrible fire at a dis-
tance. Immediately we had recourse to our reckonings, in which we all
agreed that there could be no land that way in which the fire showed
itself--no, not for five hundred leagues, for it appeared at west-north-wcst.
Upon this we concluded it must be some ship on fire at sea; and, as by
our hearing the noise of the guns just before we concluded it could not be
far off, we stood directly towards it, and were presently satisfied we should
discover it, because the farther we sailed the greater the light appeared,
though the weather being hazy, we could not perceive any thing but the
light for a while. In about half an hour's sailing, the wind being fair for
us, though not much of it, and the weather clearing up a little, we could
plainly discern it was a great ship on fire in the middle of the sea.

I was most sensibly touched w'Qh this disaster, though not at all no-
quainted with the persons engaged in it; I presently recollected my
former circumstances, in what condition I was in when taken up by the
Portuguese captain; and how much more deplorable the circumstances of
the poor creatures belonging to this ship must be if they had no other
ship in company with them: upon this, I immediately ordered: that five
guns should be fired, one soon after another, that, if possible, we might
give notice to them that there was help for them at hand, and that they
might endeavour to save themselves in their boat; for though we could
see the flame in the ship, yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.

We lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship
drove, waiting for daylight; when on a sudden, to our great terror, though
we had reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the air, and immediately
sunk. This was terrible, and indeed an afiiicting sight, for the sake of
the poor men, who, I concluded, must be either all destroyed in the ship,
or be in the utmost distress in their boats in the middle of the ocean,
which at present, by reason it was dark, I could not see: however, to
direct them as well as I could, I caused lights to be hung out in all the
parts of the ship where we could, and which we had lanterns for, and kept
firing guns all the night long: letting them know by this, that there was
a ship not far of.

About eight o'clock in the morning we discovered the ship's boats by
the help of our perspective glasses; and found there were two of them,
both thronged with people, and deep in the water: we perceived they
rowed, the wind being against them--that they saw our ship, and did the
utmost to make us see them.
We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw them,
and hung a wait out, as a signal for them to come on board: and then
made more sail, standing directly to them. In a little more than half an
hour we came up with them, and, in a word, took them all in, being no
less than sixty-four men, women, and children; for there were a great
many passengers.

Upon the whole, we found it was a French merchant ship, of three
hundred tons, homeward bound from Quebec, in the river of Canada.
The master gave us along account of the distress of his ship, how the fire
began in the steerage by the negligence of the steersman; but, on his
crying out for help, was, as every body thought, entirely got out; but
they soon found that some of the sparks of the first fire had gotten into
some part of the ship, so difficult to come at, that they could not effec-
tually quench it; and afterwards getting in between the timbers, and
within the ceiling of the ship, it proceeded into the hold, and mastered all
the skill and all the application they were able to exert.

They had no more to do then but to get into their boats, which, to
their great comfort were pretty large; being their long-boat, and a great
shallop, besides a small skill, which was of no great service to them, other
than to get some fresh water and provisions into her, after they had
secured themselves from the fire. They had indeed small hope of their
lives by getting into these boats at that distance from any land; only, as
they said well, that they were escaped from the fire, and had a possibility .
that some ship might happen to be at sea, and might take them in. They
had sails, ears, and a compass; and were preparing to make the best of
their way to Newfoundland, the wind blowing pretty flair, for' it blew an
easy at south-east-by-east. They had as much provisions and water as,
with sparing it so as to be next door to starving, might support them
about twelve days; in which, if they had no bad weather, and no con-
trary winds, the captain said, he hoped he might get to the banks of
Newfoundland, and might perhaps take some fish to sustain them till they
might go on shore. But there were so many chances against them in all ,
these cases--such as storms to overset and founder them, rains and cold to
benumb and perish their limbs, contrary winds to keep them out and
starve them--that it must have been next to miraculous if they had
escaped '

In the midst of their consultations, every one being hopeless, and
ready to despair, the captain, with tears in his eyes, told me, they were
on a sudden surprised with the joy of hearing a gun fire, and after that
four more; these were the five guns which I caused to,be fired at first
seeing the light: this revived their hearts, and gave them the notice
which, as above, I designed it should, namely, that there was a. ship at
hand for their help.

It was upon the hearing these guns, that they took down their masts
and sails; and the sound coming fiom windward, they resolved to lie by
till morning. Some time after this, hearing no more guns, they fired
three muskets, one a considerable while after another; but these, the
wind being contrary, we never heard.

Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably surprised
with seeing our lights, and hearing our guns, which, as I have said, I
caused to he fired all the rest of the night: this set them to work with
their ears to keep their boats ahead, at least that we might the sooner
come up with them; and at last, to their inexpressiblc joy, they found we
saw them.

It is imp055iblc for me to express the several gestures, the strange
ecstacies, the variety of postures, which these poor delivered people ran
into, to express the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliverance.
Grief and fear are easily described--sighs, tears, groans, and a very few
motions of head and hands make up the sum of its variety: but an
excess of joy, a surprise of joy, has a thousand extravagances in it;
there were some in tears, some raging and tearing themselves, as if they
had been in the greatest agonies of 'sorrow; some stark raving and down-
right lunatic; some run about the ship stamping with their feet, others
wringing their hands; some were dancing, several singing, some laughing,
more crying; many quite dumb, not able to speak a word; others sick
and vomiting, several swooning, and ready to faint; and a few were
crossing themselves and giving God thanks.

I would not wrong them neither--there might be many that were
thankful afterwards; but the passion was too strong for them at first, and
they were not able to master it--they were thrown into ccstacies and a
kind of frenzy, and so there were but a very few who were composed and
serious in their joy.

Perhaps also the case may have some addition to it, from the particu:
lar circumstance of the nation they belonged to--I mean the French,
whose temper is allowed to be more volatile, more passionate, and more.
sprightly, and their spirits more fluid, than of other nations. I am not a
philosopher to determine the cause, but nothing I had ever seen before
came up to it; the ecstacies poor Friday, my trusty savage, was in, when
he found his father in the boat, came the nearest to it; and the surprise
of the master, and his two companions, whom I delivered from the villains
that set them on shore on the island, came a little way towards it; but
nothing was to compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or any where
else in my life. '

It is farther observable, that these extravagance: did not show them-
selves in that different manner I have mentioned, in different persons
only; but all the variety would appear in a short succession of moments,
in one and the same person. A man that we saw this minute dumb, and,
as it were, stupid and confounded, should the next minute be dancing and
hallooing like an antic: and the next moment a-tearing his hair, or
pulling his clothes to pieces, and stamping them under his feet like a
madman; a few minutes after that, we should have him fall into tears,
then sick, then swooning; and had not immediate help been had, would
in a few moments more have been dead: and thus it was, not with one
or two, or ten, or twenty, but with the greatest part of them, and, if I
remember right, our surgeon was obliged to let above thirty of them
blood.

There were two priests among them, one an old man, and the other a
young man; and that which was strangest was, that the oldest man was
the worst.

As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and saw himself safe, he
dropped down stone dead to all appearance--not the least sign of life
could be perceived in him. Our surgeon immediame applied proper
remedies to recover him, and was the only man in the ship that believed
he was not dead; and at length he opened a vein in his arm, having first
chafed and rubbed the part, so as to warm it as much as possible: upon
this, the blood, which only dropped at first, flowed something freely: in
three minutes after, the man opened his eyes; and, about a quarter of an
hour after that, he spoke, grew better, and, in a little time, quite well.
Alter the blood was stopped, he walked about, told us he was perfectly
well, took a dram of cordial which the surgeon gave him, and was, what
we called, come to himself. About a quarter of an hour after this they
came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was bleeding a French
woman that had fainted, and told him the priest was gone stark mad. It
seems he had begun to revolve the change of his circumstances in his
mind, and this put, him into an ecstacy of joy; his spirits whirled about
faster than the vessels could carry them; the blood grew hot and fever-
ish, and the man was as fit for Bedlam as any creature that ever was in
it: the surgeon would not bleed him again in that condition, but gave him
something to doze and put him to sleep, which, after some time, operated
upon him, and he waked next morning perfectly composed and well.

The younger priest behaved himself with great command of his passion,
and was really an example of a serious, well-governed mind. At his first
coming on board the ship, he threw himself flat on his face, prostrating
himself in thankfulaess for his deliverance,--in which I unhappily and
unseasonably disturbed him, really thinking he had been in a swoon : but
he spoke calmly, thanked me, told me he was giving God thanks for his
deliverance, begged me to leave him a few moments, and that, next to his
Maker, he would give me thanks also.

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left him, but
kept others from interrupting him also; he continued in that posture
about three minutes, or a little more, after I left him, then came to me,
as he had said he would, and with a great deal of seriousness and aflec-
tion, but with tears in his eyes, thanked me that had, under God, given
him and so many miserable creatures their lives. I told him I had no
room to move him to thank God for it rather than me; for I had seen
- that he had done that already: but I added, that it was nothing but what
reason and humanity dictated to all men, and that we had as much reason
as he to give thanks to God, who had blessed us so far as to make us the
instruments of his mercy to many of his creatures.

After this, the young priest applied himself to his country folks---
laboured to compose them, persuaded, entreated, argued, reasoned with
them, and did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of their
reason; and with some he had success, though others were, for a time,
out of all government of themselves.

I cannot help committing this to writing, and perhaps it may be
useful to those into whose hands it may fall, in the guiding themselves in
all the extravaganccs of their passions; for, if an excess of joy can carry
men out to such a length beyond the reach of their reason, what will not
the extravagances of anger, rage, and a provoked mind, carry us to?
And, indeed, here I saw reason for keeping an exceeding watch over our

passions of every kind, as well those of joy and satisfaction, as those of
sorrow and anger.
We were sometimes disordered by these extravagances among our new
guests for the first day; but when they had been retired, lodgings pro.
vided for them all as well as our ship would allow, and they had slept
heartily, as most of them did, being fiatigued and frigth, they were
quite another sort of people the next day. .

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the kindness
shown them, was wanting; the French, it is known, are natuarlly apt
enough to exceed that way. The captain and one of the priests came to
me the next day, and, desiring to speak with me and my nephew, the
commander, began to consult with us what should be done with them;
and, first, they told us, that as we had saved their lives, so all they had
was little enough for a return to us for the kindness received. The
captain said they had saved some money, and some things of value in
their boats, catched hastily out of the flames; and if we would accept
of it, they were ordered to make an ofl'er of it all to us; they only desired
to be set on shore somewhere in our way, where, if possible, they might
get a passage to France.

My nephew was for accepting their money at first word, and to con-
sider what to do with them afterwards, but I overruled him in that part:
for I knew what it was to be set on shore in a strange country; and if
the Portuguese captain that took me up at sea had served me so, and took
all that I had for my deliverance, I must have starved, or have been as
much a slave at the Brezils as I had been at Barbary, the being sold to a
Muhometan only excepted; and perhaps a Portuguese. is not a much
better master- than a Turk, if not, in some cases, a much worse.

I therefore told the Frenchcaptain that we had taken them up in
their distress, it was true; but that it was our duty to do so, as we were
fellow creatures, and as we would desire to be so delivered, if we were in
the like, or any other extremity; that we had done nothing for them but
what we believed they would have done for us, if we had been in their
case, and they in ours; but that we took them up to serve them, not to
plunder them; and that it would be a most barbarous thing to take that
little from them which they had saved out of the fire, and then set them
on shore and leave them; that this would be first to save them from
death, and then kill them ourselves--save them from drowning, and then
abandon them to starving: and therefore I would not let the least thing
be taken from them. As to setting them on shore, I told them, indeed,
that was an exceeding difliculty to us, for that the ship was bound to the l
East Indies; and though we were driven out of our course to the west-
ward a very great way, which perhaps was directed by Heaven on pur-
pose for their deliverance, yet it was impossible for; us wilftu to change
our voyage on this particular account; nor could my nephew, the captain,

' answer it to the fireghtcrs, with whom he was under charter-party to
pursue his voyage Ly way of Brazil; and all I knew he could do for them
was, to put ourselves in the way of meeting with other ships homeward
bound from the W'est Indies, and get them passage, if possible, to Eng-
land or France.

The first part of the proposal was so generous and kind, they could
not but be very thankful for it; but they were in a great consternation,
especially the passengers, at the notion of being carried away to the East
Indies; they then cntrcated me, that seeing I was driven so far to the
westward before I met with them, I would at least keep on the same
course to the banks of Newfoundland, where it was possible I might meet
with some ship or sloop that they might hire to carry them back to
Canada, from whence they came.

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and there-
fore I inclined to agree to it: for indeed I considered, that to carry this
whole company to the East Indies would not only be an intolerable
severity to the poor people, but would be ruining our whole voyage, by
devouring all our provisions; so I thought it no breach of charter-party,
but what an unforeseen accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in
which no one could say we were to blame: for the laws of God and
nature would have forbid that we should refuse to take up two boats full
of people in such a distressed condition: and the nature of the thing; as.
well respecting ourselves as the poor people, obliged us to see them on
shore somewhere or other, for their deliverance. So I consented that we
would carry them to Newfoundland, if wind and weather would permit;
and, if not, that I would carry them to Martinico, in the West Indies.

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good; and
as it had blowcd continually in the points between north-east and south-
east a long time, we missed several opportunities of sending them to
France; for we met several ships bound to Europe, whereof two were
French, from St. Christopher's; but they had been so long beating up
against the wind, that they durst take in no passengers for fear of wanting
provisions for the voyage, as well for themselves as for those they should
take in; so we were obliged to go on. It was about a week after this,
that we made the banks of Newfoundland, where, to shorten my story,
we put all our French people on board a bark, which they hired at sea
there, to put them on shore, and afterwards to carry them to France, if
they could get provisions to viotual themselves with, When I say all
the French went on shore, I should remember that the young priest 1
spoke of, hearing we were bound to the East Indies, desired to go the
voyage with us, and to be set on shore on the coast of Corornandel: 1
readily agreed to that, for I wonderfully liked the man, and had very
good reason, as will appear afterwards: also four of the seamen entered
.themselvcs in our ship, and proved very useful follows.

From hence we directed our course for the West Indies, steering away
south and south-by-east, for about twenty days together, sometimes little
or no wind at all, when we met another subject for our humanity to work
upon, almost as deplorable as that before.

It was in the latitude of twenty-seven degrees five minutes north, and
the 19th day of March, 1694-5, when we cspied a sail, our-course south-
east-and-by-south. We soon perceived it was a large vessel, and that she
bore up to us: but could not at first know what to make of her, till, after
coming a little nearer, we found she had lost her main top-mast, fore-mast,
and bowsprit, and presently she fires a gun, as a signal of distress. The
weather was pretty good, wind at north-north--west, a fresh gale, and we
soon came to speak with her.

We found her a ship of Bristol bound home from Barbadoes, but had
been blown out of the road at Barbadoes a few days before she was ready
to sail, by a terrible hun'ieane, while the captain and chief mate were
both gone on shore; so that, besides the terror of the storm, they were
but in an indifferent ease for good artists to bring the ship home. They
had been already nine weeks at sea, and had met with another terrible
storm after the hurricane was over, which had blown them quite out of
their knowledge to the westward, and in 'which they had lost their masts,
as above: they told us they expected to have seen the Bahama Islands,
but were then driven away again to the south-east by a strong gale of
wind at north-north-west, the same that blew now, and having no sails to
work the ship with, but a main-course, and a kind of square sail upon a
jury-foremost, which they had set up, they could not lie near the wind,
but were endeavouring to stand away for the Canaries.

But that which was worst of all, was, that they were almost starved
[or want of provisions, besides the fatigues they had undergone; their

19
bread and flesh was quite gone, they had not an ounce left in the ship,
and had had none for eleven days: the only relief they had was, their
water was not all spent, and they had about half a barrel of flour left;
they had sugar enough; some succades, or sweatmeats, they had at first,
but they were devoured; and they had seven casks of rum.

There was a youth and his mother, and a maid-servant on board, who
were going passengers, end, thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhap-
pily came on board the evening before the hurricane began: and, having
no provisions of their own left, they Were in a more deplorable condition
than the rest; for the seamen being reduced to such an extreme necessity
themselves, had no compassion, we may be sure, for the poor passengers;
and they were indeed in a condition that their misery is very hard to
describe.

I had perhaps not known this part, if my curiosity had not led me,
the weather being fair, and the wind abated, to go on board the ship: the
second mate, who upon this occasion commanded the ship, had been on
board our ship ; and he told me, indeed, that they had three passengers in
the great e-ibin, iuid that they were in a deplorable condition. "Nay,"
says he, "I believe they are dead, for I have heard nothing of them for
above two days; and I was afraid to inquire after them," said he, "for I
had nothing to relieve them with."

We immediately applied ourselves to give them what relief we could
spare; and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my nephew, that I
would have victualled them, though we had gone away to Virginia, or any
pmt of the coast of America, to have supplied ourselves; but there was
no necessity for that.

But now they were in a new danger, for they were afraid of eating too
much, even of that little we gave them. The mate, or commander,
brought six men with him in his boat, but these poor wretches looked
like skeletons, and were so weak they could hardly sit to their ears; the
mate himself was very ill, and half-starved, for he declared he had re-
served nothing from the men, and went share and share alike with them
in every bit they eat.

I cautioned him to out sparingly, but set meet before him immediately;
and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began .to be sick and out
of order: so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed him up something
with some broth, which he said would be to him both food and physio,
and after he had taken it he grew better. In the meantime, I forgot notnom NEON 01111502. 291

the men--I ordered victuals to be given them, and the poor creatures
rather devoured than eat it; they were so exceedingly hungry that they
were in a manner ravenous, and had no command of themselves: and two
of them eat with so much greediness, that they were in danger of their
lives the next morning.

The sight of these poor people's distress was very moving to me, and
brought to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my first coming on
shore in my island, where I had not the least mouthful of food, or any
hopes of procuring it,--besides the hourly apprehension I had of being
made the food of other creatures. But all the while the mate was thus
relating to me the miserable condition of the ship's company, I could not
put out of my thought the story he had told me of the three poor crea-
tures in the great cabin--namely, the mother, her son, and the maid-
servant, whom he had heard nothing of for two or three days, and whom
he seemed to confess they had wholly neglected, their own extremities
being so great; by which I understood that they had really given them
no food at all, and that therefore they must be perished, and be all lying
dead perhaps on the floor or deck of the cabin.

As I therefore kept the mate, whom we then called captain, on board
with his men to refresh them, so I also forgot not the starving crew that
were left on board, but ordered my own boat to go on board the ship, and,
with my mate and twelve men, to carry them a. sack of bread and four or
five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged the men to cause the
meat to be boiled while they staid, and to keep guard in the cook-room,
to prevent the men's taking it to eat raw, or taking it out of the pot
before it was well boiled, and then to give every man but a little at a
time; and by this caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise
have killed themselves with that very food that was given them on
purpose to save their lives.

- Atthe sometime, I orderedthemate to go into the great cabin, and
see what condition the poor passengers were in, and, ifthey were alive, to
comfort them and give them what refreshment was proper; and the sur-
geon gave a. large pitcher with some of the prepared broth which ho had
given the mate that was on board, and which he did not question-would
restore them gradually.

I was net'satisfied with this; but, as I said above, having a great
mindto see the sceneotmiserywhichIknewtheshipitselfwould
presentmewithinamoro livelymanuer thanI could haveit byreport,

and
I took the captain of the ship, as we now called him, with me, and went
myself a little after in their boat.

I found the poor men on board almost in s. tumult to get the victuals
out of the boiler before it was ready; but my mate observed his order, and
kept a good guard at the cook-room door, and the men he placed there,
after using all possible persuasion to have patience, kept them off by force:
however, he caused some biscuit cakes to be dipped in the pot, and
softened them with the liquor of the meat, which' they call brewis, and
gave everyone, one to stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their
own safety that he was obliged to give them but a little at a time. But
it was all in vain; and had not I come on board, and their own eom<<
mander and ofiicers with me, and with good words, and some threats also
of giving them no more, I believe they would have broken into the cook.
room by force, and tom the meat out of the furnace--for words indeed are
of a very small force to a hungry belly. However, we pacified them, and
fed them gradually and cautiously for the first time, and the next time
gave them more, and at last filled their bellies, and the men did well
enough.

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another
nature, and far beyond the rest: for as, first, the ship's company had so
little for themselves, it was but too true that they had at first kept them
very low, and at last totally neglected them; so that, for six or seven
days, it might be said, they had really had no food at all, and, for several
days before, very little.

The poor mother, who, as the first mate reported, was a woman of
good sense and good breeding, had spared all she could get so affection-
ately for her son, that at last she entirely sank under it; and when the
mate of our ship went in, she sat upon the floor or deck, with her back
up against the sides, between two chairs which were lashed fast, and her
head sunk in between her shoulders, like a corpse, though not quite dead.
My mate said all he could to revive and encourage her, and, with a
spoon, put some broth into her month: she opened her lips, and lifted
up one hand, but could not speak; yet she understood what he said,
and made signs to him, intimating that it was too late for her, but
pointed to her child, as if she would have said they should take care of
him.

However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved with the sight, en
deavourcd to get some of the broth into her mouth; and, as he said, get
two or three spoonfuls down, though I question whether he could be sure
of it or not; but it was too late, and she died the same night.

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most afiectionate
mother's life, was not so far gone; yet he lay in a cabin bed as one
stretched out, with hardly any life left in him: he had a piece of an old
glove in his mouth, having eaten up the rest of it. However, being young,
and having more strength than his mother, the mate got something down
his throat, and he began sensibly to revive, though, by giving him some
time after but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick,
and brought it up again.

But the next care was the poor maid; she lay all along upon the deck
hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down with apo-
plexy, and struggled for life: her limbs were distorted, one of her hands
was clasped round the frame of a chair, and she griped it so hard that
we could not easily make her let it go; her other arm lay over her head,
and her feet lay both together, set fast against the frame of the cabin
table: in short, she lay just like one in the last agonies of death, and yet
she was alive too.

The poor creature was not only starved with hunger, and terrified with
the thoughts of death, but, as the men told us afterwards, was broken-
hearted for her mistress, whom she saw dying two or three days before,
andwhom she loved most tenderly.

We knew not what to do with this poor girl; for when our surgeon,
who was a man of very great knowledge and experience, and, with great
application, recovered her as to life, he had her upon his hand as to her
senses: for she was little less than distracted ior a considerable time after,
as shall appear presently.

Whoever shall read these memorandum, must be desired to consider
that visits at sea are not like a journey into the country, where sometimes
people stay a week or a fortnight at a place. Our business was to relieve
this distressed ship's crew, but not lie by {or them; and though they were
willing to steer the same course with usfor some days, yet we could carry
no sail to keep pace with a ship that had no masts. However, as their
captain begged of us to help him to set up a main-topmast, and a kind
of topmost to his jury-foremost, we did, as it were, lie by him for three
or four days, and then, having given him five barrels of beef and pork,
two hogsheads of biscuit, and a. proportion of peas, flour, and what other
things we could spare, and taking three casks of sugar, and some mm,
and some pieces of eight of them for satisfaction, we left them, taking on
board with us, at their own earnest request, the youth, and the maid, and
all their goods.

The young lad was about seventeen years of age, a pretty, well~bred,
modest, and sensible youth,--greatly dejected with the loss of his mother,
and, as it seems, had lost his father but a few months before at Barbadoes.
Ile begged of the surgeon to speak to me to take him out of the ship, for
he said the cruel fellows had murdered his mother: and, indeed, so they
had, that is to say, passively; for they might have spared a small susten-
ance to the poor helpless widow, that might have preserved her life,
though it had been just to keep her alive. But hunger knows no friend,
no relation, no justice, no right, and therefore is remorseless, and capable
of no compassion.

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and how it would carry
him away from all hisyfriends, and put him, perhaps, in as bad circum-
stances almost ns we found them--that is to say, starving in the world.
He said it mattered not whither he went, if he was but delivered from
the terrible crew that he was among--that the captain (by which he
meant me, for he could know nothing of my nephew) had saved his life,
and he was sure would not hurt him: and, as for the maid, he was sure,
if she came to herself, she would be very thankful for it, let us carry them
whither we would. The surgeon represented the case so ail'eetionately to
me, that I yielded, and we took them both on board, with all their goods,
except eleven hogsheads of sugar, which could not be removed or come at ;
and as the youth had a bill of lading for them, I made his commander
sign a writing obliging him to go, as soon as he came to Bristol, to one
Mr. Rogers, a merchant there, to whom the youth said he was related,
and to deliver a letter which I wrote to him, and all the goods he had
belonging to the deceased widow,--whieh, I suppose, was not done, for I
could never learn that the ship came to Bristol, but was, as is most pro-
bable, lost at sea, being in so disabled 9. condition, and so far from any
land, that I am of opinion the first storm she met with afterwards she
might founder in the sea ; for she was leaky and had damage in her hold
when I met with her.

E
Crusoe arrives at his island, which he finds with some diflieully, having discovered in me scorch
for it, that that which he previously supposed to be a continent, was in reality, a group oi
islands-Friday :s veryjjoyous upon seeing :the old place--The first person Crusoe meets is the
Spaniard whose life he saved--Friday meets with his father-Crusoe discovers that the English

sailors he left behind have behaved badly--Ibo history of the island during his absence.

.6?"

\ ."

N C

WAS now in the latitude of nineteen degrees thirty-five minutes,
and had hitherto had a tolerable voyage as to weather, though
at first the winds had been contrary.. I shall trouble nobody
with the little incidents of wind, weather, currents, etc., on the
rest of our voyage; but, shortening my story for the sake of what is to
follow, shall observe that I came to my old habitation, the island, on the
10th of April, 1695. It was with no small difficulty that I found the
place: for as I came to it and went from it before on the south and east
side of the island, as coming from the Brazils, so now, cbming in between
the main and the island, and having no chart for the coast, nor any land--
mark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know whether I saw it or
not. '
We heat about a great while, and went on shore on several islands in
the mouth of the great river Oroonoquc, but none for my purpose: only
this I learnt by my coasting the shore, that I was under one great mis-
take before, namely, that the continent which I thought I saw from the
island I lived in, was really no continent, but a long island, or rather a
ridge of islands, reaching from one to the other side of the extended
mouth of that great river; and that the savages who came to my island
_ were not properly those which we call Caribbees, but islanders, and other
barbarians of the same kind, who inhabited something nearer to our side
than the rest.

In short, I visited several of the islands to no purpose: some I found

      
    

were inhabited, and some were not. On one of them I found some '
Spaniards, and thought they had lived there; but, speaking with them,
I found they had a sloop lay in a small creek hard by, and that they came
thither to make salt, and catch some pearl mussels, if they could: but
they belonged to the Isle dc Trinidad, which lay farther north, in the
latitude of ten and eleven degrees.

Thus coasting from one island to another, sometimes with the ship,
wmctimcs with the Frenchman's shallop (which we had found a convenient
boat, and therefore kept her with their very good will), at length I came
fair on the south side of my island, and I presently knew the very coun-
tenance of the place: so I brought the ship safe to an anchor broadside
with the little creek, where was my old habitation.

As soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him if he
knew where he was? He looked about a little, and presently clapping
his hands, cried, "Oh, yes! Oh, there! Oh, yes! Oh, there!" pointing
to our old habitation, and fell a-dancing and caper-lug like a mad fellow;
and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim
ashore to the place.

"Well, Friday," said I, "do you think we shall find any body here
or no? and what do you think, shall we see your father ?" The follow
stood mute as a stock a good while; but when I named his father, the
poor affectionate creature looked dejected, and I could see the tears run
down his face very plentifully. "What is the matter, Friday," said I;
" are you troubled because you may see your father i"--"No, no" says
he, shaking his head, "no see him more, no ever more see again!"--
" Why so," said I, "Friday? how do you know that ?"--" Oh, no! oh,
no!" says Friday, "he long ago die, long ago, he much old man."--
"Well, well," said I, "Friday, you don't know; but shall we see any
body else then ?" The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than I, and he
points just to the hill above my old house; and though we lay half a
league off, he cries out, " Me see! me see! yes, yes; me see much man
there, and there, and there." I looked, but I could see nobody--no, not
with a perspective glass; which was, I suppose, because I could not hit
the place; for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry the next day,
and there were five or six men all together stood to look at the ship, not
knowing what to think of us.

As soon as Friday had told me he saw people, I caused the English
ancient to be spread, and fired three guns to give them notice we were
friends; and about half a quarter of an hour after, we perceived a smoke
rise from the side of the creek: so I immediately ordered a boat out,
taking Friday with me, and hanging out a white flag, or a flag of trace,
I went directly on shore, taking with me the young frinr I mentioned, to
whom I had told the whole story of my living there, and the manner
of it, and every particular both of myself and those that I left there,
and who was on that account extremely desirous to go with me. .We
had besides about sixteen men very well armed, if we had found any
new guest there which we did not know of ; but we had no need of
weapons.

As we went on shore upon the tide of flood near high water, we
rowed directly into the creek; and the first man I fixed my eye upon was
the Spaniard whose life I had saved, and whom I knew by his face
perfectly well: as to his habit I shall describe it afterwards. I ordered
nobody to go on shore at first but myself; but there was no keeping
Friday in the boat, for the affectionate creature had spied his father at a
distance, a good way off the Spaniards, where indeed I saw nothing of
him; and if they had not let him go on shore, he would have jumped into
the sea. He was no sooner on shore, but he flew away to his father like
an arrow out of a bow. It would have made any man shed tears, in spite
of the firmest resolution, to have seen the first transports of this poor
fellow's joy when he came to his father--how he embraced him, kissed
him, stroked his face, took him up in his arms, set him down upon a tree,
and lay down by him; then stood and looked at him, as any one would
look at a strange picture, for a quarter of an hour together; then lay
down upon the ground, and stroked his legs, and kissed them, and then
got up again, and stared at him: one would have thought the fellow
bewitched. But it would have made a dog laugh to see how the next day
his passion ran out another way: in the morning he walked along the
shore, to and again, with his father, several hours,--always leadinghimby
the hand as if he had been a lady: and every now and then would come
to fetch something or other for him from the boat, either a lump of sugar,
or a dram, or biscuit, or something or other that was good. In the after-
noon his frolics ran another way, for then he would set the old man
down upon the ground, and dance about him, and make a thousand antic
postures and gestures; and all the while he did this he would be talking
to him, and telling him one story or another of his travels, and of what
happened to him abroad, to divert him. In short, if the same filial affec-
tion was to be found in Christians to their parents in our parts of tho
world, one would be tempted to say there hardly would have been any
need of the fifth commandment.

But this is a digression; I return to my landing. It would he endless
to take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the Spaniards
received me with. The first Spaniard, whom, as I said, I knew 'very
well, was he whose life I saved--he came towards the boat, attended by
one more, carrying a flag of truce also; and he did not only not know me
at first, but he had no thoughts, no notion, of its being me that was come,
till I spoke to him. " Seignior," said I, in Portuguese, "do you not know
me ?" At which he spoke not a word; but giving his musket to the man
that was with him, threw his arms abroad, and, saying something in
Spanish that I did not perfectly hear, came forward and embraced me,
telling me he was inexcusable not to know that face again that he had
once seen, as of an angel from Heaven sent to save his life: he said
abundance of very handsome things, as a well bred Spaniard always knows
how--and then, beckoning to the person that attended him, bade him go
and call out his comrades. He then asked me if I would walk to my old
habitation, where he would give me possession of my own house again,
and where I should see there had been but mean improvements. So I '
walked along with him. But, alas! I could no more find the place again
than if I had never been there; for they had planted so many trees, and
placed them in such a posture, so thick and close to one another, and in
ten years time they were grown so big, that, in short, the place was in--
accessible, execpt by such winding and blind ways as they themselves
only who made them could find.

I asked them what put them upon all these fortifications? He told
me, I would say there was need enough of it when they had given an
account how they had passed their time since their arriving in the island,
especially after they had the misfortune to find that I was gone: he told
me he could not but have some satisfaction in my good fortune, when he
. heard that I was gone in a good ship, and to my satisfaction; and that he
had oftentimes a strong persuasion that, one time or other, he should see
me again: but nothing that ever befel him in his life, he said, was so
' surprising and afflicting to him at first, as the disappointment .he was
under when he came back to the island, and found I was not there.

As to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left behind.
and of whom he said he had a long story to tell me, the Spaniards all
thought themselves much better among the savages, only that their number
was so small. "And," says he, "had they been strong enough, we had
been long ago in purgatory ;" and with that he crossed himself upon the
breast. " But, sir," says he, " I hope you will not be displeased when I
shall tell you how, forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our own
preservation, to disarm th-, and make them our subjects who would not
be content with being moderately our masters, but would be our mur-
derers." I answered, "I was heartily afraid of it when I left them
there; and nothing troubled me at my parting from the island, but that
they were not come back, that I might have put them in possession of
every thing first, and left the others in a state of subjection, as they
deserved: but if they had reduced them to it, I was very glad, and should
be very far from finding any fault with it, for I knew they were a parcel of
refractory, ungovernable villains, and were fit for any manner of mischi ."

While I was saying this, came the man whom he had sent back, and
with him eleven men more. In the dress they were in, it was impossrble
to guess what nation they were of; but he made all clear both to them
and to me. First he turned to me, and pointing to them, said, " These,
sir, are some of the gentlemen who owe their lives to you ;" and then
turning to them, and pointing to me, he let them know who I was; upon

which they all come up one by one, not as if they had been sailors, and.

ordinary fellows, and I the like, but really as if they had been ambas-
sadors, or noblemen, mail a monarch or a great conqueror: their behaviour
was to the last degree obliging and courteous, and. yet mixed with a manly,
majestic gravity, which very well become them; and, in short, they had
so much more manners than I, that I scarce knew how to receive their
eivilities, much less how to return them in kind.

The history of their coming to, and. conduct in, the island after my
going away, is so remarkable, and has so many incidents which the
former part of my relationwill help to understand, and which will in most
of the particulars refer to that account I have already given, that I cannot
but commit them with great delight to the reading of those that come
after me.

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first person,
which will put me to the expense of ten thonsan " said 1's," and "said
he's," and " he told me's," and " I told him's," and the like; but I shall
collect the facts historically, as near as I can gather them out of my
memory from what they related to me,"and from what I met with in my
conversing with them, and with the place.m", .

800 ADVENTURES 0!

In order to do this succinctly, and as intolligibly as I can, I must go
back to the circumstances in which I left the island, and which the persons
were in of whom I am to speak. At first, it is necessary to repeat, that
I had sent away Friday's father and the Spaniard, the two whose lives I
had rescued from the savages--I say, I had sent them away in a large
canoe to the main, as I then thought it, to fetch over the Spaniard's com-
panions whom he had left hehind him, in order to save them from the like
calamity that he had been in, and in order to succour them for the present,
And that, if possible, we might together find some way for our deliverance
afterward.

When I sent them away, I had no visible appearance of, or the least
room to hope for, my own deliverance, any more than 1 had twenty years
before; much less had I any foreknowledge of what after happened,--
I mean of an English ship coming on shore there to fetch me 011' : and it
comd not but be a very great sum to them when they came back, not
only to find that I was gone, but to find three strangers left on the spot,
possessed of all that I had left behind me, which would otherwise have
been their own.

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin
where I left oil", was of their own part; and I desired he would give me
a particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with the heat,
When I sent him to fetch them over. He told me there was little variety
in that part, for nothing remarkable happened to them on their way,
they having very calm weather, and a smooth sea; for his countrymen, it
could not be doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to see him
(it seems he was the principal man among then? the captain of the vessel
they had been shipwrecked in having been dead some time): they were,
he said, the more surprised to see him, because they knew that he was
fallen into the hands of the savages, who they were satisfied would
devour him, as they did all the rest of their prisoners; that when he told
them the story of his deliverance, and in what manner he was furnished
for carrying them away, it was like a dream to them, and their astonish-
ment, he said, was something like that of Joseph's brethren, when he
told them who he was, and told them the story of his excitation in
Pharaoh's court; but when he showed them the. arms, the powder, the
ball, and the provisions that he brought them for their journey, or voyage,
they were restored to themselves, took a just share of the joy of their
deliverance, and prepared to come away with him.nosissos oausor. ' 301

The first business was to get canoes; and in this they were obliged not
to stick so much to the honest part of it, but to trespass upon their
fiiendly savages, and to borrow two large canoes, or periaguas, on pretence
of going out a-fishing or for pleasure.

In these they came away the next morning: it seems they wanted no
time to get themselves ready, for they had no baggage,--neither clothes,
nor provisions, nor any other thing in the world but what they had on
them, and a few roots to eat, of which they used to make their bread.

They were in all three weeks absent; and in that time, unluckily for
them, I had the occasion offered for my escape, as I mentioned in my
other part, and to get off from the island, leaving three of the most im-
pudent, hardened, ungoverncd, disagreeable villains behind me that any
man could desire to meet with, to the poor Spaniards' great grief and dis-
appointment, you may be sure.

The only just thing the rogues did was, that when the Spaniards
came on shore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions
and other relief as I had ordered them to do; also they gave them the
long paper of directions, which I had left with them, containing the par-
ticular method which I too]: for managing every part of my life there--
the way how I baked my bread, bred up my tame goats, and planted my
com--how I cured my grapes, made my pots, and, in a word, every thing
I did; all this being mitten down, they gave to the Spaniards, two of
whom understood English well enough; nor did they refuse to accommo-
date the Spaniards with any thing else, for they agreed very well for some
time. They gave them an equal admission into the house, or cave, and
they began to live very seciably; and the head Spaniard, who had seen
pretty much of my method, and Friday's father together, managed all
their affairs; for, as for the Englishmen, they did nothing but ramble
about the island, shoot parrots, and catoh tortoises, and when they came
home at night, the Spaniards provided their suppers for them.

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, would the others
but have left them alone, which, however, they could not find in their
hearts to do long; but, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat
themselves, and would not let others eat neither. The differences, never-
theless, were at first but trivial, and such as are not worth relating: but
at last it broke out into open war, and it began with all the rudeness and
insolenee that can be imagined, without reason, without provocation, con-
trary tonsture, and indeed to-common sense; and though, itistrue, the802 museums or

first relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call
the accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows, they could not
deny a word of it.

But before I come to the particulars of this part, I must supply a
defect in my former relation; and this was, that I forgot to set down
among the rest, that just as we were weighing anchor to set sail, there '
happened a little quarrel on board our ship, which I was afraid once
would turn 'out to a second mutiny; nor was it appeased till the captain,
rousing up his courage, and taking us all to his assistance, parted them by
force, and making two of the most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid
them in irons: and as they had been active in the former disorders, and
let fall some ugly dangerous words the second time, he threatened to carry
them in irons to England, and have them hanged there for mutiny, and
running away with the ship.

This, it seems, though the Siptain did not intend to do it, frighted
some other men in the ship; and some of them had put it in the heads of
the rest that the captain only gave them good words for the present till
they should come to some English port, and that then they should be all
put into a jail and tried for their lives.

The mate got intelligence of this, and acquainted us with it; upon
which it was desired that I, who still passed for a great man among them,
should go down with the mate and satisfy the men, and tell them, that
they might be assured, if they behaved well the rest of the voyage, all
they had done for the time past should be pardoned. So I went, and
after passing my honour's word to them, they appeared easy, and the
more so, when I caused the two men who were in irons to be released and
forgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night, the wind
also falling calm. Next morning we found that our two men, who had
been laid in irons, had stole each of them a musket and some other wea-
pons--what powder or shot they had we knew not--and had taken the
ship's pinnace, which was not yet hauled up, and run away with her to
their companions in roguery on shore.

As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-heat on shore, with
twelve men and the mate, and away they went to seek the rogues; but
they could neither find them, nor any of the rest, for they all fled into
the woods when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate was once
resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their plantations,
tumt all their household stuff and furniture, and left them to shift with-
out it; but having no order, he left all alone, left every thing as he
found it, and, bringing the pinnace away, come on board without them.
. These two men made their number five: but the other three villains
were so much wickeder than these, that after they had been two or three
days together, they turned their two new comers out of doors to shift for
themselves, and would have nothing to do with them; nor could they, for
a. good while, be persuaded to give them any food: as for the Spaniards,
they were not yet come.

When the Spaniards came first on shore, the business began to go
forward: the Spaniards would have persuaded the three English bmtes
to have taken in their two countrymen again, that, as they said, they
might be all one family; but they would not hear of it: so the two poor
fellows lived by themselves, and finding that nothing but industry and
application would make them live comfortable, they pitched their tents on
the north shore of the island, but a little more to the west, to be out of
the danger of the savages, who always landed on the east parts of the
island.

Here they built two huts, one to lodge in, and the other to lay up
their magazines and stores in; and the Spaniards having given them some
corn for seed, and especially some of the peas which I had left them, they
dug, and planted, and enclosed, after the pattern I had set for them all,
and. began to live pretty well. Their first crop of corn was on the ground,
and though it was but a little bit of land which they had dug up at first,
having had but a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them, and find
them with bread or other eatnbles: and one of the fellows, being the
cook's mate of the ship, was very ready at making soup, puddings, and
such other preparations as the rice and the milk, and such little flesh as
they got, furnished him to do.

They were going on in this little thriving posture, when the three un-
natural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humour, and to insult
them, came and bullied them, and told them the island was theirs; that
the governor, meaning me, had given them possession of it, and nobody
else had any right to it; and that they should build no houses upon
their ground, unless they would pay them rent for them.

The two men thought theyhadjested at first, and asked them to come
and sit down,and seewhatflne housosthey werethsttheyhadbuilt, and
tell them what rent they demanded: and one of them merrily told them,

m
if they were ground landlords, he hoped, if they built tenements upon the
land, and made improvements, they would, according to the custom of all
landlords, grant them a long lease, and bade them go fetch a serivener
to draw writings. One of the three, damning and raging, told them they
should see they were not in jest; and, going to a httle place at a. distance,
where the honest men had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a
firebrand and claps it to the outside of their hut, and very fairly sets it on
fire; and it would have been all burnt down in a few minutes, if one 01
the two had not run to the fellow, thrust him away, and trod the fire out
with his feet, and that not without some difficulty too.

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him
away, that he turned upon him with a pole he had in his hand; and had
not the man avoided the blow very nimbly, and run into the hut, he had
ended his days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they were both
in, ran in after him, and immediately they came both out with their
muskets; and the man that was first struck at with the pole knocked the
fellow down who began the quarrel with the stock of his musket, and
that before the other two could come to help him; and then seeing the rest

come, they stood together, and, presenting the other ends of their pieces
to them, bade them to stand off.

The others had fire-arms with them, too; but one of the two honest
men, bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger, told'
them if they offered to move hand or foot they were all dead men, and
boldly commanded them to lay down their arms. They did not indeed,
lay down their arms; but, seeing him resolute, it brought them to a
parley, and they consented to take their wounded man with them and
begone: and, indeed, it seems the fellow was wounded suficieatly with
the blow. However, they were much in the wrong, since they had the
advantage, that they did not disarm them effectually, as they might have
done, and have gone immediately to the Spaniards, and given them an
account how the rogues had treated them; for the three villains studied
nothing but revenge, and every day gave them some intimation that they
did so.

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of their
rogueries, such as treading down their corn, shooting three young kids and
a she-goat, which the poor men had got to breed up tame for their store,
and, in a word, plaguing them night and day in this manner, it forced the
two men to such a desperation, that they resolved to fight them all three
the first time they had a fair opportunity. In order to this, they resolved
to go to the castle, as they called it, that was my old dwelling, where the
three rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending
to have afair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play.
80 they got up in the morning before day, and came to the place, and
called the Englishmen by their names, telling a Spaniard that answered,
that they wanted to speak with them.

It happened that, the day before, two of the Spaniards having been in
the woods, had seen one of tho two Englishmen, whom, for distinction, I
call the honest men; and he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards
of the barbarous usage they had met with from their three countrymen,
and how they had ruined their plantation, and destroyed their com-that
they had laboured so hard to bring forward, and killed the mil'ch-goat,
and their three kids, which was all they had provided for their sustenance
--and that, if he and his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist
them again, they should be starved. When the Spaniards came home at
night, and they were all at supper, he took the freedom to reprove the
three Englishmen, though in gentle and mannerly terms, and asked them
how they could be so cruel, they being harmless, inoffensive fellows, and
that they were putting themselves in a way to subsist by their labour, and
that it had cost them a great deal to bring things to such perfection as
they had.

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, " What had they to do
there? That they came on shore without leave, and that they should not
plant or build upon the island; it was none of their ground." "Why,"
says the Spaniard, very calmly, " Seignior Inglese, they must not starve."
The Englishman replied, like a true rough-hewn tarpaulin, " They might
starve, if they chose; they should not plant nor build in that plaee."
" But what must they do, then, Seignior '1'" says the Spaniard. Another
of the brutes returned, " Do! why, they should be servants, and work for
them." " But how can you expect that of them? They are not bought with
your money; you have no right to make them servants." The English-
men answered, " The island was theirs, the governorhad given it to them,
and no man had any thing to do there but themselves ;" and, with that,

swore by his Maker that he would go and burn all their new huts-they
should build none upon their land.

" Why, Seignior," said the Spaniards, "by the same rule, we must
be our servants too." "Ay," so. the bold dog, " and so on shalltoo
y V" y
20 _306 anvnu'runns or

before we have done with you ;" mixing two or three oaths in the proper
intervals of his speech. The Spaniard only mailed at that, and made him
no answer. However, this little discourse had heated them; and starting
up, one says to the other--I think it was he they called Will Atkins--
"Come, Jaclr, let us go and have the other bmsh with them; we will
demolish their castle, I will warrant you; they shall plant no colony in
our dominions."

Upon this, they were all trooping away, with every man a gun, a
pistol, and a sword, and muttered some insolent things among themselves,
of what they would do to the Spaniards, too, when opportunity ofi'cred;
but the Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectly understand them as to
know all the particulars,---only that, in general, they threatened them
hard for'taking the two Englishmen's part.

Whither they sent, or how they bestowed their time that evening,
the Spaniards said they did notknow, but it seems they wandered about
the countly part of the night; and then, lying down in the place which I
used to call my bower, they were weary, and overslept themselves. The
case was this :--They had resolved to stay till midnight, so to take the
poor men when they were asleep; and they acknowledged it afterwards,
intending to set fire to their huts while they were in them, and either
burn them in them, or murder them as they came out: and, as malice
seldom sleeps very sound, it was very strange they should not have been
kept waking.

' However, as the two men had also a design upon them, as I have
said, though a much fairer one than that of burning and murdering, it
happened, and very luckily for them all, that they wear: up and gone
abroad before the bloody-minded rogues came to their huts.

When they came thither, and found the men gone, Atkins, who, it
seems, was the forwardest man, called out to his companions, "Ha!
Jack, here's the nest; but, the birds are flown!" They mused a
while to think what should be the occasion of their going abroad so
soon, and suggested presently that the Spaniards had given them notice
of it: and with that they shook hands and swore to one another that
they would be revenged of the Spaniards. As soon as they had made
this bloody bargain they fell to work with the poor men's habitation---
they did not set fire indeed to any thing, but they pulled down both their
houses, and pulled them so limb from limb that they left not the least
stick standing, or scarce any sign on the ground where they stood: they
tore all their little collected household stuff in pieces, and threw every'
thing about in such a manner, that the poor men found afterwards some
of the things a mile off from their habitation.

When they had done this they pulled up all the young trees which
the poor men had planted--pulling up the enclosure they had made to
secure their cattle and their corn: and, in a word, sacked and plun- '
dered every thing, as completely as a herd of Tartars would have
done.

The two men wore at this juncture gone to find them out, and had
resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they were but
two to three--so that, had they met, there certainly would have been
bloodshed among them; for they were all very stout, resolute fellows, to
give them their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder, than they them-
selves oould do to meet--for, as they had dogged one another, when the
three were gone thither, the two were here--and afterwards when the
two went to find them, the three were come-to the old habitation again:
we shall see their differing conduct presently. When the three came .
back like furious creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they
had been about put them into, they came up to the Spaniards, and told
them what they had done, by way of scofi' and bravado; and one of them,
stepping up to one of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys
at play, takes hold of his hat, as it was upon his head, and, giving it a
twirl about, fleeting in his face, says to him, "And you, Seignior Jack
Spaniard, shall have the same sauce, if you do' not mend your manners."
The Spaniard, who, though quite a civil man, was as brave as a man
could desire to be, and withal a strong well-made man, looked steadily at
him for a good while; and then, having no weapon in his hand, stepped
gravely up to him, and with one blow of his fist knocked him down, as an
ox is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the rogues, insolent as the
first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard immediately: he missed his body
indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but one of them touched
the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty much. The blood made the Spaniard
believe he was more hurt than he really was, and that put him into some
heat; for before he acted all in a perfect calm, but now, resolving to go
through with his work, he stooped and took the fellow's musket whom he
had knocked down, and was just going to shoot the man who had fired at .
him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came out, and
calling to him not to shoot, they stepped in, secured the other two, and
took their arms from them.

When they were thus disarmed, and found they had made all the
Spaniards their enemies, as well as their own countrymen, they began to
cool, and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have had their arms
again; but the Spaniards considering the feud that was between them and
the other two Englishmen, and that it would be the best method they
could take to keep them from one another, told, them they would do them
no harm,--and, if they would live peaceably, they would be very willing
to assist and associate with them as they did before, but that they could
not think of giving them their arms again, while they appeared so resolved
to do mischief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threat-
ened them all to make them their servants.

The rogues were not more capable to hear reason than to act reason;
but being refused their arms, they went raving away, and raging like
madmen, threatening what they would do, though they had no fire-arms:
but the Spaniards, despising their threatening, told them they should take
care how they offered an injury to their plantation or cattle; for if they
did, they would shoot them as they would do ravenous beasts, wherever
they found them, and if they fell into their hands alive, they should
certainly be hanged. However, this was far from cooling them; but
away they went, swearing and raging like furies of hell. As soon as they
were gone, came back the two men in passion and rage enough also,
though of another kind; for having been at their plantation, and finding
it all demolished and destroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed that
they had provocation enough: they could scarce have room to tell their
tale, the Spaniards were so eager to tell them theirs; and it was strange
enough to find that three men should thus bully nineteen, and receive no
punishment at all.

The Spaniards indeed despised them, and especially having thus dis-
armed them, made light of their threatenings; but the two Englishmen
resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to
find them out.

But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them they were
already disarmed: they could not consent that they (the two) should
pursue them with firearms, and perhaps kill them. "But," said the
grave Spaniard, who was their governor, "we will endeavour to make
them do you justice, if you will leave it to us; for as there is no doubt
but they will come to us again when their passion is over, being not able '
to subsist without our assistance, we promise you to make no peace with
them, without having a full satisfaction for you: and upon this condition
we hope you will promise to use no violence with them, other than in
your defence."

The two Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, and with great
reluctance, but the Spaniards protested they did it only to keep them
from bloodshed, and to make all easy at last; for, said they, we are not
so many of us--here is room enough for us all, and it is a great pity we
should not be all good friends. At length they did consent, and waited
for the issue of the thing, living for some days with the Spaniards: for
their own habitation was destroyed.

In about five days' time the three vagrants, tired with wandering,
and almost starved with hunger, came back to the grove; and finding my
Spaniard and two more with him, walking by the side of the creek, they
came up in a very submissive humble manner, and begged to be received
again into the family. The Spaniards used them very civilly, but told them
they had acted so unnaturally by their countrymen, and so very grossly
by them (the Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclusion
without consulting the two Englishmen, and the rest; but, however, they

would go to them, and Liscourse about it, and they should know in half
an hour.

After half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a long
debate had about them, their two countrymen charging them with the
ruin of all their labour, and a design to murder them; all which they
owned before, and therefore could not deny now. Upon the whole, the
Spaniards acted as moderators between them; and as they had obliged
the two Englishmen not to hurt the three, while they were naked and
unarmed, so they now obliged the three to go and rebuild their fellows'
two huts, one to be of the same dimensions, and the other larger than
they were before; alsoto fence their ground again, where theth pulled
up the fences; plant trees in the room of those pulled up: dig up the
land'again for planting corn, where they had spoiled it; and, in award,
torestore everythingin the same state astheyfoundit,asnearasthey
could,--for entirely it could not be, the season for the com, and the
growth of the trees and hedges, not being possible to he remvered.

Well, they all submitted to this; and as they had plenty of provisions
given them all the while, they grew very orderly, only that these three
fellows could never be persuaded to work for themselves, except now and
then a little, just as they pleased. Thus, having lived pretty well to-
gether for a month or two, the Spaniards gave them their arms again, and
gave them liberty to go abroad with them as before. It was not above a
week after they had these arms, and went abroad, but the ungrateful
creatures began to be as insolent as before; but, however, an accident
happened presently upon this, which endangered the safety of them all:
they were obliged to lay by all private resentment, and look to the pre-
servation of their lives.

It happened one night that the Spaniard governor, as I call him--that
is to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved, who was now the captain,
or leader, or governor of the rest--found himself very uneasy in the night
and could by no means get any sleep: he was perfectly well in body, only
found his thoughts tumultuous, and his mind run upon men fighting, and
killing one another; and, growing more and more uneasy, he resolved to
rise. Being thus gotten up, he looked out; but, being dark, he could see
little or nothing: and besides, the trees which I had planted, as in my
former account is deseribed, and which were now grown tall, intercepted
his sight, so that he could only look .up and see that it was a clear star-
light night; and, hearing no noise, he refined and laid him down again.
But it was all one; he could not sleep, nor could he compose himself to
any thing like rest, but his thoughts were to the last degree uneasy, and
yet he knew not for what.

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going out and
coming in, another of them waked, and, calling, asked who it was that
was up? The governor told him how it had been with him. " Say you
so!" says the other Spaniard; "such things are not to be slighted, I
assure you: there is certainly some mischief working," says he, "near
as," and presently he asked him, "Where are the Englishmen P" " They
are all in their huts," says he, "safe enough." It seems, the Spaniards
had kept possession of the main apartment, and had made a place where
the three Englishmen, since their last mutiny, always quartered by them-
selves, and could not come at the rest. "Well," says the Spaniard,
"there is something in it, I am persuaded from my own experience; I
am certain our spirits embodied have converse with, and receive intelli-
gence from, the spirits unembodicd, and inhabiting "the invisible world;
and this friendly notice is given for our advantage, _if we know how to
make use of it. Come," says he, "let us go out and look abroad: and
if we find nothing at all in it to justify our trouble, I'll tell you a story
to the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my proposing i "

Inaword, theywentoutto gotothetop of thehill, whereIusedto
go; but they, being strong, and in good company, nor alone, as I was,
used none of my cautions to go up by the ladder, and then, pulling it up
after them, to go up a. second stage to the top, but were going round
through the grove unconcerned and unwary, when they were surprised
with seeing a light as of fire, a very little way oit' from them, and hearing
the voices of men, not of one or two, but of a great number.

Whether it was the consequence of the escape of the three savages
in our last encounter, who jumped into the boat, and of whom I mentioned
that I was afraid they should go home and bring more help, that so
great a number came now together; or whether they came ignorantly,
and by accident, on their usual bloody errand, the Spaniards could not, it
seems, understand: but whatever it was, it had been their business to
have concealed themselves, and to have fallen upon them so effectually, as
that not a man of them should have escaped, which could only have been
by getting in between them and their boats: but this presence of mind
was wanting to them, which was the ruin of their tranquillity for a great
while. '

We need not doubt but that the governor, and the man with him,
surprised with this sight, ran back immediately, and roused their fellows,
giving them an account of the imminent danger they were all in, and they
again as readily took the alarm; but it was impossible to persuade them
to stay close within where they were, but that they must all run out to
see how things stood.

While it was dark, indeed, they were well enough, and they had op-
portunity enough, for some hours, to view them by the- light of three fires
they had made at some distance from one another. What they were doing
they knew not, and what to do themselves they knew not; for, first, the
enemy were too many; and, secondly, they did not keep together, but
were divided into several parties, and were on shore in several places.

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight; and as
they found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore, they made
no doubt but some of them would chop in upon their habitation, or upon
some other place where they would see the tokens of inhabitants; and
they were in great perplexity also for fear of their flock of goats, which
would have been little less than starving them, if they should have been '
destroyed. Could they have seen the savages all together in one body,
and at a distance from their canoes, they resolved, if there had been an
hundred of them, to have attacked them; but that could not be obtained,
for there were some of them two miles ofl' from the other, and, as it ap-
peared afterwards, Were of two difl'erent nations.

After having mused a great while on the course they should take, and
exerted themselves in considering their present circumstances, they re-
solved at last, while it was dark, to send the old savage (Friday's father)
out as a spy to learn, if possible, something concerning them, as to what
they came for, and what they intended to do, and the like. The old man
undertook it without hesitation, and, stripping himself quite naked, as
most of the savages were, away he went. After he had been gone an
hour or two, he brings word that he had been among them undiscovered,
that he found they "were two parties, and of two several nations, who had
war with one another, and had had a great battle in their own country:
and that both sides, having had several prisoners taken in the fight, they
were, by more chance, landed on the same island for the devouring their
prisoners, and making merry; but their coming so by chance to the same
place had spoiled all their mirth: that they were in a great rage at one
another, and were so near, that he believed they would fight again as soon
as daylight began to appear; but he did not perceive that they had any
notion of any body's being on the island but themselves. He had hardly
made an end of telling the story, when they could perceive, by the un-
usual noise they made, that the two little armies were engaged in a
bloody fight.

Friday's father used all the orgunents he could to persuade our people
to lie close, and not to be seen; but it was impossible to prevail, espe-
cially upon the Englishmen--their curiosity was so importunate upon
their prudentials, that they must run out and see the battle: however,
they used some caution, namely, they did not go openly just by their own
dwelling, but went further into the woods, and placed themselves to ad-
vantage, where they might securely see them manage the fight, and, as .
they thought, not be seen by them; but it seems the savages did see
them, as we shall find hereafter.

The battle was very fierce, and, if I might believe the Englishmen, one
of them said he could perceive that some of them were men of great bravery,
of invincible spirits, and great policy in guiding the fight. The battle,
they said, held two hours, before they could guess which party would be
beaten; but then that party which was nearest our people's habitation
began to appear weakest, and after some time more, some of them 'began
to fly: and this put our men again into a great consternation, lest any of
those that fled should run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter
and thereby involuntarily discover the place, and that, by consequence, the
pursuers should do the like in search of them. Upon this they resolved
that they would stand armed within the wall, and, whoever came into the
grove, they should sally out over the wall and kill them--so that, if pos-
sible, not one should return to give an account of it. They ordered also
that it should be done with their swords, or by lmocking them down with
the stock of the musket, not by shooting them, for fear of raising an alarm
by the noise.

As they'expeeted, it fell out; three of the routed army fled for life,
and, crossing the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the least know-
ing whither they went, but running as into a thick wood for shelter.
The scout they kept to look abroad gave notice of this within--with this
addition, to our men's great satisfaction, namely, that the conquerors
had not pursued them, or seen which way they were gone. Uponthis
the Spaniard governor, a man of humanity, would not sufi'er them to kill
the fugitives; but sending three men out by the top of the hill, ordered
them to go round and come in behind them, surprise, and take them
prisoners; which was done. The residue of the conquered people fled
to their canoes and got 01? to sea; the victors retired, and made no pursuit,
or very little, but, drawing themselves into a body together, gave two
great screaming shouts, which they supposed were by way of triumph,
and so the fight ended: and the same day, about three o'clock in the after-
noon, they also marchcd to their canoes. And thus the Spaniards had
their island again free to themselves, the fight was over, and they saw
no savages in several years after.

After they were all gone, the Spaniards came out of their den, and:
viewing the field of battle, they found about two-and-thirty dead men
upon the spot. They found not one wounded man that was not stone
dead; for either these savages stay by their enemy till they have quite
killed them, or they carry all the wounded men, that are not quite dead,
away with them.

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while: the sight
had filled them with horror, and the consequence appeared terrible to the
last degree, especially upon supposing that some time or other they should

I
fall into the hands of those creatures, who would not only kill them as
enemies, but kill them for food, as we kill our cattle. This, as I said,
tamed even the three English brutes I have been speaking of, and, for a
great while after, they were very tractable, and went about the common
business of the whole society well enough--planted, sowed, reaped, and
began to be all naturalised to the country; but some time after this, they
tell all into such simple measures again as brought them into a deal of
trouble.

They had taken three prisoners, as I had observed; and these three
being lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants, and taught
them to work for them; and as slaves they did well enough; but they
did not take their measures with them as I did with my man Friday,
namely, to begin with them upon the principle of having saved their lives,
and then instructed.them in the rational principles of life, much less of
religion, eivih'sing apd reducing them by kind usage and affectionate
arguings; but as they gave them their food every day, so they gave them
their work too, and kept them fully employed in drudgery enough: but
they failed in this by it, that they never had them to assist them and
fight for them, as I had my man Friday, who was as true to me as the
very flesh upon my bones.

But to come to the family part. Being all new good friends (for com-
mon danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled them), they began
to consider their general circumstances: and the.first thing that came
under their consideration was, whether, seeing the savages particularly
haunted that side of the island, and that there were more remote and
retired parts of it equally adapted to their way of living, they should not
rather remove their habitation.

After long debate, it was conceived that they should not remove
their habitation, because they thought they might hear from their gover-
nor again, meaning me; and if I should send any one to seek them, I
would be sure to direct them on that side, where, if they should find the
place demolished, they would conclude the savages had killed them all, and
they were gone, and so their supply would go away too. But as to their
corn and cattle, they agreed to remove them into the valley where my
cave was, where the land was as proper to both, and where indeedthere
was land enough: however, upon second thoughts, they altered one part
of that resolution too, and resolved only to remove part of their cattle
thither, and plant part of their com there; and so, if one part was des-
troyed, the other might be saved: and one piece of prudence they used,
which it was very well they did, namely, that they never trusted these
three savages which they had taken prisoners with knowing any thing of
the plantation they had made in that valley, or of any cattle they had
there, much less of the cave there, which they kept in case of necessity
as a safe retreat; and thither they carried also the two Barrels of powder
which I had left them at my coming away.

But, however, they resolved not to change their habitation; yet they
agreed that, as I had carefully covered it first with a wall and fortification
and then with a grove of trees, so seeing their safety consisted entirely in
their being concealed, of which they were new fully convinced, they set
to work to cover and conceal the place yet more effectually than before.

I return to the story. They lived two years after this in perfect
retirement, and had no more visits from the savages. They had indeed an
alarm given them one morning, which put them in a great consternation;
for some'of the Spaniards being out early one morning on the west side, or
rather end, of the island--which by the way was that end where I never
went, for fear of being discovered--they were surprised by seeing above
twenty canoes of Indians just coming on shore.

They made the best of. their way home in hurry enough, and giving
the alarm to their comrades, they kept close all that day and the next,
going out only at night to make observations; but they had the good luck
to be mistaken, for wherever the savages went, they did not land at that
time on the island, but pursued some other design._

And now they had another broil with the three Englishmen, one of
which, a most turbulent fellow, being in a rage at one of the three slaves
which I mentioned they had taken, because the fellow had not done
something right which he bade him do, and seemed a little untractable in
his showing him, drew a hatchet out of a frogbeltin which he bore it by
his side, and fell upon him, the poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill
him. One of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow a
barbarous cut with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head, but struck
into his shoulder, so that he thought he had cut the poor creature's am
off, ran to him, and, entreating him' not to murder the poor man, clapped
in between him and the savage to prevent the mischief.

The fellow, being enraged the more at this, struck at the Spmm with
his hatchet, and swore he would serve him as he intended to serve the
savage; which the Spaniard perceiving, avoided the blow, and with 'a
shovel which he had in his hand (for they were working in the field about
the corn-land) knocked the brute down: another of the Englishmen,
running at the same time to help his comrade, knocked the Spaniard
down, and then two Spaniards more came to help their man, and a third
Englishman fell upon them. They had none of them any fire-arms, or
any other weapon but hatehets and other tools, except the third English:

 

man: he had one of my old rusty eutlusses, with which he made at the
last Spaniards, and wounded them both. This {my set the whole family
in an uproar, and more help coming in, they took the three Englishmen
prisoners. The next question was, what should be done with them?
They had been so often mutinous, and were so furious, so desperate, and
so idle withal, that they knew not what course to take with them, for
they were mischievous to the highest degree, and valued not what hurt
they did any man; so that, in short, it was not safe to live with them.
The Spaniard, who was governor, told them, in so many words, that if
they had been his own countrymen he would have hanged them all--for
all laws and all governors were to preserve society, and those who were
dangerous to society ought to be expelled out of it; but, as they were
Englishmen, and that it was to the generous kindness of an Englishman
that they all owed their preservation and deliverance, he would use them
with all possible lcnity, and would leave them to the judgment of the
other two Englishmen, who were their countrymen.

One of the two honest Englishmen then stood up, and said they
desired it might not be left to them: " For" says he, " I am sure we ought
to sentence them to the gallows ;" and with that gives an account how
Will Atkins, one of the three, had proposed to have all the five Englishmen
join together, and murder all the Spaniards when they were in their sleep.

When the Spanish governor heard this, he calls to Will Atkins:
"How! Scignior Atkins," says he, " will you murder us all? What have
you to say to that?" That hardened villain was so far from denying it,
that he said it was true, and declared they would do it still before
they had done with them. " Well, but Scignior Atkins," said the
Spaniard, "what have we done to you that you would kill us? And
what would you get by killing us? And what must we do to prevent you
killing us? Must we kill you, or will you kill us? Why will you put us
to the necessity'of this, Scignior Atkins?" asks the Spaniard very calmly
and smiling.

Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Spaniard's making a jest of
it, that had he not been held by three men, and withal had no weapons
with him, it was thought he would have attempted to have killed the
Spaniard in the middle of all the company.

This hairbrained carriage obliged them to consider seriously what was
to be done. After along debate, it was agreed, first, that they should be
disarmed, and not permitted to have either a gun, or powder, or shot, or
sword, or any weapom'and should be turned out of the society, and left
to live where they would, and how they could, by themselves; but that
none of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should converse with them,
speak with them, or have any thing to do with them; that they should be
forbid to come within a certain distance of the place where the rest dwelt;
and that, if they ofl'ered to commit any disorder, so as to spoil, burn, kill
or destroy any of the corn, plantings, buildings, fences, or cattle belonging
to the society. they should die without mercy.
. The governor, a man of great humanity, musing upon the sentence,

considered a little upon it, and, turning to the two honest Englishmen,
said, " field, you must reflect that it will be long ere they can raise corn
and cattle of their own, and they must not starve--we must therefore
allow them provisions." So he caused to be added, that they should have
a proportion of corn given them to last them eight months, and for seed
to sow, by which time they might be supposed to raise some of their own;
that they should have six milch-goats, four lie-goats, and six kids, given
them, as well for present subsistence as for a store; and that they should
have tools given them for their work in the field--such as six hatchets,
an,nxe, a saw, and the like; but they should have none of these tools
or provisions unless they would swear solemnly that they would not
hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with them, or their fellow English-
men. '
Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to shift
for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as neither con-
tented to go away or to stay; but as there was no remedy, they went pro-
tending to go and choose a place where they should settle themselves, to
plant and live by themselves, and some provisions were given them, but
no weapons.

They lived in this separate condition about six months, and had got in
their first harvest, but when the rainy season came on, for want of a cave
in the earth they could not keep their grain dry: so they came and
begged the Spaniards to help them, which they very readily did, and in
four days worked a great hole in the side of the hill for them, big enough
to secure their corn and other things from the rain.

About three quarters of a year after this separation, a new frolic took
these rogues, which, together with the former villany they had committed,
brought mischief enough upon them, and had very near been the ruin of
the whole colony.

The three fellows came down to the Spaniards one morning, and, in
very humble terms, desired to be admitted to speak with them: the
Spaniards very readily heard what they had to say, which was this--that
they were tired of living in the manner they did, that they were not
handy enough to make the necessaries they wanted, and that, having no
help, they found they should be starved; but, if the Spaniards would give
them leave to take one of the canoes which they came over in, and give
them arms and ammumtion proportioned to their defence, they would go
over to the main, and seek their fortune, and so deliver them from the
trouble of supplying them with any other provisions.

The Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that, if ' they were re-
solved to go, they should not go like naked men, and be in no condition
to defend themselves; and that though they could ill spare their fire-
arms, having not enough for themselves, yet they would let them have
two muskets, a pistol, and a cutlass, and each man a hatchet, which
they thought sufiicient for them;

In a word, they accepted the offer; and, having baked them bread
enough to serve them a month, and given them as much goat's flesh as
they could eat while it was sweet, and a great basket full of dried grapes,
a pot full of fresh water, and a young kid alive to kill, they boldly set
out in a canoe for a voyage over the sea, where it was at least forty miles
bread. The boat was, indeed, a large one, and would have very well car-
ried fifteen or twenty men, and therefore, was rather too big for them to
manage; but as they had a fair breeze, and the flood-tide with them,
they did well enough. They had made a mast of along pole, and a sail
of four large goat-skins dried, which they had sewed or laced together,
and away they went merrily enough: the Spaniards called after them,
"Ben veajo," and no man ever thought of seeing them any more.

After twenty-five days' absence, one of the two honest Englishmen,
being abroad upon his planting work, sees three strange men coming to-
wards him, two of them with guns upon their shoulders. Away runs the
Englishman, as if he was bewitched, and came fi-ighted and amazed, to
the governor Spaniard, and tells him they were all undone, for there were
strangers landed upon the island, he could not tell who. The Spaniard,
pausing awhile, says to him, " How do you mean, you cannot tell who?
They are savages, to be sure." "No, no," says the Englishman, "they
are men in clothes, with arms." " Nay then," says the Spaniard, " why
are you concerned? If they are not savages, they must'be friends; for
there is no Christian nation upon earth but will do us good rathcrjhau
\arm."

While they were debating thus, came the three Englishmen, and
standing without the wood which was new planted, hallcoed to them;
they presently knew their voices, so all the wonder of that kind ceased.
But now the admiration was turned upon another question, namely, what
could be the matter, and what made them come back again 1'

It was not long before they brought the men in: and, inquiring where
they had been, and what they had been doing, they gave them a full
account of their voyage in a few words--namely, that they reached the
land in two days, or something less; but, finding the people alarmed at
their coming, and prepared with bows and arrows to fight them, they
durst not go on shore, but sailed on to the northward six or seven hours
till they came to a great opening, by which they perceived that the land
they saw from our islands was not the main, but an island; that, entering
that opening of the sea, they saw another island on the right hand north,
and several more west, and, being resolved to land somewhere, they put
over to one of the islands which lay west, and went boldly on shore; that
they found the people very courteous and friendly to them, and they gave
them several roots, and some dried fish, and appeared very sociable; and
the women, as well as the men, were very forward to supply them with
any thing they could get for them to eat, and brought it to them a great
way upon their heads.

They continued here for four days, and inquired, as well as they could
of them by signs, what nations were this way and that way, and were
told of several fierce and terrible people that lived almost every wa , who,
as they made known by signs to them, used to eat men; but, as for them-
selves, they said that they never eat men or women, except only such as
they took in the wars, and then they owned that they made a great feast,
and eat their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had a feast of that kind, and
they told them two moons ago, pointing to the moon, and then to two
fingers; and that their great king had two hundred prisoners now, which
he had taken in his war, and they were feeding them to make them fat
for the next feast. The Englishmen seemed mighty desirous to see those
prisoners, but the others, mistaking them, thought they were desirous to
have some of thcm to carry away for their own eating; so they beckoned
to them, pointing to the setting of the sun, and then to the rising; which
was to signify that the next morning, at sun-rising, they would bring some
for them: and accordingly, the next morning they brought down five
women and eleven men, and gave them to the Englishmen to carry with
them on their voyage, just as we would bring so many cows and oxen
down to a sea-port town to victual a ship.

To refuse the prisoners, would have been the highest affront to the
savage gentry that offered them, and what to do with them they knew
not. However, upon some debate, they resolved to accept of them; and,
in return, they gave the savages that brought them one of their hatehets,
an old key, a knife, and six or seven of their bullets, which, though they
did not understand, they seemed extremely pleased with; and then, tying
the poor creatures' hands behind them, they (the people) dragged the
prisoners into the boat for our men.

Having taken their leave, with all. the respect and thanks that could
well pace between people, where on either side they understood not one
word they could say, the Englishmen put off with their boat, and came
back towards the first island, whee, when they arrived, they set eight of
their prisoners at liberty, there being too many of them for their occasion.

In their voyage they endeavoured to have some communication with
their prisoners, but it was impossible to make them understand any thing;
nothing they could say to them, or give them, or do for them, but was
looked upon as going about to murder them; they first of all unbound
them, but the poor creatures screamed/ at that, especially the women, as
if they had just felt the knife at their throats; for they immediately eon-
eluded they were unbound on purpose to be killed. If they gave them
any thing to out, it was the same thing; then they concluded it was for
fear they should sink in flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill; if they
looked at one of them more particularly, the party presently concluded it
was to see whether he or she was fattest or fittest to lcill first; nay, after
they had brought them quite over, and begun to use them kindly and
treat thhm well, still they expected every day to make a dinner or supper
for their new masters.

When the three wunderers had given this unaccountable history or
journal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their new family
was? and being told that they had brought them on shore, and put
them into one of their huts, and were come to beg some vietuals for them,
they (the Spaniards) and the two other Englishmen--that is to say, the
whole colony--resolved to go all down to the place and see them, and did
so, and Friday's father with them.

When they came into the hut, there they set all bound; tor when
they had brought them on shore they bound their hands, that they might
not take the boat and make their escapkthere, I say, they sat, all of
them stark naked. First, there were three men, lusty, comely tellewa,
well-shaped, with straight and fair limbs, about thirty or thirty-five years
of age; and five. women, whereof two might be from thirty to'forty, two
more not above twenty-four or twenty-five, and the fifth, a tall, comedy

21
maiden, about sixteen or seventeen. The woman were well-favoured,
agreeable persons, both in shape and features, only tawny: and two of
them, had they been perfect white, would have passed for handsome
women even in London itself, having very pleasant, agreeable counte-
nanees, and of a very modest behaviour, especially when they came after-
wards to be clothed, and dressed, as they called it, though that dress was
very indifferent, it must he confessed.

The first thing they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's father,
to go in and see first if he knew any of them, and then if he understood
any of their speech. As soon as the old man came in, he looked seriously
at them, but knew none of them, neither could any of them understand a
word he said, or a sign he could make, except one of the women. How-
ever, this was enough to answer the end, which was to satisfy them that
the men into whose hands they were fallen were Christians, that they
abhorred the eating of men or women, and that they might be sure they
would not be killed. As soon as they were assured of this, they dis-
covered such a joy, and by such awkward and several ways, as is hard to
describe, for'it seems they were of several nations.

The woman, who was their interpreter, was bid to ask them if they
were willing to be servants, and to work for the men who had brought
them away to save their lives? at which they fell a dancing; and pre-
sently one fell to taking up this, and another that--any thing that lay next
to carry on their shoulders, to intimate that they were willing to work.

The governor, who found that the having women among them would
presently he attended with some ineonvenieney, and might occasion some
strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what they intended to do
with these women, and how they intended to use them, whether as ser-
vants or as wives? One of the Englishmen answered very boldly and
readily, that they would use them as both. To which the governor said,
" I am not going to restrain you from it,---yon are your own masters as to
that; but this I think is but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels
among you, and I desire it of you for that reason only, namely, that you
will all engage that, if any of you take any of these women as a. wife, he
shall take but one." All this appeared so just, that every one agreed to
it without any difllenlty. _

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to take
any of them? But every one answered, No. Some of them said they had
wives in Spain; and the others did not like women that were not Chris-aonmson 011113011. 323

tians: and all together declared that they would not touch one of them,
which was an instance of such virtue as I have not met with in all my
travels. 0n the other hand, to be short, the five Englishmen took them
every one a wife ; and so they set up a new tom of living, for the
Spaniards and Friday's father lived in my old habitation, which they had
enlarged exceedingly within: the three servants, which they had taken' in
the late battle of the savages, lived with them; and these_ carried on the
main part of the colony, supplying all the rest with food, and assisting
them in any thing as they could, or as they found necessity required.

But the wonder of this story was, how five such refractory, ill-matched
fellows, should agree about these women, and that two of them should not
pitch upon the same woman, especially seeing two or three of them were,

' without comparison, more agreeable than the others: butvthey took a good
way enough to prevent quarrelling among themselves; for they set the
five women by themselves in one of their hats, and they went all into the
other hat, and drew lots among them who should choose first. He that
drew to choose first, went away by himself to the hut wherethe poor
creatures were, and. fetched out her he chose; and it was worth observing,
that he that chose first took her that was reckoned the homeliest and the
oldest of the five, which made mirth enough among the rest; and even
the Spaniards laughed at it: but the fellow considered better than any of
them, that it was application and business that they were to expect as-
sistanceinasmachassnythingelse; andshepravedthebestwifeinthe
parcel.

When they had all chosen their wives, the men went to work, said the
Spaniards came and helped them; and in a few hours they had built them
every one a new hat or tent for their lodging apart. The three wicked
ones had pitched farthest off, and the two honest ones nearer, but both on
the north shore of the island, so that they continued separate as before:
and thus my island was peopled' in three places, and, as I might say, three
towns were begun to be planted.

And here it' is very well worth observing, that, as it often happens in '

the world (what thewiseendsof God'sprovideneeareinsuchadisposifion
of things, Icannot say),thetwo honestfellowshadthetwoworst wives;
and thethrearepmbates,thatwerescareeworthhanging,thatwarefit
fornothing,audneithsrseemedborntodothemsslvesgood,noranyon3
celseyhadthreeolever, diligent, careful, andingeniouswives--nottlnitthe
twofirstwcreillwivesastotheirtemperorhnmair,foraflthefivewero
most willing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather like slaves
than wives; but my meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious,
or industrious, or alike cleanly and neat.

As to the three reprobates, as I justly call them, though they were
much civilised by their new settlement, compared to what they were
before, and were not so quarrelsome, having not the same opportunity, yet
one of the certain companions of a profligate mind never left them, and
that was their idleness. It is true, they planted corn and made fences;
but Solomon's words were never better verified than in them--"I went
by the vineyard of the slothful, and it was overgrown with thorns ;" for
when the Spaniards came to view their crop, they could not see it in some
places for weeds: the hedge had several gaps in it, where the wild goats
had gotten in andcaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a dead bush
was crammed in to stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting
the stable-door after the steed was stolen: whereas, when they looked on
the colony of the other two, there was the very face of industry and suc-
cess upon all they did; there was not a weed to be seen in all their corn,
or a gap in any of their hedges; and they, on the other hand, verified
Solomon's words in another place: " The diligent hand maketh rich ;"
for everything grew and thrived, and they had plenty within and without;
they had more tame cattle than the others, more utensils and necessaries
within doors, and yet more pleasure and diversion too. The diligent lived
well and comfortable, and the slothful lived hard and beggarly; and so, I
believe, generally speaking, it is all over the world.

But now I come to a scene difl'erent from all that had happened before,
either to them or me; and the origin of the story was thin--Early one
morning there came on shore five or six canoes of Indians, or savages, call
them which you please; and there is no room to doubt that they came
upon the old errand of feeding upon their slaves: but that part was now
so familiar to the Spaniards, and to our men too, that they had nothing to
do but to give notice to all the three plantations to keep within doors,
and not to show themselves,--only placing a scout in a proper place, to
give notice when the boats went ofi' to see again.

This was, without doubt, very right; but a disaster spoiled all these
measures, and made it known among the savages that there were inha-
bitants there, which was, in the end, the desolation of almond the whole
colony. After the canoes with the savages were gone ofi', the Spaniards
poeped abroad again, and some of them had the curiosity to go to the
place where theth been, to see what theyhad been doing. Here, to
theirgreatsurprise,theyfoundthreesavageeleftbehind,andlyingfast
asleep upon the ground. The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this
sight, and perfectly at a less what to do. After some consultation, they
resolved upon this, that they would lie still awhile longer, till, if possible,
these three men might be gone: but then the governor Spaniard recol-
lected that the three savages had no heat, and that if they were left to
rove about the island, they would certainly discover that there were in-
habitants in it, and so they should be undone that way. Upon this, they
went back again, and there lay the fellows fast asleep still; so they
resolved to awaken them, and take them prisoners; and they did so, and
away they carried them, first to the bower, where was the chief of their
countrywork, and afterwards to the habitation of the two Englishmen. Here
they were set to work, though it was not much they had for them to do;
and, whether it was by negligence in guarding them, or that they thought
the fellows could not mend themselves, I know not, but one of them
run away, and, taking into the woods, they could never hear of him
more.
They had good reason to believe he got home again soon after in
some other boots or canoes of savages, who came on shore three or four
weeks afterwards, and who carrying on their revels as usual, went off
again in two days' time. This thought terrified them exceedingly; for
they concluded, and that not without good cause indeed, that if this
fellow got safe home among his comrades, he would certainly give them
an account that there were people in the island, as also how week and
few they were. The first testimony they had that this fellow had given
intelligence of them was, that, about two months after this, six canoes
of savages, with about seven, or eight, or ten men in a canoe, came
rowing along the north side of the island, where they never used to come
before, and landed, about an hour after sunrise, at a convenient place
about a mile from the habitation of the two Englishmen, where this
escaped man had been kept.

When the poor frighted men had secured their wives and goods,
they sent one of the slaves they had of the three who came 'with the
women, and who was at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards

withdlspecdtogivethemthedamauddesire speedyhelp;and,in'

the meantime, they took their arms and what ammunition they had,
and retreated towards the place in the wood when their wives were

I u

l "u
sent, keeping at a distance, yet so that they might see, if possible, which
way the savages took.

They had not gone far but that, from a rising ground, they could see
the little army of their enemies come on directly to their habitation,
and in a moment more could see all their huts and household stufi'
flaming up together to their great grief and mortification; for they had
a very great loss, and to them irretrievable, at least for some time. They
kept their station for a while, till they found the savages, like wild
beasts, spread themselves all over the place, rummaging every place
they could think of in search for prey, and, in particular, for the people,
of whom it plainly appeared they had intelligence.

The two Englishmen, seeing this, thought it proper to make another
retreat about half a mile further, believing, as it afterwards happened,
that the farther they strolled, the fewer would be together. The next
halt was at the entrance into a very thick grown part of the woods,
and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and vastly
large; and in this tree they both tool: their standing, resolving to see
what might offer. They had not stood there long, but two of the
savages appeared running directly that way, and, a little way farther,
they espied three more coming after them, and five more behind them,
all coming the same way: besides which, they saw seven or eight more
at a distance, running another way; for, in a word, they run every way,
like sportsmen heating for their game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity, but, after a very short
debate, they resolved to stand them there, and if they were too many
to deal with, then they would get to the top of the tree, from whence
they doubted not to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as their
ammunition lasted. They next considered whether they should fire at
the two first, or wait for the three, and so take the middle party, by
which the two and the five that followed would be separated; at length
they resolved to let the two first pass by, unless they should spy them
in the tree and come to attach them. The two first savages also con-
firmed them in this resolution, by taming a little from them towards
another part of the wood; but the three, and the five after them, came
forwards directly to the tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were
there. As the savages came on, they plainly saw that one of the three
was the runaway savage that had escaped from them, and they resolved
that, if possible, he should not escape, though they should both fire 5 so
the other stood ready with his piece, that, if he did not drop at the first
shot, he should be sure to have a second. But the first was too good a
marksman to miss his aim; for, as the savages kept near one another a.
little behind in a line, he fired, and hit two of them directly; the fore.
most was killed outright, being shot in the head; the second, which was
the runaway Indian, was shot through the body and fell, but was not
quite dead; and the third had a little scratch in the shoulder, perhaps by
the same ball that went through the body of the second, and being dread.-
fully fn'ghted, though not much hurt, sat down upon the ground, scream-
ing and yelling in a hideous manner.

The five that were behind, more frightcd with the noise than sensible
of their danger, stood still at first; for the woods made the sound a thou.
sand times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling from one side to
another. However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what
the matter was, came on unconcerned to the place where their com-
panions lay; and here the poor ignorant creatures, not sensible that they
were within reach of the same mischief, stood all of a huddle over the
wounded man, inquiring, as may be supposed, how he came to be hurt.
Our two men, having them all thus in their power, add the first having
loaded his piece again, resolved to let fly both together among them, and,
singling out by agreement which to aim at, they shot together, and killed,
or very much wounded, four of them; the fifth, frighted even to death,
though not hurt, fell with the rest; so that our men, seeing them all fall
together, thought they had killed them all. This belief made our two
men come boldly out from the tree before they had charged their guns
again, which was a wrong step, and they were under some surprise when
they came to the place and found no less than four of the men alive, and
of them two very little hurt, and one not at all: this obliged them to fell
upon them with the stocks of their muskcte ; and first they made sure 01
the runaway savage that had been the cause of all the mischief, and
of another that was hurt in his knee, and put them out of their pain.
Then themanthatwasnot hurt at all came and kneeled down to them '
with his two hands held up, and made piteous mean to them by gestures
and signs for his life that they could understand.

They signified to him to sit down at the footof sheethereby; and
one of the Englishmen, with a piece of rope-twine whieh he had by chance
inhis pocket, tiedhis feet feet together, and his hands behind him, and
theretheylefthim, sndmade with what speedthey couldafter the other
two which were gone before, fearing they, or any more of them, should
find their way to their covered place in the woods, where their wives, and
the few goods they had left, lay. They came once in sight of the two
men, but it was at a great distance; however, they had the satisfaction to
see them cross over a valley towards the sea, the quite contrary way from
that which led to their retreat ; and, being satisfied with that, they went
back to the tree where they left the prisoner, but he was gone, and tho
two pieces of rope-yarn with which they had bound him lay just at the
foot of the tree.

They were now in as great a concern as before, not knowing how near
the enemy might be, or in what numbers; so they resolved to go away to
the place where their wives were, to see if all was well there. When
they came thither, they found the savages had been in the wood, and very
near the place, but had not found it; for indeed it was inaccessible, by
the trees standing so thick, unless the persons seeking it had been directed
by those who knew it, which these were not. While they were here,
they had the comfort of seven of the Spaniards coming to their assistance;
the other ten men, with their servants and Friday's father, were gone in
a body to defend their bower, and the corn and cattle that were kept,
there. With the seven Spaniards came one of the savages, who, as I said,
were their prisoners formerly, and with them also came the savage whom
the Englishmen had left bound hand and feet at the tree; for it seems
they came that way, saw the slaughter of the seven men, and. unbound
the eighth, and brought him along with them.

The two Englishmen were now so encouraged, that they could not
satisfy themselves to stay any longer there; but, taking five of the
Spaniards and themselves, with four maskets and a pistol among them,
and two stout quarter-staves, away they went in quest of the savages.
And first they came to the tree where the men lay that had been killed;
but it was easy to see that some more of the savages had been there, for
they had attempted to carry their dead men away, and had dragged two
of them a good way, but had given it over. From thence they advanced
to the first rising ground, where they had stood and seen their camp
destroyed, and where they had the mortification still to see some of the
smoke. They then resolved to go forward towards their plantation; but
a little before they came thither, coming in sight of the sea-shore, they
plainly saw the savages all embarking again in their canoes.

The poor Englishmen being new twice ruined, and all their improve-
mentsdestmyed,therestallagmedtoeomeandhelpfi1emtorebuild, and
to assist them with needful supplies. Their three countrymen, who were
not yetnoted forhavingtheleastinelination to do anything good, yetas
soonastheyheardofitcameandoiferedtheirhelp andssaistance,and
did very friendly work for several days to restore their habitations, and
make necessaries for-them; and thus, inalittla, thewa set upon their
legs again.

It was five or six months after this, when, on a sudden, they were
invaded with a most formidable fleet of no less than twenty-eight canoes,
full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords,
and such like engines of war; and they brought such numbers with them,
that, in short, it put all our people into the utmost consternation. These
new invaders, leaving their canoes at the east end of the island, came
ranging along the shore directly towards the phntafion of the two
Englishmen, to the number of two hundred and fifty, as near as our men
could judge. Our army was but small indeed; but, that which was
worse, they had not arms for all their number neither. The whole
account, it seems, stood thus :--first, as to men---

17 Spaniards.
5 Englishmen.
1 Old Friday, or Friday's father. -
3 Slaves taken with the women who proved very faithful,
8 Other slaves, who lived with the Spaniards.

29
To arm these they had---

11 muskets.
5 Pistols.
8 Fowling-pieces.
5 Muskets, or fowling-pieces, which were taken by me from

the mntinous seamen whom I reduced.

2 Swords.
8 Old halberts.

29

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusil, but they had
every one a halbert, or along stafi', like a. quarter-stafi', with a great spike
of iron fastened into each end of it, and by his side a hatchet; also every
one of our men had hatchets. Two of the women could not be prevailed
upon, but they would come into the fight, and they had bows and arrows
whichthe Spaniardshndtakenfromtbesavageewhentbefirstaction
happened, when the indium fought with one another.
0'10 ADVENTURES OF

The Spaniard governor commanded the whole; and William Atkins,
who, though a dreadful fellow for wickedness, was a most daring bold
fellow, commanded under him. The savages came forward like lions, and
our men, which was the worst of their fate, had no advantage in their '
situation, only that W ill Atkins, who now proved a most useful fellow,
with six men, was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes, as an
advanced guard, with orders to let the first of them pass by, and then fire
into the middle of them; and as soon as ho had fired, to make his retreat
round a part of the wood, and so come in behind the Spaniards where they
stood, having a thicket of trees all before them.

When the savages came on, they ran straggling about every way in
heaps, out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fifty of them
pass by him; then, seeing the rest come in a very thick throng, he ordered
three of his men to fire, having loaded their muskets with six or seven
bullets a-pieee, about as big as pistol bullets. How many they killed or
wounded they knew not; but the consternation and surprise was inex-
prossible among the savages, who were frighted to the last degree, to hear
such a dreadful noise, and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see
nobody that did it; when, in the middle of their fright, William Atkins
and his other thrcelct fly again among the thickest of them; and, in less
than a minute, the first three, being loaded again, gave them a third
volley.

Had William Atkins and his men retired as soon as they had fired, or
had the rest of the body been at hand to have poured in their shot con-
tinually, the savages had been effectually rented; for the terror that was
among them came principally from this, namely, that they were killed by
the gods with thunder and lightning, and could see nobody that hurt
them: but William Atkins staying to load again, discovered the cheat,
and some of the savages, spying them, came upon them behind, wounded
Atkins himself, and killed one of his fellow Englishmen with their arrows,
as they did afterwards one Spaniard and one of the Indian slaves who
came with the women. Our men, being thus hard laid at, retreated to a
rising ground in the wood; and the Spaniards, after firing three volleys
upon them, retreated also: for the number of the savages was so great
that, though above fifty of them were killed, and more than so many
wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of our men, fearless of danger,
and shot their arrows like a cloud.

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together upon
a rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded, would have had him
march, and charge them all together at once, but the Spaniard replied,
" Seignior Atkins, you see how their wounded men fight--let them alone
till morning; all these wounded men will be stilt and sore with their
wounds, and faint with the loss of blood, and so we shall have the fewer
to engage." The advice was good; but Will Atkins replied merrily,
"That's true, Seignior, and so shall I too; and that's the reason I would
go on while I am warm."---"Well, Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard,
" you have behaved gallantly, and done your part; we will fight for you,
if you cannot come on: but I think it best to stay till morning." So they
wmmd

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages in
great disorder about their dead and wounded men, and a. great hurry and
noise among them where they lay, they afterwards resolved to fall upon
them in the night. One of the two Englishmen, in whose quarter it was
where the fight began, led them round between the woods and the sea.-
side, westward; and, taming short south, they came so near where the
thickest of them lay, that before they were seen or heard, eight of them
fired among them, and did dreadful execution upon them: in half a
minute more eight others fired after them, pouring in their small shotin
such a quantity that abundance were killed and wounded: and all this
while they were not able to see who hurt them, or which way to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then
divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to fall in among them
all together. The savages stood altogether, but were in the utmost con-
fusion, hearing the noise of our men shouting from three quarters together:
they would have fought if they had seen us, but our men gave them no
time, but, running up to them, fired among them three ways, and then
fell in with the butt ends of their muskets, their swords, armed staves,
and hatchets; and laid about them so well that, in a word, they set up a
dismal screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which way soever
they could. Our men were tired with the execution, and killed, or met-
tally wounded, in the two fights, about one hundred and eighty of them:
the rest, being frighted outof their wits, scoured through the woods and
over the hills with all the speed that fear arid nimble feet could help
them to do, and they got all together to the sea-side, where theylanded
and where their canoes lay. But it blew a terrible storm of wind that
evening from the seaward, so that it was impossible for them to put ofi' :
their canoes were most of them driven by the surge of the sea so high
upon the shore, that it required infinite toil to get them ofi' : and some of
them were dashed to pieces against the beach, or against one another.

Our men, though glad of their victory, yet get little rest that night;
but, having refreshed themselves as well as they could, they resolved to
march to that part of the island where the savages were fled. When they
came in view of the place where the remains of the savages' army lay,
there appeared about one hundred still: their posture was generally sit.
ting upon the ground, with their knees up towards their mouth, and the
head put between the hands, leaning down upon the knees. The Spaniard
governor ordered two muskets to be fired without ball, to alarm them:
this he did, that by their countenance he might know what to expect--
namely, whether they were still in heart to fight, or were so heartily
beaten, as to be dispiritcd and discouraged, and so he might manage
accordingly.

This stmtegem took; for, as soon as the savages heard the first gun
and saw the flash of the second, they started upon their feet in the
greatest consternation imaginable; and, as our men advanced, they ran
screaming and yawling away up the hills into the country.

At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm, and
they hadall gone away to sea. But Will Atkins proved the best counsellor
in this case. His advice was, to take the advantage that offered, and clap
in between them and their boats, and so deprive them of the capacity of
ever returning any more to plague the island. He told them they had
better have to do with one hundred men than with one hundred nations;
that, as they must destroy their boats, so they must destroy the men, or
be all of them destroyed themselves. In a word, he showed them the
necessity of it so plainly, that they all came into it: so they went to
work immediately with the boats, and, getting some dry wood together
from a dead tree, they tried to set some of them on fire; but they were so
wet, that they would scarce burn. However, the fire so burned the upper
part, that it soon made them unfit for swimming in the sea as boats
When the Indians saw what they were about, some of them came run-
ning out of the woods, and, coming as near as they couldto our men,
kneeled down, and made pitiful gestures and strange noises, begging to
have their boats spared, and that they would be gone, and never return
thither again.

But our men were new satisfied that they had no way to preserve
themselves, or to save their colony, but efi'eotually to prevent any of these
people from ever going home again; so that, letting them know that they
should not have any mercy, they fell to work with their canoes, and de-
stroyed them every one that the storm had not destroyed before: at the
sight of which the savages raised a hideous cry in the woods, which our
people heard plain enough, after which they ran about the island like
distracted men.

Nor did the Spaniards, with all their prudence, consider that, while
they made those people thus desperate, they ought to have kept good
guard at the same time upon their plantations; for though the Indians
did not find their main retreat, yet they found out my plantation at the
bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and planting about
it; trod all the corn under foot; tore up the vines and grapee,.being just
then almost ripe: and did our men an inestimable damage.

Though our men were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet they
were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and down; for, as
they were too nimble of foot for our men when they found them single, so
our men durst not go about single for fear of being surrounded with their
numbers. The first thing they concluded, when they saw what their
circumstances were, was that they would, if possible, drive them up to
the farther part of the island, south-east, that, if any more savages came
on shore, they might not find one another; then that they would daily
hunt and harass them, and kill as many of them as they could come at, till
they had reduced the number; and, if they could at last tame them and
bring them to any thing; they Would give them corn, and teach them how
to plant, and live upon their daily labour. In order to this they followed
them, and so terrified them with their guns, that in a few days, if any of
them fired a gun at an Indian, if he did not hit him, he would fall down
for fear; and so dreadfully frighted they were, that they kept out of sight
farther and farther, til'. at last our men, following them, and every day
almost killing and wounding some of them, they kept up in the woods
and hollow places so much that it reduced them to the utmost misery for
want of food; and many were afterwards found dead in the woods with-
out any hurt, but merely starved to death.

When our men found this, it made their hearts relent, and pity moved
them, especially the Spaniard governor, who was the mo" generous-
minded man that ever I met with in mylife; and he proposed,ifpos-
sible, to take one of them "alive, and bring him to understand what they
meant, so far as to be able to act as interpreter, andto go among them .
and see if they might be brought to some conditions that might be de-
pended upon, to save their lives, and do us no spoil.

It was some time before any of them could be taken; but, being weak
and halt-starved, one of them was at last surprised, and made a prisoner-
They brought old Friday to him, who told him how kind the others
would be to them all; that they would not only save their lives, but
would give them a part of the island to live in, and corn to plant, and
bread for their present subsistence, provided they would give satisfaction
that they should keep in their own bounds, and not come beyond them,
to injure or prejudice others. Old Friday bade the fellow go and talk
with the rest of his countrymen, and hear what they said to it, assuring
them that if they did not agree immediately, they should all be destroyed.

The poor-wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number to
about thirty-seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, upon which
twelve Spaniards and two Englishmen, well armed, and three Indian
slaves, and old Friday, marched to the place where they were. The
three Indian slaves carried them a large quantity of bread, and some rice
boiled up to cakes and dried in the sun, and three live goats; and they
were ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat down, eat the pro-
visions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fellows to their words
that could be thought of; for, except when they came to beg victuals and
directions, they never came out of their bounds, and them they lived
when I came to the island, and I went to see them.

They had taught them to plant corn, make bread, breed tame goats,
and milk them; they wanted nothing but wives, and they would soon
have been a nation. Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such
as I made for myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets, and three or
four knives; and there they lived, the most subjected innocent creatures
that were ever heard of. After this, the colony enjoyed a perfect tran-
quillity with respect to the savages, till I came to revisit them, which was
in about two years. Not but now and then some canoes of savages came
on shore for their tn'umphal, unnatural feasts; but, as they Were of several
nations, and, perhaps, had never heard of those that came before, or the
reason of it, they did not make any search or enquiry after their country-
men; and if they had, it would have been very hard for them to have
found them out.
{he islanders are greatly relieved by the arrival of Crusoe, who ihrnishes them with tools of all
kinds--The Spaniards recount their adventures among the ravages before they came to the
island, and describe their joy at being delivered--Will Atkins, who had been the ringleader o!
the English sailors in their evil doings, having shown a better disposition, the Spaniards take
him and his cmnpanions into their eonfldenceh'l'he island is diridcd into three colonies--The
I'reneh priest, whom Crusoe had brought out of the ship relieved by him at sea, proposes certain
reforms-Conversion of Will Atkins' Indium wife--The English sailors are married--A religious
conversation--Crusoe leaves the island in a hopeful condition.

S; HUS, I think, I have given a full account of all that hap-
pened to my return, at least that was worth notice. My

if" coming was a particular relief to those people, because we

W furnished them with knives, scissors, spades, shovels, pick-
uxes, and all things of that kind which they could want. With the help
of these tools they were so very handy, that they came at last to build up
their huts, or houses, very handsomely, raddling, or working it up like
basket-work all the way round, which was a very extraordinary piece of
ingenuity, and looked very odd, but was an exceedingly good fence, as
well aggrinst heat as against all sorts of vermin; and our men were so
taken with it, that they got the wild savages to come and do the like for
them: so that when I came to see the two Englishman's colonies, they
looked, at a, distance, as if they lived all like bees in a hive; and, as for
Will Atkins, who was now become a very industrious, necessary, and
sober fellow, he had made himself such a tent of basket-work as I believe
was never seen. This fellow showed abundance of ingenuity in several
things which he had no knowledge of : he made himself a forge, with a.
pair of wooden bellows to blow the fire; he made himself charcoal for his
work, and he formed out of one of the iron crows a. middling good anvil
to hammer upon: in this manner he made many things, but especially
hooks, staples and spikes, bolts and hinges. -

As for religion, I don't know that there was any thing of that kind
among them; they pretty often, indeed, put one another in mind that
there was a God, by the very common method of seamen, namely, swear-
ing by His name: nor were their poor, ignorant, savage wives, much the
better for having been married to Christians, as we must call them; for,
as they knew very little of God themselves, so they were utterly incapable
of entering into any discourse with their wives about a God, or to talk
any thing to them concerning religion. The utmost of all the improve-
ment which I can say the wives had. made from them was, that they had
taught them to speak English pretty well; and all the children they had,
which were near twenty in all, were taught to speak English, too, from
their first learning to speak, though they at first spoke it in a very broken
manner, like their mothers. The mothers were all a good sort of well-
governed, quiet, laborious women, modest and decent, helpful to one
another, mighty observant and subject to their masters--I cannot call
them husbands--and wanted nothing but to be well instructed in the
Christian religion, and to be legally married.

Having thus given an account of the colony in general, and pretty
much of my five runagato Englishmen, I must say something of the
Spaniards, who were the main body of the family, and in whose story
there are some incidents also remarkable enough. I had a great many
discourses with them about their circumstances when they were among
the savages: they told me readily that they had no instances to give of
their application or ingenuity in that country; that they were a poor,
miserable, dejected handful of people; that, if means had been put into
their hands, they had yet so abandoned themselves to despair, and so sunk
under the weight of their misfortunes, that they thought of nothing but
starving. One of them, a grave and very sensible man, told me it was
remarkable that Englishmen had a greater presence of mind in their dis-
tress than any peoplo that he ever met wither-that their unhappy nation,
and the Portuguese, were the worst men in the world to struggle with mis-
fortunes; for, that their first step in dangers, after common efforts are
over, was always to despair--lie down under it and die, without musing
their thoughts up to proper remedies for escape. They gave me dismal
accounts of the extremities they were driven to; how sometimes they
were many days without any food at all, the island they were upon being
inhabited by a sort of savage that lived more indolent, and for that reason
were less supplied with the necessaries of life than they had reason to be~
licvc others were in the same part of the world; and yet they 'ound that
these savages were less ravenous and voracious than those who had better
supplies of food.

Then they gave me an account how the savages, whom they lived
among, expected them to go out with them into their wars; but, being
without powder and shot, when they came on the field of battle, they
were in a worse condition than the savages themselves, for they neither
had bows nor arrows, nor could they use those the savages gave them, so
that they could do nothing but stand still and be wounded with arrows,
till they came up to the teeth of their enemy; till at last they found the
way to make themselves large targets of wood, which they covered with
skins of wild beasts,--and these covered them from the arrows of the
savages; that notwithstanding these, they were sometimes in great danger,
and were once five of them knocked down together with the clubs of the
savages, which was the time when one of them was taken prisoner, that
is to say, the Spaniard whom I had relieved; that at first they thought
he had been killed, but when afterwards they heard he was taken prisoner

they were under the greatest grief imaginable, and would willingly have
all ventured their lives to have rescued him.

They described, most ufi'ectionatelv, how they were surprised with joy
at the return of their friend and companion in misery, and how they were
astonished at the sight of the relief I sent them, and at the appearance of
leaves of bread, things they had not seen since their coming to that
miserable place. And, after all, they would have told me something of
the joy they were in at the sight of a boat and pilots to carry them away
to the person and place from whence all these new comforts came; but it
was. impossible to express it by words, for their excessive joy driving them
to unbecoming extravagances, they had no way to describe them but by
telling me that they bordered upon lunacy. All these things made me
more sensible of the relation of these poor men, and more afi'ected with it.

Having thus given a view of the state of things as I found them, I
must relate the heads of what I did for these people, and the condition in
which I left them. I entered into a serious discourse with theSpaniar-d,
whom I called governor, about their stay in the island. I toldthem I
came to establish them there, not to remove them; and then I iet them
know that I had brought with me relief of sundry kinds for them; that
I had been at a great charge to supply them with all things necessary, as
well for their convenience as their defence; and that I had such parti-
cular persons with me, as well to increase and recruit their number, as by
the particular and necessary employments which they were bred to, being
artificers, to assist them in those things in which at present they were to
seek. They were all together when I talked thus to them: and before I
delivered to them the stores I had brought, I asked them, one by one, if
they had entirely forgot and buried the first animosities that had been
among them, and could shake hands with one another, and engage in a
strict friendship and union of interest, so that there might be no more
misunderstandings or jealousies. William Atkins, with abundance of
frankness and good humour, said they had met with afl'lictions enough to
make them all sober, and enemies enough to make them all friends; that,
for his part, he was very willing and desirous of living on terms of entire
friendship and union with them, and would do any thing that lay in his
power to convince them of it; and as for going to England, he cared not
if he did not go thither these twenty years.

The Spaniards said they had indeed at first disarmed and excluded
William Atkins and his two countrymen, for their ill conduct, but that
Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the great fight they had with
the savages, and on several occasions since, and had showed himself so
faithful to, and concerned for, the general interest of them all, that they
had forgotten all that was past, and thought he merited as much to be
trusted with arms, and supplied with necessaries, as any of them; and that
they had testified their satisfaction in him, by committing the command
to him, next to the governor himself: and, as they had an entire confi-
dence in him and all his countrymen, they most heartily embraced the
occasion of giving me this assurance, that they would never have any
interest separate from one another.

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we appointed
the next day to dine altogether; and, indeed, we made a splendid feast,
at which we were very innocently merry: I brought out my cargo of goods,
wherein, that there might be no dispute about dividing, I showed them
that there was sufiicient for them all. Having distributed these among
them, I presented to them the people I had brought with me, particularly
the tailor, the smith, and the two carpenters, all of them most necessary
people; but, above all, my general artificer, than whom they could not
name any thing that was more needful to them: and the tailor, to show
his concern for them, went to work immediately, and made them every
one a shirt the first thing he did; and, which was still more, he taught
the Women not only how to sew and stitch, and use the needle, but made
them assist to make the shirts for their husbands, and for allthe rest.
As for the carpenters, they took in pieces all my clumsy unhandy things,
and made them clever convenient tables, stools, bedsteads, cupboards,
lockers, shelves, and every thing they wanted of that kind. -

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every man a
digging spade, a shovel, and a rake, and to every separate place a pick-axe,
a crow, a broad axe, and a saw; always appointing that, as often as any
were broken, or worn out, they should be supplied, without grudging, out
of the general stores that I left behind. Neils, staples, hinges, hammers,
chisels, knives, scissors, and all sorts of tools and iron-work, they had
without tale, as they required; and, for the use of the smith, I left two
tons of unwrought iron for a supply.

My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was such
even to profusion, that they could not but rejoice at them; for now they
could march, as I used to do, with a musket upon each shoulder, if there
was occasion, and were able to fight a thousand savages, if they had but
some little advantages of situation, which also they could not miss of if
they had occasion.

I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was starved
to death, and the maid also: she was a. sober, well educated, religious
young woman, and behaved so inofi'ensively, that every one gave her
a good word. After a while, seeing things so well ordered, and in so fine
a way of thriving upon my island, and considering that they had neither
business nor acquaintance in the East Indies, nor reason for taking so long
a voyage, both of them desired I would give them leave to remain on the
island, and be entered among myfamily, as theycalled it. I agreedto
it readily, and they had a little plot of ground allotted to them, where
they had three tents or houses set up, surrounded with a basket-work,
palisaded like Atkins's, and adjoining to his plantation. And now the
other two Englishmen moved their habitation to the same place, and so
the island was divided into three colonies, and no more: namely, the
Spaniards, with old Friday and the first servants, at my old habitation
under the bill, which was, in a word, the capitalcity; andneverwas
there suchalittle cityinawood,andsohid, Ibelieve,inanyputoftbe
world. The other colony was that of Will Atkins, where there were four

EnghshmenIhadlefttherqwiththeirwiveaandcbildren; three

savagesthatwe'reslaves; thewidowandchildrenoftheEuglishmantbat

waskilled, andtheyoungmanandthemaid; and,bytheway,wamadel
a wife of her also before we went away. There were also the two
carpenters and the tailor, whom I brought with me for them; also the
smith, and my other man, whom I called "Jacbof-all-tmdes," who was
himself as good almost as twenty men, for he was not only a very in-
genious fellow, but a very merry fellow; and before I went away, we
married him to the honest maid that came with the youth in the ship,
whom I mentioned before.

And now I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say something
of the French ccclcsiastic, that I had brought with me out of the ship's
crew whom I took at sea. It is true, this man was a Roman; but justice
demands of me to give him a due character; and I must say he was
a grave, sober, pious, and most religious person; exact in his life, exten-
sive in his charity, and exemplary in almost every thing he did. The
first hour that I began to converse with-him, after he had agreed to
go with me to the East Indies, I found reason to delight exceedingly in
his conversation. He gave me a most diverting account of his life, and of
adventures which had befallen him; and particularly this was very
remarkable, namely, that during the voyage he was now engaged in, he
had the misfortune to be five times shipped and unshipped, and never to
go to the place whither any of the ships he was in were at first designed.

But I shall not make digressions into other men's stories, which have
no relation to my own. I return to what concerns our sfi'airs in the
island. He came to me one morning and told me, with a very grave
countenance, that he had for two or three days desired an opportunity of
some discourse with me, which he hoped might, in some measure, cor-res.
pond with my general design, which was the prosperity of my new colony,
and perhaps might put it, at least more than he yet thought it was, in the
way of God's blessing. "There arethreethings," said he, "which, if I am
right, must stand in the way of God's blessing upon your endeavours here,
and which I should rejoice to see removed. First, you have here four
Englishmen, who have fetched women from among the savages, and have
taken them as their wives, and yet are not married to them after any
stated legal manner, as the laws of God and man require; and therefore
are yet living in adultery. To this, air," said he, "I know you will
object, that there was no clergyman or priest of any kind, or of any pro
fession, to perform the ceremony; nor any pen and ink, or paper, to'write
down a contract of marriage, and have it signed between them. And I
know also, sir, what the Spaniard governor has told you--I mean of the
agreement that he obliged them to make when they took these women,
namely, that they should choose them out by consent, and keep separately
to them ;' which, by the way, is nothing of a marriage, no agreemenl
with the women as wives, but only an agreement among themselves,
to keep them from quarrelling. Now, sir," says he, "these men may.
when they please, or when occasion presents, abandon these women, dis-
own their children, leave them to perish, and~take other women and
marry them whilst these are living." And here he added, with some
warmth, "How, air, is God honoured in this unlawful liberty? And how
shall a blessing succeed your endeavours in this place, however good
in themselves, and however sincere in your design, while these men, who
at present are your subjects, under your absolute government and do-
minion, are allowed by you to live in open adultery l'"

I thought to have gotten off with my young priest by telling him
that all that part was done when I was not here, and they had lived so
many years with them now, that it was past remedy. "Sir," says he,
"asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right in this--that it
being done in your absence, you could not be charged with that part of the
crime. But I beseech you, flatter not yourself that you are not therefore
under an obligation to do your uttermost now to put an end to it. Let
the time past lie on whom it will, all the guilt for the future will
lie entirely upon you. Because it is certainly in your power now to put
an end to it, and in nobody's power but yours."

I imagined that, by putting an end to it, he meant that I should part
them, and not suffer them to live together any longer; and I said to him
I could not do that by any means, for that it would put the whole island
in confusion. He seemed surprised that I should so far mistake him.
'9 No, sir," said he, " I do not mean that you should separate them, but
legally and efi'ectually marry them now. And, air, as my way of marry-
ing may not be so easy to reconcile them to, though it will be as effectual
even by your own laws, so your way may be as well before God, and as
valid among men--I mean by a written contract signed by both man and
woman, and by all the witnesses present; which all the laws of Europe
would decree to be valid." '

I was amazedto see so much true piety, and so much sincerityofneal,
besideathe unusual impartialityin his discourse as to his own party'or
church, and such a true warmth for the preserving people that he had no
knowledge of or relation to, tram magi-easing the laws of God. But
recollecting what he had said of marrying them by a written contract, I
told him I granted all that he had said to be just, and on his part very
kind; that I would discourse with the men upon the point when I came
to them, and I knew no reason why they should scruplc to let him marry
them all; which I knew would be granted to be as authentic and valid in
England, as if they were married by one of our own clergymen. He
then said that, notwithstanding these English subjects of mine, as he
called them, had lived with these women for almost seven years, and had
taught them to speak English, and even to read it, and that they were, as
he perceived, women of tolerable understanding, and capable of instruc-
tion, yet they had not to this hour taught them any thing of the Christian
religion; no, not so much as to know that there was a God or a worship,
or in what manner God was to be served,--or that their own idolatry, and
worshipping they knew not whom, was false and absurd. This, he said,
was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly call them to
an account for: and, perhaps, at Just take the work out of their hands.
He spoke this very afl'ectionately and warmly. "I am persuaded," says
he, " had those men lived in the savage country whence their wives came,
the savages would have taken more pains to have brought them to be
idolatcrs, and to worship the devil, than any of these men, so far as I can
see, has taken with them to teach them the knowledge of the true God.
Now, sir," said he, "though I do not acknowledge your religion, or you
mine, yet we shall be all glad to see the devil's servants and the sub-
jcsts of his kingdom taught to know the general principles of the Chris-
tian religion,--that they might at least hear of God, and of a Redeemer,
and of the resurrection, and of a future state--things which we all believe:
they had at least been so much nearer coming into the bosom of the true
church, than they are now in the public profession of idolatry and devil-
worship." -

I could hold no longer: I took him in my arms, and embraced him
with an excess of passion. "How far," said I to him, "have I been
from understanding the most essential part of a Christian, namely, to love
the interest of the Christian church, and the good of other men's souls!
I scarce have known what belongs to being a Christian." " Oh, sir, do
not say so," replied he; "this'thing is not your fault." "No," said I;
"but why did I never lay it to heart as well as you ?" "It is not too
late ye " said he; "be not too forward to condemn yourself." "But
what can be done now '1'" said I; "you see I am going away." " Will
you give me leave," said he, "to talk with these poor men about it ?"
"Yes, with all my heart," said I, " and I will oblige them to give heed
to what you say, too." " As to that," said he, " we must leave them to
the mercy of Christ; but it is our business to assist them, encourage
them, and instruct them."

Then he went on to say, " It is a maxim, sir, that is, or ought to be,
received among all Christians, of what church or pretended church soever,
namely, that Christian knowledge ought to be propagated by all possible
means, and on all possible occasions. It is on this principle that our
church sends missionaries into Persia, India, and China; and that our
clergy, even of the superior sort, willingly engage in the most hazardous
voyage, and the most dangerous residence among murderers and barba-
rians, to teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them
over to embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have an opportunity
here to have six or seven-and-thirty poor savages brought over from
idolatry to the knowledge of God, their Maker and Redeemer, that I
wonder how you can pass by such an occasion of doing good, which is
really worth the expense of a man's whole life." He laid it home upon
my conscience, whether the blessing of saving seven-and-thirty souls was
not worth my venturing all I had in the world for? I was not so sen-
sible of that as he was, and I returned upon him thus: " Why, sir, it is a
valuable thing indeed to be an instrument in God's hands to com:
seven-aud--thirty heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as you are an
ecclesiastic, and are given over to that work, so that it seems naturally to
fall into the way of your profession, how is it then that you. do not rather
ofl'er youlself to undertake it, than press me to it ?"

Upon this he faced about, just before me, as he walked along, and,
putting me to a full stop, made me a very low how: "I most heartily
thank God, and you, sir," says he, "for giving me so evident a call to so
blessed a work; and, if you think yourself discharged from it, and desire
me to undertake it, I will most readilydo it, and think it ahappyre--
.rard for all the hazards and dificulties of such a broken, disappointed
voyage as I have met with, that I have dropped at last into so glorious a

work. But since you will honour me with putting me into this work, I -

have one humble petition to you besides." "What is that i" said I.
"Why," says he, "it is that you will leave your man Friday with
me,tobemyinterpretertothsm,andtoassistme; forwithoutsoms
help I cannot speak to them, or theyto me."
I was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday, because I could not
think of parting with him, and that for many reasons. He had been the
companion of my travels: he was not only faithful to me, but sincerely
affectionate to the last degree; and I had resolved to do something con-
siderable for him if he outlived me, as it was probable he would. Then
I knew that as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant, it would quite
confound him to bring him to embrace another profession; that he would
never, while his eyes wore open, believe that his old master was a heretic,
and would be damned; and this might in the end ruin the poor fellow's
principles, and so turn him back again to his first idolatry. I therefore

him away. He seemed much concerned at this; for he had no rational
access to these poor people, seeing he did not understand one word of
their language, nor they one word of his. To remove this difliculty, I
told him Friday's father had learned Spanish, which I found he also
understood, and he should serve him for an interpreter. So he was much
better satisfied, and nothing could persuade him but he would stay to

endeavour to convert them. But Providence gave another and a very
happy turn to all this.

clergyman had already taken of it; and, arguing how unehristian and
ineligious a life it was, I first asked if they were married men or
bachelors? They soon explained their condition to me, and showed me
that two of them were widowers, and the other three were single men or
bachelors. I asked them with what conscience they could take these
women, and call them their wives, and have so many children by them,
and not be married lawfully to them ? They all gave me the answer that
I expected--namely, that there was nobody to marry them; that they
Igreed before the governor to keep them as their wives, and they thought,
as things stood with them, they were as legally married as if they had
been married by a person, and with all the formalities in the world.

I told them, that no doubt they were married in the sight of God,,aud
were bound in conscience to keep them as their wives, but that the laws
of men being otherwise, they might pretend they were not married, and
lo desert the poor women and children hereafter; and that unless I was
assured of their honest intent, I could do nothing for them; and that
unless they would give some assurances that they would marry the
women, I could not think it was convenient they should continue together
as man and wife.

All this passed as I expected; and they told me, especially Will
Atkins, who seemed now to speak for the rest, that they loved their
wives as well as if they had been born in their own native country, and
would not leave them on any account whatever. The priest was not with
me at that moment, but was not far ofi'. So, to try him farther, I told
him I had a clergyman with me, and if he was sincere, I would have him
married the next morning, and bade him consider of it, and talk with the
rest. He said, as for himself, he need not consider of it at all, for he was
very ready to do it, and believed they would be all willing also. 80 we
parted: I went back to my clergyman, and Will Atkins went in to talk
with his companions. Before I went from their quarter, they all came to
me, and told me they had been considering what I had said; that they
were very glad to hear that I had a clergyman in my company, and they
were willing to give me the satisfaction I desired, and to be formally
married as soon as I pleased, for they were far from desiring to part from
their wives, and that they meant nothing but what was honest when they
chose them. So I appointed them to meet me the next morning, and that
in the meantime they should let their wives know the meaning of the
marriage law, and that it was not only to prevent any scandal, but also to
oblige them that they should not forsake them whatever might happen.
The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the thing, and
were very well satisfied with it; so they failed not to attend all together at
my apartment next morning, where I brought out my clergyman. When
he came to them, he let them know that I had acquainted him with their
circumstances, and with the present design; that he was very willing to
perform that part of his function, and marry them as I had desired, but
that, before he could do it, he must take the liberty to tall: with them.
He told them that, in the sight of all different men, and inthe sense of
the laws of society, they had lived all this while in an open adultery;
and that it was true that nothing but the consenting to-man'y, or effectu-
ally separating them from one another now, could put an endtoit; but
therewasadificultyinitteo,withrespecttothelawsof0hfistian
matrimony, which he was not fully satisfied about, namely, that of many-
ingonsthatiss professedChristian too aavage,an idolater,anda

I~\'.
heathen, one that is not baptised; and yet that he did not see that there
was time left for it to endeavour to persuade the women to be baptised, or
to profess the name of Christ, whom they had, he doubted, heard nothing
of, and without which they could not be baptised. He told them he
doubted they were but indifferent Christians themselves; that they had
but little knowledge of God or his ways, and therefore he could not
expect that they had said much to their wives on that head yet; but
unless they would promise him to use their endeavours with their wives
to persuade them to become Christians, and would, as well as they could,
instruct them in the knowledge and belief of God that made them, and to
worship Jesus Christ that redeemed them, he could not marry them.
They heard all this very attentively, and they told me it was very
true what the gentleman had said, that they were but very indifi'erent
Christians themselves, and that they had never talked to their wives
about religion. " Oh, sir," says Will Atkins, " how should we teach
them religion? Why, we know nothing ourselves; and besides, sir,"
said he, "should we go to talk to them of God, and Jesus Christ, and
heaven, and hell, it would be to make them laugh at us, and ask us what
we believe ourselves; and if we should tell them we believe all the things
we speak of to them, such as of good people going to heaven, and wicked
people to the devil, they would ask us where we intended to go ourselves,
who believe all this, and yet are such wicked fellows, as we indeed are:
why, sir," said Will, " 'tis enough to give them a surfeit of religion, at
first hearing: folks must have some religion themselves, before they pre-
tend to teach other people." "Why, truly, Atkins," said I, "I am
afraid thou speakest too much truth ;" and with that I let the clergyman
know what Atkins had said, for he was impatient to know " 0h l" said the
priest, " tell him there is one thingwill make him the best minister in the
world to his wife, and that is repentance, for none teach repentance like
true penitents. He wants nothing but to repent, and then he will be so
much the better qualified to instruct his wife: he will then be able to
tell her that there is not only a God, and that he is the just rewarder of
good and evil, but that he is a merciful Being, and, with infinite goodness
and long-sufi'ering, forbears to punish those that offend--waiting to be
gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but rather that he should
return and live; that he often sufi'ers wicked men to go on a longtime,
and even reserves damnation to the general day of retribution; that it is
a clear evidence of God and of a future state, that righteous men receive
not their reward, or wicked men their punishment, till they come into
another world; and this will lead him to teach his wife the doctrine of
the resurrection, and of the last judgment: let him but repent for him-
self, he will be an excellent preacher of repentance to his wife."

I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the while,
and who, we could easily perceive, was more than ordinarily affected with
it. "I knew all this, master," says he, "anda great dealmore; butI
han't the impudence to talk thus to my wife, when God and my own eon-
scienco knows, and my wife will be an undeniable evidence against me,
that I have lived as if I had never heard of God, or a future state, or any
thing about it: and to talk of my rcpenting, alas l" (and with that he
fetched a deep sigh, and I could see that tears stood in his eyes) "'tis past
all that with me."

I told the clergyman word for word what he said. The zealous,
afl'eetionate man, could not refrain tears also: but recovering himself, he
said to me, "Ask him but one question: Is he easy that it is too late, or
is he troubled, and wishes it were not so ?" I put the question fairly
to Atkins; and he answered with a great deal of passion, "How could
any man be easy in a condition that certainly must end in eternal
destruction?"

The clergyman shook his head, with a great concern in his face, when
I told him all this; but, turning quick to me upon it, said, "If thatbe
his case, you may assure him it is not too late; Christwill give him
repentance, and we that are Christ's servants are commanded to preach

mercy at all times, in the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely
repent, so that 'tis never too late to repent. "

I told Atkins all this, and he heard me with great earnestness; but it
seemed as if he turned off the discourse to the rest; for he said to me he
would go and have some, talk with his wife: so he went out a while, and
we talked to the rest. I perceived they were all stupidly ignorant as to
matters of religion--much as I was when I went rambling away hear my
father, and yet that there were none of them backward to hear what had.
been said; and all of them seriously promised that they would talk with
their wives about it, and do their endeavour to persuade them to turn

Upon this discourse, and the men promising to persuade their wives to
emlnace Christianity, he married the three couple; but Will Atkins and
his wifewers notyeteomein. Afterthis, the olergymanwaiting awhile,
was cmious to know where Atkins was gone; and turning to me, says,
"I entrcat you, sir, let us walk out here and look; I dare say we shall
find this poor man somewhere or other, talking seriously with his wife,
and teaching her already something of religion." I began to be of the
same mind; so we went out together, and I carried him a way which
none knew but myself, and where the trees were so thick set, as that it
was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves, and far harder to see in
than to see out; when, cemingto the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins, and
his tawny savage wife, sitting under the shade of a bush, very eager in
discourse. I stopped short till my clergyman came up to me, and then,
having shown him where they were, we stood and looked very steadily at
them a good while. \Ve observed him very earnest with her, pointing up
to the sun, and to every quarter of the heavens; then down to the earth,
then out to the sea; then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the
trees. " New," says my clergyman, " you see my words are made good;
the man preaches to her--mark him--now he is telling her that our God
has made him, and her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea, the woods,
the trees, ete."--"I believe he is," said I. Immediately we perceived
Will Atkins start up upon his feet, fall down upon his knees, and lift up
both his hands; we suppose he said something, but we could not hear
him--it was too far off for that; he did not continue kneeling half a
minute, but comes and sits down again by his wife, and talks to her again.
We perceived then the woman very attentive, but whether she said any-
thing or no we could not tell. While the poor fellow was upon his knees,
I could see the tears run plentifully down my clergyman's cheeks, and I
could hardly forbear myself; but it was a great afiliction to us both that
we were not near enough to hear any thing that passed between them.
Well, however, we could come no nearer, for fear of disturbing them :
so we resolved to see an end of this piece of still conversation, and it spoke
loud enough to us without the help of voice. He sat down again, as
I have said, close by her, and talked again earnestly to her, and two or
three times we could see him embrace her passionately; another time we
saw him take out his handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and then kiss her
again, with a kind of transport very unusual; and after several of these
things, we saw him on a sudden jump up again and lead her his hand to
help her up, when immediately leading her by the hand a step or two,
they both kneeled down together, and continued so about two minutes.
My friend could bear it no longer, but cries out aloud, " St. Paul,
St. Paul, behold, he prayeth 1" This continued about halt a quarter of an
hour, and then they walked away too, so that we could see no more
of them in that situation. As Will Atkins and his wife were gone,
our business there was over; so we went back our own way; and when
we came back, we found them waiting to be called in. I then die
covered that Atkins--whose father, it turned out, was a clergyman--had
been himself affected by the words of the priest, and that he had brought
his wife to embrace the knowledge of Christ and of redemption by Him,
with joy, and faith, and with an affection and a surprising degree of
understanding scarcely to be imagined, much less to be expressed; and at
her own request, she was baptized. As soon as this was over, the priest
married them: and after the marriage was over, he turned himself to
Will Atkins, and, in a very affectionate manner, exhorted him not only
to persevere in that good dispoeition ho was in, but to support the con-
victions that were upon him, by a resolution to reform his life; told him
it was in vain to say he repented, if he did not forsake his crimes; repre-
sented to him, how God had honoured him with being the instrument of
bringing his wife to the knowledge of the Christian religion; and that he
should be careful he did not dishonour the grace of God; and that if he
did, he would see the heathen a better Christian than himself--the savage
converted, and the instrument cast away.

But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts hung continually
upon the conversion of the thirty-seven savages, and fain he would have
staid upon the island to have undertaken it: but I convinced him, first,
that his undertaking was impracticable in itself, and secondly, that, per.
haps, I could put it into a way of being done :11 his absence, to his satis-
faction; of which by and bye.

Having thus brought the affairs of the island to a narrow compass, I
was preparing to go on board the ship, when the young man whom I had
taken out of the famished ship's company, came to me, and told me he
understood I had a clergyman with me, and that I had caused the
Englishmen to be married to the savages whom they called wives; that
he had a match too, which he desired might be finished before I went,
between two Christians, which he hoped would not be disagreeable to me.
I was impatient to know who was the person to be married; upon which
he told me it was my "J'sck-of- all- trades,"an and his maid Susan. I was
most agreeably surprised when he named the match, for indeed I had
thought it very suitable. The character of the man I have given you
already; and as for the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober, and
religious woman; had a good share of sense; was agreeable in her per-
son; spoko very handsomely, and to the purpose; was handy and house-
wifcly, an excellent manager, and fit, indeed, to have been governess to
the whole island. We married them the same day.

It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my friend, the
clergyman, that the work of converting the savages might perhaps be set
on foot in his absence to his satisfaction, and I told him that now I
thought it was put in a fair way; for the savages, being thus divided
among the Christians, if they would but every one of them do their part
with those which came under their hands, I hoped it might have a very
good effect. This they engaged to do. When I came to Will Atkins's
house, I found the young woman I have mentioned above and Atkins's
wife were become intimates; and this prudent and religious young woman
had perfected the work Will Atkins had begun; and though it was not
above four days after what I have related, yet the new baptised savage
woman was made such a Christian, as I have seldom heard of any like
her in all my observation or conversation in the world. I took a Bible in
my pocket, and when I came to the tent, or house, I found the young
woman and Atkins's baptised wife had been discoursing of religion
together (for William Atkins told it me with a great deal of joy). I
asked if they were together now? and he said, Yes; so I went into the
house, and he with me, and we found them together, very earnest in
discourse.

re talked a little, and I did not perceive they had a book among
them, though I did not ask, but I put my hand in my pocket, and pulled
out my Bible. "Here," said I to Atkins, "I have brought you an as-
sistant that, perhaps, you had not before." The man was so confounded
that he was not able to speak for some time; but, recovering himself, he
takes it with both his hands, and, turning to his wife, " Here, my dear,"
says he, "did not I tell you our God, though he lives above, could hear,
what we said? Here is the book I prayed for, when you and I kneeled
down under the hush: now God has heard as, and sent i ." When he
had said thus, the man fell in such transports of passionate joy that,
between the joy of having it and giving God thanks for it, the tears ran
down his face like a child that was crying. The woman was surprised,
and she firmly believed that God had 'sent the book upon her husband's
petition. It is true that providentially it was so,- but I believe it wouldA RELIGIOUS CONVERSATION.
have been no difficult matter at that time to have persuaded the poor
woman that an express messenger came from heaven to bring that indi-
vidual book.

But I return to my disposition of things among the people. I did not
think fit to let them know any thing of the sloop I had framed, and
which I thought of setting up among them; for had I set up the sloop,
and left it among them, they would, upon very light disgust, have
separated, and gone away from one another; or perhaps have turned
pirates, and so made the island a. den of thieves, instead of a plantation of
sober and religious people, as I intended it to be; nor did I leave the two
pieces of brass cannon that I had on board, or the two quarter-deck guns.
for the same reason: I thought they had enough to qualify them for a
defensive war, against any that should invade them; but I was not to set
them up for an offensive war, or to encourage them to go abroad to attack
others. I reserved the sleep and the guns for their service another way.

I have now done with the island. I left them all in good circum-
stances, nnd in a flourishing condition, and went on heard my ship again
the 5th day of May, having been five-and-twenty days among them.
Crusoe encounters a fleet of Indian canoes at sen-1mm savage! attack his vessel-- Friday is lulled<<
Crusoe arrives at Brazil, where he gets his sloop not up. and dospatcheo it, lnden with live-
stock, to his island--Sets sail for the East Indies--Touches at. Madagascar. where they are well
meeived by the natives--The crime of one of the sailors in avenged by his death, whereupon
the crow commence a general massacre, which Crusoe vainly attempts to stay--0n resuming (ho
voyage, he reproachee the sailors, who at length mutiny, and leave him on shore at. Bengal.

11E next day, giving them a solute of five guns at parting,
we set sail, and arrived at the boy of All Saints, in the
Brazils, in about twenty-two days; meeting nothing remark-
able in our passage. But the third day, towards evening,
the sea smooth, and the weather calm, We saw the sea, as it were,
covered towards the land with something very black, not being able to
discover what it was; but after some time. our chief mate going up the
main shrouds a. little way, and looking at them by the perspective, cried
out, it was an army. I could not imagine what he meant by an army,
and spoke a little hastily, calling the fellow a. fool, or some such word.
"Nay, sir," says he, " don't be angry, for it is an army and a fleet
too; for I believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them
paddle along, and they are coming towards us, too, apaee, and full of
men."

I was a little surprised at this, and so, indeed, was my nephew the
captain ; for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the island, that
he could not tell what to think of it, but said two or three times we
should all be devoured. I must confess, considering we were beealmed,
and the current set strong towards the shore, I liked it the worse. How-
ever, I bade him not to be afraid, but bring the ship to an anchor, as
soon as we came so near as to know that we must engage them.

The weather continued calm, and they came on apaee towards us; so
I gave orders to come to an anchor, and furl all our sails,--get the beats
out, and fasten them, one close by the head, and the other by the stern,
and man them both well, and wait the issue in that posture: this I did
that the men in the boats might be ready, with sheet and buckets, to put
out any fire these savages might endeavour to fix upon the outside of the
ship. In this posture we lay by for them, find in a little while they came
up with us: but never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians. My
mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their number; the most we
could make of them, when they came up, being about one hundred and
twenty-six canoes, and some of them had sixteen or seventeen men in
them, some more, and the least six or seven.

When they came nearer to us, they seemed to be struck with wonder
and astonishment. They came boldly up, however, very near to us, and
seemed to go about to row round as; but we called to our men in the
boats not to let them come too near them. This very order brought us
to an engagement with them without our designing it; for five or six of
their large canoes came so near our long-boat, that our men beckoned with
their hands to them to keep back, which they understood very well, and
went back; but at their retreat about five hundred arrows came on board
as from these boats, and one of our men in the long-boat was very much
wounded. I called to them not to fire by any means; but we headed
down som'e deal boards into the boat, and the carpenter presently set up a

28
kind of a fence, like waist boards, to cover them from the arrows of the
savages if they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards they came all up in a body astern
of us and I easily found they were some of my old friends, the same sort
of savages that I had been used to engage with: in a little time more
they rowed somewhat further out to sea, till they came directly broadside
with us, and then rowed down straight upon us, till they came so near,
that they could hear us speak. Upon this, I ordered all my men to keep
close, and make all our guns ready; but being so near as to be within
hearing, I made Friday go out upon the deck, and call out aloud to them
in his language, to know what they meant, which accordingly he did.
Whether they understood him or not, that I know not; but immediately
Friday cried out they were going to shoot, and, unhappily for him, they
let fly about three hundred of their arrows, and to my inexprcssible grief
killed poor Friday, no other man being in their sight. The poor fellow
was shot with no less than three arrows, and about three more fell very
nigh him; such unlucky marksman they were!

I was so enraged at the loss of my old servant, the companion of all
my sorrows and solitudes, that I immediately ordered five guns to be
loaded with small shot, and four with great, and gave them such a broad-
side as they had never had in their lives before, to be sure. ,

They were not above half a cable's length 011' when we tired. I can
neither tell how many we killed, nor how may we wounded; but sure
such a fright and hurry never was seen among such a multitude; there
were thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split and overset in all, and the
men all set a-swimming: the rest, frighted out of their wits, scoured
away as fast as they could, taking but little care to save those whose
boats were split or spoiled with our shot; so I suppose that they were
many of them lost. Our men took up one poor fellow swimming for
his life, above an hour after they were all gone; nor did we ever we the
rest any more, for a breeze of wind springing up the same evening, we
weighed and set sail for the Brazils.

Our prisoner was so sullen that he would neither eat no:- speak; and
we all fancied he would starve himself to death. But I took away to cure
him; for I made them take him and 1mm him into the long-boat, and
make him believe they would toss him into the sea again, and so leave
him where they found him, if he would not speak: nor would that do,
but they really did throw him into the sea, and came away from him;
and then he followed them, for he swam like a cork, and called to then
in his tongue, though they knew not one word of what he said. How
ever, at last they took him in again, and then he began to be more tract-
able. In time our men taught him some English, and he told us that
they were going with their kings to fight a great battle. When he said
kings, we asked him how many kings? He said "There were five
nation, and that they all joined to go against two nation." We asked
him, "What made them come up to us?" He said "To makee te great
wonder look." Where it is to be observed, that all those natives, as also
those of Africa, when they learn English, they also add two e's at the
end of the words where we use one, and place the accent upon the last 'of
them--as make, takes, and the like; andwe could not break them ofi' it,-- '
nay, I could hardly make Friday leave it 05, though at last he did.

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last leave
of him--poor honest Friday! We buried him with all decency and
solemnity possible, by putting him into a cofiin, and throwing him into
the sea; and I caused them to fire eleven guns for him: and so ended the
life of the most grateful, faithful, honest, and most affectionate servant
that ever man had.

We now went away with a fair wind for Brazil, and, in about twelve
days' time, we made land in the latitude of five degrees south of the Line,
being the north-eastennost land of all that part of America. We kept on
south-by-eust, in sight of' the shore, four days, when we made the Cape
St. Augustine, and in three days came to an anchor ofi' the bay of All
Saints, the old place of my deliverance, from whence came both my good
and evil fate.

It was with great difileulty that we Were admitted to hold the" least
correspondence on shore. Not my partner himself, who was alive, and
made a great figure among them, not my two merchant trustees, nor the
fame of my wonderful preservation in the island, could obtain me that
favour; but my partner, remembering that I had given five hundred
moidores to the prior of the monastery of the Augusfines, and three
hundred and seventy-two to the poor, went to the monastery, and obliged
the prior that than was to go to the governor,- aud beg leave for me
presently, with the captain, and one more, besides eight seamen,'to come '
on shore, and no more,---and this upon condition absolutely capitulated'
for,thatwe shouldnotofi'ertolandanygoodsontdftheship, ortocarry
any person away without license.

I!) V _
They were so strict with as as to landing any goods, that it was with
extreme difficulty that I got on shore three bales of English goods, such
as fine broad-cloths, stufi's, and some linen, which I had brought for a
present to my partner. He was a very generous, broad-hcarted man,
though, like me, he came from little at first; and though he knew not
that I had the least design of giving him any thing, he sent me on board
a present of fresh provisions, wine, and sweatmcnts, worth abovo thirty
moidores, including some tobacco, and three or four fine medals in gold.
But I was even with him in my present, which, as I have said, consisted
of fine broad-cloths, English stuffs, lace, and fine Hollands. Also, I
delivered him about the value of one hundred pounds sterling, in the
same goods, for other uses; and I obliged him to set up the sleep which
I had brought with me from England, as I have said, for the use of my
colony, in order to send the refreshments I intended to my plantation.

Accordingly he got hands and finished the sloop in a very few days,
for she was already framed; and I gave the master of her such instruc-
tions as he could not miss the place; nor did he miss it, as I had an
account from my partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with the
small cargo I had sent them; and one of our seamen, that had been on
shore with me there, offered to go with the sleep, and settle there, upon
my letter to the governor Spaniard to allot him a sufficient quantity of
land for a plantation, and giving him some clothes, and tools for his
planting work, which he said he understood, having been an old planter
in Maryland, and a huccanecr into the bargain. I encouraged the fellow
by granting all he desired; and, as an addition, I gave him the savage
whom we had taken prisoner of war to be his slave, and ordered the
governor Spaniard to give him his share of every thing he wanted, with
\ho rest.

When we came to fit this man out, my old partner told me there was
a certain very honest fellow, a Brazil planter of his acquaintance, who
had fallen into the displeasure of the church, and had been obliged to
conceal himself for fear of the Inquisition; that he would be very glad of
such an opportunity to make his escape, with his wife and two daughters;
and if I would let them go to the island, and allot them a plantation,
he would give them a small stock to begin with,--for the oflicers of the
Inquisition had seized all his effects and estate. I granted this presently,
and joined my Englishman with them; and we concealed the man and
his wife and daughters on board our ship till the sleep put out to go to
see; and then (having put all their goods on board some time before),
we put them on board the sleep after she was get out of the bay.

Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and their
stock, indeed, was much alike rich in tools and in preparations for a farm:
but nothing to begin with, but as above. However, they carried over
with them (which was worth all the rest) some materials for planting
sugar-canes, with some plants of canes, which he (I mean the Portugal
man) understood very well. Among the rest of the supplies for my
tenants in the island, I sent them, by this sloop, three milch cows and
five calves, about twenty-two hogs among them, three sows big with pig,
and two mares and a horse.

For my Spaniards, awarding to my promise, I engaged three Portugal
women to go; and recommended it to them to marry them, and use them
kindly. I could have procured more women, but I remembered that the
poor persecuted man had two daughters, and there were but five of the
Spaniards that wanted; the rest had wives of their own, though in
another country.

All this cargo arrived safe, and, as you may easily suppose, very
welcome to my old inhabitants, who were new (with this addition) be.
tween sixty and seventy people, besides little children, of which there
were a great many. I found letters at London from them all, by way of
Lisbon, when I came back to England, being sent back to the Brazils by
this sleep.

I have now done with my island, and all manner of discourse about it;
and whoever reads the rest of my memorandum, would do well to turn
his thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read only of the follies of an
old man, not warned by his own harms, much less by those of other men,
to beware of the like; not cooled by almost forty years' misery and dis-
appointments; not satisfied with prosperity beyond expectations; not
made cautious by afliction and distress beyond imitation.

Ihadno morebusinesstogo tothe EastIndies,thanamanatfull
liberty, and having committed no crime, has to go to the turnkey at
Newgate and desire him to lock him up among the prisoners there, and

starve him. Had I taken a small vessel from England, and gone directly '. .

to the island--had I loaded her, as I did the other vessel, with all the
necessaries for the plantation, and for my people--tool: a patent for the
government there, to' have secured my property, in subjection only to that
of England, which, to be sure, I might have obtained--had I done this,
and staid there myself, I had at least acted like a man of common sense:
but I was possessed with a wandering spirit, scorned all advantages,
pleased myself with being the patron of these people I had placed there,
and doing for them in a kind of haughty, majestic way, like 'an old
patriarchal monarch. But I never so much as pretended to plant in the
come of any government or nation, or to acknowledge any prince, or to
call my people subjects to any one nation more than another,---nay, I
never so much as give the place a name, but left it as I found it, belong-
ing to no man, and the people under no discipline or government but my
own. I rambled from them and came thither no more: the last letters I
had from any of them were by my partner's means, who sent me word,
though I had not the letter till five years after it was written, that they
went on but poorly, were malcontent with their long stay there--that
Will Atkins was dead--that five of the Spaniards were come away--and
that they begged of him to write to me to think of the promise I had
made to fetch them away, that they might see their own country again
before they died.

But I was gone a wild-goose chase, indeed, and they who will have
any more of me, must be content to follow me through a new variety of
follies, hardships, and wild adventures.

But it is no time now to enlarge any farther upon the reason or
absurdity of my own conduct. I was embarked for the voyage, and the
voyage I went. I shall only add here, that my honest and truly pious
clergyman left me here: a ship being ready to go to Lisbon, he asked me
leave to go thither; being still, as he observed, bound never to finish any
voyage he began. Had I gene with him, I had never had so many things
to be thankful for, and you had never heard of the second part of the
Travels and Adventures of Robinson Crusoe; so I must leave here the
fruitless exclaiming at myself, and go on with my voyage.

From the Brazils, we made directly away over the Atlantic Sea to the
Cape of Good Hope, and had a tolerably good voyage, our course generally
south-east; now and then a storm, and some contrary winds. But my
disasters at see. were at an end--my future rubs and cross events were
to hefal me on shore. We made no stay at the Cape longer than was
needful to take in fresh water, but made the best of our way for the coast
of Coromaudel. We touched first at the island of Madagascar, where we
fared very well with them a while. It happened one evening when we
went on shore, that a greater number of their people oame down than
usual, but all was very friendly and civil, and all was quiet; and we
mndeusalittletant, orhut, ofsomeboughsoftrees, andlay onshoreall
thatnight. Iwasnot sowell satisfiedto lie onshore astherest; andthe
boat lying at an anchor about a stone's cast from the land, with two men
in her to take care of her, I made one of them come on shore, and, getting
some boughs of trees to cover us also in the boat, I spread the sail on the
bottom of the boat, and lay on board, under the cover of the branches of
the trees, all night. About two o'clock in the morning, we heard one of
our men making a terrible noise on the shore, calling out for God's sake to
bring the boat in, and come and help them, for they were all like to be
murdered; at the some time I heard the firing of five muskete, which was
the number of the guns they had, and that three times over. Rousing
immediately from sleep with the noise,'I caused the boat to be thrust in,
and resolved, with three fusils we had on board, to land and assist our
men. Our men were but nine in all, and only five had fusils; the rest,
indeed, had pistols and swords, but they were of small use to them. We
took up seven of our men, three of them being very ill wounded; and
while we stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in as much
danger as they were in on shore; for the people poured their arrows in
upon us so thick, that we were thin to barricade the side of the beat
up with the benches, and two or three loose boards which we had in
the boat.

In this condition we lay, and could not tell how to weigh our anchor,
or set up our sail, because we must needs stand up in the boat, and they
werenssuretohitusaswewere to hit a birdin atreewithsmallshot.
We made signals of distress to the ship, and my nephew, the captain,
hearing our firing, and by glasses perceiving the posture we lay in, and
that we fired towards the shore, pretty well understood us; and, weighing
anchor with all speed, he stood as near the shore as he dust with the ship,
and then sent another boat with ten hands in her to assist us. One of the
men, takingtheend ofatowline in hishand, swamonboaidus, andmade
the line fast to the boat, upon which we slipt our little cable, and, leaving
our anchor behind, they towed us out of the reach of the arrows. As
soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore, that she could
layhersidetothe shore, we ran alongjust bythem, andws pouredino
broadside among them, loaded with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets,

and such stufi', besides the great shot, which nude 3 tenible havock
among them. -
When we were got on board, our supereargo, who had been often in
those parts, said he was sure the inhabitants would not have touched us
if we had not done something to provoke them to it. At length it came
out, namely, that an old woman, who had come to sell us some milk, had
brought it within our poles, with a young woman with her, who also
brought some roots or herbs; and while the old woman was selling us the
milk, one of our men ofi'ered some rudeness to the girl that was with her,
at which the old woman made a great noise. However, the seamnn would
not quit his prize, but carried her out of the old woman's sight among the
trees, it being almost dark. The old woman went away without her, and,
as we suppose, made an outcry among the people she came from,--who,
upon notice, raised this great army upon us in three or four hours; and it
was great odds but we had been all destroyed.

One of our men was killed with a lance that was thrown at him just
at the beginning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent we had made;
the rest came 011' free, all but the fellow who was the occasion of all the
mischief, who paid dear enough for his black mistress. We could not
hear what became of him a great while: we lay upon the shore two days
after, though the wind presented, and made signals for him; made our
boat sail up shore and down shore several leagues, but in vain.

I could not satisfy myself, however, without venturing on shore once
more. It was the third night after the action, that I had a great mind ,to
learn, if I could by any means, what mischief we had done, and how the
game stood on the Indian side. We took with as twenty stout fellows as
any in the ship, besides the supercargo and myself; and we landed two
hours before midnight, at the same place where the Indians stood drawn
up the evening before. We divided our men into two companies, and we
marched up, one body at a distance from the other, to the field of battle.
At first we could see nothing, it being very dark; but by-and-bye our
boatswain, that led the first party, stumbled and fell over a dead body.
Here we concluded to halt till the moon began to rise, and then we could
easily discern the havock we had made among them. We told two-and-
thirty bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quite dead. When
we had made, as I thought, a full discovery of all we could come at the
knowledge of, I was for going on board again; but the boatswain and his
party sent me word, that they were resolved to make a visit 'to the
Indian town, where it might be they might find Thomas Jefi'rys there--
that was the man's name we had lost. So away they went, and though
the attempt was desperate, and such as none but madmcn' would have
gone about, yet, to give them their due, they went about it warily as well
as boldly. Their chief design was plunder; but a circumstance, which
none of them were aware of, set them on fire with revenge. When they
came to the few Indian houses, which they thought had been the town,
they were under a great disappointment; for there were not above twelve
or thirteen houses. However, they resolved to leave these houses, and
look for the town as well as they could. They went on a little way, and
found a cow tied to a tree, and they untied her, and the cow went
on before them directly to the town, which consisted of above two hun--
(1ch houses, or huts. Here they found all profoundly secure as sleep and
a country that had never seen an enemy of that kind could make them.
Upon this, they resolved to divide themselves into three bodies, and to set
three houses on fire in three parts of the town, and as the men came out,
to seize them and bind them.' While they were animating one another to
the work, three of them that were a little before the rest, called out aloud,
and told them they had found Thomas Jeffrys; they all ran up to the
place, and so it was indeed, for there they found the poor fellow hanged
up naked by one arm, and his throat out. There was an Indian house
just by the tree, where they found sixteen o_r seventeen of the principal
Indians. The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, that
they swore to one another they would be revenged, and to work they
went immediately. In a quarter of arr-hour they set the town on fire in
four or five places, and as soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor frighted
creatures began to rush out to save their lives, but met with their fate in
the attempt.

My nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men, seeing such
a fire, was very uneasy, not knowing what the matter was. * A thousand
thoughts oppressed his mind concerning me and the supercargo, what
should become of us; and at last he takes another host, and with thirteen
men and himself, comes on shore to me. He was surprised to see me and
the super-cargo in the boat with no more than two men, and he was
impatient to know what was doing, for the noise continued, and the flame
increased. In a word, the captain told me he would go and help his men,
let what would come, and so away went he. Nor was I any more able to
stay behind; so, in short, the captain ordemd two men to row back the
pinnace, and fetch twelvemen more from the ship, leaving the long boat
at an anchor; and that when they came back. six men should keep the
two boats, and six more come after us, so that he left only sixteen men in
the ship. '

Being now on the march, we felt littlebf the ground we trod on; and,
being guided by the fire, we kept no path, but went directly to the place
of the flame.' If the noise of the guns was surprising to us before, the
cries of the poor people were now quite of another nature, and filled us
with horrorQ' However, we went on, and at length came to the town,
though their; was nor entering thecstreets of it for the fire. The first
object that we met with was the ruins of a hut, or house; and just before
it, lay four men and thee women killed, and, as we thought, one or two
more lay in the heap among the fire. In short, there were such instances
of a rage altogether barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what was
human, that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it. But.
this was not all; we saw the fire increased ferv'mrd, and the cry went on'
just as the fire went on, so that we were in the utmost confusion. We: .
advanced a little way farther, and beheld, to our astonishment, three'

women naked, crying in" a inost dreadful manner, and flying as if they had
indeed had wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen men, natives, in
the same terror and consternation, with three of our English butchers--'
for _I can call them no better--.in the rear, who, when they could overtake
them, fired in among them, and one that was killed by their shot fell down
in our sight. When the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and,
that we would murder them as weli as those that pursued them, they set
up a most dreadful shriek, especially the women, and two of them fell
down, as if already dead, with the fright.

My very soul shrank within me, and my blood ran chill in my veins,
when I saw this; and I believe had the three English sailors that pursued
them come on, I had made our men kill them all. However, we took
some ways to let the poor flying creatures know that we would not hurt
them, and immediately they came up to us, and kneeling down, with their
hands lifted up, made piteons lamentations to us to save them, which we
let them know we would do: whereupon they kept all together in a
huddle close behind us for protection. I left my men drawn up together--
charging them to hurt nobody, but if possible to get at some of our people
and see what devil it was possessed them, and what they intended to do;
and, in a word, to command them off--and went among those flying people,
taking only two of our men with me. And there was indeed a. piteous
spectacle among them: some of them had their feet terribly burnt with
trampling and running through the fire, others their hands burnt; one of
the women had fallen down' in the fire, and was almost burnt to death
_ before she could get out again; two or _three of the men had outs' in their
backs and thighs, from our 1:155" pursuing, and auothe'r was shot through
the body, and died while I was there: '=

I would fain have learnt what the occasion of all this xyas, but I could
not understand one word they said, though by signs I perceived that some
of them knew not what was the Occasion themselves. I went back to my
own man: I told them my resolution, and commanded them to follow me;
when,' in tho very moment, came four of our men, with the boatswain at
their head, covered with blood and dust, when our men hallooed to them,
as loud as they could halloo, and with much ado one of them made them
hear. As soon as the boatswain saw us, he setup a halloo, like a shout of
triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come. "Captain," says he,
"noble captain, I am glad you are come; we have not half done yetl
Villains! hell-hound dogs! Iwill kill as many cf themes poor Tonihss
hairs upon his head We have sworn to spare none of them; we will root
out the very name of them from the cart. " Raising my voice, that
I might silence him a little, "Barbarous dog," said I, " what are you
doing? I won't have one creature touched more upon pain of death. I
charge you upon your life to stop your hands, and stand still here, or you
are a dead man this minute." I

" Why, sir," says he, "do you know what you do, or what they have
done? If you want a reason for what we have done, come hither; " and
with that he showed me the poor fellow hanging upon a tree with his
throat out.

I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time should have
been forward enough; but I thought they had carried their rage too far,
and thought of Jacob's words to his sons Simeon and Levi, " Cursed be
their anger, for it was fierce, and their wrath, for it was cruel." But I
had nowunewtask upon myhands; foran the menI carn'edwith'
me saw the sight as Ihad done, Iliad as muohte do to restrain them-as
I should have had with the others; nay, my nephew himself fell in with
them, and told me, in their hearing, that he was only concerned for fear
of the men being overpowered. Upon these words away ran eight of my
men with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their bloody work;
and I, seeing it quite out of my power to restrain them, came away pen-
sive and sad, for I could not bear the sight,
I got nobody to come back with me but the superca'igo and two men,
and with these I walked back to the boats. Immediately I took the
pinnace and went aboard, and sent her back to assist the men in what
might happen. By the time the men got to the shore again with the
pinnaee, our men began to appear; they came dropping in some and some,
not in two bodies, and in form, as they went out, but all in heaps, strag-
gling here and there in such a manner, that a small force of resolute men
might have cut them all off. But the dread of them was upon the whole
country. The people were amazed and surprised, and so frighted, that I
believe abundred of them would have fled at the sight of but five of our
men. _

I was very angry with my, nephew, the captain, and indeed with all

the men, in my mind, but with him in particular, as prompting, rather
than cooling the rage of his men, in so bloody and cruel an enterprise.
The next day we set sail. I always, after that time, told our men God
would blast the voyage, for I looked upon the blood they shed that night
to be murder in them. The boatswain defended this quarrel when we
were afterwards on board. He said it was true that we seemed to break
the trace, but really had not, and that the war was begun the night
before, by the natives themselves, who had shot at us, and killed one of
our men without any just provocation; so that, as we were in a capacity
to fight them, we might also be in a capacity to do ourselves justice upon
them in an extraordinary manner.
- We were now bound to the gulf of Persia, and from thence to the
coast of Coromandel, only to touch at Surat; but the chief of the super-
cargo's design lay at the Bay of Bengal. The first disaster that befel us
was in the Gulf of Persia, where five of our men, venturing on shore on
the Arabian side of the Gulf, were surrounded by the Arabs, and either
all killed or carried away into slavery. I began t9 upbraid them with
the just retribution of Heaven in this case ; but the boatswain very
warmly told me he thought I went farther in my censures, than I could
show any warrant for in Scripture, and referred to the thirteenth of St.
Luke, verse 4th, where our Savour intimates that those men on whom
the tower of Siloam fell were not sinners above all the Galileans: but
that which indeed put me to silence in this case was, that none of these
five men, who were now lost, were of the number of those who went on
shore to the massacre of Madagascar.

But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had worse consc-CRUSOE RESCUING THE lNDIAKS.
quenccs than I expected; and the boatswam, who had been the head of
the attempt, came up boldly to me one time, and told me that, unless
I would resolve to have done with it, and also not to concern myself
farther with him, or any of his afi'airs, he would leave the ship, for he did
not think it was safe to sail with me among them.

I told him that I did confess I had all along opposed the massacre of
Madagascar, for such I would always call it; and that I was a consider-
able owner of the ship, and in that claim I conceived I had a right to
speak, even fluther than I had yet done, and would not be accountable to
him or any one else. He made but little reply to me at that time, and I
thought that affair had been over. We were at this time in the road to
Bengal; and being willing to see the place, I went on shore with the
supercargo, in the ship's boat, to divert myself: and towards evening was
preparing to go on board, when one of the men came to me, and told me
he would not have me trouble myself to come down to the boat, for they
had orders not to carry me on board. I immediately went and found out
the supercargo, and told him the story, and entreated him to go imme-
diately on board the ship in an Indian boat, and acquaint the captain of
it. But I might have spared this intelligence, for before I had spoken to
him on shore, the matter was effected on board: the boatswain, the
Igunner, the carpenter, and, in a word, all the inferior officers, as soon as I
was gone off in the boat, came up to the quarter deck and desired to
speak with the captain; and there the boatswain, making a long harangue,
told the captain in a few words, that as I was now gone peaceably on
shore, they were loath to use any violence with me,--which, if I had not
gone on shore, they would otherwise have done, to oblige me to have
gone. They therefore thought fit to tell him that, as they shipped them-
selves to serve in the ship under his command, they would perform it
faithfully; but, if I would not quit the ship, or the captain oblige me to
quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no further with him.

When my nephew, the captain, who came to me on shore, told me this,
I said he should not be concerned at all, for I would stay on shore: I
only desired he would send me all my necessary things on shore, and leave
me a suflieient sum of money, and I would find my way to England as
well as I could. So the matter was over in a very few hours; the men
returned to their duty, and I began to consider what course I should steer.

W
A: Bengal, Crusoe meets with an English merchant, with whom he enters into partnership, nnd
moms a voyage to aim and Chino--They return to Bengal, where they purchase a Dutch
coasting vessel, which they afkmvards discover the crew had run away with--Their new pur-
chose brings them into danger, as they are mistaken {01 pirates, and chased by English and
Dutch boats--They beat 011' then pnrsners, and set sail for Cochin China, where they have an
encounter with the natir err--They arrive at Quinchang, where they part flom their ship--Crusoe
visits Naukin and Pokin, and travels with a cnmvnn of merchant>>: Lhrough Tartary and Russia
---Winters in Siberia--Sails from Archangel to Hamlmrg-<<Arrires in England, alter an absence of
nearly eleven yoga, and ,dctermhxea'towmdgr n'o inorc.

ncar three thousand leagues, by son, further ofi' {10m England
than I was at my island; only, it is two, I might tlnvcl heie,

by land, over the Great 1Mogul's country to Sumt; might go
from thence to Bassom by sea, up the Gulf of Persia, and from thence
might take tho Way of the caravans, over the deserts of Arabia to Aleppo
and Sonnderoon, and from thence by sea again to Italy, and so overland
into France. I had another way before me, which was to wait for some
English ships, which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the island of
Sumatra, and got paneagc on board. them for England.

Hero I had the particular pleasure, speaking by Contrarietics, to see
the ship set sail without mo--a treatment, I think, a man in my circum-
Istanccs scarce ever met with, except from pirates running away with the
ship, and setting those who would not agree with their villany on shore.
However, my nephew loft me two servants, or rather, one companion and
one servant: the first was clerk to the pursor, whom he engaged to go
with me; and the other was his own servant. I took me also a. good
lodging in the house of an English woman, whore sorcral merchants
lodged, some French, two Italians, or rather J cws, and one Englishman.
After along stay here, the English merchant, who lodged with me, and
with whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance, come to me one
Homing. "Countrymsn," says he, "I have a. project to communicate
to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts, may, for ought I know, suit
with yours also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it.

"If you will put a thousand pounds to my thousand pounds, we will
hire a ship here, the first we can get to our minds. You shall be captain,
I'll be merchant, and we will go a trading voyage to China; for what
should we stand still for '1' The whole world is in motion ; all the
creatures of God, heavenly bodies and earthly, are busy and diligent: why
should we be idle? There are no drones," says he, "living in the world
but men: why should we be of that number?" I liked this proposal
very well; and the more because it seemed to be expressed with so much.
good-will, and in so friendly a manner. It was, however, some time
before we could get a ship to our mind; and, when we got a vessel, it was '
not easy to get English sailors. However, after some time we got a mate,
a boatswnin, and a gunner, English; a Dutch carpenter, and three Portu-
guese foremastmen: with these we found we could do well enough,
having Indian seamen, such as they are, to make up.

We made the voyage to Acbin, in the island of Sumatra, first; and
from thence to Siam, where we exchanged some of our wares for opium,
and some for mack, --the first a commodity which bears a great price
among the Chinese, and which, at that time, was very much wanted there.
In a word, we went up to Susham, made a very great voyage, were eight
months out, and returned to Bengal. I got so much money by the first
adventure, and such an insight into the method of getting more, that, had
I been twenty years younger, I should have been tempted to have staid
here, and sought no farther for making my fortune; but what was all this
to a man on the wrong side of threescore, that was rich enough, and came
abroad more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world than a
covetous desire of getting on in it? I was come into a part of the world
which I was never in before--end that part, in particular, which I had
heard much of--end was resolved to see as much of it as I could.

But my fellow-traveller and I had difi'erent notions. My new friend
ke'pt himself to the nature of the thing, and would have been content to
have gone, like a- carrier's horse, always to the same inn, backward and
forward, provided'he could, as he called it, find his account in it: on the
other hand, mine, as old as I was, was the notion of a mad rambling boy,
that nevercarestoseeatbingtwioeover But this wasnot all. Ihsd
skindofimpafieneeupon'mstebenemrhome,andyetthemost
unsettled resolution imaginable which way to go. In the interval of
these consultations, my friend, who was always on the search for business,
proposed another voyage to me, namely, among the Spice Islands, and to
bring home a load of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts. We were
not long in preparing for this voyage, which we made very successfully,
touching at Borneo, and several islands whose names I do not remember,
and came home in about five months. We sold our spice, which was
chiefly cloves, and some nutmcgs, to the Persian merchants, who carried
them away for the Gulf; and, making near five of one, we really got a
great deal of money. .

A little while after this there came in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she
was a coaster, and of about two hundred tons burden: the men, as they
pretended, having been so sickly that the captain had not men enough to
go to son, he lay by at Bengal, and gave public notice that he would sell
his ship. This came to my ears before my new partner heard of it; and I
had a great mind to buy it. So I went home to him, and told him of it:
he considered a while, for he was no rash man neither; but, musing some
time, he replied, "She is a little too big; but, however, we will have
her." Accordingly, we bought the ship, and took possession; when we
had done so, we resolved to entertain the men, if we could, to join them
with those we had, for the pursuing our business; but, on a sudden--they
not having received their wages, but their share of the money, as we often
wards learnt--not one of them was to be found. A few days after, I came
to know what sort of fellows they were; for, in short, their history was
--that this man they called captain was the gunner only, not the com-
mander; they had been a trading voyage, in which they were attacked on
shore by some of the Malaccans, who had killed the captain and three of
his men; and, after the captain was killed, these men had run away with
the ship, and had brought her in at the Bay of Bengal, leaving the mate
and five men more on shore.

We picked up some English seamen here after this, and some Dutch,
and we now resolved for a second voyage for cloves, etc., among the
Philippine and Malacca isles; and, in short, I spent from first to last, six
years in this country, trading from port to port, backward and forward,
and with very good success; and was now, the last year, with my partner,
going in the ship above mentioned, on a voyage to China, but designing
first to go to Siam, to buy rice. In this Voyage, being by contrary winds
obliged to beat up and down a great while in the straits of Malaoca, and|sosxssON causos. ' 369

among the islands, we were no sooner got clear of those difficult seas, but
we found our ship had sprung a leak, and we were not able to find out
where it was. This forced us to make for some port ; and my partner,
who knew the country better than I did directed the captain to put into
the river of Cambodia; for I had made the English mate, one Mr.
Thomson, captain, not being willing to take the charge of the ship upon
myself. '

While we were here, and going often on shore for refreshment, there
comes to me one day an Englishman, who was, it seems, a glmner's mate
on board an English East India ship, which rode in the same ri'rer.
" Sir," says he, "I have something to tell you that very nearly concerns
you."--" If it very nearly concerns me," said I, " and not yourself, what
moves you to tell it me ?"-"I am moved," said he, "by the imminent
danger you are in; and for ought I see, you have no knowledge of i "--
" I know no danger I am in," said I, "but that my ship is leaky, and I
cannot find it out; but I propose to lay her aground to-morrow, to see if
I can find i ."--"But, sir," says he, "leaky or not leaky, find it or not
find it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore tomorrow, when
you hear what I have to say to you. The town of Cambodia lies about
fifteen leagues up this river, and there are two large English ships about
five leagues on this side, and three Dutch ?"--"Wel.l," said I, " and what
is that to me ?"--"Well, sir," says he, "if you do not put to sea im-
mediately, you will be attacked by five longbeats full of men; and,
perhaps, if you are taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and the
particulars be examined into afterwards. I suppose you know well
enough that you were with this ship at Sumatra; that there your cap-
tain was murdered by the Malaccans, with three ofhis men; and that you
or some of those that were on board with you, ran away with the ship,
and are since turned mm. This is the sum of the story, and you will
all be seized as pirates, and executed with very little ceremony, if they
get you in their power. If you have any regard for your life, and the
lives of all your men, put out to sea, without fail, at high water."--
"We ," said I, "you have been very kind in this: what shall I do
for you to make you amends?"--"Sir," says he, "I have nineteen
months' pay due to me on board the ship --, which I came out
of England in, and the Dutchman that is with me has save. months'
payduetohim; ifyouwillmake goodourpsytouawe will go along
with you; if you find nothing more in it, we will desire no more; but-H
we do convince you that we have saved your life, and the ship, and the
lives of all the men in her, we will leave the rest to you."

I consented to this readily, and went immediately on board, and the
two men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side, my partner, who
was on board, came on the quarter-deck, and called to me with a great
deal of joy, "0 ho! 0 ho! we have stopped the leak! "--" Say you so '1'"
said I ; "thank God; but weigh the anchor, then, immediately." He
was surprised; but called the captain, and he immediately ordered the
anchor to be got up, and we stood out to sea: then I called him into the
cabin, and told him the story at large. Presently a seaman comes to the
cabin door, and calls out to us that the captain bade him tell us we were
chased. " Chased l" said I, "by whom, and by what ?"--" By five sloops,
or boats," said the fellow, " full of men." We made ready for fight, but
all this while kept out to sea, with wind enough, and could see five large
longboats, following us, with all the sail they could make. Two of these
boats, which we could see were English, had outsailed the rest, and gained
upon us considerably; upon which we fired a gun without a shot, and we
put out a flag of truce as a signal for parley, but they kept crowding after
us till they came within shot. Upon this we took in our white flag, they
having made no answer to it, hung out the red flag, and fired at them
with shot. It was all one: they crowded after us, and endeavoured to
'come under our stern, so to board us on our quarter; upon which I
'ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside, when
immediately we fired five guns at them--one of which carried away the
stern of the hindermost boat. While this was doing, one of the three boats
that was behind made up to the boat which we had disabled to relieve
her, and we could afterwards see her take out the men: we called again
to the foremost boat, but she crowded close under our stern. Upon
this our gunner ran out his two chase guns, and fired at her; then we
wearcd the ship again, and brought our quarter to bear upon them, and,
firing three guns more, we found the boat was split almost to pieces.
Upon this I immediately manned out our pinnace, with orders to pick up
some of the men. Our men in the pinnaee followed their orders, and took
up three men, one of whom was drowning. As soon as they were onboard
we crowded all the sail we could, and the boats gave over their chase.

Beingsthus delivered from a. danger, I took care that we should change
our course, and not let any one imagine whither we were going: so we
stood out to sea eastward, quite out of the course of all European ships.
We now began to consult with the two semen, and enquire what the
meaning of all this should be P The Dutchman told us that the fellow
that sold us the ship, as we said, was no more than a thief that had
run away with her; that the captain was treacherously murdered by the
natives on the coast of Malacca, with three of his men; and that he, this
Dutchman, and four more, got into the woods, where they wandered
about, till at length he made his escape, and swam of to a Dutch
ship. He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the
seamen belonging to the ship had arrived, having deserted the rest in
their travels, and gave an account that the fellow who had run away
with the ship sold her at Bengal to a set of pirates, which were gone
s-eruising in her.

It was my partner's opinion that we should go directly back to Bengal,

from whence we came, because there we could give an account of our-
selves, aud could prove where we were when the ship put in, whom we
bought her of, and the like. I was some time of that opinion; but, after
a little more serious thinking, I told him I thought it was a very great
hazard for us to attempt returning to Bengal, for we should be sure to be
waylaid.
' This danger a little startled my partner, and we immediately resolved
to go away on the coast of Tonquin, and so on to China. After a tedious
and irregular course, we come within sight of the coast of Cochin China,
and resolved'to put into a small river, which, however, had depth enough
of water for us, This happy step was our deliverance; for the next morn-
ing there came into the Bay of' Tonquin two Dutch ships; and a third
without any colours spread out; but which we believed to be a Dutch-
man, passed by at two leagues' distance, steering fortheooast of China;
and in the afternoon, went by No English ships, steering the same
course. The place we were in was wild and :barhuous, the people
thieves, even by occupation or profession.

Ihave observed abovethatourship spraugaleak stress, and that '1'
was stopped unexpectedly , yet, as we did not find the ship so perfectly
tight and sound as we desired, we resolved, while we were in this place,
to lay her on shore, if possible, to find out where the leaks were. Ac-
cordingly, having lightened the ship, we tried to bring her down, that we
might come at her bottom. The inhabitants came wondering down to
the shore to look at us; and not seeing our men, whovwese at work
on her bottom with stages, and with their boats on the of side, theypresently concluded that the ship was cast away' On this supposition,
they came all about us, with ten or twelve large bouts, intending,
no doubt, to plunder the ship. I called to the men who worked upon
the stages to get up the side into the ship, and bade those in the
boat to row round and come on board; but before they could do as they
were ordered, the Cochin-Chinese were upon them, and bounded our long-
boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their prisoners. The first man
they laid hold of was an English seamen, a stout, strong fellow, who,
having a musket in his hand, never offered to fire it, but laid it down in
the boat, like a feel, as I thought. But he understood his business better
than I could teach him; for he grappled the Pagan, and dragged him by
main force out of their own boat into ours, where, taking him by the two'
ears, he beat his head so against the boat's gunnel, that the fellow died
instantly in his hands; and, in the meantime, a Dutchman, who stood
next, took up the musket, and, with the butt-end of it, so laid about
him, that he knocked down five who attempted to enter the boat. But
this was little towards resisting thirty or forty men. An accident, how-
ever, gave our men a complete victory. Our carpenter, being prepared to
grave the outside of the ship, as well as to pay the seams where he
caulked her to stop the leaks, had got two kettles just let down into the
boat--one filled with boiling pitch, and the other with rosin, tallow, and
oil; and the man that tended the carpenter had a great iron ladle in his
hand: two of the enemy's men entered the boat just where the fellow
stood, and he immediately saluted them with a ladleful of the stnfi
boiling hot, which so burnt and scalded them, being half naked, that the:
roared out like two bulls, and, enraged with the fire, leaped both into the
sea. The carpenter saw it, and, stepping forward himself, takes one of
their mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it
among them so plentifully, that of all the men in three boats, there was
not one that was not scalded and burnt with it, and made such a howling
and crying that I never heard a worse noise, and, indeed, nothing like
1t. All the while this was doing, my partner and I, who managed the
rest of the men on board, had, with great dexterity, brought the ship
almost to rights; and, having got the guns into their places again, the
gunner called to me to bid our boat get out of the way, for he would let
fly among them. I bade him not offer to fire, for the carpenter would do
the work without him; but bade him heat another pitch-kettle, which
our cook, who was on board, took care of. But the enemy was so terrified
with what they met with in their first attack, that they would not come
on again; and some of them that were farthest of, seeing the ship swim,
as it were, upright, began, as we supposed, to see their mistake, and gave
over the enterprise, finding it was not as they expected. The next day,
having finished our work within board, and finding our ship was perfectly
healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We kept on northeast, as if we
would go to the Manillas or the Philippine Islands, and this we did that
we might not fall into the way of any European ships; and then we
steered north again, till we came to the latitude of twenty-two degrees
twenty minutes, by which means we made the island of Formosa directly,
where we came to an anchor, in order to get water and fresh provisions.
From hence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at an equal
distance, till we knew we were beyond all the ports of China where our
European ships usually come. Being now come to the latitude of thirty
degrees, we resolved to put into the first trading port we should come at
and, standing in for the shore, a boat came off two leagues to us with an
old Portuguese pilot on board, who came to offer his services, which,
indeed, we were very glad of, and took him on board.

I had conversation with the pilot, who, it seems, know the whole
story of the attack of the Dutchman, and I told him it was our ship they
followed and attacked, believing us to be pirates. Learning from him
after we came to anchor at the south-west point of the great Gulf of
Nanquin, whither I had pressed him to carry us, that the two Dutch'
ships had gone to N anquin, I asked the old pilot if there was no'
creek or harbour which I might put into, and pursue my business with'
the Chinese privately, and be in no danger of the enemy. He told
me, if I would sail to tho southward about two-and-forty leagues, theni
was a little port called Quinehang, where the fathers of the mission'
usually landed from Macao, on their progress to teach the Christian reli-I
gion to the Chinese, and where no European ships ever put in.

We all agreed to go back to this place, and we weighed the next day,
having only gone twice on shore, where we were to get fresh water. We
came to the other port (the wind being contrary) not till five days; but
it was very much to our satisfaction, and I was joyful, and I may say
thankful, when I set my foot safe on shore, resolving, and my partner too,
that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and effects any other way,
though not every way to our satisfaction, we' would never s'et foot on
board that unhappy vessel again. When we came on shots, the old pilot,
who was now our friend, got us a lodging, and a warehouse for our goods.
Besides this, he brought us acquainted with three missionary Bomish
priests, who were in the town, and who had been there some time, con~
vetting the people to Christianity. One of these was a Frenchman, whom
they called Father Simon; he was a jolly, well-conditioned man, very
"tee in his conversation, not seeming so serious and grave as the other two
did, one of whom was a Portuguese, and the other a Genoese. This
French priest was appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the mis-
sion, to go up to Pekin, the royal seat of the Chinese Emperor, and waited
only. for another priest, who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to
go along with him; and we scarce ever met together but he was inviting
me to go that journey with him, telling me, how he would show me all
the glorious things of that mighty empire, and amongst the rest, the
greatest city in the world.

Dining with the missionary one day, I showed some little inclination
-t'ogowithhim; andhepressedmeand myportner veryhard, and with
a great many persuasions, to consent. But we had our ship and our
merchandise to dispose of. At length our prospects began to clear up a
little. Our old Portuguese pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who
bought all our opium, and gave us a very good price for it. I proposed .
to him to deal with us for our ship also, and he consented to hire her to
'go to Japan, saying that on his return he would buy the ship. But later
this, we, on the proposition of my partner, made over half the ship to the
young man whom my nephew had left with me as a companion, and took
a writing from him ohliging him to account to us for the other half. So
away he went to Japan. '

We were now on shore in China, destitute of all manor of prospect
of retuml But in about four months' time there was to be another fair
at that place where we were, and then we might possibly find some
Chinese junks or vessels from Nanquin, that would be to be sold, and
lwould carry us and our goods whither we pleased. Upon these hopes we
resolved to continue here, but, to divert ourselves, we took two or three
journeys into the country First, we went ten days' journey to see the
city of Nanquin--a city well worth seeing, indeed. I had also a mind
to see the city of Pekin, which I had heard so much of, and Father Simon
,iinportuned me daily to do it. At length his time of going away being
Eat, it was necessary that we should either resolve to go, or not to go- ,

{1 Memo him to my partner, and left it wholly to his choice, who at
le'ngth resolved it in the aflrmative, and we prepared for our journey.
We set out with very good advantage, as to finding the WW; for we got
leave to travel in the retinue of one of their mandarins, a kind of Viceroy,
or principal magistrate. We were five-and-twenty days traveumg to
Pekin, through a country infinitely populous, but miserably culfivoted.

the husbandry, economy, and the way of living, all very miserable, though
they boast so much of the industry of the people. The prifle of t'nm

people is infinitely great, and exceeded by nothing but their poverty
which adds to that which I call their misery.

My friend, Father Simon, and I, used to be very merry upon these
occasions to see the beggmly pride of those people. For example, coming

_, ___ x:
. ," . ' e
.; '
'

 

by the house of a country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about
ten leagues off from the city of Nanquin, we had, first of all, the honour
to ride with the master of the house about two miles : the state he rode in
was a perfect Don Quixotism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty.

The habit of this greasy Don was very proper for a aeammouch,
or merryundrew, being a dirty calico, with all the tawdry trappings of a
fool's coat, such as hanging sleeves, tufl'ety, and cuts and slashes almost on
every side; it covered a rich tafi'ety vest, as greasy us a butcher, and
which testified that his honour must needs be a most exquisite sloven.aomssou 0713802. 377

His horse was a poor, lean, starved, bubbling creature, such as in Eng-
land might sell for about thirty or forty shillings; and he had two slaves
followed him on foot, to drive the poor creature along; he had a whip in
his hand, and he belubourcd the beast as fast about the head as his slaves
did about the tail; and thus he rode by us with about ten or twelve ser-
vants, and we were told he was going from the city to his country seat,
about half a league before us. We travelled on gently, but this figure of
a gentleman rods away before us; and as we stopped at a village about an

 

hour to refresh us, when we came by the country seat of this great man,
we saw him in a little place before his door, eating his repast; it was a
kind of. garden, but he was easy to be seen, and we were given to
understand that the more we looked on him the better he would be
pleased. - ., a

He sat under a tree, something like the palmetto tree, which-effectually
shaded him over the head, and on the south side; but under the tree also
was placed a large umbrella, which made that part look well enough; he
sat lolling back in a great elbow choir, being a heavy corpulent man, and
his meat being brought him by two women slaves: he had two more,
whosei'ufice, I think, few gentlemen in Europe would accept of their ser-
vice in. namely, one fed the squire with a spoon, and the other held the
dish with one hand, and scraped ofi' what he let fall upon his worship'e
beard and tafl'ety vest, with the other ; while the great fat brute thought
it below him to employ his own hands in any of thosefamiliar ofices:
which kings and monarchs would rather do than be troubled with the'
clumsy fingers of their servants.

I took this time to think what pain men's pride puts them to, and how
troublesome a haughty temper, thus ill-managed, must be to a man of
common sense; and, leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our
looking at him, as if we admired his pomp, whereas we really pitied and
contemned him, we pursued our journey to Pekin. '

At length we arrived at Pekin. I had nobody with me but the youth
whom my nephew tho captain had given me to attend me as a servant,
and who proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody with
him but one servant, who was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot,
he being desirous to see the court, we gave him his passage, that is to say
bore his charges, for his company, and to use him as an interpreter--for he
understood the language of the country, and spoke good French and a
little English; and, indeed, this old man was a most useful implement to
'us every where; for we had not been above a week at Pekin, when he
Icame laughing, and told us there was a great caravan of Muscovy and
Polish merchants in the city, and that they were preparing to set out
on their journey, by land, to Museovy, within four or five weeks. We
then went to consult together what was to be done, and I and my partner
agreed, that, if our Portuguese pilot would go with us, we would bear
his charges to Moscow, or to England, if he pleased. He received the
proposal like a man transported, and told us he would go with us over
the whole world.

It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set out from

Pekin. The company was very great, and, as near as I can remember,
made between'three and four hundred horses and camels, and upwards of
a hundred and twenty men, very well armed, and provided for all events.
We consisted of people of several nations, such as the Muscovites chiefly,--
for there were about sixty of them who were merchants or inhabitants of
Moscow, though of them some were Livonians; and, to our particular
satisfaction, five of them were Scots, who appeared also to be men of great
experience in business and very good substance.

When we had travelled one day's journey, the guides, who were five
in number, called all the gentlemen and merchants, that is to say, all the
passengers, except the servants, to a great council, as they termed it. At
this great council, every one deposited a certain quantity of money to a
cannon stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage on the way,
where it was not otherwise to be had, and for satisfying the guides,
getting horses, and the like. And here they constituted the journey,
as they called it, namely, they named captains and oflcers to draw

as all up, and give the command in case of an attack; and gave every -

one their turn of command. In two days more we passed the great
China wall, made for a fortification against the Tartars. And here I
began to find the necessity of keeping together in a caravan, as we
travelled, for we saw several troops of Tar-tars raving about. Our
leader for the day gave leave for about sixteen of us to go a-hnnting, as
they call it: and what was this but hunting of sheep? However, it
may be called hunting too; for the creatures are the wildest and swifiest
of foot that ever I saw of their kind,--only they will not run a great way;
and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase, for they appear
generally by thirty or forty in a flock, and, like true sheep, always keep
together when they fly.

In pursuit of this odd sort of game, it was our hap to meet with about
forty Tartars, who, as soon as they saw us, one of them blew a kind of
horn very loud, but with a barbarous sound that I had never heard before
and, by the way, never care to hear again. We all supposed this was to
call their friends about them; and so it was, for in less than half a
quarter of an hour, a troop of forty or fifty more appeared at about a
mile distance; 'but our work was over first, as it happened.

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be amongst us;
and as soon as he heard the horn, he told us ingshort, thatwe had nothing
to do but to charge them immediately, without loss: of time; and, drawing
as up in a line, he asked if we were resolved? We told him wewere
ready to follow him; so he rode directly up to them. They stood gazing
atus like a mere crowd, drawn up in no order; butassoon asthey saw
pa advance, they let fly their arrows--which, however, missed us very
happily: it seems they misfpok not their aim, but their distance; for their
anowsallfellalittleshortofus,butwithsotmeaniaim,thathad
'we been about twenty yards dearer, we must have had several men
wounded, if not killed. Immediately we halted} and, though it wasat a
'g'zeatdista'nce, we fired, and sent them leadenhnllehforwocdenarrows,
following an: at: inn gasp, resolving a; an inmongthemswordsin

h '\
hand--for so our bold Scot that led as directed. As soon as we came up
to them, we fired our pistols in their faces, and then drew; but they fled
in the greatest confusion imaginable. We had, however, this misfortune
namely, that all our mutton that we had in chase got away.

We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore the
Tartare were not so bold as afterwards; but, in about five days, we
entered a vast great wild desert, which held as three days' and nights'
march. I asked our guides whose dominion this was in? and they told
me this was a kind of border that might be called No Man's Land, being
part of the great Karakathy, or Grand Tartary, but that, however, it was
reckoned to China; that there was no care taken here to preserve it from
the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in
the whole march, though we were to go over some much larger.

In passing this wilderness, which, I confess, was at the first view very
frightful to me, we saw two or three times little parties of the Tartars,
but they seemed to be upon their own affairs, and to have no design upon
us; and so, like the man who met the devil, if they had nothing to say to
us, we had nothing to say to them: we let them go.

We travelled near a month after this, the ways being not so good as
at first, though still in the dominions of the emperor of China, but lay,
for the most part, in villages,---some of which were fortified, because of
the incursions of the Tartars.

We wanted about two days' journey of the fortified city of Naum,
when messengers were sent express to every part of the road, to tell
all travellers and caravans to halt, till they had a guard sent to them;
for that an unusual body of Tartars, making ten thousand in all, had
appeared in the way, about thirty miles beyond the city. Accordingly,
two days after, we had two hundred soldiers sent us from a garrison of the
Chinese on our left, and three hundred more from the city of Naum, and
with those we advanced boldly. We were entered upon a desert of about
fifteen or sixteen miles over, when beheld, by a cloud of dust they raised,
we saw an enemy was at hand. The Tartan came on, and an innume-
rable company they were. A party of them came on first, and when
within gunshot, our leader ordered the two wings to advance swiftly
and give them a who on each wing, which was done; and, wheeling ofi'
to the left, they gave over the design. I

Two days after this we came to the city of Noam, or Naamn. After
this we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful deserts. one of which
we were sixteenAdays passing over; and, on the 18th of April, we came
tothe frontiers of the Muscovite dominions. As we entered into the
Musuovite dominions, we were very visibly obliged to the eare.the Czar
ofMuscovyhastaksnto haveeitieeandtownshuiltiuasmmy
places'asarepdssible toplaee them, where his soldiers keep garrison .
something like the stationary soldiers placed by the Romans in the
remotest countries of their empire; though wherever we came at these
towns and stations, the garrisons and governor were Russians, and"
professed mere pagans, sacrificing to idols, and worshipping the sun,
moon, and stars, or all the host of heaven: and were, of all the
heathen: and pagans that ever I met with, the most barbarous, ex-
cept only that they did not eat man's flesh, as our savages of America
did. In a villiage near Nertzinskay, I had the curiosity to go and
see their way of living, which is most hrutish and insufi'erable: they
had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day; for there stood out upon an old
stamp of a tree an idol made of wood, frightful as anything we can think
of to represent the devil that can be made. It had a head certainly not
so much as resembling any creature that the world ever saw--em as big
as goats' home, and as high--eyes as big as a crown piece, and a nose like
a crooked ram'shorn--and a mouth extented four-cornered, like that of a
lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot'a under bill. It: upper
garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward; a great Tartar
bonnet on the head, with two horns growing through it: it was about
eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs, or any other proportion of parts.
This scarecrowwas set up at the outside of thevillage; and, when I eame
near to it, there were sixteen or seventeen creatures lying flat on
the ground round this formidable block of shapelesa wood. A little
way of from this monster, and at the door of a. tent or hut, stood
three butchers--I thought they were such; for when I came nearer
to them, I found they had long knives in their hands, and in the middle
of the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one young bullock or steer.
Butthese,it seems,were samifioestothatsenseleeslogofauidol; andthe
three men, priests belonging to it; and the seventeen prostated wretchee
were the people who brought the offering, and were making their prayers.
I confess I was more moved at their stupidity, and this brutish war.
ship ofahobgobfimthaneverlwesatanythinginmylife'. 'Irodeupto
the image, or monster--call it whatyouwill--andwithmyswordoutthe
bonnetthat was on its head in two inthe middle, sothatithungdowu
by one of the horns: and one of our men, that was with me, took hold of
the sheep-skin that covered it, and pulled at it, when, behold, a most
hideous outcry and howling ran through the village, and two or three hun-
dred people came about my cars, so that I was glad to scour for it, for we

' saw some had bows and arrows. But I resolved, from that moment, to
visit them again.

Our caravan rested three nights at the town, so we had some leisure
hero to put my design in execution. I communicated my project to the
Scots merchant of Moscow. He laughed at me at first, but finding me
resolute, he told me that he would go with me; but he would go first and
bring a stout fellow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us. He
brought me a Tartar's robe, or gown of sheep-skin, and a bonnet, with a
bow and arrows, and had provided the same for himself and his country-
man, that the people, if they saw us, should not be able to determine who
we were.

All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter
with aquavi'ue, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could get;
and having a good quantity of tar in a little pot, about an hour after
night we set out upon our expedition. We came to the place about eleven
o'clock at night, and found that the people were at their rest; only, that
in the great hut, or tent, as we called it, where we saw the three priests
whom we mistook for butchers, we saw a light; and, going up close to the
door, we heard people talking, as if there were five or six of them. We
determined on making them our prisoners; and, tying their hands, com-
pelled them to stand and see their idol destroyed, which we accomplished
by means of the combustibles we had brought with us.

In the morning we appeared among our fellow travellers, exceedingly
busy in getting ready for our journey, and no one could suggest that we
had been anywhere but in our beds. But it did not end so. Next day
there came a great multitude of the country people to the town gates,
demanding satisfaction of the Russian governor for insulting their priests,
and burning their great Cham-Chi-Thaunga, for so they called the men-
atrous creature they worshipped. The governor gave them all the good
words imaginable; and at last, to appease them, told them there was
a caravan gone to Russia that morning, and that it was perhaps some of
this company that had done them the injury. Then he sent after "infi-
mating that if any in our caravan had done it, they should make their
escape; and that whether we had done it or no, we should make all the

\
haste forward that was possible. The captain of the caravan took the
hint, and we travelled two days and two nights, without any considerable
stop, and then we lay at a village called Plothus. From thence we
hastened on towards J arawe'na; but on the second day's march across the
desert, by the clouds of dust behind us, we began to be sensible we were
pursued. The third day, when we had encamped, the enemy came upon
us in great numbers, and we only escaped them through the cunning of a
Cossack of Jarawena ; who, telling our leader he would send these people
away to Sibeilka, rode away from our rear, and, taking a great circuit
about, came to the army of Tartars, as if he had been sent express to them
and told them. that the people who had burnt their Cham-Chi-Thaunga
were gone to Sibeilka with a caravan of miscreants, that is to say Chris-
tians, and that they were resolved to burn the god Seal Isarg, belonging

to the Tonguses. Upon this, away the Tartars drove in a violent hurry,
and in less than three hours they were entirely out of our sight. So we

passed safely on to J arawena, and from thence through a frightful desert
' to a country pretty well inhabited.

I have nothing material-to say of my particular afi'airs, till I came to
Tobolski, the capital of Siberia, where I let the caravan go, and made pro-
vision to winter. This being the country where the state criminals of
Muscovy are all banished, the city was full of noblemen, princes, and
gentlemen, with several of whom I made acquaintance.

About the latter end of May, I began to make all ready to pack up, and
proposed to a certain prince,--a banished minister of the Chan--that as I
went in the nature of a caravan, and could encamp every night where
I would, he might easily pass with me uninterrupted to Archangel, where
I could secure him on board an English or Dutch ship, and carry him ofi'
safe along with me. He heard me very attentively, declined my'ofi'er, but
asked me if I had kindness enoughto ofl'er the same to another person in
whom he had a great share of concern. I told him,if he would please to
name the person to me, I would give him an answer. Therenpon he said
it was his only son; I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it.

It was in the beginning of June when Heft this remote place, with
my young lord, and a faithful Muscovite, or rather Siberian, servant he
had with him. On the 18th of July we all arrived safe at Archangel, but
were obliged to stay at this place five weeks for the arrival of the ships.
We sailed from Archangel on the 20th of August, in a Hamburgher, and'.
arrived in the Elbe the 13th of September. Here my partner and I884 ADVENTURES: 01' ROBLNSON CRUSOB.

found a very good sale for our goods; and, dividing the produce, my share
amounted to three thousand four hundred and seventy-five pounds seven-
teen shillings and three pence. Here the young lord took leave of us,
and went up the Elbe, in order to go to the Court of Vienna, where he
resolved to seek protection.

To conclude, having staid ncur four months at Hamburgh, I came
from thence overland to the Hague, where I embarked in the packet, all.
arrived in London the 10th of January, 1705, having been gone from Eng
land ten years and nine months. And here, resolving to harass myself
no more, I am preparing for a longer journey than all these, having lived
twenty-two years a life of infinite variety, and learnt sufficiently to know
the value of retirement, and the blessing of ending our days in peace.

 

Butler & Tanner. The Selwood Printing Works. Frome, and London.