may" '5 u '

Unxvcnq
of
Hand-I

w.
n
m
m.
w
m
m
c
.n
1

w
R.4sz; \
w; "my.
' ~ .\

"'//.,

l " ' ' |

w . A . .

\ V l/ ' '.'/I %{'l\.' \ H: 'Iu| \J.'
.' r, ' afi/ .

.LV

 

DANCE OF THE VEGETABLES.)4; BALL 01: THE VEGETABLES '

AND OTHER STORIES

l.\'

< 'fi.'~.-.'---..'.d>-..-~n V .

PROSE AND VERSE

By MARGARET EYTINGE

Sllnstratrb

NEW YORK
lulu-ER & mme-ms. FILLXKUN SQL'ARE

 

 

 

. nm-l-fl-'J-- -n------...v.

 

      

an. n.-

--------- 4- --------'----------~---
@5516? w x W; ,

I'v \,. '

'6"; "Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1833, by

HARPER & BROTHERS,

In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

 

A [I "kill: rncma'..-\ [f'l'llle'S NOTE.

'l'nt. .Inthor of the stories in prose and verse comprised in this volume
desire-x tn express her thanks to the publishers of Ila/7,47% ill/mg l't'l'fl/L', SI.
Air/MAIL [Fit/u rlmrfl't'. 77w l/Ir/tytt'lttlt'lll, the [Jr/mil [021' I'l'th'J', E/I/'it'lt'x Q/mr-
Mir. l;'.r/.I'7ui//'.\' [Mull/Mr, and other perindicztls. for their kindness in giving her
permission to collect intu :1 rnluine the contributions which originally appeared
in their pages. She trusts that the favor with which they have been received
.singly l)_\' the little renders of .\merie:t will be extended to the new and beauti-

ful lurm in which lllu)' now :tppenlnCONTENTS.

7'I-Ilz' BALI. OI" I'll/2' VEGET.-'II)'[.E..5'

THE DANCE IN TIIE A'l I'C'I-IIL'AI'

'I'HE .5'ILL 1' LACE II.II/\"I)I\"II.'R(,'HIEII' .
I'll/5 NED IIIOR. VI. IVG 5'7}! R LUCUJIIO 7'I I'II.' .
'IIIII.' 7U.III-'I.- \I'(' (I .III. II Tc II

(II. VI.' VR/I (II. VLI REIT/1' .5 .IIII.' RR V CIIRISI'. ll/I.5' .

AAI'OIIIIfR RII' V.Il.'\I' II/IJVK'LI'.

Yul/NU 7.467("5' STORY.

.4 LI TIL/2' RII RUE .

7'le IIIOUS'III '5 OPIAI'IO. '\"

A 5' [RA NOE C/I [LIV/(1)..

'IIIII.' III.0!IVI:'I\ I'II/II' (I'll/LII, I.\' A C'FILAR
"NOT AT ALI. LIA'LI .illi'" . .

TI-IF LADY I.V I'll/I. L()I)'_5"I.II 'R .'5' [IL/II) .

'I'IIIL' [IL/11H 0F IILUII. RIRI)

I'IIE FIRE-III. Y I'IIAI' TRIIL'I) ['0 If]; I STAR.

.5/II) BUT 7USI.

I'll/1V CUT II'IL TUIt'klzy

YUSTSU .
IVVII/II TI'II: I\'()5PS TOLD TIII': IIUI'T/L'RII'L Y .
(I'IILRA Yx'IJVI) SIR/I IVIIERRI' .

2I1\'I)V AJVI) IIIF IVOI'JI. . . .
ll B/II) BLGIIVIVIIVU. III/'7 ll GOOD FIVI)I1\" (I .
.IIUC'II 100 HIGH .

I'HIL' S Ill/51571557 .IIIUIV I'll

I'I'IIJ' SOIVG 0F III/1' C/IxV/III'I'.

I)I'.xI/\' 11/12., .

C.0LI) (IR/I Y .5 I01 'I.

.4 DUI". . .

THE TORIV I'Il'l III 1171'

. 100
. 101
. m4
. 105
.,103
. 110

PAGE
El

20
23

63
6!)
70
74
76
80
8 l

86-

89

{)3
96
98
THE SAN/)HOI'I'ER 71G . .
BOW-WOW CURLY CUR . . . . .
NOSES OUT 0/" 7OINT. . .

THE STORY OF THE DAISIES

I.V THE DEEP BLUE SEA .
RUDE MARCH AND SM'EET APRIL.
PLAIN SPEAKING . .

THE GARDEN ON THE SH] I)

PRETTY I'OLL .

l/IE CALF 7H.1T IVOULDN'T SUI'POSE

M'HV THE DOG 5 NOSE IS ALM'A YS COLD .

YELLOl-V 7ACKET'S FRIGHT . . . .
BROWN HAND AND WHITE HANI).
"GRANDI'A. YOU DO LOOK SW'EET"

TIIE VIOLETS THAT CAJIE IN NOVEA/IBER.

FROAI A BOTTLE. A CHRISTMAS STORY.
CHARLEV BENNE T 'S GHOST STORY
ONLY AN ACORN, AFTER ALI. .

l.\" FAY'S SHOE . . . .

AND THE SUN S/IIILED .

"CA W!". .

[HE SAD FATE OE AIR. TONGS.

THE GRASS AND ITS FRIENDS.

THE WONDERFUL NEST.

A LITTLE BROWN DOG

INDIGNANT POLLY I'VOG

THE SONG OF THE M/REN .

IVISE AIRS. SPVALLOPV. . . . .
" SIX/Y MINUTES AIAKE AN HOUR".
[HE GIFT OF THE BIRDS .

THE BUMP TOLD . .

AIRS. BEE EXPLAINS

" .-/IPRIL FOOL!" .

ON GUARD . . . . .

THE GERANIUM LEAF. . .
HOW THEY JIADE THE SNOM". . .
THE yOLLY DOG'S PRACTICAL 70KE .
"CHIRP" AND "SWEET". . .
THANKS TO THE AIADEIRA VIN]:

.-l SIMPLE GRACE .ILLUSTRATIONS.

PAGE
DANCE OFTHI'.Vlv'.(?E'l'ABl.l~'..~' . . . . . . . . . I . . . . .l'korIlzsflz'e'cc

" I'LL YOUR PARTNER Int." sun Sm: . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . 21
'l'III: N121) MORNIXI
TIM-N SA'r DOWN IN .\ HALF-CIRCLE AROUND 'I'm'. S'rovr: . . . . . . . 41

.\RLIIC().\10TI\'1~1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3::

 

-~ Rmu'r 1N Tm: Mummy. m: 'I'HF. LI-IL'UH sm', FELL FAS'I' ASLEl-Zl'" . . . 45
"Tm-1m: LAY .\I\' LITTLE SIs'I'ICR" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . 55
:\ STRANGE CAT-mm>>. . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . I . . 62
5A1). BUT jusr . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
"AND THEY GO'I' I'm-2 TURKEY" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . 7
--1 DON'T BELIEVE I you/.1) no THAT" I . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
STANDING IN THE DI)oI<\\'_.\\' . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 I I . I . 108
"Bum-z DEM CHILLL'x's WIII'I'I-z"I . . . . . 1 . . . . . . . . . . 109
TM: SANDHOPPER JII: . . . . . . I . . . _ . . . . . . . . . . 11::
YOUR NOSE 15 OUT <<w jolx'r, THAT'S A1,]. 1 . . . . . . . . I . . . 113
:\.\'D NEVER TIRED THEY (:kI-zw . . . or BRINY TALE AND SONG. . . I . 126
THE PARTY IN THE szv BLUE SEA . I I . . . . . . . . . . . . 127
'I'HI-z MULLINGONG .-\.\'n licmnxA . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . . 1:;1
PARTING GRANDI'A'S H.-\II< . . . . 1 . . . . . I . . . . . . . . 154
"'THERE 1'1' 13.' SAYS BARNM'" . . I . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 167
IN THIS EVERGREEN FII'I: [mum-:5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 185
BIRDIE AND HER LI'I'TIII: FRIENDS . _ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201
"HAII'I'! NOT A SI'I-zv FAR'I'HERE". . . . . . . . . . _ . . . . . 225
"PRAY DON'T TROUBLE YOURSELF" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 235
"WI: THANK THEE mu 'l'm' LOVING CARI-2". 1 . . . . . . . . . . 245
THE BALL OF THE VEGETABLES

"I Ill-JAR that the flower fairies, the dew fairies. the insect
tribe, and all the wee folk are having splendid times this sum-
mer. I'm going to speak to his Majesty, and see if we Vegeta-
ble people can't have a ball or concert, or something of that
sort. One might as well be 'out of the world as out of the
fashion,' " said Queen Squash, one very warm summer after-
noon, as she fanned herself with a burdock-leaf. And imme--
diately the plump young princes and princesses danced, or
rolled about rather, in the greatest joy, and stately Lady Lima
Bean began practising her quadrille steps. Y

" He, he !" tittered the young String Beans, cousins to her
ladyship. "Quadrilles, indeed! As though any one 'ever
danced quadrilles in this civilized age !" And away they went
through the garden, swaying their slender forms to and fro in
the polka-mazurka, and stopping every now and then to courtesy
profoundly, after the manner of " The Lancers."

" Mamma dear," asked the youngest Prince Squash, "shall
we invite any of the Fruit folks ?"

" The Fruit folks !" repeated the Queen. " Why, my pet, they
wouldn't condescend to lower themselves to our level. They
hold themselves very much above us."

" True, true, your Majesty," exclaimed old Dame Cabbage;
"but pride goes before a fall; and, take my word for it, many a
Peach and Apple will be glad to associate with us before the
summer is over. As for the Cherries, they have already dropped
in to see us, and--"

"Yes, yes, Dame," impatiently interrupted the Queen; ".but
for all that, we won't z'mzz'te any of them to our ball. That must
be 'The Ball of the Vegetables.' "

"Dear mamma, little Miss Strawberry is not at all airy,"
continued the young prince who had spoken before.

" No, slze is not stuck up a bit," added Green Tomato; " she
and her sisters run over to see our family often."

"And old Uncle Watermelon," said the prettiest princess,
" why, he's as good-natured as can be. He is at this very mo-
ment rolling about in the dirt to amuse my little brothers."

"And his niece, Miss Muskmelon," added Lady Lima Bean.
"To be sure, she 1001': rather cross-grained, but really she is
quite a sweet creature !"

"Well, well," replied the Queen, "we'll see what the King
says about it. I'll ask him as soon as he awakes."

just then a loud yawn was heard, and the Queen nodded
and smiled goodmaturedly, and the little ones clapped their
hands and shouted, and in another moment out waddled King
Pumpkin to see what all the noise was about.

"Oh, papa! papa !"

"Your Royal Highness! your Majesty !" burst from every
side.
" Hoity-toity,\\'l1at's in the wind now ?" exclaimed he, rubbing
his eyes, for he was scarcely awake yet.

" Can't we 3'"

" Mayn't we ?"

" A ball !"

" Will you P"

'f Rose fairies!"

" Butterflies! All the--"

" One at a time--o-n-e at a t-i-m-e," said the old fellow (I beg
pardon, his Majesty), slowly; and down he sat, right on the
grass, just for all the world like a common Vegetable.

"Silence!" exclaimed Queen Squash. "'1 will the tale un-
fold'" (she was apt to be a little pompous at times--most
Queens are), and straightway she explained, and craved the
King's permission to give the ball.

" I'd admire to," said King Pumpkin instantly, to the great
delight of all: and he sent for his secretary, Red Pepper, to
write the invitations. "I reckon lze'll make them pretty smart.
He's a precious s/mrp fellow, is R. P."

You must know the King's parents were raised in real
Yankee Land, which will account for some of his peculiar ex-
pressions.

A little robin who lives in an apple-tree that stands near
the vegetable garden was an unobserved listener to the above
conversation; and as soon as my window was opened the next
morning she came hopping in, and repeated it all to me. The
little robin and I were great friends, because early in the spring
I had given her many a breakfast.
Now, the moment I heard of the ball that was to be I was
most anxious to know all about it, so that I might write a
full and true description of it for the boys and girls I love
so well.

So said I to Mrs. Robin: "Mrs. Robin, my dear bird, if
you will only go to this ball, and tell me afterward all that
takes place, you may consider me your baker for the rest of
the year. You and your children shall always find fresh
crumbs on the window-sill."

"Good gracious me!" trilled Mrs. Robin, and her round
black eyes twinkled. " How am I ever keep my head from
going under my wing? just as soon as night comes under
it goes, whether I will or no."

" But, my darling little bird," said I, "I entreat you to try.
Only think! our little birds will be as glad to hear about this
Ball of the Vegetables as your little birds would be to get a
delicious fat worm."

"I'll do my best--I'll do my best--I'll do my best," sung
Mrs. Robin, with more shakes than an opera-singer, and away
she flew.

That she fulfilled her promise you will see.

The evening appointed by Queen Squash for the ball
proved to be one of the finest of the season. The scene was
brilliant beyond description. The grounds were lighted by
hundreds of glow-worms and fire-flies, and the far-famed
Cricket Band was in attendance, assisted by the Tree-toad
.Singing Club and the Katydid Opera Company.

At precisely seven o'clock their Majesties entered the gar-
den, while the band played the celebrated "Voices of the
Night" march.

King Pumpkin wore a robe of rich orange-color; the
Queen appeared in her favorite dress of green-and-white.

They were followed by the Royal Family and their attend'
ants, all clad either in green, white, or orange. And very well
they looked. too, with the exception of two old maiden aunts,
who, unfortunately, had crooked necks.

After them marched the Asparagus Guards, keeping per-
fect step; and a fine sight they were, all dressed exactly alike,
and all of precisely the same height.

Having taken his place upon the throne, which was erected
just within the entrance of the grape-arbor, the King grav
ciously requested that the dancing should commence.

Professor Banana, a distinguished foreigner, who, although
2. Fruit, was nearly related to the Vegetables, gave the signal
for a waltz, when, before the first couple had time toilead off,
quite a commotion was caused in the upper part of the garden
by the arrival of the tall and handsome Captain Corn.

The Captain looked every inch a soldier; his uniform was
of bright green, and from his cap waved a long, graceful, silken
yellow plume.

On his arm leaned Miss Carolina Potato, :1 Southern belle,
from one of the first families, in fact. l-ler buff dress was a
little soiled by travelling, yet she looked so charming that
everybody declared her real Sit/eel.

She was followed by her favorite attendant, " Ochra," famil.
iarly known as "Gumbo," and renowned for making excellent

soup.
By-the-bye, there is a remarkable circumstance connected
with the Corn family. They are forbidden to marry unless
with the Beans, and then they are obliged to take the name
of "Succotash." The Captain is in despair, for he is desper-
ately in love with Sweet Potato; but his parents shake their
heads and declare that nothing good could come from such
a union.

Having paid their respects to the Royal Family, the Cap-
tain and Carolina joined the waltzers, dancing so gracefully
that the lockers-on were perfectly enchanted.

Little Miss Strawberry proved the truth of Prince Squash's
remarks about her by arriving quite early in the evening, look-
ing as pretty and modest as possible. She wore a beautiful
crimson dress, and the cunningest, tiniest green cap perched
on top of her dear little head.

General Tomato, in his uniform of bright red, placed him-
self by her side; and those odd fellows, the young Gherkins,
kept close behind her, evidently to her great vexation.

"I don't like them one bit," she whispered to her' escort;
"I hear they become so sour in their old age. Now,I like
good-natured Vegetables, like your kind King and Queen, and
Lady Lima Bean, and--and--don't you 3'"

"To [w sure," said the young general; and I believe he
would have said " To be sure," if she had asked him if he
didn't think it must be pleasant to be stetved, he was that in
love' with her.

Well, it is, not to be wondered at. She is a dear little
blushing thing, not a bit proud, though she could at any mo--
ment join the cream of the very best society.
After the waltz came a mazurka, during which an incident
of somewhat unpleasant nature occurred.

Miss Cauliflower was floating about with Savoy Cabbage.
when suddenly she paused, turned pale, and would have fallen
to the ground had it not been for the tender support of her
partner.

"\IVhy. dear Miss Cauliflower, pray what 7': the matter?"
asked he, in great alarm.

"Oh, they are coming this way--those dreadful, horrible,
vulgar Vegetables!" replied she.

" Who--what--which ?" asked he again.

" Why, is it possible you do not smell that horrid perfume
they insist upon carrying about them? It's so strong it actu-
ally brings the tears into my eyes;" and the delicate Vegetable
nearly wilted.

Savoy looked behind him. The mystery was solved. The
Onion family were approaching.

" For goodness' sake, do go to another part of the garden."
cried he to them. "Don't you see how your presence affects
Miss Cauliflower ?"

"sz35 Can/Mower I'm/cal! Well, I do declare!" said old
Mrs. Onion, turning very red in the face. "SIM/z airs! I'll
let her know that we are powerful not only here, but in many
foreign lands. Italy, France, and Germany acknowledge our
smell--I mean our 'spell--and love and admire us, and all our
relatives to the very remotest cousin; and what's more, we
never associate with Slugs. She'd better go home, if she's so
delicate. or bathe her head in milk-and-water. That may re-

vive her."
Mrs. Onion, though an honest body, is not very refined.

" Oh, ma!" exclaimed her eldest daughter, "don't fly into a
passion about that pale-faced thing. Our family, as she will
see, is great and strong. Indeed, I heard the gardener say the
other day, 'In onz'on there is strength.' Here come our inti-
mate friends, the I'arsnips and Carrots, and with them that
dear Summer Celery, as slender, straight, and tall as ever.
Let's join them. Good-evening, Miss Cauliflower!"

And she went right up to the shrinking Vegetable, made
a deep courtesy, then turned about and walked off in the most
dignified manner. And her seventeen sisters, and ten broth-
ers, and twenty-five cousins--the Garlics--and her great aunt
and uncle, the Leeks, all followed her example.

" T here,I hope you've become a little accustomed to the
Onion family by this time," said Mrs. Onion, as she took lzer
departure, leaving Savoy perfectly green with rage.

"Well,I vow !" exclaimed a sprightly little Red Radish,
who had witnessed the scene, "there is no sauce like garden
sauce."

The Turnips, who always take longer to prepare than any
other Vegetables, made their appearance about eight o'clock,
bringing with them a German cousin, whom they introduced
as the Count Kohl Rabbi.

He was a bluff, honest-looking fellow, and pronounced
' everything he saw "Vary goot! vary goot!"

Salsify (better known as Oyster Plant), the Misses Beet, and
Lord Egg Plant, accompanied this party. His lordship wore
a lovely purple satin coat, and, though a sober-looking body,
said the funniest things in the drollest manner.
One of these witty sayings is too good to be lost.

"How learned Russia Turnip is!" said Miss Round Beet.

" Too clever entirely for me," replied Lord Egg Plant, at
the same time looking tenderly at his companion; "she can't
be deal."

Truly a princely joke! Mrs. Marrowfat Pea laughed so
immoderately that she split her new green dress all down the
back.

Captain Corn pulled his lovely blond mustache, and de-
clared it was the best thing he had heard since he came from
the army.

Count Kohl Rabbi shook his fat sides and said, "Vary
goot! vary goot !" though he didn't understand a word of it.

Nine o'clock arrived, and the guests were promenading
about, conversing with each other, and drinking some delicious
dew-wine, when a brisk knocking was heard directly under
their feet, and in a moment out into the midst of the assembly
tumbled a lot of Irish Potatoes.

" Whack! fal de liddel!" shouted they. "Better late than
niver! Here we are, all the way by the underground railway.
Good-avenin' to yez all, and how do yez all do ?" And then,
without waiting for an answer, "Let's have a bit of a jig to
shake off the dust from our coats," cried one of them--the
funniest-looking old fellow, with queer little knobs all over his
face.

" Thrue fur ye !" exclaimed a dozen, and at it they went.

Some of the more aristocratic Vegetables looked rather
shocked; and Miss Carolina whispered to Captain Corn, with

a pretty little shudder, " Dear me! to think these fellows are
0 _

.4
my cousins!" But' old King Pumpkin, giving a signal to the
band (who thereupon merrily struck up " St. Patrick's Day in
the Morning "), took Queen Squash by the hand, and, hastily
descending the throne, they joined in the dance.

The Court took their cue from their sovereign (as all
courts do), and, without waiting to select partners, seized each
upon his nearest neighbor; and away they all went, the crick-
ets chirping, the katydids screaming, the locusts whizzing, and
an old frog (who, hearing the mirth, came over from a pond
near by and volunteered his services), beating the bass drum
like mad.

Oh dear! wasn't it fun! Old Dame Cabbage bounded
about like a great ball, and Captain Corn jumped so high that
his plume was constantly waving above the crowd.

Little Red Radish bobbed up and down opposite a jolly,
plump Cucumber; and though, as Miss Bean said, " she hadn't
much to brag of in the way of shape," yet she looked such a
cunning, lively, red-checked little thing, that every Vegetable
who looked at her smiled an approving smile.

As for Miss Cauliflower, she actually danced right in among
tho Onions, and old Mrs. Onion whirled about with Savoy
Cabbage in the friendliest manner.

Professor Banana and Miss Carolina executed the most
graceful and difficult steps; while Gumbo, sticking close to his
mistress, went through wonderful heel-and-toe movements.

Victoria Lettuce's crisp skirts rattled as she slid gracefully
about with young Celery; and Colonel Asparagus, eating a
lump of salt, pirouetted around Miss Rhubarb, who was enjoy-
ing a lump of sugar.
Count Kohl Rabbi jumped up and down in an extraordinary
manner, shouting "Vary goot! vary goot!" while his partner,
Round Beet, looked as though lzer exertions had sent all the
blood to her head.

Prince Squash cut in and cut General Tomato out; but the
general took it very coolly, and, kissing his hand to Miss Straw-
berry, danced gayly up to one of the plump princesses.

Russia Turnip flirted desperately with the biggest Irish
Potato, evidently to his great delight, as he appeared to have
eyes for no one else.

But an odd group stood silently in one corner of the gar-
den. They refused to dance, and appeared to be there only as
spectators. Nobody saw them arrive--nobody heard them.
They belonged, apparently, to the Quaker fraternity, for they
were dressed in the most delicate colors, and did not remove
their broad-brimmed hats.

"A set of upstarts!" said Lady Lima to the Queen. " I'll
wager they came without an invitation. What impertinence !"

"Hush, my dear," replied her Majesty. "I grant they are a
queer, independent set, but I assure you all the very best fami-
lies are fond of the Mushrooms."

And the Mushrooms remained quiet and grave while the
rest of the company danced, and capered, and leaped, and
jumped until they dropped from sheer exhaustion, and every
Irish Potato among them had burst his jacket.

And so ended the Ball of the Vegetables.
THE DANCE IN THE KITCHEN

OH, that winter afternoon!
Such a merry, merry tune
As the jolly, fat tea-kettle chose its singing to begin!
'Twas a lilting Scottish air,
And it seemed, I do declare,

As though bagpipe played by fairy was forever joining in.

Then the bagpipe ceased to play,
And another tune straightway
Sung the kettle, louder, louder, till its voice grew very big;
And the feet of laughing girls
(Girls with Shamrocks in their curls)
You could almost hear a-keeping time to that old Irish jig.

Darling, smiling, cunning Bess
Grasped with tiny hands her dress.
And, a pretty courtesy making, while the kettle made a bow,
" I'll your partner be," said she;
" Forward, backward, one, two, three ;"
And pussy cried, " Bravo! my dears," in one immense me-ow.

And they danced right merrily
Till 'twas nearly time for tea,"x'n \*--| x run>>: n." <<\u- <<m: "yum \Klv. l \('X\\'\Mx. .m, nvu, 1mm."THE SILLY LACE HANDKERCHIEF. 23

The kettle tilting this way and then that way--oh, what fun !--
And its hat bobbed up and down
On its moist and steamy crown,

With a clatter falling off at last, and then the dance was done.

--<>c<>--

THE SILLY LACE HANDKERCH/EF.

IT was washing-day. Betsy had just hung her clothes upon
the line, when along came the Wind, bent on a frolic.

" Ha! ha !" laughed the Shirts, flinging their arms in the
air; " how are you, old fellow?"

"jolly as can be," said the Wind, shaking hands violently
with them. "Come out with me, won't you? I'm going to have
a fine race today."

" No, thank you," answered the Shirts, "we'd rather be ex-
cused. If we went with you we'd never see our intimate friends,
the Collars, again, and, as you must know, we are very much
attached to them."

" The Collars indeed !" said the Wind; "stuck-up things!
Why do you care for them? Come along, do 1"

But the Shirts danced merrily about, and said "they'd stay
where they were, thank him, for in their opinion there was no
place like home."

So the wind blew into the Pillow-slips until they looked like
great giant snowballs.

" Oh, see what lovely balloons I've made of you, Pillow~slips!
Jerk yourselves away from the stupid Clothes-pins, and I'll carry
you up in the air so far that you may almost touch the sky 1"
" Stupid, indeed l" growled the Clothes-pins, and they held
on tighter than ever, while the Pillow-slips made answer, "No,
thank you, sir, we couldn't think of going. To-morrow night,
after we are nicely ironed, two of the sweetest little heads in
the world will be laid upon us, and we shall hear from two dear
little mouths pretty secrets about fairy-land.

"Oh, bother fairy-land !" interrupted the saucy Wind, giving
a great puff.

"Do leave us alone, Mr. Wind," entreated the smallest Pil-
low-slip; " you are very, very rude to make balloons of us with-
out asking our permission. We don't want to be made balloons
of, and if you don't stop I'll tell my grandmother, Bolster-case."

" How funny !" and the Wind shrieked with laughter. " I'm
not afraid of your grandma, you foolish little thing! Stay
where you are. You'll come, Towel with the red border, won't
you?" and he gave it a toss that threw it backward over the
Clothes-line.

" I'd like to see myself i" said the Towel, in a rage, and its
border grew redder than ever. "I wouldn't associate for five
minutes with such an impolite creature as you are."

"Hoity-toity!" said the Wind. "Impolite, am I?" and he
gave it another toss. "Now let's see you unwind yourself,
Mr. Towel."

"I'm sure I sha'n't go; so you needn't trouble yourself to
ask me," said the Tablecloth.

"Who wants you ?" replied the Wind. "You must be three
years old if you're a (lay. You'd look nice going on a frolic at
your time of life." And he slapped it so hard that he tore a
large piece from one corner, and left it with one end dragging
on the ground. Then he flung all the Clothes against each
other and set them quarrelling and fighting.

The Shirts struck the Sheets, and the Towel with the
crimson border 'at last unwound itself and kicked madly at
the Table-cloth. The Pillow-slips became so excited that
they were ready to burst.

One of the Aprons pulled away from its fast friend,
Clothes-pin, and fell on the grass-plot, where it lay flinging
its strings about and frightening a dear cunning Baby-dress
that had been put there to bleach.

At last the Wind spied a pretty little Handkerchief, fine
as a spider's web, and trimmed with the most beautiful lace.

"What a beauty you are, Miss Handkerchief !" he said, in
his sweetest voice. " You are much too lovely to stay in one
place all your life. Come out in the world and be admired.
I will take you where you will see the most wonderful things.
Pretty Lace Handkerchief, say, will you go ?"

" Well, I think I will," said the silly little Handkerchief,
"for Betsey won't give me half as much starch as she does
those horrid Collars, and I think I'm as good as they any
day." I

" Oh, my darling!" said a large Linen Handkerchief that
hung beside her, "you are too delicate for so much starch. It
would ruin your health, my dear. The Collars are strong fel-
lows, and they can stand it. They're very different from the
Handkerchief family. Don't go with that blustering Wind, I
beg of you."

"I will," said the Lace Handkerchief. "I'm tired of this
place, and I want to see the world."
'lo
64

" Don't say that," said the Linen Handkerchief, "for you
know you have the best of care here."

"Don't care !" said the silly thing, with an impatient shake;
" don't care, den't care !"

" Washing, lodging, all for nothing but looking pretty.
Think a moment," said the large Handkerchief.

" Don't care!" was the only reply.

"Stay, do, that's a dear," said the large Handkerchief, as
the Wind, angry at its interference, whirled it in the air.

"Sha'n't," said the foolish Lace Handkerchief; and away it
went on the wings of the Wind.

" Good-bye!" called some of the Clothes, and " Come back !"
shouted the others; but it paid no attention to them, and
sailed along, saying to itself, "Soon I shall be a bird."

For a while the journey was delightful, the Sun shining
brightly and the Wind whistling gayly; but at last Mr. Wind
began to get cross, and he said, in a strange, hoarse voice, " I'm
tired--can't carry you any farther. I shall have to drop you."

" Oh, but I'm so wry little and you're so very big," said the
poor little trembling Handkerchief.

"For all that I'm not going to carry you any farther, as I
said before," screamed the Wind, flinging a handful of dirt at her.

" Do take me home again," prayed the Handkerchief.

" Ha, ha !" shrieked the Wind. "We're miles away from
home. Take you back again? I think not; I haven't time.
Good-bye." And off he flew, leaving her lying in a mud-
puddle in the road; and soon after a cow, passing that way,
trampled upon and tore her into shreds.

And all because Betsey gave more starch to the Collars!THE NED {VORNIJ'GST/IR LOCO/WOTIIUL 27

THE NED {MORNINGSTAR LOCO/IIOT/VE.

UNCLE JEFF--he wasn't my uncle, or anybody's in particu-
lar that I know of, but everybody called him " Uncle." so I did
too--was as deaf as a post--though why a post should be any
deafer than a door or any other wooden thing I can't see; but
that's what people say, so I say it too.

He'd only been deaf about two years when he came to
live in Greenville--lost his hearing at some great explosion
in New York, where they're always exploding something or
other; and he'd tried all the great au--what--d'ye-call-'ems--no
matter, I'll call 'em ear-doctors--and they couldn't cure him--
said the tin pan drums of his ears were all out of order, and
he'd never hear anything again. So he bade farewell to his
native shore and bought Mrs. Billerwell's big, old-fashioned
house just back of Chestnut Grove, and became a Greenvil-
lian. He lived all alone by himself, 'cept an old woman who
did the house-work and an old man who did the garden-work;
and he had lots of money, though he scarcely ever gave any
away. But if he wasn't free with his dimes he was a jolly,
good fellow with his apples and pears; and any boy might go
into his orchard and eat enough to give himself the stomach-
ache, if he'd only take off his hat and ask politely. I don't
mean in words, 'cause Uncle Jeff couldn't hear, no matter how
loud you shouted, but pointing at the trees and then at your-
self, and smiling all the time. And he'd let our club--the
Nimble Squirrels we are--play ball on the green, back of his
house, two or three times a week, which used to make the
Kangaroos--that's the other club--as mad as hornets, for it
was the A No. l-est piece of green for ball-playing anywhere
around.

The reason he was mad at the Kangaroos was because
their captain, Bob Mudge, made faces at him once.

" Oh crackey! I forgot. I thought it was near-eyesighted
he was instead of deaf," said Bob. But it was a bad forget for
him and his fellows, for on that green the Kangaroos did not
jump again for a long, long time.

Catch the Nimble Squirrels making faces at the old man!
They were too smart for that. They'd say all sorts of queer
things to him, looking right at him, just for fun, you know;
but they took good care to say them with their hats in their
hands and a pleasant smile. Thought I should die a-laughing
the day Roy Wheeler said to him, "Good-morning, Egyptian
Mummy, Esquire" (you see Uncle Jeff was awful brown--nev-
er'd got the scorch off since he was blown up), "and would
you be kind enough to give me one hundred and forty-nine
dollars and five cents? If you can't spare the rest, I'll take
the five cents and call it square. And, oh! may we burn
down your house and barn? We haven't had a bonfire for
ever so long."

"Yes, yes," said Uncle Jeff. He always said " Yes, yes," or
" No, no ;" and once in awhile he hit, but oftener he didn't.

Ned Morningstar he was our captain. We'd always sing
"I feel, I feel, I feel, I feel like a morning star," when we saw
him coming, and when he got there he'd join in--he could
sing louder than any boy in school--and then we'd all take
hands and dance round like mad. He was a splendid fellow;
there couldn't be a better boy-captain in all the world, and
the Nimble Squirrels wouldn't have had any other, not if he'd
treated them to soda-water every day of their lives. The
Kangaroos' captain--his folks keep the drugstore--treated his
crowd--there wasn't many of 'em--to soda-water once a week.
His father let him 'cause his mother said he must. His moth-
er is a great big woman, and his father isn't much bigger than
I am.

"They sha'n't go ahead of us," said Ned Morningstar,
when he heard of it. " VVe'll have lemonade (wire a week."

And we did. Ned bought the lemons, and every boy su-
gared himself, except little Al Smith, who hadn't any mother,
and his aunt locked up the sugar-bowl; so I took a double
allowance and went halves.

Our captain was the smartest boy in Greenville. He was
always inventing something, like Benjamin Franklin and Sir
Isaac Newton, and them--I mean Mose--other fellows, who
invented steam and lightning, and made apples fall when they
wanted 'em. 1 never had any science into my head. I'm
good at ball-playing, running, swimming, and skating; but I
don't know much about "cranks," and "valves," and "feed-
boxes," and "levers," and "buffers," and " boilers," and all that
sort of thing; but I'd just like to have you mention something
in the way of machinery Nea' don't know all about.

He invented a telegram to run all around the school-room.
The four corner desks were the stations, and it took messages
first-rate, till one day Young Jack--his real names Jack Young
~--was asking Short Jim--122's real name's Jim Short--to give
him a Madeira-nut for a quarter of an orange, when little Al
Smith, who sat between the two last stations, fell off his seat;
and Mr. Merrit, the teacher, coming in a great hurry to see
what was the matter, stumbled over the wire and came pre-
cious near falling flat on his face. jiminy! wasn't he mad!
And as we wouldn't tell who got up the telegraph he sus-
pected Ned; but Ned was home that day--had the toothache,
and that's bad enough, I hope (and we wasn't a-going to give
him away)--we all had our jackets dusted. But I guess it
hurt the teacher more than it did us, for there were eighteen
boys in our class, and he was a little man anyhow--almost as
small as Dr. Mudge--and not very strong; and it took him
nearly the whole afternoon, 'cept 'rithmetic, and the dust didn't
fly much from the last five or six jackets either.

Then Captain Morningstar invented something to talk out
of the window in a whisper with a boy whose mother kept a
pie and cake and candy and apple store 'round the corner. It
was made out of two patty-pans--little tin things, you know--
about six inches around and an inch and a half deep, with the
bottoms knocked out and oiled silk put in, and a fine, strong
India-rubber string fastening them together, and--I forget
what else, and I suppose that's the whole secret. But any-
how, Ned--he sat next the window in summer-timc--used to
drop one of these patty-pans out of the window when it was
near twelve o'clock, and the boy he'd come along and ketch
ahold of it and walk off a few steps, so as to make the string
.taut; and then Ned 'd whisper in his pan, and the boy 'd holdTI-[E NED M ORNI N05 T/llx' LOCOJIO T! V II. 31

his to his ear and hear what Ned said; and then the boy 'd
whisper back again, and Ned 'cl hold his pan to his ear and
hear what the boy said.

' But one day "Lemon-drops"--that's what we called the
boy, 'cause he always had one in his mouth--forgot to whisper.

The captain had asked him, " What--have--you--got--
good--to-day?" (We didn't want to go out that noon, and
Ned meant to order some goodies to be brought to the gate.)
And he shouted back as loud as he could--he said afterward
he was looking at a monkey that was riding on a dog's back,
with an organ-grinder, coming up the road--just as Mr. Merrit,
who was hearing the history class, said, "What were the dying
words of Cardinal Wolsey ?"--" Currant tarts, blackberry-pie,
bully doughnuts, cinnamon taffy, and ginger-beer!"

As soon as he'd hollered this Lemon-drops was awful
scared, and ran off as fast as his legs 'd carry him, and his patty-
pan flew up when he let go of it and smashed a pane of glass.
But Ned hauled it in quick before the teacher got there; and
Mr. Merrit thinks to this day that some rude boy " out of mali-
cious mischief "--that's what he called it--threw a stone and
broke the window, and made up a new Cardinal Wolsey's dying
speech.

And now I'm coming to the locomotive. I'd been there
before, only I thought you fellows here in Woodbury would like
to hear something about us fellows in Greenville, and that's the
reason I stopped on the way.

Well, the glorious Fourth was near, and the Nimble Squir-
rels had been saving like everything. so as to have plenty of
fireworks and a big new flag (we had lots of small ones); and
Captain Edward Morningstar had been busy on an invention
that was to go ahead--and you bet it did go ahead--of any-
thing he'd ever invented before; and it was to make its trial-trip
at two P.M., July the Fourth, on' Uncle Jeff's green. We'd asked
him on a slate, and he'd said " Yes ;" and the Kangaroos wasn't
to know anything about it, for fear they'd stand outside and
boot; and if they had stood outside and hooted the Nimble
Squirrels would have had to lick 'em, and that wouldn't have
been a nice way of spending "the anniversary of the birthday of
American Independence." That's from Dr. Mudge's speech.
They say Mrs. Mudge wrote it for him.

. At last the day came, and after we'd had our dinner and let
off a few fire-crackers and torpedoes, just to get our hands in,
we met on the green. We'd sent the drum, and flags, and fire-
works down there the day before; and Uncle Jeff he was alone
--the old man and woman had gone to their daughter's--and
he says, speaking in a voice like a bear's voice wrapped up in a
handkerchief, "Boys, don't you hurt that young tree," pointing
to a little tree near the gate. " That tree is very valuable, and
was sent to me from France; and don't go near the chicken-
coop, for I have some very fine game-fowls that ain't quite used
to the place yet."

We all shook our heads as though we'd shake them off in
sign we wouldn't; and then he went away and sat down under
an old apple-tree, and lighted his pipe and began to read the
newspaper.

In a few moments Ned Morningstar and Roy Wheeler
came puffing up the road, wheeling something in a wheelbarrow.
It was all covered over with brown paper, but the Nimble Squir-
rels soon tore that off, and there was a locomotive. "The Ned
Morningstar Locomotive " was painted on the flag which waved
over it. It was a queer-looking thing--looked as though it
might have been made out of an old iron furnace, some tomato-
cans, two or three pokers, and a piece of stove-pipe. There was
a double car behind it--a soap-box cut in two, and then nailed
together again lengtlm'ays--and in this car was a dozen packs
of fire-crackers.

"Will she go?" I asked the captain. " Go !" said he. "I
guess you'll think so in a minute. Attention! company. The
fire is now started, the fire-crackers are lit, and when I say
'Ready !' beat the drum, wave the flags, send off some blue-
lights, and yell like wild Indians. Ready!"

" Rub-adub-dub " went the drum; " Fizz-z-z" went the blue-
lights; bang went the fire-crackers. " Hurrah !" yelled the boys,
and off started the Ned Morningstar locomotive. Straight into
the valuable young tree from France she went first, knocking it
flat; then over the finest game-rooster, who had run out, think-
ing there was a fight, smashing him flat; then under the chair
on which Uncle Jeff was sitting, taking the legs clean off, and
making the old man sit down hard on the back of his head,
with his legs kicking wildly in the air; and then through the
kitchen window on to the kitchen floor, where she exploded
with a noise like seven hundred and fifty cannon.

\Ve boys started to run away, when the captain called out,
"Nimble Squirrels, don't be cowards; come back and face the
music like men ;" and we all came back 'cept little Al Smith,
who was running so hard that he couldn't stop himself until he
brought up against some blackberry bushes. And when we'd
got back there stood Uncle Jeff; rubbing the back of his head,
and looking as though he'd just woke up.

"What was that noise ?" said he.

" Noise?" said Roy Wheeler, who had more cheek than all
the rest of- us put together. " Why, you queer Old Man of the
Sea, how did you know there was a noise ?" And then he shook
his head and said "there hadn't been a sound except the game-
chickens crowing."

" Oh! what a Whopper!" said I.

"A Whopper! 1 s/zou/a' l/zz'ne so," said Uncle Jeff. "And,
young fellow," taking Roy by the ear, "don't you call me 'Olcl
Man of the Sea' again."

"Good gracious!" we all shouted, "he hears !"

" Yes. he hears," said Uncle Jeff; "one shock took his ears
away and another brings them back again. when all the doctors
in the land couldn't."

"The locomotive knocked down the tree," said Ned Morn-
ingstar. "I'm awful sorry, sir."

"And it killed the biggest rooster." said I.

"And it smashed the kitchen window and burst up in the
kitchen, Old Man--Uncle--I mean Mr. Jeff," said Wheeler.

" And it gave me my hearing again," said the old man,
"which is worth all the French trees and game-fowls in Amer-
ica. And now be off. you young scamps, and come back in
two hours, bringing all your friends and relations--"

"The Kangaroos, too, sir ?" asked little Al Smith, who had
got away from the blackberry bushes, leaving a big piece of his
trousers behind; but we draped the big flag around him till he
got to my mother's, and she made it all right.THE YUi'lll'lNG MATCH. 37

" Yes, the Kangaroos too, and I'll give you a Fourth of july
party such as you never had before. Scatter!"

And he did. Ice-cream--quarts of it; lemonade--gallons
of it; cake--pounds of it; bananas--hundreds of 'em; oranges
~hundreds of them too. And old Pop Van Lew to play the
fiddle for us; and the grandest display of fireworks, at nine in
the evening, ever seen in Greenville, or any other "ville," to
wind up with.

THE YUMPING MA TCH

MR. FIELD CRICKET stood at the door of his house,

When a Grasshopper, merry and green, came along.

Calling out, " Hey! old fellow, I bet you can't jump

As high as I can. though your legs are so strong--

50 exceedingly strong and surprisingly long--

Yes, surprisingly long and exceedingly strong.

Will you try ?" "Go ahead," said the Cricket. Then "Chirp!
Chirp! chirp !" he went on with his ear-splitting song.

"Hi! ho! here we go!" said the Grasshopper gay--
And sprung up in the air, to be caught by a bird,
And carried away in a twinkling; while sly,

Very sly, Mr. Cricket had not even stirred.

But as his friend vanished he said, "'Pon my word!
An extremely spry chap and remarkable bird.

That jumping-match, verily, didn't last long."

And again he went on with his ear-splitting song.
3)":
CINE VRA AL VERETTA'S MERRY CHRISTMAS

I DON'T believe there ever could have been a happier or a
jollier family than the Pie family since first the world began.
From the grandfather and grandmother down to the six-months'-

<<old baby, whose laugh was a comical crow, they laughed from
the time they got up until they went to bed again; and so, as
you may imagine, there was always plenty of noise in their
home; but when on holidays they felt it their duty to be, if
possible, a little jollier than usual, it was deafening. Fortu-
nately, they had no neighbors to be annoyed by it, living as
they did on a corner at the very top of a tall building filled
with business-offices. the nearest dwelling-house--a large house,
divided into flats--being three doors away.

The Pies--they were colored people--took care of the
building in which they lived, Poppy Pie being janitor, and the
rest of the family doing the sweeping, scrubbing, dusting, and
window-washing; and, besides receiving good wages for their
services, they were allowed the use of the loft for a residence;
and, having partitioned it off into several rooms, principally by
means of sundry quilts and blankets, they found it a very com-
fortable place to live in. But, in spite of the good wages and
no rent to pay, they could only afford the plainest kind of food
and the cheapest clothes, for there were eight of them to beCINE VIE/1 AL VliRETT/l '5 (Ir/ERR V CI'I/i'lSDlI/IS. 39

taken care of--Grandpoppy and Grandmommy Pie; Mr. and
Mrs. Reliable Pie, better known as Poppy and Mommy Pie;
Berethea, the eldest girl, usually called ":Berry Pie ;" Americus,
the eldest boy, nicknamed " Custard Pie;" Ginevra Alveretta,
six years old Christmas-eve, and always called by her whole
name; and the baby, christened in honor of the minister,
Brother Smilie Jorkins.

The roofs of the buildings on the block of which the Pie
house was the first or the last one, according to the way you
approached it, were nearly on a level; and many of them, dur-
ing flower-time, were made fragrant by pretty flowers growing
in boxes filled with earth.

Grandpoppy Pie had raised cucumbers and beans also in
his boxes, and he actually came near raising a watermelon in
a half-barrel once, but Ginevra Alveretta ate it when it was
about the size of a teacup; and this performance of hers was
the only thing she had ever done since she was born that the
family didn't laugh at. The Pie children used to spend all the
time their father and mother could allow them on their roof in
pleasant weather. They could see the sun rise and set in all
its glory there just as well as though they were in the country,
and watch the steamboats from the New York piers across the
wide waters until they reached the opposite shores; and at
night-time it was so cool and quiet, with the moon and stars
looking upon them, that they seemed to be miles and miles
away from the busy world below.

But in winter, when it was very cold, they were obliged to
stay indoors; and they could only peep from the windows of
the loft at the surrounding houses, and catch a glimpse of the
streets on either side; and yet they were as merry as ever,
waiting with cheerful patience for spring to come again.

And on this day before Christmas of which I write they
had laughed and laughed:

Grandpoppy and Grandmommy Pie, " Ki-yi-yi-yi I"

Poppy and Mommy Pie, " Ya-ya-ya-ya-yap !"

Berry Pie, " Te-he-he--he l"

Custard Pie, " Cluck-cluCk-cluck-cluck l"

Ginevra Alveretta--well, I can't imitate her laugh in words
--it was like the gurgling of water poured from a bottle; and
the baby, " Uh-u-u-u-u!" in a high key, which is as near as I
can come to a description of that.

They had laughed like this from early morning; and when
darkness came they were nearly tired out, having worked hard
too, and sat down in a half-circle around the stove to warm
themselves awhile before going to bed. But even then Ameri-
cus could not remain quiet, but burst out in a minute or two
with, "Oh, granny! tell us 'bout dat ar ole Sunday-Clothes
wot's druv ober de ruffs ter-night wid reindeer-hosses."

"Ought ter have snow deer-bosses," giggled Berry.

" How kin dem reindeer-bosses hop from de corners ob de
streets 'cross de way, an' up from de way-down ruffs to de way-
up ones P" Custard went on. " Don' b'lieve it. It's onpossible."

"Yo' don' b'lieve it ?" said Grandmommy Pie. "Yo' don'
b'lieve it, yo' wicious young sinner? S'pose ebb'rything's on-
possible 'cause yo' don' b'lieve it? Dem reindeer-hosses don'
hav' to hop. Dey flows 'long like birds."

" Hain't got no wings in der picshures," said the "wicious
young sinner," shaking his head doubtfully.THEY SAT DOWN IN 1' HALF-CIRCLE AROUND THE STOVE.CINE VIE/I AL VIC/(E 77/1 '5 IVER]? Y CIJRISTIWAS. 43

" But dey has got 'em derselves fur all clat," persisted gran-
ny. "Four 'normous wings--each of dem--an' wen dey ain't
usin' dem wings dey foles 'em up jest like dey wos fans an'
slides 'em down inter der legs, an' dat's cle time dey's had cler
pieshures took, I s'pose. So dere now!"

And then they all laughed again:

" Ki-yi-yi-yi !"

" Ya--ya--ya-yap !"

" 'I'e-he-he-he l"

" Gurgle-gurgle-gurgle l"

" Uh-u-u-u-u !"

"And all dem fedders in dem wings," said_Grandmommy
Pie, when they were silent once more, " has eyes in dem like
as cley was peacock-fedders, so dat dem ar reinder-hosses kin
see all roun' in de dark. An' Massa Santy Claus'he steers
dem reindeer-hosses to de tops of de chimbleys, an' he has
piles an' piles of ter-umpits an' der-ums, an' heaps an' heaps of
pep'mint-der-ops an' pigs' feet, an' piles an' piles of silk hanker-
chers, an' hams. an' new aperns, an' poun's an' poun's of de
werry best tea--"

"An' pipes an' papers of backy," said Grandpoppy Pie.

"An' fur caps wid ear-wigs," said Poppy Pie.

"An' han'sum big Bibles," said Mommy Pie.

" An' a pink kerwat an' a cane," said Americus.

"An' a blue sating hair-ribbing and p'serves," said Berethea.

" An' candy, an' a gole ring, an' a doll," said Ginevra Alve-
retta.

The baby said nothing, but I've no doubt he thought,
"And rattles, and barley-sugar dogs and cats and roosters."
"Yes, all dem things, sho's yo' bohn," Grandmommy Pie
began again, "an' heaps an' heaps an' piles an' piles an' poun's
an' poun's of odder things dat's done gone slipped my mem-
branes. An' Santy Claus he goes down dem chimbleys wen
dey's big 'nuff hisself, an' wen dey ain't he lets de Chris'mus
presents down wid a rope; an' he gibs de waluabilest to
de waluabilest folks, an" de onwaluabilest to de onwaluabilest
folks."

"'Pears like he might gib de waluabilest to de onwaluabil-
est sometimes, jess for fun," said Custard.

" Dat ain't his way, chile," said his grandmother. " Nebber
was, an' nebber will be, I's afeared. Sho'! dar's nine o'clock
strikin'! Time we was all in bed. Hole your brack tongues
now ef yo' kin, an' ondress yo'selves."

And in a short time the Pie family were fast asleep, with
the exception of Ginevra Alveretta.

She waited until she heard her grandfather and grand-
mother snoring, and her father and mother snoring, and her
sister and brother snoring, and the baby snuffling, which was
the nearest it could come to a snore; and then she got up
quietly and dressed herself again, and, wrapping her mother's
brown woollen shawl about her head and shoulders, stole care-
fully up the steep ladder that led to the scuttle, opened the
scuttle--this was hard work for such a little body, but, making
a great exertion, she did it; and oh, how her heart beat as it
slipped from her hands and fell with a bang! But no one
woke, and she stepped out on to the roof and stumbled
through the snow until she came to the house where five
wealthy families lived on five handsome flats. It had stoppedGIN/f I 'A'.-'l Al. VIE/(Ii 771-1 '5 Alli/fl? 1" CHRIS 711/.<<1 S. 4 5

snowing, and the stars were brightly twinkling in the sky, and
the sound of jingling sleigh-bells and merry laughing and
singing floated up to the small

  
  
  

girl from the streets below.

" I'm goin' to sit down side
of dis yer ehimbley," she said.
fl '

cause I knows some of (lem
waluabilest folks libs here; an.

"RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE HY THE LAUGH SHE l-'l-IH. FAST ASLEI'II'.u

wen Sunday-Clothes comes along he'll think to he certainly
dat I 'longs to dem, an' gil) me a heap of lubly things 'stead
of a tin dipper. or a money-jug, or somethin' like dat." And
as she sat down she began to laugh with delight at the idea.

but right in the middle of the laugh she fell fast asleep.
Now, on the floor just below this roof an old gentleman
and his wife had been all the evening awaiting the arrival of
a daughter, her husband, and her children from the country,
to spend Christmas-eve and Christmas-day with them. But,
much to their disappointment, a telegram, which had been de-
layed for several hours for some reason connected with the
severe snow-storm, was handed to them at half-past nine
o'clock, saying that the baby was not well enough to travel,
and the visit must be postponed until New-year's-day.

It was too bad; for there stood the dining-table just as it
had stood since six o'clock that afternoon, loaded down with
cakes and grapes, and apples and oranges, and six kinds of
preserves, and cold tongue, and roast chicken, and cheese, and
home-made bread; and in one of the closets were hidden away,
all ready to be brought out at the proper time and put into
stockings of various sizes, gold rings in velvet cases, dolls in
the prettiest baby-clothes, neckties of gay colors, china cups,
delightful books, bon-bon boxes filled with the most delicious
bon-bons, and "many other things too numerous to mention,"
as the store-keepers say in their advertisements.

"Well, well, I am disappointed," said Mr. Bush (that was
the old gentleman's name), "for it will be the first time in
many years that we have not had a Christmas party."

"And so am I," said Grandmamma Bush; "but of course
the dear baby's health must not be endangered, bless its little
heart! We'll let the table stand as it is until tomorrow morn-
ing, for I am too tired to attend to it tonight, and then we
must find some one with whom to share the eatables that will
not keep. As for the presents, they will all keep. But, Mary,"GlNEV/t'z'l AL VERETT/I '5 111516]? Y CIIRISTIMAS. 47

she called to the servant-maid, " take a look at the roof-door
before you go to bed. There was a man up there to-day
brushing off the snow, and I don't know whether he fastened
it or not."

Mary ran up the stairs that led to the small room, or cupola,
in which there was a door from which you could step out on
to the roof, and which she found the man had not bolted, as he
should have done.

" I wonder if it's snowin' ag'in P" she said to herself, opening
it far enough to peep out. But she slammed it and screamed,
and reached the landing below with a flying leap, all in the
next moment.

" Why, Mary, what in the world is the matter?" asked her
mistress, hurrying out of the dining-room, followed by her hus-
band with a stout walking-stick.

"Oh! there's somethin' by the chimbly, ma'am--somethin'
all black."

" A man P" said the old lady, in a trembling voice.

" No, ma'am; it's too small, ma'am. One of the good peo-
ple, I do be thinkin', ma'am--kind of fairies they be, though
they do be bigger."

"Nonsense! there's nothing of the sort," said Mr. Bush.

"Beggin' your pardon, sir, there's plenty in Ireland; and
maybe some of them has immigrated, sir. Don't go out, sir.
or they may turn you into a goose or somethin', sir, as they
mostly does thim that's bold enough to look upon thim."

But the old gentleman put her aside, with a smile, and in
a moment more was bending over the "somethin' all black" by
the chimney.
Poor little girl! she was still fast asleep, and almost frozen.
He lifted her in his arms and carried her down to his wife,
who was waiting for him on the platform, from which a few
steps more led to the hall, to which Mary, in her fear of the
"good people," had retreated.

"Good gracious !" said Grandmamma Bush, "where did the
child come from P" and she- began slapping the icy-cold hands;
but she had only slapped them half a dozen times when Gi-
nevra Alveretta opened her big eyes and her not small mouth,
and out of the latter gurgled the rest of the laugh that had
been cut short when she so suddenly fell asleep. And before
it was ended came a loud and joyful chorus of laughter from
above; and, looking up in great surprise, Mr. and Mrs. Bush
saw a crowd of dusky faces looking down.

Mommy Pie had been awakened by the cold air blowing
in upon her from the opened scuttle; and wondering how it
came open, she got up to close it, and found Ginevra Alveretta
gone.

More frightened than she had ever been in all her life
before, she aroused the whole family, each and,every member
of which began to laugh as soon as he or she unclosed his
or her eyes. But they became as serious as Mrs. Reliable (Pie
herself when they heard the alarming news she had to tell.

They dressed themselves in haste, and, guided, by Mr. Reliable
Pie, who went ahead with a lantern, they followed the child's-

footsteps in the snow until they reached the chimney of the
big house, and from there some larger footsteps led them to
the roof-door, which, it having been left slightly ajar, the wind
had blown wide open, and, stepping into the cupola, they lookedCINE VR/l Al. VERETT/I '5 rlllili'li' l" ("HR/$7211.45. 49

down the stairs and saw with glad hearts the object of their
search safe in the arms of a lovely old lady.

And Grandpapa Bush had a Christmas party after all, for
he invited the unexpected visitors to supper in such a cordial
way that they accepted the invitation at once. And didn't the
good things disappear! They did, in a most marvellous man-
ner. And while they were disappearing Ginevra Alveretta told
the kind host and hostess why she had left her warm bed and
stumbled through the snow, to fall asleep beside her neighbor's
chimney. "I guessed Sunday-Clothes 'd come dar to be cer-
tainly," she said, and then the whole Santa-Claus story as Grand-
mommy I'ie had told it came out--the "reindeer-bosses wot
flowed like as (ley wos birds," and the way Santa Claus had of
leaving " dc waluabilest things wid dc walubilest folks," and all
the rest of it. And I don't think any of the Pie family ever
laughed more heartily than Grandpapa and Grandmamma Bush
did while listening to it.

And when the janitor and his relations took their leave
Grandpoppy Pie carried a new pipe and a large bag of smok-
ing-tobacco; Grandmommy Pie a package of tea, and gingham
enough for three old-fashioned aprons; Poppy Pie a cane with
a horseshoe for a head; Mommy Pie a handsome Bible and the
baby; Berry Pie :1 jar of quince preserves and a blue satin-on-
one-side and silk-on-the-other hair-ribbon; Custard Pie 9. red
necktie and a book for boys, full of pictures; Ginevra Alveretta
a doll with golden hair, a bottle of cologne, and a box of Can-
dies; and the baby a rattle, and a guttapercha dog that barked
when you squeezed it; and the next day, as Americus, a turkey-
leg in one hand and a piece of mince-pie in the other, danced

4
wildly, for the fiftieth time, around the table on which the pres-
ents were spread out, he shouted, triumphantly, "Hi, granny!
ho, granny! we did get some of de waluabilest things, an' we's
werry onwaluabilest folks indeed. 'Pears like ole Sunday-
Clothes been a-list'nin' an' left dem ar splendificent presents
dar 'cause he knowed we Was agoin' dar to supper."

"Shouldn't wonder, honey," said Grandmommy Pie; "dat
ar Santa Claus he knows mos' ebbery thing. He's gathered a
pow'ful lot of wisdom the few hundered years he's been goin'
roun'. But of all de good times he ebber gib us dis yere takes
de cake; fur I don' b'lieve if we lib to be as ole as he is hisself
we'll ebber see anudder holiday like Ginevra Alveretta's Merry
Christmas. No, indeedy!"

ANOTHER RIP VAN WINKLE.

" MARCH !" said Spring. Quickly melting, the ice ran away,
And the frost hurried out of the ground;
And the leaves, brown and dry, dropped 'with Autumn's " Good-
bye,"
With the wind went a-skurrying round.
And from the 'deep mud in the swampiest place
His head a big turtle thrust out,
And, winking and blinking his funny round eyes,
He lazily peered all about.

Then he dragged from the mire--like a snail on his back
He bore it--his box-like abode,.-1.V'07'Illili' It'll' VAN [VIN/(LE.

Cl
H

And patiently climbed for an hour or more
Up the bank, till he came to the road.

There he met an old man who was crooked and gray,
And who walked with a stout oaken cane.

And he cried, " Hi! halloo! please tell Ned that I'm here,
And am waiting to see him again."

" Who's Ned?" asked the man. "just examine my top
(I suppose you have learned how to spell),

And a name and some figures he carved with his knife,
\Vhen we parted, you'll find on my shell."

The old man he stooped, with a grunt, for he was
Dccidedly lame in each knee,

And he read, "August Ist, 182o--Ned Mott,"
And then chuckled, "Good gracious! that's me."

" You !" the turtle exclaimed. "Why, Ned Mott is a boy,
And his laugh can be heard for a mile;

With hair brown as earth, and with eyes bright as mine--
You! Excuse me, I really must smile."

" I am he." " It can't be." " Yes, it can. Don't you see,
Many years since you saw me have sped ?"

" What's years? I know nothing 'bout years, but I know
That you are not rosy-cheeked Ned.

" He's a eoy, and he wears a small cap with a peak,
And in summer picks berries called 'whortle.'

Oh! the stupidest thing is a stupid old man.n
"You mistake, 'tis a stupid old turtle.
I'm Ned Mott." " You are not." " If I'm not I'll be shot!"
"Then be shot;" and he dropped with a thud

That sleepy, that ancient, that obstinate turtle
Head-foremost back into the mud.

YOUNG 7ACK'S STORY.

You fellows want to know why I have a whole lot of mari-
golds in my garden, more than all the other flowers put to-
gether (it isn't my garden; it's my little sister's--my only
sister's. I planted it for her, though--except some lady-slipper
seeds, which she planted herself, and pulled up as soon as the
first two leaves came out of the ground, and brought to the
barn to show me they were growing--and I take care of it;
but it's hers, every bit), and why I never forget to buy a piece
of meat for the old one-eyed cat that is always waiting for me
at our gate when school's out.

Well, I don't mind telling you. You seem to be'clever
chaps enough, and haven't sassed me any more than I can
stand since I came here to school, last week. So here goes;
only don't any of you ask questions till I'm through. Ques-
tions before I'm through put me out. Ask as many as you like
when the story's done, and I'll answer 'em all--if I can.

Where we live when we're home (father's got to stay in this
city, on account of some bothering business or other, for a year;
so we're boarding at Aunt Nina's now. She's a splendid old
aunt, and understands boys, and ain't a-hollering all the time
when a fellow's playing, "Great H-e-a-v-e-n-s! stop that noise!"rat/AU war '5 .5701: Y. 53

But when the years over we're going back again; and I'm glad
of it, for I always feel choked in a place where there's so many
houses and no water to look at). And--oh! where was I? Oh!
yes. I know--our house is on the sea-coast; and I tell you we
have some tre-mend-u-ous storms there. The waves rise as high
as mountains--yes. moan/aim. Ed Hillard. You needn't be
sneering. They'd scare you, or any other boy that carries an
umbrella when it rains, as you do. And they run up on shore
with a dreadful loud noise. You fellows thought that storm
yesterday. when the liberty-pole in front of the barber's shop
fell down, and some of the chimney-pots went a-flying, was a
high old storm. Humph! that's nothing to our storms.

Our house stands pretty well back from the water; but two
or three nights the waves came way up to the big apple-tree
and the big apple-tree isn't more than ten feet from our front
door. But oh! when there ain't any storms--though they
never frighten mc--it's the bulliest kind of a place to live in.

There's the great ocean stretching miles and miles away, as
far as you can see, and a great deal farther, and as bright and
blue as anything; and you can find loads of queer things on
the shore--star--llsh, shaped like a star, and if you break a piece
off it grows out again; and mussels, and sea-flowers that eat;
and all sorts of crabs. But the funniest is the hermit crab.
When he first knows hes a crab he has nothing on but a shell
jacket. and so he goes all around looking for an overcoat--not
a new one. but one that some other creature has grown too big
for and wriggled out of. And when he finds one he backs into
it. and goes clattering about in it forever after. And he's a sol-

dier. too. and fights like Old jiminy; and when there's two of
'em fighting for the same overcoat they'll whack off each other's
claws as fast as they can. But crabs don't care much about
losing their claws, 'cause new ones come in their places. 50 do
lobsters'. And there's thousands of shining stones, and lots of
pretty sea-weeds and clams; and " a life on the ocean wave " and
"a cottage by the sea" for me.

Well,I was my mother's only child and my father's too;
but, though I had splendid times and a boat of my own
("What's her name ?" It was 752 Ski/513mg Ben--Ben's my
father's name--but now it's T/ze {Mango/d), and three or four
boys, who lived near, to play with, I used sometimes to feel
lonely and wish I had a little sister. I always liked little girls;
and it's my opinion that the fellow that a'on't like them is no
great shakes--and you needn't snicker either. And I used to
think that if there was one in our house I'd make a pretty gar-
den for her, with clam and mussel shell borders and shiny stone
walks.- The boy that lived in the biggest house in our place----
his father's a captain (no, he isn't a pirate, Sam Brown; there
ain't any pirates nowadays, only in books)--had a little sister
(black eyes she has), and he made her just such a garden.

But my ninth birthday was coming. and I had _no sister yet;
and mother. says to me, "jack, what would you like to have for
your birthday?" My mother's one of the kind that never for-
gets to give you 'something for your birthday. And says I, "A
new straw hat, a clam-pie, and a little sister." And the next
morning I got the straw hat, and at noon the clam-pie, and in
the afternoon--almost night it was--came up the dreadfullest
storm you ever saw--I mean I ever saw; for of course you in-
land chaps never saw anything like it. The thunder thundered,"THERE l..\\' ,m' LITTLE 519nm.")'0 Lava 7.4CK '5 570R 1'. 57

and the rain rained, and the lightning lightninged, and the wind
winded

 

I mean blew; and in the midst of it all a great gun
went " Boom! boom! boom !" And we knew there was a ship
in distress near by. All the men andboys. and some of the
women too, ran down to the shore; and the gun kept on
"Boom! boom! boom !" And we were all crazy to help the
poor people on the ship; but the oldest men there said " no
boat could live in that sea." And so we just stood there'pity-
ing them until the storm was over and the moon came out as
bright as could be. And there wasn't a sign of a ship to be
seen then. except a spar or door. or something of that kind,
drifting about on top of the waves.

And my mother (she'd come down when the moon came
out) said--she was crying--" Come home. Jack," and turned
around to take my hand, when she spied (mother's got awful
sharp eyes) a box lashed to a little raft, wedged in the sand.
She dropped my hand and knelt down beside it.

" There's something alive in it," she said. " An axe, quick !"
And Tom Funrel he came and opened the box carefully; and,
boys, (/16)? In} my fill/c sis/yr! She was wrapped in a thick
shawl. and she had a black kitten, with one of its eyes hurt, in
her arms. Mother took her out of the box, and carried her
home and took off the shawl; and she was dressed in a pretty
white dress, all tucks and frizettes and lace and things, with
gold bracelets on her sleeves. And she opened her big blue
eyes (she'd been fast asleep; mother said they'd given her
something to make her sleep), and looked like--well, just like
a emz/lifu/ blue-eyed baby.

She cried a little at first; but mother gave her some warm
goat's-- (Yes, I've got a goat--two of 'em: one goes in harness.
Didn't I tell you not to ask questions?) Lemme see. Where
was I? Oh! goat's milk. And she soon fell asleep again.
And that night, when I said my prayers, I asked God to let
one of the angels tell her folks that she was my sister, and I'd
take care of her for ever-'n-ever.

Well, she was about a year old when she and the kitten--
it lost the sight of the eye that was hurt--came ashore on the
raft; and we called her " Baby" until she was three months
older. Mother was waiting for me to name her; but it seemed
as though I couldn't think of the right name. And then, one
day, I'd been Up to see the boy whose father was a captain, and
whose little sister had a garden, and he'd given me some flowers
for Baby. I most always took her about with me in a little
wagon father had made for her. And didn't they kiss and pet
her wherever we went! But this day mother thought it too
hot for her to go out, and I brought them home to her (she had
never yet spoken a single word), and said, "Here, Baby, is a
pink, a lily, a marigold." And she reached out her dear little
fat hands and said, so sweet (well, I never heard anything so
sweet, not even a bird's song), "Ma-1y Dold." And she took
the bright yellow flower with a smile and a coo, and kissed it
and held it to her pretty cheek; and I named her Mary Gold
on the spot; and I planted plenty of marigolds in the garden I
made for her. It's ever so much nicer than that fellow's whose
father is a captain. And when I came here I coaxed Aunt Nina
(she's jolly coaxable) to let me plant a lot in her garden, for fear
our Mary Gold would feel lonely without them. She's four
years old now, and the prettiest darling you ever saw.A LITTLE li'lll'A'lE. 59

And, I say, if you fellows 'd like to see her you can come
down, two a day (lemme see--eighteen; that would take nine
days, leaving out Sunday), to Aunt Nina?s and see her.

What's that you say, Fred Winship? "You're all going to
give her a present P" Well, now, you are clever; and I'll have
you all at once out to the "Cottage by the Sea " the very first
summer I'm back there; and you shall have the jolliest time
you ever had in your lives. There's the school-bell!

_. "(>--

A LITTLE RHY/l/E.

WHAT would the birdies do,
What would the flowers,

What the bees and butterflies.
If in cloudy hours

They believed the sun had gone
Forever from the sky?

Birds and bees and butterflies
And flowers--all would die!

But the birdies know full well,
And the flowers too,

After clouds of black and gray
Skies of white and blue;

And the bees and butterflies,
Hidden from the rain,

Wait. with folded wings, until
The sun shines out again! '
THE MOUSE'S OPINION.

ANNETrE's canary-bird's cage, with the canary in it, was
brought into the library and hung upon a hook beside the
window.

Out popped a mouse from a hole behind the book-case.

"Why, what are you doing here, canary P" she said. "I
thought your place was the bay-window in the dining-room."

"So it is--so it is !" beginning with a twitter, answered the
canary; " but they said I talked too much !" ending with a
trill.

"Talked!" repeated the mouse, sitting up on her hind-legs
and looking earnestly at him. "I thought you only sung !"

"Well, singing and talking mean about the same thing in
bird-language," said the canary. "But goodness g-r-r-racious!"
he went on, swinging rapidly to and fro in his little swing at
the top of his cage, " 'twas they that talked so much--my mis--
tress and the doctor's wife, and the doctor's sister--not me. I
said scarcely a word, and yet I am called a Chatterbox and pun-
ished--before company, too! I feel mad enough to pull out my
yellowest feathers or upset my bath-tub. Now, you look like a
sensible little thing, mouse, and I'll tell you all about it--what
they said and what I said--and you shall judge if I deserved to
be banished.THIS .410 USE '5 ( )PI.V10.\'. 6 l

"The doctor's wife and the doctor's sister called.

"' It's a lovely day," said they.

"'A lovely, lovely, lovely day,' sung I. "I'he sun shines
bright--the sky is blue--the grass is green--yes, lovely, lovely.
lovely--and I'm happy, happy, happy, and glad. glad, glad!'

"They went right on talking, though I sung my very best.
without paying the slightest attention to me; and when I
stopped I caught the words 'So sweet' from my mistress, and
then I sungr again, 'Sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet.
sweet is the clover--sweet is the rose--sweet the song of the
bird--sweet the bird--sweet the clover--sweet the rose--the
rose--the clover--the bird--yes, yes, yes--sweet, sweet, sweet!'
And as I paused to take breath I heard some one say, 'What a
noise that bird makes! how loudly he sings!' "How loudly he
sings !' repeated I; 'how loudly he sings !----the bird, the bird,
the beautiful bird--sweet, sweet, sweet, sweet--' But suddenly
my song ended; for my mistress got up, unhooked my cage.
saying, 'Canary, you're a Chatterbox; you talk too much.' and
brought me in here.

"And really, mouse, as you must see, I didn't say more than
a dozen or so words. What do you think about it?"

" Well," said the mouse, stroking her whiskers and speaking
slowly, "you a'z'a'u'l my much, but it strikes me you talked a
great deal."

" Oh 2" said the canary, putting his head on one side and
looking thoughtfully at her out of his right, bright, black, round
eye. But just then the mouse heard an approaching footstep,
and, without even saying "Good-bye," she hurried away to the
hole behind the book-case.
 

A STRANGE CAT-NR1).

A STRANGE CA T-BIRD.

IN the dear old cedar-tree that stands
Before my cottage-door

A bird's nest 'mid the topmost boughs
Has been a year or more;

And, looking from my window, I
This morning chanced to see

The queerest bird upon that nest
In that old cedar-tree.

For wings an extra pair of legs
He had; for feathers, fur;Tllli FLO IVER THA T Glx'ElV IN A CELL/IR. 63

For beak, a little, pinkish nose;
And for a song, a purr.

A cat-bird he; but no cat-bird
'l'hat ever hopped or flew

Would own him as a brother-bird,
Or answer to his mew.

But there he was upon the nest,
A-blinking in the sun,

And thinking to himself, no doubt,
" Oh, this is jolly fun !"

And anything much cunningcr
I'm sure could never be

Than that gray kitten playing bird
In our old cedar-tree.

THE FLOWER THAT GREl/V [IV A CELLAR.

IT was the evening of flower-day in the Child's Hospital,
and the kind ladies of the Flower Mission had brought many
lovely posies to gladden the eyes and the hearts of the sick
children, and the whole place was bright with their beauty
and sweet with their fragrance. Queenly roses, gay petunias,
pure white lilies, bunches of star-like daisies and their soft,
round, white little buds; gaudy marigolds, brown, yellow, and
orange; crimson cock's-combs, branches of honeysuckle-vines
filled with honey- rich fairy trumpets; saucy, elf-faced pansies;
spicy pinks, hollyhocks in satiny dresses of many colors, bright-
eyed verbenas and sweet-Williams. brilliant geranium-blossoms,
and even great, honest, faithful sunflowers--those flowers that
love the sun so dearly that they turn to gaze upon him when
he is bidding the earth "good-night "--were all there, bringing
with them Love and Hope and a troop of gentle spirits.

All day had the sick and maimed little ones rejoiced in
their presence; and now, when they were placed in the wee
pitchers and vases that stood on the shelves above each snow-
white little bed, and the sunshine faded, and the stars came
out, their loveliness and fragrance floated into the dreams of
the sleeping children. The dreams of all but one, I should
say; for one clear little girl, with great gray eyes and tangled
brown curls, who had fallen and hurt her back so badly a few
days before that it was feared she would never walk again, was
wide awake, trying hard to keep back the tears that filled her
eyes and the sobs that rose in her throat when she thought of
the dear father and mother and the darling baby brother she
had left in the poor home from which she had been brought.
A small lamp hung from the ceiling near by, and cast a faint
light upon the flowers that were crowded into a quaint jug on
the shelf above her bed. There were some roses, some lilies,
some daisies, and one very pale pink geranium-blossom in the
midst of a group of pretty, shy buds; and as the little girl sti-
fled a great sob that seemed determined to break out she be-
came conscious of several very small voices whispering softly
together; and, listening intently for a few moments, she discov-
ered these voices came from the flowers in the quaint jug.

"I came," said a lovely crimson rose, when the whispering
had ceased, and the flowers were apparently satisfied that theTHE FLOW/ER 711.4 7' GREH' I.'\' A CELLAR. 65

children were all asleep, "from a most beautiful garden, where
birds sing and fountains play all day long, and the rarest of
our race are tended with the greatest love and care."

"I came," said a daisy, " from a happy meadow, where the
bees and butterflies roam from morning 'til night, where thou-
sands and thousands of my sisters look up and smile at the .
bright blue sky, and the cheery green grass nods on every side."

"I came." said a stately water-lily, " from a great lake, where
the waves flash like precious gems in the day, and like purest
silver at night; where glancing fish swim merrily to and fro;
where tall, graceful, drooping trees, standing upon the mossy
banks, cast their shadows upon the water; where, when the
air begins to tremble with the earliest songs of the birds, the
broad, faint light of morn steals from sleeping lily to sleeping
lily and wakes them with a touch."

"I came," said the pale pink geranium-blossom, "from a
cellar."

" A cellar!" repeated the others, moving a little away from
her.

" Yes. a cellar."

" I never met a flower from a cellar before," said the rose.

"Nor I," said the daisy.

"Nor I," said the lily. " There are no cellars in lakes."

"I thought they were all cellar." said the daisy, slyly; but
the lily made no reply.

"\Vould you mind telling us how you came there P" asked
the rose. " Being full-blown, I couldn't sleep much if I tried."

"I am perfectly willing to tell you, if the others care to
listen," said the pink flower, modestly.

5
" Pray go on," begged the daisy.

And "I have no objection," added the water-lily, in a gra-
cious manner.

" One day," began the geranium-blossom, growing a little
pinker as its companions all turned toward it, "a servant-maid

. tossed from a window a withered bouquet into the street, and
in the centre of this bouquet was a slip of geranium which had
been placed there because its crumpled young leaves were so
fresh and green. A poor little girl passing by picked up this
slip, and carried it to a wretched cellar, where she lived in the
greatest untidiness with her mother--a poor, weak, complaining
woman--and her two small sisters and eight-year-old brother.
Here she found a battered tin pail, which she filled with dirt
from the street, and in this dirt she planted the slip of gera-
nium. 'See, mommy,' she said, holding it up, as her mother
raised her eyes from the coarse garment she was making, 'I
mean to take awful good care of this; and some day it may
grow a flower, a beautiful flower, like those I see in the win-
dows of the big houses. \Vouldn't that be lovely, mommy?'
And she climbed up on the shaky old wooden table, and placed
the pail on the ledge of the four-paned cellar window.

" But the window-panes were so covered with cobwebs and
dirt that the little of the blessed sunlight that found its way
down there could not get in at all. So Polly got the broom,
and carefully swept away the dust and the spider-webs, and
then she washed and polished the four panes until they shone
again; and the very next afternoon a sunbeam came to visit
the geranium, and a tiny new leaf peeped out to greet it.
When the window was cleaned the shelf (holding a few oldTHE FLOHr'IL'R THA '1' (JR/51V l.\' A CELL/1R. 67

tin pans) that hung below it looked so dingy that Polly could
not rest until she had scrubbed it well. Nor did she stop
there, but also scoured the old tin things before she put them
back in their places, until they looked almost like new. And
thus, from the very moment of my mother-plant's arrival there
a change for the better begun in that dreary cellar. It seemed
so natural, when Polly had the basin of water ready to sprin-
kle the geranium, to wash the faces and hands of her little sis-
ters and brother first; and then, of course, the room must be
swept and put in order, so that the bright. clean faces might
not seem out of place in it. And when, at last, a cluster of
wee pink buds crowned the green stem Polly's joy knew no
bounds. Her poor mother laughed aloud--~which was a rare
thing for her to clo--to see her little daughter dancing about
and clapping her hands in glee. 'Oh, mommy !' she cried, 'we
must make it as nice as we can for them here, the pretty dar.
lings, for flowers are not used to living in a cellar; and we
must never say or do any wicked things before them, or they'll
be scared, and die right away. And if we are all very, very
good they'll grow, and grow, and grow, till they look like a
whole garden.'

"And the mother, catching the spirit of the child, grew
more cheerful and hopeful and industrious; and the under-
ground home became neater and neater, until it was neatness
itself. And when any of the smaller children were tempted,
as the best of children often are, to quarrel and call each other
naughty names, Polly would say, with warning voice and fin-
ger, 'Hush! the flowers will hear you !' and the little ones
kissed and made up again.
"And this morning, when the lady of the Flower Mission
was passing by, with a basket of roses and lilies in her hand,
Polly ran up the cellar steps and begged her to wait a mo-
ment, 'For,' said she, bashfully, '1 have a flower to send to
some sick child.'

"'You have!' said the lady, in surprise; for she thought,
when she first saw the little girl, that she came to beg a flower,
not to offer one. 'Pray, where did you get it, my dear?'

"And Polly told her the whole story, just as I have told
it to you; and the lady went down into the dark room, and
talked for almost an hour in the kindest manner with Polly's
mother, and smiled brightly upon the beautiful geranium, now
filled with round, pink bunches of buds and blossoms. And I
shouldn't wonder if some of those buds opened in a much
pleasanter home than that cellar. But I'm glad I grew there;
for my heart is filled with happiness when I think that through
me and mine dear little Polly has become a better girl, made '
a happier home, and gained in the pretty flower-lady a lovely
friend."

"All the same, I'a' rather come from a garden," said the rose.

"And I from a meadow," said the daisy.

"And I from a lake," murmured the water-lily.

"I wouldn't," said the lame girl, forgetting her pain, with
flushed cheeks and sparkling eyes--"I wouldn't, if I were a
flower. I think the flower that grew in a cellar the best and
sweetest of you all."

But she met with no reply; and from that day to this
never has she heard lily or daisy, rose or geranium-blossom
speak again."NOT AT ALL LIKE ML'." 69

"NOT AT ALL LIKE ME."

Two little monkeys were swinging one day
In the top of a cocoa-nut-tree;

Said one little M. to the other, "Ahem!
You don't look at all like me--
Not at all, not at all like me.

"(l/y nose is turned up much higher than yours,
And my eyes they are wondrously small;

My fingers are longer, my toes they are stronger---
Oh no, you're not like me at all--
Don't frown; but, indeed, not at all.

"You needn't get mad--it isn't my fault
That so strongly I favor my ma;

She'd a sweet monkey-face, and was belle of this place
Before she married my pa--
Yes, and after she married my pa."

Not a word said her friend; but she threw out her arm,
With a look of deep indignation,

And she w/zaaem' the " belle" till she tottered and fell,
And that ended the conversation--
Quite ended the conversation.
THE LADY [N THE LOBSTER'S HEAD.

ONE fine moonlight'night in June a Lobster, a Crab, and a
Shrimp met on a glistening sandy beach. Several Oysters were
also of the party, but they preferred sitting on a rock that jutted
out a short distance into the water.

" Oh dear! do tell us," said Miss Shrimp to the old Lobster,
after they had all politely bidden each other good-evening--" is
it true that Lobsters always have ladies in their heads ?"

" Quite true," answered the Lobster, seriously.

"Well, I declare! how awful funny !" said Miss Shrimp.
" Please tell us all about it, that's a good Lobster."

" I don't mind if I do," replied the Lobster; " but you must
promise to be very quiet and attentive, for, like all story-tellers,
I hate to be interrupted."

Miss Shrimp promised, and so the Lobster began.

"Once on a time, when Lobsters were even handsomer than
they are now--"

"Could that be possible P" sneered the Crab, who had lately
lost one of his claws. and was a snappy, quarrelsome sort of
fellow.

The Lobster took no notice of him, but commenced again.

" Once on a time, when Lobsters were even handsomer than
they are now, my greatest, very greatest, grandmother gave a
party--'twas on the beach at Long Branch--"
" I've heard that before," said the Crab.

"On the beach at Long Branch," repeated the Lobster.
"She invited all the Crustacea--"

"The what ?" asked Miss Shrimp.

" The Crustacea," answered the Lobster; "so called because
they belonged to the 'upper-crust.' "

"The idea, Miss Shrimp," scolded the Crab, " of your not
knowing the name of the great family of which you are a mem-
ber yourself! Don't you go to school?"

" The schools were full of Mackerel and Herring this spring,"
sobbed Miss Shrimp, with tears in her funny little stick-out eyes.

"Well," said the Crab, "if that's the case you're to be ex-
cused, and I'll give you some information on the subject myself.
The Crustacea all have their bodies covered with a shell over-
coat, and every year they throw away their old coats and get
new ones."

"Yes; and the fun of it is," said a large Oyster, "they don't
have to pay for them."

" Well, you don't have to pay for them," said the Crab.
"Shut up !"

And the Oyster did shut up--so tight that it would have
taken the strongest kind of an oyster-knife to open him.

"Who's telling this story ?" asked the Lobster, shaking his
biggest claw at the Crab. "Will you be quiet or not? I'll
begin once more; but don't any of you interrupt me again.

"My very greatest grandmother gave a party, and she in-
vited the Crustacea--the Bivalve Molluscas--"

Here the large Oyster opened with a jerk and said, " That's
me and my relations," and shut up again with a snap.
"And all the Fishes, and, in fact, all the creatures that live
in the sea. 'Twas a lovely night, and the moon shone bright."

" That's poetry," said Miss Shrimp.

"Great old poetry !" sneered the Crab. " Go on, Lobster."

"Mr. Lobster, if you please," said the Lobster, in a rage.
" I don't allow any one-sided, one-clawed Crab to call me ' Lob-
ster.' Where are your manners ?"

"Gone to look for his claw," giggled Miss Shrimp.

"It was a beautiful night, and the moon shone bright," the
Lobster went on, after a moment's silence. "The company
came dressed in their very best. (Don't you say 'poetry' again,
Miss Shrimp, or I'll slap you.) The Mackerel were gorgeous--"

"What ?" asked Miss Shrimp.

" Gorgeous, splendid, beautiful," explained the Lobster.
" They were attired--"

"What P" again asked Miss Shrimp.

"Clothed, dressed; and permit me to say, Miss Shrimp, I'll
not answer any more of your silly questions--I'm not a die-
tionary."

" No, nor anything of the kind," said the spiteful Crab.
" He and his family are only well red after they are boiled."

" How about your family ?" asked the Lobster, who was be-
coming very angry indeed. "Are they ever boiled? And what
color are they then?"

"Oh dear!" said Miss Shrimp, "upon my word and honor,
I'll not say another word, if you will only stop quarrelling and
go on with the story."

The Lobster balanced himself on his tail, threw a couple
of somersets, and said he felt better.
" That great soldier, General Swordfish, came to the party;
but you may believe the other Fish did not come very near
him, for he had a bad habit of running his sword into whatever
came in his way and pretending he didn't see it."

"I'd like to have him try to run his sword through my
overcoat," said the large Oyster, opening his shell a little, and
shaking his fat sides with laughter.

"The Gold and Silver Fish came," continued the Lobster,
"and oh! how bright they shone in the moonlight! Some
Flying Fish dropped in for an hour or so. They were very
tired, for they had been chased by a Dolphin; but no one was
sorry for them, because they put on so many airs on account
of being able to rise a little above the other fish.

"The Herrings didn't stay long. Poor, delicate things!
they couldn't bear to be away from their water-home.

"Captain Codfish swam in with Captain Sturgeon. Two'
funny old salts, my very greatest grandmother called them.
The Trout family brought their little cousins, the Smelts, and
they all looked very gay and pretty; but the belle of the party
was Miss Nautilus. She sailed to the beach in her own tiny,
fairy-like boat.

" Some Oysters, who fell desperately in love with her, pre-
sented to her a necklace of beautiful pearls, which they had
brought from somewhere, ever so far away."

" I've got a pearl in my shell now," interrupted the large
Oyster.

" Keep it." said the Crab.

"1 shall," said the Oyster.

" No, give it to me," said Miss Shrimp.
" I .won't," said the Oyster.

" Don't believe you've got any pearl," said the Crab.

" Have," said the Oyster.

" Fib," said the Crab.

" Hush!" said Miss Shrimp.

But it was too late. The Lobster had thrown a tremen-
dous somerset, and landed so far away from them that they
could no longer even see him.

And so to this very day they have never been able to find
out why Lobsters always have queer little ladies sitting in
queer little arm-chairs in their heads.

--ooo--

, THE DEATH OF BLUEBIRD.

" HE is dead 1" said the Wind.
"Oh! who ?" asked the Rose.
"The prince of the \vildwood--the Bluebird.
And he died--" said the Wind.
" Oh, why ?" asked the Rose.
" He loved, and his love was no true bird."

"Alas!" sighed the Rose.
"Ah me l" said the \Vind,
" So handsome, so tuneful, so clever !"
"And she ?" asked the Rose.
" False one l" said the Wind,

" In the maple chirps gayly as ever.
"And he lies--" said the Wind.
" Oh, where P" asked the Rose.

" At the foot of the oak, in the clover.
And the grass--" said the Wind.
" Droops low," wept the Rose,

" O'er the form of the ill-fated lover."

"Oh, list !" said the Wind.
"I hear," sighed the Rose;

" The grave-digging Beetles are coming."
"And that sound?" asked the Wind.
" Is a hymn," wept the Rose,

" That the Bee-folks are solemnly humming."

"They are there," said the Wind.
"And at work P" asked the Rose.
"Yes, the ground very softly they're breaking.
They are kind," said the Wind.
" Most kind." wept the Rose,
"Such a pretty wee grave to be making."

"They are done," said the Wind,
"And I'll fling," said the Wind.
"A rose-leaf or two where he's lying."
"Take myself," sighed the Rose--
"All myself," wept the Rose--
" He is dead, and for him I am dying !"

Cl
THE FIRE-FLY THAT TRIED TO BE A STAR.

"WHY, where in the world are you going?" said an apple-'
blossom, on the topmost bough of a great apple-tree, to a fire-
fly that was flying by, one lovely june night. " You flashed
into my dream like a small sunbeam, and I awoke, thinking
surely0morning had come."

"I'm not going in the world at all," answered the fire-fly,
pausing in her flight; " I'm going aeow the world, to be a star!"
and she fluttered her wings and shone her very brightest.

" Indeed I" said the pretty apple-blossom; "and do you really
think you will like it, so far away from all your friends? And
won't you miss the pleasant evenings in the meadow, and the
gay dances I so often see you fire-flies dancing hour after hour?
Apples and pears! how you do whirl around! It makes my
head dizzy just to look at you."

" Oh, I shall forget all that when I'm a star I" said the fire-
fly. "Stars are so high-minded that they never join in such
trifling amusements."

"Well, they tumble each other out of the sky sometimes,
for I've seen many a falling star since I first opened my leaves,
and I don't think that's very pretty conduct," said the apple-
blossom; " much worse than dancing, I should say. And oh!
now, wouldn't it be sad if they didn't like you after you got
there, and tumbled you out? Such a very long way to fall,
you know !"

But the fire-fly went on without noticing these last remarks.
She evidently did not like them. "They have plenty of the
brightest, the most sparkling company every night; and as for
the evenings in the meadow, to tell the honest truth, I'm rather
tired of them, the frogs do sing so dreadfully out of tune, and
the katydids keep saying the same thing over and over. True,
I am the largest and most brilliant fire-fly of the season, and, in
consequence, much honored and admired by the other insects
of the night; but that goes for nothing when a fire-fly feels that
she is out of her sphere--that she was meant for a star. But
good-bye! I can't stop longer talking here. I hope you will
become a fine apple, for really you're a very nice blossom. I
won't forget you. I'll look down on you when I take my place
in the sky. By-bye."

"Good-bye," said the apple-blossom, wondering if that last
speech could be taken as a compliment or not; and then she
went to sleep again.

Up flew the fire-fly, until she met a cloud that was teasing
the moon by scurrying before her and hiding her face from
the earth. '

" Halloo!" said the cloud, "what's this? A bit broken off
a star? No! that wouldn't have legs. A piece of very
late sunshine? No! that wouldn't have wings. A speck of
lightning? No! that wouldn't have a head. What are you.
thing?"

The fire-fly trembled. It had so suddenly grown dark, and
the cloud spoke in no very gentle tone; but she summoned
courage to answer to the question, while she kept her light
shining brightly, "I am a fire-fly, and I came from the world
below."

" Oh, you are, and you did !"
I pray ?" and in its curiosity it forgot the moon, and she sailed

said the cloud, " and what for,

quietly away.

"I want to be a star," said the fire-fly, flashing and gleam-
ing and sparkling like a diamond: "and if I can reach the sky
I'm sure I shall become one; for, as you see, I shed a most
wonderful light."

"Wonderful light! Nonsense I" said the cloud. "Stars are
stars because they are stars, and fire-flies are fire-flies because
they are fire-flies; and a fire-fly can't be a star any more than
a star can be a fire-fly. Now, clouds am change--they can be
snow or rain. I'm thinking of turning into a shower myself

"in a few moments--thats the reason I'm hanging so low; but
stars are stars, and fire-flies are fire-flies."

" You said that before," said the fire-fly, with a spiteful little
flash, for she was getting angry; "but please let me pass. I'm
going to try to be a star, anyhow."

"You silly, conceited young thing!" growled the cloud,
looking darker than ever. " I've a good mind to put out your
'wonderful light' altogether. "

" Oh don't!" said the fire- -fly, meekly, and half folding her
wings.

"On second thought I won't," replied the cloud. "You'll
see your folly soon enough; fly on !" And off it started after
the moon again.

By this time the little wanderer was very tired; and, as she711/.'F1RE-FLY Til/17 TRIED TO BE A .S'TAI' 79

looked above her, the stars seemed yet to be miles and miles
away.

Her wings grew weary, and she was shivering with the
cold. Her light began to shine dimly--she had not strength
to keep it bright; and she thought with regret, for the first
time since she had started on her journey, of the pleasant
meadow-home she had left, of the sweet wild-flowers hanging
their beautiful heads heavy with dew, of the sleeping birds that
ever and anon charmed the listening night with little tunes
they dreamed, of her sisters and brothers whirling through
their merry dances--yes, and even of the frogs whose croak-
ing had so displeased her, and the katydids who had annoyed
her by saying the same thing over and over.

Still, she tried to go on; but her wings refused to obey
her, her light went entirely out, and, almost dead with fear and
cold, she began slowly to sink toward the earth.

At last, to her great joy, she found herself resting on the
topmost bough of the apple-tree.

"What! are you back again P" asked the apple -blossom who
must have been a very light sleeper.

But she was too tired to reply.

She dropped from the branch, and once more sunk slowly
through the air, until she touched the dew-gemmed grass of her
own clear meadow.

Her friends clustered about her.

" Why ?" " Well ?" " What P" " How ?" they asked.

But all 5/20 said was, "I don't want to be a star!"
SAD, BUT 7UST.

A MONKEY and a porcupine
Went out to walk one night--
'Twas in September, and the moon
And stars were shining bright--
When in a garden near the road
They spied a splendid tree.
As full of peaches, round and red,
As ever it could be.

The topmost branch that monkey reached
In one astounding bound,

And soon the ripest peaches there
Were strewn upon the ground;

And 'mong them rolled the porcupine
With porcupiny skill,

And when he left that spot he bore
A peach upon each quill.

And how they laughed, the monkey and
His very sharp young chum,

When, safe at home, they ate them all! I
But soon they looked quite glum;Til/2' l' 60 T Til/f 'I'l/li'lx'li Y. 81

 

SA 1 ). lll'T JL'S'I'.

And ere the night had passed they vowed
They'd never steal again;

For " Oh !" they groaned, and "Oh !" they moaned,
" We've got a peachy pain."

--<>oo--

THEY GOT TliE TURKEY.

Tm: shop of Mr. Onosander Golong looked, that 24th of
December, like a bower. Two young cedar-trees stood one on
each side of the door-way; long garlands of evergreen, sprinkled
with bright berries, were festooned all over the walls; and every
turkey there--and there were lots of them--hanging like some
new kind of gigantic fruit from the mass of green that covered
the ceiling, had a gay ribbon tied around its neck. And such a
wonderful picture in the way of freshness and color as the big
window presented to the passers-by! Bunches of crisp, light
green celery leaning up against heaps of brown, pink-eyed pota-

6
toes and honest red onions; fiery-looking peppers side by side
with golden oranges and yellow lemons; hard, smooth, shining
cranberries, trying to look as though they were sweet; great fat
pumpkins; piles of green and piles of rosy apples; bunches of
fragrant thyme; and more turkeys, some with and some without
their feathered coats, but all, as I said before, with gay ribbons
around their necks. Dear me! if Santa Claus could have only
looked into that window and peeped into that shop, how pleased
he would have been, and how he would have laughed! And he
certainly would have taken Mr. Onosander Golong for a long.
lost brother, for never before did mortal man so strongly resem-
ble the children's old Christmas friend. Snow-white hair, long,
snow-white beard, twinkling blue eyes, round, fat, red, good-nat-
ured face, a fur cap on his head, bunches of holly berries pinned
here and there on his shaggy jacket, and a laugh--good gra-
cious! such a loud, hearty, mirth-provoking laugh--that the very
people on the street, hearing it, began to smile, and feel that
Christmas was here indeed. And I tell you Mr. Onosander
Golong was busy that day, and so were all the men and boys
employed by him. Turkeys and other things -that had been
ordered the evening before, turkeys and other things that had
been ordered early that morning, and turkeys and other things
being ordered all the time, were to be packed away in huge
baskets, and sent to their respective destinations. . But he
wasn't so busy but that he stopped a moment from his work
to give a piece of meat to a poor dog that had trotted hope-
fully into the shop (having evidently translated the name " Go-
long" over the door into " Come in "), and was asking for it with
his eyes. And as he rose from patting the dog he saw two chil-
dren standing before him, also asking for something with their
eyes. They were poorly dressed children, but the girl had a
sweet, bright face, and the boy was as jolly-looking a little fellow
as you could find anywhere. His cheeks were as round, if not
as red, as Mr. Golong's, and his merry black eyes actually danced
in his head. Now, if there was one place in Mr. Onosander
Golong's heart softer than the rest it was the place he kept for
children; and so when he saw these two looking up in his face
---the boy with boyish boldness, and the girl with girlish shy-
ness--he said, in the cheeriest, kindest manner, " Well, small
people, what can I do for you P"

"We would like to tell you a story," answered the boy, in a
frank, pleasant voice.

" Tell me a story !" repeated Mr. Golong, in a tone of great
surprise.

"Yes, sir, please--a Christmas story," was the reply.

" Bless my heart! what a queer idea!" said Mr. Golong; and
he laughed a silent laugh that half closed his eyes. and wrinkled
his nose in the funniest way.

" Wouldn't you like to hear one?" asked the girl, coaxingly.

" Of course I would--I am very fond of stories--but I don't
see how I can spare the time. We're so busy just now, and
likely to be until night," said Mr. Golong.

" It's only a short one," said the boy.

" A very short one," added the girl.

" Well, go ahead," said the good-natured old fellow; and he
sat down on a barrel of potatoes, and his young visitors placed
themselves one on each side of him.

"One Christmas-time," the boy began, " there was a big tene-
ment-house in this city, and ten families lived in it, and every
one of these families 'cept one knew they were agoing to have
turkey for their Christmas-dinner. They knew it sure the day
before Christmas, all 'cept this one. The family that wasn't
sure the day before Christmas morning lived on the top floor,
and it was--it was--"

"Mrs. Todd, Neal Todd, Hetty Todd, and Puppy Todd,"
prompted the girl.

"Yes, it was them," said the boy, and went on with his story
again: " Mrs. Todd was Neal's and Hetty's mother--they hadn't
any father--he died three years ago; and Puppy was their dog.
Mrs. Todd is one of the best mothers that ever lived, and she
sews button-holes on boys' jackets for a big store; and Hetty
cleans up the house, and gets the supper, and such things; and
1--1 mean Neal--runs errands for folks when he can get a
chance after school. His mother wants him to go to school till
he's fourteen, anyhow, 'cause a boy that has some education can
get along better than a boy that don't know anything. And
this family, though they were very poor, had always managed to
have a turkey dinner till the Christmas I'm telling about, and
Mrs. Todd she loved turkey."

" Didn't Hetty and Neal ?" asked Mr. Golong, closing his
eyes and wrinkling his nose again; and he hurried away to
wait on a stout lady, all covered with glittering jet ornaments
and bugles, who must have been a very particular customer,
she talked so loud and so much.

" Didn't Hetty and Neal P" he repeated, when he came back.

"Oh my! I guess they did !" said the girl, her eyes spar-
kling.
"They'd '3 been funny fellows if they didn't," added the
boy; " but, 'pon their words and honors, they wanted it more
for their mother--she's such a good .mother, and has so few
good things to eat--than they did for themselves. And it
made them feel awful bad when she came home and cried
'cause some wicked thief had stolen her pocket-book, with half
a week's earnings in it, and the two--dollar bill that the boss
had given her to buy a Christmas dinner with besides. And
so the boy Neal-- He's kind of a nice chap, ain't he, l-letty?"

"Awful nice,"replied Hetty, with a mischievous little giggle.

"And he says to his sister-- She's awful nice, ain't she.
Hetty ?"

"Kind of nice," said Hetty. with another little giggle.

"He says to his sister," continued the boy, "' Don't say any-
thing to mother, but put on your hat, and bring a basket, and
we'll make a try for a Merry Christmas dinner, turkey and all.'
And they went round the corner to a beautiful market, kept by
a gentleman who looked exactly like Santa Claus--"

Mr. Onosander Golong laughed aloud this time, and flew to
wait on another particular customer.

"So he looked like Santa Claus ?" he said, with a chuckle,
when he sat down on the barrel of potatoes again.

"The very image of him l" said the girl, with great emphasis.

"The boy," began the boy once more, "had run errands for
him two or three times, and each time had got two apples or
oranges besides the reg'lar pay; and he was good to cats and
dogs. So this chap went to this gentleman--he took his sister
along, 'cause he thought Mr. Golong would like to see her--
and they told him their story. And the boy says, when it was
done, ' If you would only trust us for a turk--I mean a turkey
--and a few other things, I'll work for you all holiday week.
and another week too, after school. My name's Neal Todd.
and my mother is a real nice woman, and I love her just as
you used to love your mother when you was a little boy.' And
the gentleman, says he, 'Being as it's Christmas-time, and I
look so much like Santa Claus, I'll do it.' And he did. And
that's all."

Mr. Onosander Golong burst out a--laughing, and, oh! how
he laughed! He laughed until the tears ran down his cheeks.
He laughed until he nearly fell off the barrel. He laughed
until everybody far and near who heard him laughed too, and
the very roosters in the poultry-shop over the way joined in,
and crowed with all their might and main. Am! t/zey go! t/zc
lureey.

9'UST 50.

A YOUNG calf saw one day a circus pass,
And cried at once, "Oh, I must join that show.
Just as they run to see the elephant,
The folks would run to look at me, I know."
" You're quite mistaken," said a sheep; "for while
In this great land the elephants are few--
And therefore wonders arc--the world, my dear,
Has seen a multitude of calves like you."u nu u'xxn "

N uh nnr ...lVH/I T THIS ROSE TOLD THE liUTTERFI. Y. 89

WHAT THE ROSE TOLD THE BUTTERFLY.

TIRED of roaming about from flower to flower

 

and, strange
as it may appear, a little sick of honey--the beautiful butterfly,
with the rainbow-tinted wings, stopped, at the end of a long
summer afternoon, to take a few moments' rest on the branch
of a fragrant rose-tree.

As he did so he spied just above him a big brown cater-
pillar slowly eating its way through one of the largest of the
green leaves.

" \Nell," said the young butterfly, opening wide his wings, so
that all the roses and buds might see their brilliant colors, "that
is a queer-looking thing! It don't appear to have any legs, and
it's very ugly. I've half a mind to speak to it."

Then he had a whole mind, and spoke: " Halloo! my
friend "--(his friend, indeed !)----" you with a fur coat on--in such
warm weather, too. How very odd, when one feels like wear-
ing no coat at all! What are you ?"

"\Vhat you were once yourself," answered the caterpillar,
gruffiy, raising its head for an instant, and then quietly going
on with its meal.

"I?" said the butterfly, standing on the tips of his toes in
his great astonishment. " Well, that is a good joke! I ever
anything like you! The idea is absurd--ridiculous! I fly; you
crawl. I feed on honey; you on green leaves. I. to speak
plainly, am beautiful; and you, to speak still more plainly, are
not beautiful. Oh no, my funny fellow. You've made a great
mistake, or else told--"

"Stop, stop!" said a sweet voice, and a lovely crimson rose
leaned toward the indignant speaker. "The caterpillar has
spoken the truth."

"Why, how do you know, pretty one P" asked the butterfly.

"The grape-vine told me all about it," replied the rose.

"And I should feel obliged if you would tell me all about
it," said the butterfly.

"With pleasure," said the rose, and began: "When I was a
bud I used to peep through my green lattice-work at a tiny
cradle or hammock, or something of that sort, that hung from a
branch of the blackberry-bush just opposite, and wonder what
was in it. It never stirred except when the breeze came along
and stopped to rock it for a few moments; but one day, as I
was watching and wondering, it burst asunder, and you, most
beautiful of butterflies, came out--"

" Yes, yes, I remember that," interrupted the butterfly, for-
getting his politeness in his impatience. "But what has that
to do with my ever being like a caterpillar?"

"Like a caterpillar," muttered the fur-coated one, with his
mouth full. "Oh, yes, indeed! Very like !"

"Have patience," said the rose, " and you shall bear. At
the moment you first unfolded your wings the grape-vine behind
me flung out a pretty tendril and caught me around the stern.

"'Aha! I have you now, Queen of the Rose-buds,' said he
(he's a merry fellow, always full of fun); 'and I shall hold you
until you tell me what you were thinking about.'
"' I don't mind telling you at all,' said I. g'I was wondering
what that was that just opened and let out a lovely butterfly.'

"' That,' said the grape-vine (who is ever so old--years old,
and knows everything that is to be known about a garden)
--'that, sweetest of sweet wee blossoms, was a caterpillar's
coflin.'

"'A caterpillar's coflin !' repeated I, in great surprise.

"'Yes. When a caterpillar gets tired of being a caterpillar
it makes for itself a cofl'in; and into that coflin it goes a cater-
pillar, and out of it it comes a butterfly. Don't ask me to ex-
plain, pinkest of pink buds. I can't, though I've seen it done
over and over again.'

"' How funny !' said I, and slipped away from the tendril
that was holding me.

"'You sly little thing,' said the grape-vine. ' I'll catch you
again--see if I don't--the very next time you're thinking.'

" So, though it may seem absurd and ridiculous to you now,
velvet-winged butterfly, you must have once been a caterpillar.
But I suppose sleeping so long in that coffin, as the grape-vine
called it (I'd rather call it a cradle), has made you forget all
about the days you had no wings, and looked as though you
had no legs."

"\IVell," said the butterfly, unfolding his wings ready for
flight, "I must say, if all the caterpillars in the world had told
me I had ever belonged to their family I wouldn't have believed
them. But, as you say, sweet crimson rose, the grapevine is
old and knows everything--l think there is such a thing as
being too old and knowing too much--I suppose I must accept
his story as the truth. Good-evening!" and away he flew, feel--
ing much less pleased with himself than he did when he first
spied the caterpillar.

"Thank you; you're as clever as you are lovely," said the
caterpillar to the rose, as soon as he had gone.

"Glad you think I'm lovely. Sorry I can't say the same
for you," replied the truthful flower. " You're not pretty--not
at all; and really I don't like the way you eat my green leaves.
Do stop and wind yourself up in your cradle or coflin, or what-
ever it is, and turn into a butterfly as soon as possible. Won't
you P"

But the caterpillar went on eating. He wasn't ready for his
coffin just yet. So the rose turned her back on him, and began
to throw kisses to the slender white lily that grew in the next
garden and was deeply in love with a humming-bird.

CHERRY AND STRAWBERRY.

SAID Black Cherry
To Strawberry,
" Your cheeks with crimson glow;
There's no doubt you're very pretty.
But I have a heart, you know !"

Said Strawberry
To Black Cherry,
" That fact, my clear, is known;
But a heart's not much to boast of
When it's nothing but a stone !"ANDY AND THE WORM. 93

ANDY AND THE l/VORIII.

HE had dark, curly hair--very curly--curling almost as
tight as the tendrils of a grape-vine, and you all know how
tight they curl.

And he had bright, gray eyes, with long, black lashes, and a
funny little mouth that looked as though it was always asking
questions, as, indeed, between you and me, it always was.

And he was a boy five years and I don't know how many
(lays old; and he had no sisters, or brothers, or cousins, or any-
thing of that kind, or, if he did have a cousin or two, they didn't
live there--so what was the use?

He played with the flowers, and stones, and grass, and
talked to the bees, and the butterflies, and the dog and the cat.
and he sung pretty songs with the birds; and his name was
"And Why," because the funny little mouth said "And why?"
so often; but they called him Andy for short.

He loved to play in the dirt, and he had a tiny garden for
his very own, where one summer he raised one pea-vine and
two radishes.

The reason he didn't raise any more pea-vines and radishes
was because he kept digging up the Seeds he had planted, to
see if they were growing yet; but this pea and these two radish
seeds having rolled away and hidden in a corner, escaped being
dug up, and so took root and became, as I said before, a pea-
vine, and two round, red, crisp, very nice radishes.

The two radishes Andy ate (I'm afraid he did not stop to
wash them); and the pea-vine, after putting forth five sweet
pink blossoms that looked like angel butterflies, died because
it was so lonely.

Well, one day Andy was digging in his very own garden
just after a shower, when he spied a big worm.

Worms are not pleasant things. I don't think that any-
body would make a pet of one, and although I've tried very
hard I cannot say that I really love them myself; but I'm not
afraid of them, and neither, I am glad to say, was Andy.

He didntt run away as fast as he could, tumbling over all
sorts of things, until he reached the house, nor did he dance
up and down screaming "Oh! oh! oh!" when this worm came
out of the ground. Not a bit of it.

He sat quietly down on an overturned flowenpot and looked
at the worm in silence for at least two minutes, and the worm
raised its head a little (worms can't raise their heads very high)
and looked at him.

At last said Andy, "You're not pretty."

" I am not," answered the worm.

"You can't dance," said Andy.

"I can't," said the worm.

"Nor sing," said Andy.

"Nor sing," repeated the worm.

"You don't know your letters, even," said Andy.

"I don't," said the worm.

"Butterflies can fly," said Andy.A N!) V A 1\ 'l) Til/5 IV 0181?]. 95

"They can," said the worm.

"Bees hum," said Andy.

" They do," said the worm.

"You can't do anything," said Andy.

"I CAN." said the worm, so loudly (for a worm) that Andy
tumbled off the flower-pot, he was so very much astonished.

But, quickly picking himself up, he sat down again and
asked " What ?"

 

"I DON'T BELIEVE l coir/.1: no 'rn.-\'r."

" Something that bees, birds, and even boys can't do," an-
swered the worm, wriggling a little, as naughty girls do when
they say, " So there, now--you think yourself something great."

" Let's see," said Andy.

"Take your little spade and chop me in two," said the worm.

" Oh no," said Andy, " that would be wicked."
)3

" Well, don't you ever do it unless a worm asks you to,
said the worm; "Mm it's all right. Now I'm ready--go
ahea ."

" Are you sure you're in earnest P" asked Andy.

" Quite sure," answered the worm.

"And won't it hurt you P" asked Andy.

" Don't ask so many questions; do as I tell you," replied the
worm.

'fAnd why ?" said Andy; but, seeing that the worm was turn-
ing away from him, he seized his little spade and chopped it in
two, and lo and behold! one-half crept off one way and one-half
the other.

"Well, sure enough," said Andy, " I don't believe I could do
that. Good-bye, Mr. Worm--I mean two Mr. Worms."

"Good-bye," said the head. and "Good-bye," said the tail;
and they both crept under the ground, and left Andy to ask,
"And why ?" to this very day.

--degOO----

A BAD BEGINNING, BUT A GOOD ENDING.

MARCH came in like a lion,
With a terrible growl and a roar,
And the naked trees trembled and shivered.
And the waves ran up on the shore;
And old Winter came back for a moment
To start the north wind on a blow;
And the breath of the lion froze white on the air,
And his mane was all covered with snow.
Weeks passed, and the snow--flakes had melted,
And the wind grown too weary to shout;
But March was still grumbling, when 10! a wee flow'r
From a tiny green mantle peeped out.
" Oh, what is the use?" said she. gently,
"Of being so dreadfully cross?
I have three little sisters so frightened at you
They are hiding away in the moss.

"And the buds of the trees are still ling'ring
In the boughs, for they fear to burst forth;
And only two birds, of the host that went South
Last autumn, have dared to come North.
Do smile once or twice ere you leave us,
And the hearts of the timid ones cheer,
For believe me, dear March, it is better by far
To be thought of with love than with fear."

As she paused March was shaking with laughter.
"Why, you elf-bloom, you pale little thing!
Where got you the courage a lecture to give
To the roistering son of the Spring?
But you're right. pretty one; and, to show you
There are other months worse than I am,
Here's a smile of the very best sunshine, my dear."
And he turned and went out like a. lamb.

.-

l
MUCH TOO HIGH.

"TIME for your catkins to fly," said the Wind to 21 Willow-
tree that stood just outside of a great city.

You don't know what catkins are? Well, I will try to tell
you. 'The seeds of certain kinds of trees, growing on long,
slender stems, in little scales overlapping each other, each one
tipped with the tiniest of feathers, and the whole somewhat re-
sembling a very small cat's tail. And when they are quite ripe
the Wind comes along and carries them away, dropping them
here and there, as he journeys on, totake their chances, which
are as one in a thousand, of finding homes and becoming trees.

"Take them," said the Willow, and flung them upon his
wings, and away he went into the city, letting some fall in the
middle of the streets, where they were soon trampled beneath
the hoofs of the horses; and some on the sidewalks, where the
twittering sparrows found and ate them; and some in the parks
and gardens, where a few were fortunate enough to sink into
the ground, and the rest perished when came the autumn-cold;
and one--the last it was--he carried to a bustling, noisy square,
in the heart of the city, on one side of which a tall house, once
a fashionable dwelling, but now divided into oflices for business
men, stood a story and a half higher than its humbler neighbors.

Before this house grew a fine oak, more than a century old,
the only tree that had been spared when the square (which had
once been a famous pleasure-ground. filled with trees) became a
business thoroughfare; and it owed its safety to the fact that it
had heard the bells ring out our Declaration of Independence
on the 4th of July, 1776.

In the wide gutter of the sloping roof of the tall house the
dust had been accumulating for many years, and, mingling with
the decaying leaves dropped from the oak, had formed a rich
soil, and into this soil the Wind planted the last seed of the
catkin. And, lo and behold! it took root there; and the next
spring two tiny green leaves came up and looked wonderingly
about them, to be followed by more green leaves, and still more,
until at the end of the summer a slender young tree--not yet
high enough to be seen from the street below, but already wel-
comed by the Oaknvhose topmost branches waved a little above
it, and the birds who stopped ever and anon to rest a while on
the gable roof on their way to the country--swayed gracefully
to and fro as the breeze passed by it.

And when winter came the kind old Oak threw over it a
covering of leaves, and dropped a withered branch or two upon
them, to keep them from being scattered when the North Wind
was in one of his tempers. And so, snug and warm, the little
tree waited for returning spring, and then it burst through its
leaf cloak, and went on growing and growing, until it could look
down and see all that was passing in the square. And in a few
years it became so stout and tall that people began to look up
at it in wonder, and its fame spread abroad, and many came
from afar to gaze upon the marvellous thing, growing, as it were,
in the air. And as it got taller and taller it began to be prouder
and prouder.
" Was ever tree so high as I?" it called to the Oak one day.
" I can peep into the chimney. I tower above you, and yet they
call you the King of Trees."

"If you do," replied the Oak, "it is through no merit of
your own. Chance placed you at that dizzy height, which is, to
tell the truth, very'much above your proper station. But to my
mind it were better for you to be held fast by the honest old
earth, as I am."

" Nonsense !" cried the young Willow, bowing to a crowd
that had gathered on the other side of the street to look up in
amazement at it. "You are envious, old fellow. I should be
envious myself if I were you. Soon I shall reach the sky,
while still your head will only touch'my feet, and I shall be
the friend and companion of the sun, moon, and stars. Never
was tree so exalted as I."

But, ah! that very afternoon came a great hurricane. The
window-shutters banged, and the window-panes smashed; the
sparrows flew screaming to their nests; and the people in the
streets were driven like flocks of sheep before the wind. And
the young Willow, after battling fiercely a moment or two with
the storm, was uprooted and flung down at the feet of the Oak.

--<>oo--

THE SWEETEST MONT/f.

"TELL me, tell me, silver Moon,
Which of all the months discloses
' Greatest sweetness ?"' " Dreamy june,
Summer's darling." said the Moon--
" Month of roses."TIIE SONG or 71-15 CANARY. 101

THE SONG UP THE CANARY.

IT was time to sow the seeds in the flower-garden; so the
gardener brought out the seed-box and set it upon the grass-
plot, while he put on his thinking-cap for a few minutes.

Each kind of seed lived in a little paper house by itself, with
its name plainly printed on the front door, for the seeds of one
family are never allowed to associate with those of other fami-
lies as long as they are nothing but seeds. After they grow to
be plants and flowers it's quite another thing. Then they are
old enough and big enough to choose their own companions;
and if the poppies see fit to nod to the marigolds, and the morn-
ing-glories to throw kisses to the geraniums, it is nobody's busi-
ness but their own.

Well, in one of these paper houses (by-the--bye, girls and boys
call them small envelopes) had lived the lady-slipper seeds all
the long, cheerless winter.

" Oh dear! isn't this fine ?" they all said to each other as the
gardener, dropping his thinking-cap, lifted them out of the box
--" isn't this fine? \Ve're going to see the world at last." And
they rolled over and over each other in perfect delight.

The gardener carried them to the nice, smooth flower-bed,
tore off the roof of their house and laid it upon the fresh, brown
earth, while he began loosening the ground .a little with his
rake.
The lady-slipper seeds crowded to the place where the roof
of their house used to be and peeped out. Then they all com-
menced whispering together as fast as they could: "Oh, how
lovely! Here's everything the canary sung about this morning
--the great trees nearly touching the sky, the tall, green grass,
the birds singing, and--(don't crowd and push so)--and oh!
oh! oh! are we going to live here always, and do nothing but
lie in the warm sunshine and listen to the birds sing ?---(don't
crowd and push so)--and--"

'Before they could say another word the gardener took up
the paper house, and, pouring some of the seeds into the palm
of his hand, scattered them on the ground and began raking
the dirt over them.

Those left behind commenced talking again--this time
not so fast, but in a low, frightened whisper: "Oh dear!
what has he done with our brothers and sisters? Shall we
never see them again? And will he cover us up in the
ground too? It is dreadful to think of--better a thousand
times be back in the seed-box listening to the song of the
canary."

"Be quiet a moment, do, dear ones," said a wee brown seed,
"and listen to me. Have you all forgotten the last song we
heard the canary sing ?"

"First a seed so tiny,
Hidden from the sight;
Then two pretty leaflets
Struggling toward the light;
Soon a bud appearing
Turns into a flower,
Kissed by golden sunshine,
Washed by silver shower,

Growing sweeter, sweeter
Ev'ry happy hour.

'Kissed by golden sunshine,
Washed by silver shower,'"

echoed the others. " That was the song, sure enough. Can we
believe it ?"

"The songs of the birds are always true," said the wee seed,
" for they are taught to them by the angels."

" We do believe--we do believe," cried the others, hopefully.
" We are no longer afraid, though the gardener 2': coming. He
will put us in the dark ground, but we shall come up again, no
longer seeds, but green leaves, buds, and flowers."

But one little seed, that had said nothing all this time, now
hid itself away in a corner, saying, " I'm not going into the
ground." And when the others rolled merrily out into the gar-
dener's hand the paper house fluttered away, with her in it, to
a short distance from the flower-bed, and fell on the ground
between two cold, gray stones.

Nearly two weeks went by, and the lonely seed, looking to-
ward the spot where the lady-slippers had been sown, one warm
summer morning beheld rows on rows of bright green ieaves
peeping out of the ground, and heard them saying gayly to
each other, "Well met, brother." " Good-day, sister." "How
pleasant it is to be in the air and sunshine once more !"

But no one saw or spoke to her, poor little thing!

Time went on, and the plants grew larger and stronger, and
at last came pretty, tender buds, which soon unfolded into fra-
grant flowers of every beautiful hue, and the sun, wind, rain,
and dew loved them dearly, and the bees, birds, and butterflies
thought them the sweetest things on earth.

As for the lonely little seed, it lived a dreary, friendless life
between the two cold, gray stones, and every day it said to
itself, over and over again, "Oh! would that I, too, had had faith
in the song of the canary, then should I have been beautiful
and beloved with my brothers and sisters--

' Kissed by golden sunshine,
Washed by silver shower,
Growing sweeter, sweeter

)n

Ev'ry happy hour.

--oo<>--

DEAR ME!

A GRASSHOI'PER lay in the garden one day.
Near a cabbage--I mean cabbage-rose--

And his eyes they were dull, and his legs they were stiff,
And turned up very much were his toes--

Dear me!
His funny, incurvated toes.

Along came a bird-Mrs. Sparrow her name--
And she paused and shook sadly her head,
And remarked," Once at hops none could beat you, but now
Even I could--because you are dead---
Dear me!
Alas! you're doornailedly dead.COLD, GRA y STONES. 105

" But you shall not lie there unburied, for oft
Through the night have you sung loud and shrill,
And watched while I slept; so if nobody else
W'ill bury you, G. H., 1 will--
Dear me!
'Tis a sad thing to do, but I will."

With a snap and a jerk she swallowed him quick,
Then she quietly hopped out of sight;
And the cabbage-rose laughed till it dropped half its leaves.
As I think with good reason it might--
Dear me!
With the very best reason it might.

---oo<>--

COLD, GRA Y STONES.

"COLD, gray stones," indeed! I'm just about tired of this.
Even a stone, if you hit it too hard, will flash out at you.

Now, I'd like to know what that poor little seed would have
done if we hadn't given her a home? She would have been
scorched by the sun, rotted by the rain, or snapped up by the
first bird that came along.

It wasn't our fault that she didn't turn into a flower; we
did the best we could for her.

And as for our not caring for anything, and nothing caring
for us, I say, and say it flatly--that's not true.

The Moss family is, and always has been, very much at-
tached to us. It clings to us long after the summer months106 5101:1155 11v PROSE AND VERSE.

shave departed, and every one knows there can be no better
love than that which outlasts the summer.

And the toads--the only animals that have jewels in their
heads they don't have to pay for--have quite an affection
for us.

They come and sit beneath our shade in the long, hot days,
and sleep and dream the hours away, or pass their time telling
us wonderful tales of the strange places they have hopped
over.

And the beetles--honest old fellows, who don't care for
houses, but live in cozy underground cellars--what would they
do without stones to keep the rain off?

Just turn us over some day, and you'll see the many-legged
creatures running nimbly about; but turn us back again quick-
ly, for we don't like to have the poor things frightened, though
we "/zave no more heart than a stone."

And now I am going to tell you about two "cold. gray
stones," cousins of mine, who live in a great, tiresome city.

The Wind brought the story to me, and so you may be
sure it is all true.

These cousins were part of the back-yard of a wretched
little house, and in the wretched little house lived a pale, blue-
eyed child.

The poor child had never seen anything growing but the
straggling grass that tried to force its way up here and there
in the dirty streets; and she never caught but a glimpse of
the blue sky, because all the rest was hidden by the tall, gloomy
houses around her.-

" Oh, dear 1" said one of my cousins to the other,,one day;
"how I wish she could see a flower l" when along came the
Wind, in a great hurry, as he almost always is.

" Puff, puff!" said he; "how hot you are here! How do
you do ?" 1

"Same as ever," said my cousin. " But what are you car-
rying ?"

"A few seeds," answered the Wind, "I picked up miles
from here, and I'm looking for some good, rich earth. to drop
them on."

"Dear Wind," said my cousins, "(10 drop some here."

" Here l" said the Wind, and he laughed until the wretched
little house shook. "What good would they do here? I see
plenty of dirt--ha! ha! ho! hol--but no earth--ho! ho!
ha! ha !"

" There is a crevice between us," said my cousin, " where
there is a little earth (tz'o stop laughing for a moment and
look, dear Wind), and we think a flower mtg/2t grow there.
Please give us one seed, and we will hide it from the birds,
and protect it from careless footsteps, and watch it care-
fully until it grows to gladden the heart of the pale, blue-eyed
child."

" All right," said the Wind; and he blew a seed into the
crack between the "two cold. gray stones," and then fled,
laughing, around the corner.

And the seed took root. and sent up two bright green
leaves to tell the stones that there were more on the way;
and the blue-eyed child, coming into the back-yard to look at
the patch of sky one morning, spied them and clapped her
little hands with gladness.
And from that day, as the plant grew and grew, she became
happier and happier; and when a fragrant purple-and-white
flower opened to the sun her joy knew no bounds.

And with each succeeding blossom came new joy, and so
the child was happy all summer long.

And my cousins looked on and were well content.

---<>o<>--

A DUET.

SUNSHINE on the meadow,
Sunshine on the sea;

 

STANDING IN THE DOORWAY.

Green buds on the rose-bush,
Blossoms on the tree.
Two wee children singing
In a rapt delight--
One as fair as morning,
One as dark as night.
Hymn-book held between them
With the greatest care,
Though they cannot read a word
That is printed there:

" Jesus, Saviour, meek and mild,
Friend of ev'ry little child,
Once a child thyself, we pray
Thou wilt guard us clay by day;
For such helpless things are we,
We can only sing to thee!"

Standing in the doorway,
Arnak smiles to hear

Bird-like voices blending,
Sweet and loud and clear:

 

"BOFE DEM CHILLUN'S \vuITI-z."

 

109
"'Pears to me de angels
Mus' be lis'nin' too--
Lis'nin' an' a-lookin'
From de hebbens blue;
Lookin' an' a-smilin'
At de pretty sight;
An' in dar eyes--bress de Lord !-----
que dem chillun's white."

 

THE T ORN PRIMER.

MILLIE ran into the dining-room and threw her books down
on the dining-table.

"I knew all my lessons to-day," she said, "and I want my
dinner; and, oh! a'z'a' you have blackberry-pie ?"

But what I am going to tell is not about Millie or black-
berry-pie, but about the books after Millie and her mamma had
gone out of the room and left them to themselves.

"Millie is a very clever little girl," said the Grammar, "and
talks very well. I take great credit to myself for teaching her
to speak so correctly."

"Yes," said the Arithmetic, " she is bright, and understands
Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication, and Division almost as
well as I do myself. Really bright children always understand
my rules, I make them so clear and plain."

"She should be very much obliged to us," joined in the
Geography, "for without us she could not be clever at all.
For instance, see how much I tell her. I describe all coun-
tries, including her own; all bodies of water, all mountains,T HE 7'0va PRIMER. 1 11

the different kinds of people--thousands of things. In fact, I
think the information I impart " (most books use big words)
" the most interesting and valuable she obtains."

" Pshaw!" sneered the History. " You're alone in that
opinion. Where does she learn all the particulars about dif-
ferent countries, 'including her own,' as you say? 'Christo-
pher Columbus, a native of Genoa, Italy, discovered America
in the year I492. He set sail with three small--"'

" Oh, do stop that," interrupted the other books; "we've
heard that until we are sick of it."

"Sometimes I wish he had never set sail," added the Geog-
raphy.

" Where does she learn about the great battles--the lives
of the kings, queens, and emperors?" continued the History.
waving its cover triumphantly; "about the illustrious Father
of his Country, George Washington, who never--"

"Don't believe it !" interrupted the books.

"And if lze never did, History has," said the Arithmetic--
"many a one. It is only figures that never lie." .

"From what does our Millie gain knowledge "--here spoke
the Natural History--" of beasts and birds and fish? all things
that walk, or fly, or creep, or swim, or remain perfectly still and
only breathe? the wonderful habits of the insects, the traits of
the massive elephant, and the capers of the mischievous mon-
key ?"

" My friends "--here joined in a tiny voice for the first time,
causing the books to stand up on their edges and look over at
the corner of the room where lay the little torn Primer, from
which it proceeded--" my friends, I know you all help to make
Millie wise and learned; but of what use would be all you can
tell if she could not read it? You would be nothing without
me !"

" You !" cried the others, in scornful voices.

" Yes, me," answered the little torn Primer. "I taught her
her letters. Without knowing them what good would (my
book be to her ?"

" How tiresome small books are !" said the History.

"I guess I'll take a nap," yawned the Geography.

But the Arithmetic called out, good-naturedly, " Little Prim-
er. you're right. Small as you are, you're number one, and cap.
tain of the whole regiment of books."

THE SANDHOPPER YIG.

SAID a Shrimp to a Sandhopper, one summer's day
(They were walking along the beach),

"I am told that you dance in a wonderful way;
Pray, would. you be willing to teach?"

" Quite willing, my dear," Sandhopper replied,
As merry and pert as a grig;

"Call your little ones here, and I'll show 'em the steps
Of the rollicking Sandhopper jig."

And up in the air he proceeded to jump,
"Such skill," said a Crab, " I ne'er saw."

And old Mr. Lobster applauded so hard
He broke off his handsomest claw.THE S/INDIIOI'I'ER 770. 113

"My stars!" cried the children of good Mrs. Shrimp;
"We none of us, little or big,

Could learn, we are sure, the very high jumps
Of the rollicking Sandhopper jig. '

 

 

 

 

 

T" F. SANDIIOI'I'ER JIG.

"All alone must you hop your remarkable hops."
Said Mr. Sandhopper, " I will."
And I haven't a doubt, if you go to the beach,
You will find him there frolicking still.
8
BOI/V-WOW CURLY CUR.

THE boy and the girl--no, that's impolite; I meant to say
the girl and the boy--stood at the garden gate, looking up the
road.

Bow-wow Curly Cur, with his hair done up in curl papers,
was there too, and he also was looking up the road.

To think that the cook had taken every stick to boil the
oatmeal porridge; and the hoe, and the shovel, and the spade,
and the rake had all gone to a party given by the new mowing-
machine! '

Seven nice plants and one young tree, and nothing to dig
little houses in the ground for the roots'to live in!

What on earth were they to do? Bow-wow Curly Cur
would have been willing to have scooped out a few holes, but
he had an appointment with the dog that stole the chickens,
and didn't want to get his nose dirty.

" What shall we do ?" said the boy. "The sun is going down
behind Frogkachunk hill as fast as ever he can."

"Somebody is coming down the road," said the girl. " It's
a man, and doesn't he walk funny !" said the boy.

" I'll go and see who it is," barked Bow-wow Curly Cur; and
he made himself so flat that he looked like some queer kind of

a giant caterpillar, squeezed himself under the gate, and ran off
up the road.
Now, Bow-wow Curly Cur was a most wonderful dog. He
could bark so plainly that any one of common intelligence who
heard him could understand every word he barked.

" Who are you?" he asked, as he danced round the stranger.

(Bow-wow Curly Cur danced beautifully--much better than
the girl or boy could--for, you see, he had four legs and they
only had two.)

The man had common intelligence, so he answered, " All
right, old fellow."

Then Bow--wow Curly Cur stopped dancing, sniffed at him,
growled at him, jumped at him, turned back, ran to the girl and
boy and barked one word, but it was in two syllables--so that
made it equal to two little words.

"Sailor," barked Bow-wow Curly Cur; and sure enough, as
the man came near, the girl and the boy saw that he was
dressed in a blue striped shirt, with large turn-over collar, blue
trousers, a pea-jacket, a tarpaulin hat, and a wooden leg.

"Ship ahoy!" shouted the sailor, as soon as he spied the
girl and boy. "What craft's that ?"

This was his way of saying" How do you do ?" and ".Who
are you P"

" Oh, if you only would 1" said the girl. "Oh yes!" said the
boy. " If you only would lend us your wooden leg for a few
moments i" said the girl.

" Shiver my timbers !" said the sailor, and he laughed so loud
that his hat tumbled off his head and fell on the ground, where
Bow-wow Curly Cur seized it and bit a large piece out of the
brim. "What do you want my wooden leg for, youngsters 3'"

"Well, you see," said the girl, who was smarter than the boy
--girls always are smarter than boys--" we have some plants
and a young tree to set out, and the shovel, and spade, and
rake, and hoe have all gone to the new mowing-machine's party;
and the cook has burned all the sticks, and Bow-wow Curly Cur
wants to keep his nose clean, and so we have nothing to make
the root-houses with."

"ll/012'! you lend us your leg for a little while?" said the
boy.

' " Blessed if I don't!" said the sailor; "but you must take
me with it, for it's so fond of me it won't leave me."

"Oh no, indeed." said the wooden leg, but so very softly
that no one but Bow-wow Curly Cur heard it, and he only put
his head on one side, lolled outhis tongue, and barked nothing.

Then the sailor threw his leg that wasn't wooden up in
the air, spun around three times on the one that was wooden,
commenced whistling the sailor's hornpipe, and came into the
garden.

"Here's fun !" barked Bow-wow Curly Cur, and ran round
after his own tail like mad.

So they formed a procession. The sailor went first, and
stamped in the ground with his wooden leg; the boy came
next, and put a plant in the hole thus made; the girl followed.
with the young tree in her arms. Bow-wow Curly Cur carried
his ears and curl papers. The cat, that made faces with her
tail, came after, with her four youngest kittens.

At last all the plants were set out, and only the young tree
remained.

" Now," said the sailor, " I must make'a deep hole for this ;"
and he raised his wooden leg and brought it down with such190 w- W0 w CURL y CUR. 11 7

force that he buried it in the ground up to the knee; and oh!
mercy's sakes alive! it wouldn't come out again.

The sailor tugged and pulled, and pulled and tugged; and
the girl and boy pulled and tugged, and tugged and pulled;
and Bow-wow Curly Cur scolded and bit the leg that wasn't
wooden; but all was of no use.

At last the sailor threw up his arms in the air, gave a great
jerk, and away he flew straight up toward the sky like a rocket,
leaving his wooden leg behind him.

"Jolly!" said the boy; "what larks!" and the girl said, "Oh
my l"

Bow-wow Curly Cur, for once in his life, was too astonished
to bark anything.

The cat made a dreadful face with her tail, and walked sol-
emnly off, her kittens marching behind her.

So the moon came out, and the girl and boy knew it was
bedtime, and they went to bed.

But about twelve o'clock at night, when everything was still
except the frogs, and the crickets, and the katydids, and a few
other things of that kind that stay up all night, so that they
can see the sun rise in the morning, they heard a strange tramp,
tramp, tramp in the garden, and, getting up and peeping out of
the window, they saw the wooden leg hopping down the walk,
and as it passed them it said, with a chuckle, " How cleverly I
got rid of that sailor! Now I'll go and see the world by my-
self ;" and it went out of the gate and up the road, and they
never saw it again.

But, looking up at the moon, they beheld in it the face of
the sailor, wearing a broad grin.
As for Bow-wow Curly Cur, after he had taken his hair out
of paper and called on the dog that stole the chickens, he
buried (in the hole left by the wooden leg) a few choice bones
he had saved, and then slept the sleep of the just dog.

-----ooo---

NOSES OUT OF YOINT.

You needn't cry and look so sad;

I love you, Pussy, clear, the same--
I truly do--as I loved you

Before this cunning kitty came;

 

YOUR NOSE IS OUT OF JOINT, THAT'S ALL.

But things are changed a little now,
You know, and, 'cause he's such :1 tot,
I've got to 'tend the most to him.
Your nose is out of joint, that's all,THE 5701:), 01? THE DAISIES. 119

Don't you remember that cold day

They left me hours and hours in bed;
And when nurse came for me at last,

"Your nose is out of joint," she said--
"A baby's come to live with us ?"

Well, then, that's what's the matter now;
You might have known how it would be.

Oh dear, my head! Please don't me--ow,
Or I must send you from the room.

Nice little girls don't make a noise
When their mammas give almost all

Their kisses to small, red-facedboys.
I tell you, Puss, you are too big

To sit with kit upon my knee,
And it's no worse for you to have

Your nose put out of joint than me.

TIIE STORY OF THE DAISIES.

DAISIES, golden-hearted, star-like, smiling daisies, all over
the fields and meadows, all along the highways and by-ways--
bonny wee flowers, looking bravely up at the dazzling sun, and
giving, with child-like generosity, their beauty to the loneliest
spots and most desolate places. Close up to a fence that sur-
rounded a garden where bloomed hundreds of rare and lovely'
blossoms they crowded, praising with sweet artlessness the
grace and fragrance of their more precious sisters, and won-
dering every morning, when the gardener came out at early
dawn and collected many young plants together, and gathered
roses, and pansies, and gladioles, and verbenas, and pinks by
the basketful, to carry away, where he took them and what
became of them. _

"I will tell you," said a tall, graceful white lily that grew
near the garden-gate, one day, as she inclined her fair head
toward them. "I have been where they are going--I and the
tuberoses over yonder. (We are growing in pots sunk in the
ground, and therefore can be taken up and moved from place
to place without harm.) Once I helped deck a large, sunshiny
room--I was a very young bud then--where a great many little
children, looking like flowers themselves in their gay dresses,
sung, and played, and laughed, and danced for joy, because a
baby-friend was three years old that day; and once I stood at
the right hand of a gray-haired minister in a crowded church,
and heard him say, 'Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed
like one of these.' But, dear, simple, little things, you don't
understand that, do you? I forgot to whom I was talking.
They go to a large city, where nothing is seen but brick and
stone buildings and hosts of people, and nothing is heard but
the sound of voices and footsteps, and the ringing of bells, and
the tramping of horses, and rolling of wagons, and where there
are no bees, nor butter-flies, nor birds, save canaries that live in
cages, and sparrows that can live anywhere."

" But the daisies are never taken to the city," said the dai-
sies, after a short pause; "and they are flowers as well as the
verbenas and pinks."

"Bless your innocent little hearts! I know they are," said
the lily. " But the fact is, no one cares to buy daisies."
"So nobody cares for us in the big city," said the daisies
to each other, "and yet the butterflies and birds tell us we are
very pretty."

But the lily was mistaken, for the=very next morning the
gardener came out into the meadow with a trowel in his hand,
and, digging up some of the largest daisy-plants, replanted them
in a large flower-pot.

"Somebody wants us, after all," they called to the grass,
and the clover, and the other daisies, as they were carried
away; "and we shall see the fine houses, and, perhaps, live with
lilies, roses, and geraniums all the rest of our lives. Good-bye,
dear friends, good-bye."

In a short time the daisies found themselves in a market-
place, at the end of a row of blooming plants from the gar-
den at which they had so often peeped through the fence.
But they had scarcely had time to look about them when
they saw a shabbily-dressed boy coming slowly toward them
--slowly, poor fellow, because one of his feet was sadly mis~
shapen, and in his arms he carried a heavy bundle of news-
papers. He looked eagerly at the gardener as he came
near.

" I've got your daisies, my boy," the man called, cheerily.
"Here they are, still wet with the dew, as handsome daisies as
ever I saw. You must keep them in the shade a day or two,
giving them a drink now and then, and I don't doubt they'll
do finely. Will you take them now ?"

"Yes, sir, thank you," said the boy, his whole face lighting
up, and his pale cheeks flushing, "if you will let me leave my
papers here a few minutes until I can run home with them.
But you've brought so many--and they're in a nice pot, too--
that I'm afraid I haven't money enough to pay for them."

" Five cents was the price agreed on yesterday," said the
good-natured gardener, "and I always stick to a bargain. And
if there's more than you expected, all the better for you; some' of
'em '11 be sure to thrive, anyhow. As for the pot, you're welcome
to that. A flower-pot more or less won't make me or break me."

The boy threw down his bundle, took the daisies with an-
other "Thank you," and hurried away as fast as his poor foot
would let him to an old, queer-looking wooden house near the
market, where, hugging his treasure closely to his breast, he
mounted the shaky stairs until he reached the garret. Push-
ing open a door here, he entered a neat little room, with only
one window in it, but that a dormer facing the south. The
floor of this room was bare, with the exception of two or three
round rag mats; and the walls were decorated in the oddest
manner with pictures cut from old papers and magazines, bits
of colored glass, strips of glittering tin twisted into grotesque
shapes, and red and green motto- papers fashioned into some
semblance of flowers.

On a bed near the window lay a little, pale-faced, brown-
haired girl, with wistful gray eyes, and a smile like sunshine
breaking through a cloud. In her hands she held a pair of
knitting-needles, with which she was knitting with marvellous
quickness some coarse thread into wide, strong lace. Beside
the bed stood a small table. holding a box of water-colors, a
camel's-hair brush or two, a lead-pencil, a cup filled with water,
and a piece of paper, on which was a rude attempt at a paint-
ing of a bunch of daisies.
"See what I've brought you, Phemie!" cried her brother,
joyfully. "To-day's your birthday: thirteen years old--almost
as old as I am. But you thought I'd forgotten it; but I didn't,
dearie--no, indeed."

" Daisies! daisies !" cried the girl, with a sweet, glad laugh,
dropping her work, and holding out her pretty, slender hands.
"Oh, brother--dear, good, darling brother--will they live and
grow?"

"The gardener says they will, and he ought to know," an-
swered her brother. "And now you needn't be aching your
poor little head any more trying to think exactly how they look,
for you can study them all day long. But, good gracious! I
must go and sell my papers, or we'll have no berries for dinner,
and that would be dreadful." And giving his sister a kiss, he
hurried away again, as happy, I believe, as any boy in that great
city on that pleasant summer day.

" I am so glad, so very, very glad that you have come !" said
Phemie to the daisies, as soon as he was gone, as she set them
on the table and gazed at them, with tears in her eyes; " and I
beg of you to live, dear daisies. I am a poor, weak little girl,
and I can sit up but a few hours each day. But a long while
ago I could run about like other little girls, and I lived in the
country, where thousands of daisies grew, and I have never for-
gotten them. Mamma was alive then, but she's dead now, and
father left us here a year after she died, and we have never seen
him since. He didn't care for daisies or us. How good of
Brother Frank to bring you to me, daisies! I shall knit so
much better and faster, and earn so much more money, with
your bright faces smiling at me. And some day I shall make
3 picture of you--I have been trying to paint one from memory
--that shall be almost as pretty as your own dear selves." And
she leaned back against her pillow, singing softly to herself;
and while her fingers plied the knitting-needles her spirit, led
by the spirits of the meadow flowers, wandered to green fields.
and listened to the hum of the bees and the song of the birds,
and grew lighter and happier every moment. Frank, coming in
quietly at noon, heard her say, with closed eyes and clasped
hands, "Dear God, a helpless child thanks thee for daisies I"

And the daisies all lived, and increased in numbers until
the room overflowed with them. On floor and shelves they
bloomed in cracked pitchers, broken jars, old fruit-cans--every-
thing that Frank could find to fill with them. And Phemie
did paint a beautiful picture of them at last, and through this
picture came much good-fortune to that garret home. For
Frank, showing it, in his brotherly love and pride, to a kind
gentleman whom he served with papers, was surprised to learn
that it was worth more than his sister by knitting lace for three
long months could earn.

And now to end the story. The very prettiest New-year's
card that appeared to celebrate the birth of 1880 was one on
which the New-year's greeting was printed on a ribbon encir-
cling the stems of a bunch of daisies. Those daisies are Phe-
mie's daisies. And the young flower-painter, growing stronger
day by day, is at this moment the happy mistress of two pleas-
ant rooms and a mite of a studio.

And as for the daisies, I suppose you know as well as I do
that for the last two years they have been and still are the
favorite flowers of all the pretty girls in the great city.
[N THE DEEP BLUE SEA.

HE was a sailor old and bold,
And he had sailed the seas

For forty years and more, and bore
The marks of sun and breeze;

And now to stay at home he'd come,
Delighted with the noise,

That others much perplexed and vexed,
Of many girls and boys.

His sister's children they, and gay
As any elfish throng,

And never tired they grew, 'tis true,
Of briny tale and song;

And this he told one night, by light
Of stars and silver moon,

And chorus all joined in with din,
But not a scrap of tune:

"Oh! it was a party in the deep blue sea--
The Fishing-frog and Whale were the givers--
One bright summer eve, and their funny finny friends
Came in shoals from the oceans and rivers.
The Skate and his wife skated gayly along,
While they made the most comical faces;
 

AND NEVER TIRED THEY CREW . . . 0F BRINY TALE AND SONG.

And the Drum-fish he drummed, and the Skipper he skipped,
And the Porgy and the Shad swum races.
Sing ri-toodle-dum and ri-toodIe-dee
For the jolly old party in the deep blue sea,
Ahoy!l0 .
*1

IA" THE DIE/31' BLUE SEA. 1

" The Pipe-fish invited the company to smoke,

The Lobsters threw somersaults by dozens,

   
 
 
 
 
 
   

The Pilot-fish escorted the

Prawns and the Shrimps,

And the Carp clan their
queer-looking cousins ;

The Saw-fish and the Sword

of their sharp weapons

bragged,

THE PARTY l.\~ THE DEEP BLUE SEA.
And Torpedo and the Eel (the electric) behaved
In a way that was certainly most shocking.
Sing ri-toodle-dum and ri-toodle-dee

For the merry old party in the deep blue sea,
Ahoy!

" And they splashed, and they dashed, and they spouted and
jumped,
And the Flying-- fish flew--such a wonder '--
A11d the Walking fish walked with his climbing friend, Perch,
And the Lion-of- the-sea roared like thunder.
But at last, near the mom, Mr. Whale gave a yawn--
An example the Fishing-frog followed---
And the party was quite over when their mouths closed again,
For the guests every one had been swallowed.
Sing ri-toodle-dum and ri-toodle-dee
For the jolly old party in the deep blue sea,
Ahoy !"

RUDE MARCH AND SWEET APRIL.

MARCH was behaving in the very rudest way--howling along
the roads, banging the window-shutters, screaming through the
key-holes and under the doors, and altogether making a nui-
sance of himself. He ought to have known better, for he was
in his thirty-first day--the oldest a month can ever be; but if
he did he "didn't care," like some naughty boys I've heard of.
but went rushing about, thinking it great fun to do all the mis-
chief he could before he was obliged to join his first cousin,
February.

"Go out like a lamb !" shouted he. "Not I! I came in
like a lion, and I'll go out like a whole menagerie. I'll disap
point 'em this time."

So he shook the branches of the trees until they were so
frightened that their sap ran cold; and he flew to the tops of
the barns and houses, where the swallows and sparrows were
building their nests, and shrieked, with the greatest scorn,
" Making nests, are you? I've a good mind to blow 'em down.
Why, there'll be six young snow-storms, two old ones, and a
hurricane, before Spring really comes. Ha! ha!" and he
laughed until the very chimneys shook.

Then he threw himself on the ground. and. in a hoarse
whisper, told the flowers that were just beginning to awaken,
" It's Winter--cold Winter. Did you think Spring had come,
you foolish little things? Go to sleep again. No one wants
you up here. The very sunbeams haven't got warm yet; so
take my advice and stay where you are."

Now, away in the woods, in one sheltered spot, where the
snow had never drifted, a few of the green leaves of the trail-
ing arbutus were already growing over the mosses among the
rocks; and, scarcely hidden beneath the soil, some soft, fair
little buds were patiently waiting for Spring to tell them they
might come out and unfold.

" In a few days at most," they whispered to each other,
" we shall push aside the light soil that covers us, and look up
at the blue sky and bright sun."

March, who was hiding behind the rocks, overheard them,

9
and burst again into a loud, discordant laugh. "Ha! ha! ha !"
yelled he; "you just dare to put out your heads--that's all--
and I'll nip 'em off in a minute. Spring! I don't see what
right they have to say I belong to the Spring family. There's
nothing soft nor mild about me. I'm not tied to Summer's
apron-string. Therels a great mistake somewhere, I'm sure of it.
I'm Winter's youngest son, that's what I am--not Spring's only
boy--and April and May are my cousins instead of my sisters."

So the shy buds trembled and shrunk back in their hiding-
place, when the sound of some one sobbing and weeping rose
on the air, and great tears fell on the ground all around them.

" Confound it !" shouted March; "here comes that great
cry-baby April. I must be off."

" It's too--too--too bad of you, March, you rude fellow, to
tell such dreadful stories, and frighten my dear wee birdies and
my pretty wild-flowers," sobbed a sweet, complaining voice, in
the distance; " but I won't stand it any longer. I'm coming
to tell them the truth this very moment: so--there--n-o-w!"

" Come on !" cried March, " I'm going ;" and then he growl-
ed to himself, "I can do all sorts of mischief and never feel
sorry for it, but I always have to get out of the way when
April begins to cry ;" and, with one last unearthly yell, he dis-
appeared for a year.

The tears ceased to fall, and April came gliding along, with
violets in her hands and hair, and her first smile gladdened the
heart of the earth; and the arbutus~buds came out and turned
into pink-white flowers, and the May blossoms and anemones I
sent word by the root-telegraph all over the land that April--
sweet, smiling, crying April--had come at last.
PLAIN SPEAKING.

A MULLIXGONG met an Echidna one day,
And he cried, " W hat a very odd nose!

So exceedingly s/mrp. \Vhy, it's funnier far
Than your porcupine coat and your toes."

Then most rudely he made all the echoes resound
With " he-hees!" and " haw-haws !" and " ho--hoes!"

 

THE MULLINCOXG AND ECllll).\':\.

The Echidna made answer. "My merry young friend,
If your own funny nose you could see,
So exceedinglyflat, like a shovel or spade,
I am sure you'd stop laughing at me;
For mine is, beside it, the loveliest of things.
Ho! ho! and haw! haw! and he! he !"

THE GARDEN 0N TfIE SHED.

THIS is a true story about two little girls--one the daughter
of a rich widow, and the other the only child of a poor one.

They were both called " Florry," though their names were
not alike--the blue-eyed girl being " Florence," and the dark-
eyed one " Florida."

They first met at Mrs. M'Sopcr's, the washer-woman. Flora
ence, coming one day last May to Mrs. M'Soper--who lived in
a couple of rooms just back of her husband's grocery--with a
message from her mamma, found, to her great surprise, a very
pretty, delicate-looking girl sitting in a low rocking-chair beside
the ironing-table.

Having delivered her message and given the M'Soper baby
a stick of peppermint candy, Florence looked at the stranger,
and the stranger looked at her, each with a smile, for they were
both pleasant things to look at--Florence, with her blue eyes
and golden braids; and Florida, with her soft, dark eyes, and
beautiful, wavy brown hair.

" You don't belong to Mrs. M'Soper ?" at last said Florence.

"Oh, no !" answered the other, in a sweet, low voice, "I am
Florida Randall. Mamma and I came from the South last
week, and we live up-stairs over the store."
" And have you any friends here P" asked blue eyes.

" Not'one," replied Florida.

" How strange it must seem to you !" said Florence. " I am
going to the country soon, or I'd ask you to come and see me.
But I'll be glad to take you for a walk some day before I go."

" Shure," broke in Mrs. M'Soper, holding her iron up to her
cheek to see if it was hot enough, "the poor dear can't walk
much, Miss Florence. Shure, she's lame, an' that patient that
I do be thinkin' the angels are wid her, an' her mother gone
out the day to sew, an' her a--settin' here a-tellin' me about the
purty gardin she had at home, just as if she was a-readin' it out
of a book. Faith, but that iron's hot !"

"Oh, I'm so sorry for you!" said Florence, taking the girl's
hand--a tiny, tiny hand it was--and soon (for Florence pos-
sessed the power of winning confidence) she knew all about the
clear home in the sunny South, the speckled hens and the
cunning chickens, and, dearest of all, the beautiful garden.

"I shall miss it so much !" said the lame girl, the tears fill-
ing her dark eyes. "You can't think how I loved my flowers.
I knew every leaf and bud that grew for me. The window of
my room was shaded by lovely vines that nodded 'Good-morn-
ing' to me as soon as I unclosed my eyes; and whispered
'Good-night' as I went to sleep. I had no sisters and broth-
ers, and but few playmates; but the birds, and bees, and butter-
flies were all my friends. You may think it silly, but I pray to
God every night to give me a garden again."

" Shure, an' it's meself wishes I could stale a bit of the Cen-
tral Park fur ye," said Mrs. M'Soper.

"And I don't think you 'silly' at all," said Florence, making
a funny little face as she added, " and here's poor me with
nothing to wish for but a pair of bracelets! But I must go;
mamma will wonder where I am," and, kissing Florida good--
bye, she almost flew home, in her impatience to tell mamma
all about her new friend, the pretty lame girl.

"And, mamma," she said at last, with sparkling eyes, "I
have thought of a way to give her a garden, if you will only
help me."

Mrs. Dyckman smiled; she knew what that meant--Flor-
ence would plan, mamma execute.

"Well, darling, tell me your 'way.' "

"You know, dear mamma, over Mr. M'Soper's store is a
shed--a wooden awning, I think it is called. Now, why can't a
little fence be put around that shed and the place enclosed be
covered with good, rich earth, and planted with flowers? We
can spare the plants, mamma, from our own garden--some ge-
raniums, verbenas, begonias, and a rose-bush or two. Then
Florida can sow seeds of whatever summer flowers she wants,
and she can have morning-glories and Madeira vines climbing
her window, and bidding her 'Good-night' and 'Good-morning,'
as the vines used to in the little home she has left."

"A very good idea," said Mrs. Dyckman, " but to carry it
out will cost quite a sum of money."

"Yes, mamma, I've thought of that, too," Florence went on,
eagerly. "And oh! I haven't told you the oddest thing yet.
Florida and I are exactly the same age--both twelve on the
Ist of june. Isn't it strange? And, mamma, we are alike in
another thing--we have both lost our dear papas;" and for a
moment the bright face grew sad. "But about the money.
You needn't give me the bracelets you promised me on my
birthday, I don't want them now. What they would have cost
will pay for Florry's garden--z'm't it queer she should be
'Florry' too ?--and we'll coax her mother to let her visit us
for a few days, and while she is away from home we'll have
the garden made. Only think, mamma, she prays to God for
a garden every night, and I am sure that God has put it into
my heart to give it to her."

And it was done. Florida was carried away to Mrs. Dyck-
man's country house, the garden on the shed was made, the 1st
of June beamed bright and clear, and the lame girl, brought to
the door of her home in Mrs. Dyckman's carriage, was blind-
folded, and, filled with wonder at her friend's mysterious con-
duct, led up-stairs.

The window of her room reached, "Now you may look !"
cried Florence, clapping her hands with delight.

And the astonished child beheld before her the gift for
which she had prayed.

Bright-red geraniums, white, pink, and purple verbenas, be- '
gonias with queer-shaped green leaves, and beautiful flowers,
smiled at her.

"And the morning-glory seeds are soum and Madeira roots
planted, and soon your windows will be gay with green leaves
and flowers," said Florence.

But Florida said not a word, only threw her arms around
her friend's neck, kissed her many, many times, and then burst
into tears--such happy, happy tears, just like a summer shower,
that, when it ceases, leaves a rainbow in the sky, and every-
thing on earth brighter than it was before.
And the other morning, when in a street car I passed the
garden on the shed, I saw that the vines had climbed nearly to
the roof of the house, and the morning-glories--those lovely,
trumpet-shaped flowers that always seem to me to be saying
" Praise the Lord !"--were dancing gayly in the breeze. Lady-
slippers, poppies, and marigolds were all in bloom, and one tall
sunflower stood in the midst like a soldier on guard.

Mrs. M'Soper thinks "it's a pity there isn't a bit more land,
shure, so Is to raise a few {oine perratees !"

 

PRETTY POLL.

"PRETTY Poll indeed! I'd thank you to stop saying that,
Mr. Mocking-bird. 1 say it because I can't help it. I said it
so often when I was young and pretty that I find it impossible
to leave off now I'm old and ugly. You needn't shake your
head and try to be polite about it. I hate politeness when it's
100 polite. Old? I should think so. I'm fifty if I'm a day.
And ugly. Don't contradict me. The looking-glass hangs just
opposite my cage, and, not being given to flattery, z'l tells me
plain enough--old and ugly."

" Old and ugly--old and' ugly," repeated the mocking-bird.
"I beg your pardon; I meant to remark that fifty is a very
great age--a very great age. Pray, were you here when the
world begun ?"

"No, not exactly; in fact, I have reason to believe there
were several parrots before me," said Poll, condescendingly.
" But still the world must have been quite young for a world
when I popped out of my shell; for, as you say, Mr. Mocking-
bird, fifty years is a very long time."

"A very long time--a very long time," said the mocking-
bird. " You must have seen a great deal during your life."

" Yes," said Poll, scratching her head in a thoughtful man-
ner with her right claw; -"you're right. I have, though I
haven't travelled much, having always lived in the same fam-
ily ever since I came to this country, forty-nine years ago to-
morrow, which will be Christmas-day." .

"Which will be Christmas-day," repeated the mocking-bird;
" and I dare say you could tell many a Christmas story."

"I dare say I could," replied Poll, her round eyes twinkling
--"a hundred of them." i

"A hundred of them!" said the mocking-bird. " That's two
for every Christmas you have known. How I'd like to hear
one to-night!"

"Don't say anything about the sugar I took out of the
bowl," said Poll. " 'Twas only two lumps."

" Two lumps ?" said the mocking-bird, who knew it was five.
"Thank you, ma'am, but I don't mean that kind of story." But
then, seeing l'oll begin to ruffle her feathers, he added, hastily,
" No,'l won't tell, on the honor of a bird."

" Well, then," said Poll, smoothing her feathers again, "you
shall have a story."

. "A story! Good l" said the mocking-bird; and, turning his
head on one side, he prepared to listen.

"I was too young, when taken from my native forest," be-
gun the parrot, "to remember much about it. I know it was
'way across the sea, and full of all sorts of animals, especially
monkeys, and birds, who growled and howled, and squealed and
chattered, and screamed and sung. from morning till night, and
some of 'em from night till morning again, but that's all. I
was stolen from my home one day, my mother being away on
a visit (a lovely parrot she was; I used to look like her), by a
sailor, and brought, as a Christmas present, to this very house.
It was new then, and smelled of paint, and stood in the midst
of a very large garden; and there wasn't another house for a

mile on one side and more than two miles on the other. The '

little girl to whom I was given was the loveliest child I ever
saw, and I've seen more children than I ever want to see again,
most of them being provoking. teasing creatures, trying to pull
out a body's tail-feathers, poking sticks at a body, and offering
nice things to a body only to snatch 'em away again when a
body offers to take 'em. But they can't play any more of their
tricks on me, thank goodness! I know them too well. I've
studied 'em for three generations. But this child, as I said be-
'fore, was lovely. She had eyes the color of my brightest blue
feathers, hair like my brightest yellow ones, lips like the crim-
son one on top of my head, and skin like the down on my
breast. I loved her from the very first, and I loved very few.
We parrots are exclusive."

"Exclusive?" repeated the mocking-bird.

" Yes, exclusive," said the parrot. "Don't you like the
word, or don't you know what it means?" But the mocking-
bird making no reply, she went on: "The crackers and cakes
and sugar and fond words that child used to give me would
have melted the heart of the exclusivest parrot that ever lived.

21..
And what patience she had! Why. she had the patience of
Job."

"Job ?" said the mocking-bird. " Who's he ?"

" To tell you the truth." replied Mrs. Parrot, "I don't know,
but I've heard of him a great many times. Snowdrop--that's
what they called her, though her real name was Mildred--spent
hour after hour teaching me the English language, until I knew
more of it than any of our family ever knew before or since,
and our family is by far the cleverest in all Birdland."

The mocking-bird begun to dance on one leg and whistle,
but stopped suddenly as Poll opened her cage-door. Poll went
back to her perch and her story again.

"I can, as you well know. Mr. Mocking-bird, ask for my
breakfast, dinner, and supper--"

"And crackers between meals," interrupted the mocking-
' bird. '

" Yes. zma' crackers between meals," repeated Poll, in sharp
tones, " and it's none of your business if I do. I can call by
name everybody in the house, sing 'Home, Sweet Home,'
shout ' Fire !'--"

"Fire! fire! fire!" shouted the mocking-bird.

" Silence !" screamed the parrot. " You idiot! do you want
to alarm the whole neighborhood ?"

. " Alarm the whole neighborhood ?" said the mocking-bird.
" By no means. I forgot myself."

"Don't do it again," said Mrs. Parrot, severely, and then
proceeded with her story, in her usual tone: "Snowdrop wasn't
the only child. She had two brothers. but, bless you! no more
like herself than you are like me, Mr. Mocking-bir ."
"Am I to take that for a compliment ?" asked the mocking-
bird. " You know you said, and insisted upon it, that you were
old and--"

"Take it any way you please," snapped Poll, "but don't in-
terrupt me again. I won't stand it. Snowdrop's brothers were
both older than she was; and, though they loved lzer dearly,
they hated each other. Yes, they actually hated each other,
and yet they were so much alike that people often took them
for twins--black eyes, brown skins, straight, dark hair, and
frowning brows. They begun quarrelling when they were
nothing but babies; and as they grew older and older matters
became worse and worse, until by their wicked conduct they
had almost broken their mother's heart. Little Snowdrop
alone had any influence over them. She used to coax them
and kiss them and pray for them; but, though she prevented
many a fight, she never could -make them kind to each other.
Well, one Christmas-eve--I had been here just three years--
the brothers and their dear little sister were all in this very
room. Snowdrop was prattling about hanging up her stock-
ing. John, the younger boy, looked up at her (he was lying on
the hearth-rug), with a smile--he scarcely ever smiled except
when looking at Snowdrop--and said, 'I think I'll hang up
my stocking too.' 'Do, you milksop,' said his brother, throwing
down a book he had been reading; 'you're just baby enough
for that.' 'Better be a baby than a liar and thief,' said the
other. 'A liar and thief?' repeated Charles, jumping to his
feet, and flinging his book at his brother's head. 'Yes; you
stole my ball, and lied when mother asked you about it,' said
John, also springing to his feet, with flashing eyes. '1'" have
your life for that !' shouted Charles; and he looked so terrible
that for once John was scared, and ran from the room, knock-
ing down a chair or two as he went.

" The side-door being opened that moment by the man-
servant, who passed quickly in with some packages, out he
flew, his brother racing after him. Snowdrop, wringing her
tiny hands, without hat or cloak, followed them as fast as she
could. 'Mother! mother! mother!' I screamed; but she was
in the kitchen, at the other end of the house, with Christmas
pies and things, and couldn't hear me. At last I shouted at
the top of my voice, 'Fire! fire! fire !'"

"Fire! fire! fire !" repeated the mocking-bird. The parrot
looked sternly at him with one green eye. "Again I beg your
pardon," said the mocking-bird; "but your story is so exciting
one is quite carried away by it."

"Take care one isn't carried away so far that one'll never
hear the end of it," said Mrs. Poll. " Half an hour went by.'
I was getting quite hoarse (for I'd never stopped screaming),
when Snowdrop's mamma came into the room with Tiger. As
a general thing, I don't like dogs; but Tiger was so very good-
natured, and forgave me so quickly when I woke him from his
naps by whistling like his master, that I couldn't help liking
Izz'm. By-thc-bye, I used to whistle remarkably well."

" Remarkably well," said the mocking-bird, "but not as well
as I do."

" Think so ?" said Poll. " Well, every bird has a right to
his own opinion. 'What's the matter, Poll ?' asked mamma.
'Why do you make such a noise?' Then, seeing the book on
the floor and the overturned chairs, she cried, 'The children
--where are they?' 'The road! the road!' screamed I; and,
catching up a shawl, she flew out of the still open door, calling
loudly for her husband to follow her. In a moment he was
beside her, and I burst open my door, hopped out of my cage,
and looked after them up the road. It was very dark, and the
snow was deep and still falling fast. I never felt so wretched
in my life. There was some cake on the table, but I never
even looked at it."

"Never even looked at it! How did you know it was there,
then?" asked the mocking-bird, slyly.

" Heard Snowdrop say it was; so, there now !" answered
Mrs. Parrot, triumphantly. "What silly questions you do ask!
But I must hurry with my story, for, to tell the truth, I'm get-
ting rather sleepy. I went back to my cage, and never spoke
or moved for an hour. At the end of that time father came
in, bearing in his arms a drooping little form--Snowdrop, with
_closed eyes and pale cheeks; Snowdrop, with. great flakes of
snow among her pretty curls; Snowdrop, with no smile upon
her lips. The two boys, with bruised faces and down-hanging
heads, followed their father. At this moment the doctor's
sleigh stopped at the door, and in another moment he was in
the room, giving orders to the frightened servants. 'Snow-
drop! dear Snowdrop! sweet Snowdrop!' said I."

"Snowdrop! dear Snowdrop! sweet Snowdrop !" repeated
the mocking-bird. " How well you do tell a story, Mrs. Poll!
You use such beautiful language !"

" Pooh !" said the parrot, a little flattered, nevertheless.
"I've heard this so often that I know it by heart. "Where
did you find her?" asked the doctor. Mother burst into tears.
'ln the woods,' answered father. 'Tiger, good dog, led us to
where she lay in a snow-drift. She followed her cruel, wicked
brothers, to beg them not to fight; but they, blind and deaf
with rage, ran madly on, never seeing: or hearing her, until at
last she fell, and the snow quickly covered her. They have
murdered her!' 'Oh no, father!' they both cried, 'she isn't
dead; she must not die. Oh, if God will only give her back to
us, we swear never more to quarrel or fight from this night, but
to be good boys and kind brothers for evermore;' and for the
first time in their lives they fell into each other's arms; and as
they did so Snowdrop's big blue eyes opened, and a bright
smile flashed across her face. She didn't die after all."

"She didn't die after all P" said the mocking-bird.

" I told you she didn't," said the parrot; "and the next day
was the merriest Christmas-day ever known in this house, and
that's saying a great deal. I ate so many good things that I
was sick for a week after. And the boys kept the vow they
made on that dreadful night, and loved each other dearly; but, -
ah! never as dearly as they loved Snowdrop, their darling
sister." V

" Their darling sister. What a sweet child she must have
been I" said the mocking-bird. " How I should have liked to
have seen her!"

"Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Mrs. Parrot. "You've seen her
hundreds of times."

" Hundreds of times!" repeated the mocking-bird.

" Yes; and, what's more, you saw her only an hour ago."

"An hour ago ?" said the mocking-bird, in astonishment.

"In this very room," continued the parrot, shaking with
mirth, " filling the children's stockings with candies and nuts.
Grandma now, but Snowdrop once; and the two old gentlemen
who left the gold pieces on the mantel were, and are, for that
matter, Charles and John."

"Charles and John! Charles and John !" screamed the
mocking-bird.

"Stop, stop!" cried Mrs. Poll, " you crazy thing. You'll
have them all out of their beds, hearing such a noise in the
middle of the night. By-the-bye, I wish it were morning. I'm
awfully hungry. Polly wants a cracker!"

 

THE CALF THAT WOULDN'T SUPI'OSE.

" SUPPOSE," said a little lamb to a big calf that was feeding
in the pasture beside her, " that I was an elephant."

"But you're not an elephant," said the calf.

" But suppose I was," continued the lamb, "and had ivory
tusks."

" But you haven't any tusks at all. let alone ivory tusks,"
said the calf.

"But suppose I had," insisted the lamb, "and a great long
trunk."

"Stuff and nonsense I" said the calf.

"And I went off with a menagerie, like that we 'saw going
down the road yesterday," said the lamb, "and--"

"You couldn't go with a menagerie. They wouldn't have
you," interrupted the calf.

"I could, and they would, if I were an elephant," said the
lamb.WHY THE DOG'S NOS/5 15 ALWA Y5 COLD. 145

" But you're no! an, ale/Mani," repeated the calf, kicking up
his heels and jumping about in the most absurd manner.

"Oh dear!" said the lamb, "I sha'n't try to play with you
any more. How can I, when you haven't the least bit of 'sup-
pose' in you ?"

The calf stood still and looked at her for a moment, with
serious, brown eyes, and then went off, whimpering, " Very well,
you needn't play with me if you don't want to; and I'll go
and tell my mother you're mad at me just because you're not
an elephant."

And away he ran, while the lamb went on cropping the
young grass and " supposing " to herself.

--4>o<>--

W'HY THE DOG'S NOSE IS ALWAYS COLD.'

"WHAT makes the dog's nose always cold ?"
I'll try to tell you, curls of gold,
If you will sit upon my knee,
And very good and quiet be:
Well, years, and years, and years ago-
How many I don't really know---
There came a rain on sea and shore;
Its like was never seen before
Or since. It fell unceasing down,
Till all the world began to drown.
But just before it down did pour,
An old, old man--his name was Noah--
Built him an ark, that he might save
His family from a watery grave;

10146

STORIES IN PROSE AND VERSE.

And in it also he designed

T o shelter two of every kind

Of beast. Well, dear, when it was done,
And heavy clouds obscured the sun,
The Noah folks to it quickly ran,

And then the animals began

To gravely march along in pairs:

The leopards, tigers, wolves, and bears,
The deer, the hippopotamuses,

The rabbits, squirrels, elks, \valruses,
The camels, goats, and cats and donkeys,
The tall giraffes, the beavers, monkeys,
The rats, the big rhinoceroses,

The dromedaries and the horses,

The sheep, the mice, the kangaroos,
Hyenas, elephants, koodoos,

And hundreds more--'twould take all day,
My dear, so many names to say--

And at the very, very end

Of the procession. by his friend

And master, faithful dog was seen.

The livelong time he'd helping been

To drive the crowd of creatures in;

And now, with loud, exultant bark,

He gayly sprung aboard the Ark.

Alas! so crowded was the space,

He could not in it find a place;

So, patiently, he turned about--

Stood half-way in and half~way out.YELLOW 7A CKE T'S Flt/6117'. 147

And those extremely heavy showers
Desccnded through nine hundred hours
And more; and, darling, at their close,
'Most frozen was his honestnose;

And never could it lose again

The dampness of that dreadful rain;
And that is what, my curls of gold,
Made all the doggies' noses cold.

YELLOI/V VACKET'S FRIGHT.

ONE summer morning the bee who wore the beautiful yel-
low jacket came flying home in a great hurry. buzzing so loudly
that all the bees who had stayed at home heard him long before
he reached the door of the hive. "What am have happened ?"
they said to each other.

So the workers left off building their little six-sided rooms,
the drones left off looking at them, and the Queen's attendants
and maids of honor left off waiting on her Majesty, and they
all flew out and clustered about Yellow Jacket. asking, " Why
have you brought no honey? What is the matter ?"

"' Matter!' " repeated Yellow Jacket. " If any of you bees
had gone through what [have this morning, you would not be
alive to tell the tale; in short. you would have been scared to
death. And, to confess the truth, brave as I am, I was terribly
frightened."

"Oh dear! what was it? Do tell us, quick," said they all

together.
"Yes, and hurry, before the Queen misses us," added the
maids of honor.

"'Go ahead!" cried the drones--a very comical thing for
[Item to say.

"Well, well," said Yellow Jacket, "if you'll only be silent.
and not interrupt me, I'll tell you all about it." Not a wing
fluttered after that, and he went on: "When I left home this
morning I was in excellent spirits. I hummed gayly as I flew
(and I flatter myself I can hum better than most bees I know),
and the very first place I visited was our favorite 'garden by
the brook, where there are so many fragrant roses, lilies, and
hollyhocks.

"' Plenty of honey here,' hummed I to myself; and, looking
about me for the sweetest blossoms, I spied a lovely hollyhock,
just opened, and swaying gracefully in the breeze. The fairy
whose home it was sat on a green leaf near by, pluming her
wings for a flight; and, oh! I never saw her looking pret-
tier!

"'Good-morning, beautiful fairy,' said I, in my politest man-
ner; and I flatter myself my politest manner is a little ahead of
the majority of bees.' (Here one of the maids of honor made
a funny face at the others, and set them a-giggling.) 'It bids
fair to be a charming day; and, by-thc-bye, can you spare me
a little honey?'

"'Yes, indeed, and with pleasure,' answered she, 'for you

I are the handsomest bee I ever saw. Where did you get that
elegant jacket? I'd like one just like it myself.'

"'I wish I could give it to you,' said I, 'but it fits so tight-
ly that I'm afraid I couldn't get it off.'YELLOW 7/ICA'1575 FRIGHT. 149

"'Thank you all the same,' said she; 'and now I'm very
sorry, but I mm"! say good-bye. Great as the temptation is, I
can't stop to talk to you any longer; for I've promised to take
an air-trip with Prince Purple-and-gold, eldest son of the Queen
of the Butterflies, this morning, and I see him coming this way.
Go in--I never lock my door--and help yourself to the sweets;
only leave me enough for my supper, if you please;' and away
she flew to meet the prince, while I folded my wings and crept
into the flower. I tasted the honey; it was delicious; when
Yellow Jacket paused.

n

suddenly---

"Yes, yes," buzzed the bees all together; "go on. go on !" '

" The hollyhock closed. I was a prisoner. It became mid~
night darkness; I could scarcely breathe. I beat wildly with
my wings against the sides of my prison, and as I did so I
heard a strange, loud noise outside that made me tremble with
fright. At last, after flours and flour: of fear, the flower opened
as suddenly as it had shut. I made my escape, and hastened
home to warn you all never, never again to visit the garden by
the brook."

" Did you see nothing when you came out of the holly-
hock ?" asked the first maid of honor.

"Only a little girl, who stood on the porch near which the
tallest hollyhocks grew; but you may believe I didn't stop to
look at her." ,

" How strange! Who or what could have shut the door?
No fear of our ever going again to the garden of roses, lilies,
and hollyhocks," said the maids of honor, the workers, and the
drones, though there was no need for the drones to say so, as
it is well known t/wy are too lazy to go anywhere.
"Then you'll be very silly," said an old bee who had just
arrived, laden with honey, "and you'll leave the best honey to
be found for miles around to the butterflies, moths, and hum-
ming-birds. Why, I brought part of this load I have here from
that very hollyhock Yellow Jacket has been talking about. Oh,
wasn't he frightened when he was shut in! I can't help laugh-
ing whenever I think of it; and a young spider who was prac-
tising some new steps on the tight-rope, in one corner of the
porch, nearly fell off, she was so amused at seeing him rush out
and fly away in such a hurry."

"Good gracious !" buzzed all the bees. " So you were there
too, and saw it all! Do tell us your story, that's a good fel-
low." V

"There isn't much to tell," said the old bee, "for I'm not
going to tell a story; I'm going to tell the [ml/2."

" Go ahead !" said those comical drones.

"Well, I was flying about in the bright sunshine, enjoying
myself a little before I begun to work, when I saw Yellow
Jacket creep into the newly-opened hollyhock. In a moment
the little girl who stood on the porch, and who had been watch-
ing him too, leaned over and closed the flower by grasping it
softly in her hand, laughing merrily as she did so. In just
another moment she took her hand away, and out came the
captive, to fly home and tell a wonderful tale, I suppose."

"I should think so," said the first maid of honor. "'A
wonderful tale' indeed, with his lwurs of fear, and his terrible
darkness."

"And is that really all that happened ?" asked the second
maid of honor.
"Ton my word and honor, that's all," answered the old
bee.

"And the beautiful fairy that said Yellow Jacket was the
handsomest bee she ever saw, and wore the most elegant
jacket ?" i

" There was no fairy."

"And the dreadful noise that made him tremble with
fright ?" asked the third maid of honor.

"The laugh of the blue-eyed child."

"Oh, fie! what fibs he's told us l" buzzed the bees all to-
gether.

" It would serve him right to sting him," said the maids of
honor.

But Yellow Jacket did not wait to be stung. He flew away
again, t/zz's time in a greater hurry than ever.

And the maids of honor went back to the queen, the work-
ers went back to their work, and the drones went back to look
at them.

BROI/VN HAND AND III/HIT]? HAND.

Two little hands--one very brown, and not very pretty; and
the other very white, and extremely pretty--met one evening
at a party.

They were holding the rope. side by side for at least a quar-
ter of an hour, while the children were playing Copenhagen.
For the first few minutes they did not speak to each other;
then said the White Hand, flashing a beautiful diamond it wore
on its slender third finger, to the brown one, "What have you
been doing this summer to get yourself so dreadfully tanned?
Why, you might almost be taken for the hand of a colored
child!

"And you haven't a ringl--not even a plain gold one!
Don't it make you feel sad when you think of it? All my inti-

' mate friends wear rubies, pearls, and diamonds. Dear, clear,
how brown you are, to be sure! Don't you wish you were as
pretty as I am P"

" You ask a great many questions at once," replied the
Brown Hand, "but I will try to answer them all, if you will
just tell me what you have been doing this summer."

"Oh, I have been to Saratoga," said the other. "VVe--that
is, my young mistress, myself, and her mamma--stayed in-doors
the greater part of the day and received callers, or played on
the piano. If we went out we wore heavy veils and fine kid
gloves, so that the horrid sun would not burn nor scorch us.
But we enjoyed ourselves the most in the evening, when the
moon. and stars came out with their mild light that hurts no
one. I never did anything harder than holding a book, and
that not very often. A lace handkerchief or fragrant bouquet
was usually my only charge--and you ?"

"Well," said the Brown Hand, "I didn't go to Saratoga
or anywhere else. I stayed at home and, with my sister's
help, made a little garden. Of course the bright-eyed girl
to whom we belong showed us how. She never wore a veil,
only a broad-brimmed straw hat, and we never wore gloves, for
we couldn't have worked as well in them. And as for the
sun, we all loved it, and there was never a morning it shone
we did not go out to meet and welcome it. And with its
kindly help we raised all sorts of nice vegetables and some
delicious fruit.

"Part we kept for ourselves, and part we gave to the poor
woman who goes about from house to house with pale. thin
hands. forever sewing.

"Then I held books very often, and just as often I guided
a pen that wrote jolly little letters to everybody. How they
must have laughed when they read them!

"I darned stockings and hemmed towels, and sometimes
even washed dishes, and I don't care a bit for rings of any
kind; and I have no wish to be as pretty and as useless as
you are. In fact, I much prefer being myself, homely and
brown as I am." _

"What vulgar taste I" said the finger that wore the diamond
ring, and the White Hand moved a little farther from her neigh-
bor. forgetting, in her scorn, all about the boy in the circle, who
immediately gave her a sharp tap and took her prisoner.

"GRANDPA, YOU DO LOOK SWEET."

JUST think of it, dear Grandpapa!
This day belongs to me:

My birthday 'tis--I'm four years old--
Last time I was but three.

And six small girls and five small boys
Are coming here to tea,

And you must be as beautiful
As ever you can be.
 

mm'lxn GRAxm'A's HAIR.

Teresa Grover's grandpapa
Has got no hair at all;

His head shines--though he's very nice--
]ust like an ivory ball.

And I guess she'll be awful s'prised,
And all those other girls,

And small boys too, when they see you
With lots of pretty curls.
For to my party you must come,
And help us play and laugh:

I wouldn't have a birthday, dear,
Unless I gave you half.

And you shall have the very best
Of everything to eat.

And now your hair is done, and, oh,
Grandpa. you do look sweet!

THE VIOLETS THAT (IA/WE 11V NOVE/WBER.

Tm; last leaves of the maple-trees, in their faded dresses of
crimson and gold, fluttered sadly in the wind; the red berries of
the bittersweet and sumac were the only bright things in the
wood; the swallows had sung " farewell " to each other, and
promised to meet again in spring; the bees had ceased to
search for honey, for the roses and lilies, and, indeed, all sum.
mer's lovely flowers, were dead, and yet the November sun
shone as warm and cheerily as though April in her mildest
mood smiled upon green, young grass and budding apple-
blooms.

The brooks danced merrily along, rejoicing that, as yet, they
were not bound in icy chains; the sparrows, with many twitters
and sharp little chirps, said to each other,

"\Vhat beautiful weather we are having, to be sure! One
can hardly believe that it is the last month of autumn. Had
our bird friends only known this they might have stayed with

us a little longer."
And, strangest of all, in the sunniest part of the meadow
came up some pretty violets. They looked about them in won-
der, for there were no other blossoms near.

"Where are all the gay companions we expected to meet P"
they asked each other, as they trembled on their slender stalks.
" How quiet everything is! This is not as it was last spring."

" 'Tisn't spring," chirped a cricket that lived near by; " it's
autumn, and will soon be winter. This is no time for dainty
wee flowers. Why in the world did you come out P"

"We didn't want to come out," answered the dear little blos-
soms, trembling more and more, " but the sun told us to, and we
thought it was April. And now what is to become of us? The
wind has already turned colder since we left our warm hiding.
place in the ground."

" Don't be frightened," chirped the cricket. "Hold up your
blue blossoms bravely. I don't believe you came to be killed by
the cruel wind. You are too beautiful--too like the sky when
there are no clouds in it. I am sure some happy fate awaits
you. I wish you could chirp. It would help you so much. It
does me. I chirp all through the night, whether the stars are
out or the rain is falling. You might try to chirp a little."

" Oh, we couldn't," said the flowers, shaking their heads
sadly; "but chirp away yourself, you nice, little brown thing.
It does us good to hear you."

I Just then a young girl walking across the meadow spied
them. "Oh, you darlings !" she cried, kneeling down to pluck
them, "how came you here? Don't you know winter is com-
ing? April is your month, and it is now November. But the
flower-angel must surely have sent you, that I might gather youFROM A BOTTLE. 157

for my dear little sick brother. Better than the crimson pop-
pies, the snow-white lilies, and yellow marigolds he loves the
blue-eyed violets, and the thought that he might never see them
again has grieved him much. How his eyes will sparkle when
I place you in his thin, pale hand!"

"What did I tell you ?" chirped the cricket as she carried
them away. " 7714/ is why you came in November--to gladden
the heart and make bright the room of a sick boy, who, seeing
you, will forget his pain and dream of health and spring."

Myc--

FROM A BOTTLE.

A CHRISTMAS STORY.

THE bottle, filled with water, was hidden behind a picture
in the pretty parlor. and in the water was growing a sturdy
ivy vine, which had climbed up and caught hold of the cord
that held the picture, and, in its joy at reaching so great
a height, had thrown out two cheerful, glossy, light green
leaves, that looked smilingly down on the larger, darker leaves
below.

The children had all gone to bed. Their stockings were
hanging in a row under the mantel in the dining-room. Four
of them: one pink and white, and very short in the leg--that
was the two-year--old baby's; one red and black--that was five-
year-old Tom's; one striped with buff and purple--that was
seven-yeanold May's; and one checked in blue and gray--that
was nine-year-old Maud's.

The grown people were up--stairs, dressing the spare room--
(Grandmamma--the dear old lady !----was coming from her cot-
tage in the country to spend holiday week)--with Christmas
greens.

The parlor was already dressed. Festoons of jolly, cold-de-
fying winter vines, dotted with bright red berries, hung from the
ceiling and enwreathed the gilt chandelier; wreaths, garlands,
and crosses of autumn leaves brightened the gray walls; and
bunches of slender dried grasses nodded from quaint, small
white pitchers and pretty little vases.

"How lovely the parlor looks to--night !" said a delicate voice
from one corner of the room, and a tall, feathery spear of grass
bent gracefully forward.

" Lovely l" repeated a bunch of autumn leaves from the
opposite corner.

"And how happy we should be," said the ivy, " to think that
we help to make it so! And yet when I was first taken from
my parent vine--'twas in last October--I thought I should
never cease to regret the outer life. But I have been sheltered
from winter's cruel winds and heavy snows, and tended with
kindly care and tender love; and I've no doubt, if I remain here
during the summer-,1 shall find it just as pleasant to look at
the sweet faces and hear the happy voices of the dear children
as to see the gay butterflies and listen to the songs of the birds.
But you, Bottle "--looking down at the bottle which held her
and the water that gave her life--" aren't you rather lonely?
Shut in between the back of the picture and the wall, you can
see nothing."

"I can see you, dear Ivy," answered the bottle, in a clear,
rippling voice, " and you are a very pleasant thing to look
upon; and in the mornings I can see a long sunbeam on the
wall, and (lint is a very pleasant thing to look upon. And as
for being lonely--not a bit of it: I'm as happy as I can be.
And you would say I ought to be happy if you but knew the
life I used to lead before I had the honor and pleasure of sup-
porting you."

"Tell us all about it--pray do," begged many little voices.

"Hear! hear! hear !" barked the bronze (log that stood on
the top of the marble clock. "A story from the bottle."

"A story from the bottle," repeated the feather duster, as it
hopped quickly in, on its one wooden leg. from the hall, where
it had been lying on the mat. "I must bear it too. Clock,
couldn't you stop ticking for a little while 3"

"Sorry I can't oblige you," said the clock, in a fairy-bell-like
tone; "but I was wound up this afternoon, and so I must go
on for a week; but I'll tick as softly as possible, and you won't
notice it as soon as the story begins."

"Now, Bottle," barked the small bronze dog, " we're ready."

" Yes, go ahead," called the drummer-boy from the lid of
the match-safe.

" \Vell, if you insist upon it, and it really will give you pleas-
ure," said the bottle, modestly, " although I had no intention of
telling a story when I spoke of my past life, I will go ahead.
I'll begin with the time just after I left the manufactory."

_" Manufactory P" said the ivy.

"(Mam/factory," explained the bottle--"a place where they
make bottles."

"Oh I" said the ivy. "You see, I didn't know, 'cause there's
no place where they make ivies. Ivies grow."
"I left the manufactory," continued the bottle, " with a num-
ber of other bottles enough like me to have been my brothers
and sisters."

" Perhaps they were," barked the bronze dog.

"Very likely," said the bottle. "And we were all carried
down into a dismal place called a cellar, and filled with some
dark-looking stuff that both tasted and smelled very--"

" Unpleasantly," hinted the ivy.

"' Unpleasantly,' yes; thank you--that's the word," said the
bottle. " Then corks were forced into our mouths, and we
were taken to a large store, where we were ranged around on
shelves in company with hundreds of other bottles of all shapes
and sizes. Of course we couldn't speak to each other; but, for
all that, we didn't lead a quiet life, for the store was always full
of men from morning until night and often far into the night
too. Such a thirsty crowd as they were! always wanting some-
thing to drink, and getting noisier and thirstie1 all the time.
Well, one evening a bright-looking, pleasant-faced young man
came in. 'A bottle of your very best whiskey,' said he. 'It's
my birthday, and I have some friends coming to spend the
evening, and I must make a bowl of punch.' The man behind
the counter took me down from the shelf--('Ohol' thought I,
'it's whiskey I hold, is it? I wonder what that's good for?')--
wrapped me in white paper, and handed me to the pleasant-
faced young man, who put me in his overcoat pocket and hur-
ried home. That was the beginning of it."

"Ah, indeed," said the feather duster; " so that was the
beginning of it? By-the-bye, may I ask, the beginning of
what ?"
"The misery and unhappiness in this house," answered the
bottle.

"In l/zz's house ?" echoed the many little voices.

"Yes," said the bottle. " I wasn't a welcome visitor, I assure
you; for as john--our master, you know--took me from his
pocket and set me upon the table, Agnes--our mistress, you
know--said, ' Oh, John, John! I wouldn't.' But he only kissed
her and baby Lou--"

" Bless her little heart!" barked the bronze dog.

"And said, 'Nonsense, my dear!' And John's friends came,
and the punch was made. and that was the beginning of it;
and I begun to find out that very night, not what whiskey was
good for, but what it was bad for."

" What P" asked the ivy.

"For men's heads and hearts," answered the bottle, solemn-
ly. "It makes them silly, and crazy, and unkind, and selfish.
It brings poverty, tears, and disgrace to the happiest home;
takes all the sunshine out of little children's lives, and clouds
even the blessed Christmas-day. After that night I was scarce-
ly ever empty. john drank every day more and more, and our
dear mistress begun to look pale and shabby; and the children
couldn't go to school, their clothes were so patched and their
shoes were so broken. As for the baby--"

" Bless her golden curls !" barked the bronze dog.

"S/ze pattered about the house in her tiny bare feet, be-
cause she had no shoes at all. and everything grew dark and
forlorn, and at last there was scarcely money enough to buy
bread. Christmas-eve came. Agnes --our dear mistress--sat

before the small fire in the grate, holding baby Lou--"
11
" Bless her blue eyes !" barked the bronze dog.

"Upon her'knee, and the Other children were gathered
around her. John was lying on the lounge asleep. ' Mamma,'
said May, 'in old times we used to hang up our stockings on
Christmas-eve.' I'Did we ?' asked Tom. 'I don't Tmember.
What for?_' 'Why, Santa Claus used to come and fill them
with nice things,' answered May. ' Oh, Santa Claus,' said Tom;
'the boy next door was telling me something 'bout him today.
W/zy won't he come here to-uight? We've been good children,
and mamma is the honeyest mamma in the world.' May made
no reply; but Maud, glancing up where I stood on the mantel,
said, in a whisper, 'I guess he don't come where there's a
bottle.' I

" In a short time their papa awoke and went out into the
street. Mamma looked sadly after him, and then the little ones
knelt by her side and said their prayers, every prayer ending
with 'God bless dear papa !" and bade her good-night. If bot-
tles had hearts mine would have ached, I am sure, when I saw
that sad, lonely woman bury her face in her hands and cry--oh,
so bitterly !--as soon as the children were gone, and heard her
sob out, 'Oh, save him, save .him, dear God, and bring back the
light of happiness to my dear children, for the sake of the
Christ-Child born on the holy Christmas-day? And as she
sobbed and prayed the door of the room opened, and John
came' in, sober, and with a tender look in his face and a bright
light in his eyes. Down on his knees he fell before the sweet
mamma, and held out his arms to her, while he cried, in a
broken voice, with the tears running down his cheeks, ' Never
again, my good, patient wife--never, never, NEVER again 1' "FROM A BO 77215. 163

." Oh dear !" said the bronze dog, " I wish I could move my
tail far enough around to wipe my eyes with it."

"And the small stockings." continued the bottle, "were
hung up after all, and a few toys and candies were put in
them; and John, who hadn't been asleep on the lounge--"

"I knew it !" screamed the feather duster, jumping straight
up and down in its glee.

"But wide-awake, and listening to what his children said,
has kept his word, and never, never--"

" I'd like to drum," interrupted the drummer-boy on top of
the match-safe, "but my arms are so stiff, holding them in one
position so long, that I can't."

"And," said the bottle, looking up at the ivy, "you were
brought here with the autumn leaves and grasses, and from that
Christmas to this the parlor has grown prettier and prettier,
and the little home happier and happier, and the baby has the
cunningest blue shoes--"

"Bless her dimpled cheeks!" barked the bronze dog.

"And May and Maud go to school again, and are getting
to be fine scholars, and Tom is a jolly little fellow."

" But there's a bottle in the house yet," said the feather
duster. slyly.

"That's true," said the bottle, "but it has joined the tem-
perance society, and that makes all the difference in the world;
and, in consequence of its taking to water, tomorrow will be--"

" Stop a moment," said the clock. "Tomorrow is here--
and it struck with a sweet, silvery

I'm going to strike twelve ;'
sound.
" Three cheers!" cried the feather duster, waving its feath-
ers about so wildly that little bits of them flew all over the
room.

"A merry Christmas!" chimed in all the other little voices;
and then silence reigned in the parlor once more.

--<>oo--

CHARLEY BENNET'S GIIOST STORY.

" IT is a sin to steal a pin,
As well as any greater thing,"

sung little Al Smith, in a loud, shrill voice.

"Very good sentiment, but very poor rhyme," drawled Hen
Rowe (whose father was a poet), patting the singer's flaxen head
in a patronizing manner.

"Talking of stealing," said Charley Bennet, dropping the
pumpkin he was turning into a lantern, "did I ever tell you fel-
lers about the time I went down to old Pop Robins's to steal
apples, and came back past the barn where the horse-thief hung
himself years and years ago, 'cause he knew the constables--
they called 'em constables in those times--were after him, and
that he'd be hung by somebody else if he didn't? No? Here's
a ghost story for you, then, and I hope it will be a warning to
you all never to take anything that doesn't belong to you, 'spe-
cially apples.

" You see, Billy Evans and I were staying with our folks at
the hotel in Bramblewood that summer, and about two miles
away was Pop Robins's farm. He used to bring eggs and chick-
ens and vegetables and fruit to the hotel; and, oh my! wasn't
he stingy l--you'd better believe it. He wouldn't even give you
two or three blackberries, and if you asked him for an apple
he'd tremble all over. A reg'lar old miser lze was, with lots of
money, and a bully apple orchard. 'Let's go there some night
and help ourselves,' says Billy Evans, one day. 'Dogs,' says I.
'Only one,' says he; ' I know him, and 'so do you--old Snaggle-
tooth; I gave him almost all the meat we took for crab bait the
day we didn't catch any.' ' All right,' says I.

" But when the night we'd agreed on came Billy had cousins
--girls--down from New York, and he had to stay home and
entertain them. I don't care much for girls myself, and I was
afraid they might want me to help entertain them too, so I made
up my mind to go down to Pop Robins's alone. It was a splen-
did night; the moon shone so bright that it was almost as light
as day. I scudded along, whistling away, until I got within half
a mile of the orchard, and then I stopped my noise and walked
as softly as possible, till I came to the first apple-tree. I shinned
up that tree in a jiffy (old Snaggletooth didn't put in an appear-
ance), filled my bag with jolly fat apples, and slid down again.
But when I came to lift the bag up on my shoulder I found it
was awful heavy to carry so far, and I was just a-going to dump
some of the apples out, when I remembered all of a sudden that,
if I cut across the meadow to the plank-road, I could get back
to the hotel in a little more than half the time it-would take to
go the way I came.

" So I shouldered my load, and was nearly across the meadow
before I thought of the haunted barn at the end of it. It wasn't
a nice thing to remember; but I wasn't a-going to turn back,
ghost or no ghost, and I tried to whistle again, when all at once
that thing Al Smith was singing just now popped into my head,166 570/9155 1N pmsz: AND VERSE.

and says I to myself, ' That's so, Charles F. Bennet. You and
your chums may think it's great fun to help yourselves to other
people's apples and watermelons and such things, but it's just as
much stealing as though you went into a man's house and stole
his coat.' It doesn't seem as bad when you're going for 'em;
but when you're coming back. up a lonely road, all alone, at ten
o'clock at night, a lot of stolen apples on your back, and a
haunted barn not far off, it seems worse.

"All the same, I held on to the apples. And when I faced
the barn I determined I'd whistle if I died in the attempt; but,
boys, I don't believe anybody could have told t/mt 'Yankee
Doodle' from 'Auld Lang Syne.' I tell you my heart jumped
when I passed the tumbledown old place; but it slow! still
when, as I marched up the plank-road, I heard a step behind
me. I wheeled around in an instant, but there was nothing to
be seen. The moon shone as bright as ever, but there was
nothing to be seen! ' I must have imagined it,' says I to myself,
and I walked a little faster, listening with all my might, and sure
enough pat, pat, pat came the step after me. Again I wheeled
round. Not a thing did I see. And again I started on, the
apples growing heavier and heavier. Pat, pat, pat came the
step. It wasn't like a human step. That made it more dreadful.
'It must be the ghost !' I thought; and I don't mind telling you
fellows that I never was so frightened in my life. The time I
fell overboard was nothing to it. I made up my mind, when I
reached the bridge that crossed a little brook near our hotel, I'd
streak it (I hadn't exactly run yet, for I was saving my strength
till the last). But before I got to the bridge, says I to myself
out loud, in my fright,' Perhaps he wants the apples !'
 

' "l'lll'lRI'. IT I3, 34\\'$ DARNEY."

" ' Apples !' repeated at hoarse voice, with a horrid laugh.

"I tell you, boys, those apples flew, and I flew too. Over
the bridge I went like lightning, and ran right into Barney
Reardon, one of the stable-men. who was coming to look for me.
'Something has followed me,' I gasped. 'from the haunted barn
---the ghost!' 'Did you see it ?' says he. 'No,' says I, 'though
I turned round a dozen times to look for it. But I heard it pat.
pat, pat, behind me, all the way.' 'And it's behind you now,'
says Barney. bursting into a loud laugh. I jumped about six
feet. 'There it is,' says Barney, roaring again, and pointing to
--I'op Robins's tame raven! The sly old thing looked up at
me, nodded its shining black head, croaked ' Apples!' and walked
off. It had followed me from the barn, and every time I wheeled
quickly round it hopped just as quickly behind me, and so, of
course, I saw nothing but the long road and the moonlight on
it. But I never want to be so scared again; and if ever any of
you boys go for anything belonging to other people, don't you
count me in."

"What became of the apples ?" asked Jerry O'Neil.

"If you'd '21 been there I could have told you," said Charley.

----coo---

ONLY AN ACORIV, AFTER ALL.

ONE lovely day in October an Acorn and a Chestnut were
lying beside each other on the brown earth in their native
wood. V

"I hope I shall be safe in the ground before winter comes,"
said the Acorn. " Snow and ice don't agree with me. ,In fact,
if they arrive before I am under shelter they will kill me; and
it would be sad indeed if. so fine and large an Acorn as I am
should be lost, for I promise to become a splendid oak; and
oaks, as I suppose you know, friend Chestnut, are called the
'kings of the forest.' "

" Yes, I hope so too," said the Chestnut, meaning it hoped
to be safe before winter came. "I'd like to grow into a tree
myself, for the swallows told me, just before they went south.
that in all lands a stately tree is thought to be one of the finest
things in the world."

"Oh, chestnut-trees are not much," said the Acorn. "No
one cares anything about them but the boys, who think it fun
to climb up in their branches and shake down the nuts. For

my part, if I' were a tree, I shouldn't care to live just to please

0.
a few children, and I'm sure it would make me very angry
to hear them crunching away at the fruit I took the trouble
to bear."

"Well," said the Chestnut, " every tree to its taste. Some
trees, perhaps, might prefer to have their fruit liked by girls
and boys instead of having it a favorite food of pigs."

"What?" said the Acorn, so sharply that the Chestnut
rolled a little farther off. " Pigs indeed !" And then, chang-
ing the subject very suddenly, it went on, " The oak is the no-
blest of all the trees. From its wood are made the great ships
that go sailing over the deep ocean. It lives hundreds of
years, and gives shade to thousands of people and homes to
millions of birds; and if, as I heard a man say one day while
I was still hanging on my mother-bough, 'great oaks from lit
tle acorns grow,' what a magrfificent tree may be expected from
such a splendid acorn as I am !"

"But how will you be planted ?" asked the Chestnut.

"Oh, that's easy enough," answered the Acorn. " Every
day I feel myself sinking deeper and deeper; and when I am
deep enough the wind has promised to throw some fine rich
earth over me, and there I shall lie snug and warm until spring.
Then. after putting out two little green leaves, I shall grow no
more above-ground for some time, but only attend to spreading
my roots and making them strong. That done, I shall grow
slowly for years, until at last I spread out my branches for a
vast distance around me, and become indeed the king of the
forest. Talk of your chestnut-trees! They'll be nothing to
me. And when I am a hundred years old men, women, and

children will celebrate my birthday with dance and song. And
when I am five hundred years old people will come from miles
around to see me, poets will enshrine me in their sweetest
verses, and artists will paint me in their most beautiful pictures.
Ah, how glad I am I'm an Acorn and not 21 Chestnut!"

just then a squirrel, who had been peeping at them from
her nest in the hollow of a decayed tree-top, jumped down and
seized the Chestnut in her little, gray paw.

"Good-bye," sneered the Acorn, as she carried it away.
"That's the last of you. But you needn't care much. You
would have been only a chestnut-tree if you had been planted."

But, after the cunning squirrel had left the Chestnut in her
nice little house, she sprung down again, seized the Acorn, and
carried that up too.

"Well," said the Chestnut, as it tumbled into the nest,
"here we are together again. Small chance of either of us
being trees now, and in the present state of affairs I don't see
that an Acorn is any better than a Chestnut."

But the Acorn said nothing.

1N FA Y'S SfIOE.

A TOT of a girl--five years old, but looking like a baby
of two--with a tiny round face, a dot of a nose, two big blue
eyes, a cherry mouth, the daintiest chin, the prettiest dimple,
rings of pale golden hair, hands and feet like crumpled pink-
white rose-leaves--and there you have Fay.

A sad-faced, low-voiced, fair-haired young widow, always
bending over the lace-cushion she brought from Germany--
her fatherland--with no one to love, and no one to love her
but her little daughter--and there you have Fay's mamma.

A hut, a mile from the village, at the foot of a lonely hill,
with only one room to serve for kitchen, bedroom, and sitting-
room; pleasant enough in summer, but very desolate in winter
-----and there you have Fay's home.

Her father, a gay-hearted Frenchman, had kissed his wife
and child "good-bye" one day last autumn, and started for his
boyhood's home, to bring his dear old mother, who had been
patiently waiting for many long years, to share his happy life
in free America.

But, alas! the ship in which he sailed went down in a ter-
rible September storm; and when the grandmother Fay had
never seen heard the sad news her gray head fell upon her
breast, and she quickly followed her son to Heaven; and the
young wife, left almost friendless in a strange land, put away
her fair hair under a widow's cap, and never sung the sweet
Rhine-land songs again.

After a few months' bitter struggling she was obliged to
leave the vine-covered cottage where she had spent the two
happiest years of her life, sell everything, excepting a few pieces
of furniture and "Star," the white-faced cow, and seek a shelter
in the hut at the foot of the lonely hill.

Here, with dear old Star's help, she and Fay just managed
to live. for the pretty lace she wove--the delicate woman could
do nothing else--did not find a ready sale among the hard-
working villagers.

And it was Christmas-eve.

Franz had told Fay so when he brought the fire-wood-his
sleigh bells jingling so merrily that Fay longed to go sleigh-
riding--that is, if mamma could have gone too.

Sitting on the floor, before the cheerful log fire, after the
boy had dashed swiftly away up the road again, the little one
suddenly remembered that the Christmas-eve a year ago she
had hung up her stocking, and Kriss Kringle had filled it
with candies and toys.

"Tell me, my only mamma," she said, in her pretty. quaint,
precise way--I think no other child ever talked like Fay--
" will not the stocking fill itself tonight with all things beau-
tiful and sweet which the good Kriss Kringle will bring ?"

" My darling," replied the poor young mother, who was still
bending over her lace-cushion, although she could scarcely see,
"I fear if Kriss Kringle remember thee he could not find thee
in this small house, standing all alone by itself. He might
lose his way if he tried to come here; and then think, Fay, how
many, many children would cry bitterly to-morrow morning!
Thou art but one, Fay, and a brave one at that. 7710" wouldst
not cry, my pigeon, if Kriss Kringle came not; but they would
be lzzuzdreair, and not one, I dare say, as brave as thou. Think
how great would be the noise if they all cried together, loud
and long, on Christmas morning!"

"Oh, what fun !" cried Fay, clapping her hands and dim-
pling her cheek, then growing serious in a moment. " No, no,
my only mamma; I mean how sad! But it is also sad that I
get nothing, and I have been so very good--never the naughty
word or stuck-out mouth for, oh, so long!

"But, dear one," she went on, eagerly, " it may be that Kriss
Kringle passes here--who knows?--looking for 21 mg houseIN FA 1/ 'S 51101:: 1 7 3

on the other side of the hill; and there will be,- surely, in all
the great pack he carries some little thing to spare for Fay.
Not to fill a stocking. perhaps, but a shoe. Yes, I will set my
shoe on the window-sill, and a sweetdog made of the sugar-
candy, or a smallest doll, he may pop in. and then go on as fast
as the wind."

The mother smiled, and then sighed. "Do as thou wilt,"
she said; and Fay slipped off the tiniest shoe ever worn by
a five-year-old and. opening the window, set it out on the
window-sill.

"If Kriss Kringle comes this way, make that he see thee,
shoe !" she whispered; and, coming back to her mamma's side,
she knelt and said a simple child-prayer--such a prayer as
the angels love to bear to Heaven--and in a few moments her
blue eyes were closed in sleep.

Bright Christmas! Cold Christmas! Merry Christmas!

The morning bells are sending their joyous greetings
through the clear, crisp air, and at last their sound reaches the
hut at the foot of the hill and wakes the tot of a girl.

She springs from the bed, not noticing the doll-like dress
that hangs on a chair near by, all wrought with fanciful em-
broidery by her mother's loving skill, and, flying to the window,
tugs hard at the easement.

It is bound in icy chains--the rose-leaf hands cannot
move it.

"My only mammal" she cries; and in a moment she has
help, and the window is opened.

There sits the shoe just where she placed it the night be-
fore--and something in it!
"But--ah! yes," says the tiny child, in her musical voice,
"the dear, the kind Kriss Kingle!" and takes from the shoe
a half-frozen, wee, wee peeping bird.

"Thou wert wrong, my only mamma," she says, with the
brightest of smiles. " Kriss Kringle did no! forget me, or lose
his way, or pass the small house by. 'Here's where lives the
good Fay,' he said, softly, to himself, and dropped this darling
of baby-birds in Fay's shoe!"

AND THE SUN SMILED.

"Go away, for a little while," said the Rain to the Sun.
" Don't you see I am preparing to visit the Earth? And, as
you ought to know, the Sun shouldn't be shining when the
rain-drops are falling."

" It's such a lovely--such a very lovely day," said the Sun.
"and the Earth is so beautiful and pleasant to see, that I don't
want to ' go away.' "

"I sha'n't stay long--not more than five or ten minutes,"
said the Rain. "I'll only make a shower-call."

" But I'm not content to lose sight of all this joy and loveli-
ness even for 'five or ten minutes,' " said the Sun. " Ever so
many new buds and flowers came out to greet me this morning,
and ever so many baby-birds sung to me their first twittering,
tremulous songs, and the brooks dimpled and laughed as my
rays kissed them, and the daisies looked straight up at me with
frank, fearless faces, saying, ' Welcome, clear Sun!' and the but

tercups proudly showed me their pretty blossoms, that I might
see it was my color they wore; and they are all, at this moment.
as happy as happy can be. Why can't you leave them alone?
According to my way of thinking, they have no need of you in
the daytime, when I am here to make life bright and warm.
W'ait until Night lifts her curtain from the other half of the
world to throw it over this. Then I shall be shining on far-dis-
tant lands, and the Moon and Stars will be in the sky in my
place, and I dare say they won't object to your clouds veiling
their faces for an hour or two, for their light and power are
nothing compared to mine, and the Earth will be too sleepy to
miss them, anyhow."

"My dear Sun," said the Rain, "I grant that you make life
'warm,' but, begging your pardon for speaking so frankly, some-
times you make it too warm. Even while we are talking it is
getting warmer and warmer, as it does every midsummer day
from noon until two or three hours before nightfall; and soon
the flowers you love so well will begin to droop and fade, and
the grass to bend wearily toward the ground, and the birds to
cease singing, and the brooks to stop dancing, unless I send my
merry, sparkling little ones to cheer and refresh them. Hide
behind a cloud for a few moments, and when you come forth
again you will find the Earth free from thirst, dust, and stain,
and a thousand times greener and more beautiful than now be-
fore my pure drops have fallen upon it."

But the Sun was obstinate on that July day, and refused to
be hidden by the friendly cloud, and so kept on shining when
the shower begun to fall. And, looking down on the Earth as
the glittering drops reached it, he saw the sweet buds open-
ing their dainty leaves, the flowers raising their languid heads,
every blade of grass standing erect and firm, the little streams
dancing gayly to a cooing song of their own, and everything,
everywherg, wearing a look of radiant happiness.

And he said to the Rain, " You were right ;" and, smiling
upon her, his smile arched the heavens, and, bright with every
lovely hue that ever glowed in gem or flower, shone there until
the shower ceased, and children, beholding it, cried out joyfully,
"A rainbow! a beautiful, beautiful rainbow!"

WW
"CA W!"

AND that's all the Crow said on the afternoon that the
Sparrow went to visit him.

I sat under the willow-tree and heard the whole conversa-
tion.

"How do you do P" begun the Sparrow. " What a lovely
spring we have had l--such bright sunshine, such pleasant
showers, and so many cherries! Don't you think so P"

"Caw!" said the Crow.

"The Bluebird has three sweet little ones," begun the Spar-
row again. " They're just as cunning as can be, though their
mouths are rather large. Isn't it queer that birds' mouths grow
small as the birds grow large? Did you ever notice it ?"

"Caw!" said the Crow.

" I know a garden where there are hundreds of peas. I love
young peas; I could eat them forever--breakfast, dinner, and sup-
per--and never get tired of them, they are so sugary and juicy."

"Caw!" said the Crow.

" The pretty Gray Pigeon that lives over at the big white
house had a quarrel with his cousin this morning. and pushed
him off the window-sill. I do think cousins should try to agree,
and, above all things, not push each other off \vindowisills."

"Caw!" said the Crow.

"Oh dear! the sun has gone down behind the hill. I didn't
dream it was so late," said the Sparrow, hopping first on one
foot and then on the other. "If my husband gets home before
I do he will say I'm always gadding. But when one is in
your company one forgets that time is passing--you are so
clever and witty. You must be sure to come to the next party
I give; my friends will be delighted to meet you. Good-bye l"

" Caw !" said the Crow--not another word.

And yet that silly Sparrow went about the next day tell-
ing all the birds she knew that the Crow was the most enter-
taining fellow she had ever met!

 

THE SAD FATE 01" 111R. TONGS.

SAID the Kettle to the Tongs,
"I will sing my finest songs,
If you'll dance a Highland fling or a jig or two to-night."
Said the Tongs, "Well, go ahead,
For the Cook has gone to bed,
And we'll have the kitchen to ourselves until the morning
light."
Said the Dish-pan, from the sink,
"You are very kind, I think;
12
But won't you wait a moment till we summon every one 3'"
Said the portly Dinner-bell,
"I will softly ring and tell
Our friends and our relations all to come and see the
fun."

So the Bell its message rung,
And the Kettle chirped and sung,
And soon was heard a clatter of many Pots and Cans.
The Piedish brought her baby,
Little Patty Pan; and maybe
She wasn't made a pet of by the Cake and Pudding Pans!

Said the three-legged Iron~stand,
"I nearly broke my hand--
As I slipped down from the pantry wall it struck against the
door."
Said the largest Iron Spoon,
"Oh how beautiful the moon
Is shining through the window on 'our dear old kitchen
floor!"

Said bright Miss Saucy Pan,
"With what grace and speed you ran
When you heard the bell a-ringing, slender Mr. Toasting
Fork!
It is nice to be so thin
When a race you wish to win;
But poor old Father Dinner-pot finds running weary work."
Said jolly, shiny Griddle,
" How I wish we had a fiddle !" [along."
" Yes, indeed," said young Gridiron; "it would help our friends
Said the Shovel," Do be quiet,
And stop your noise and riot,
For Madame Kettle has begun to sing a Scottish song."

Then the Tongs commenced his dancing,
And such whirls around and prancing
Never had the guests assembled in that kitchen seen before.
Like little Jacky Horner
Sat the Poker in a corner, [core !"
Beating time upon the Dust-pan, while he cried, "Encore! en-

Then the Tongs he danced the harder,
'Til the Dishes in the larder [stares
Stood up upon their edges and looked out, with wondering
First one leg he nimbly threw up,
Then the other quickly flew up;
Then he jumped--you'll scarce believe me--over all the
kitchen chairs.

Said Flat-iron, " Well, I never
Saw anything so clever;
He must have taken lessons, I'm very sure, in France."
Said the jelly Mould," How funny!
But no sugar, fruit, or money
Could tempt me to fling myself about in such a Frenchy
dance."
Said the Coal-110d to the Spider,
Who sat quite close beside her,
"I think I am as graceful quite as Mr. Tongs myself."
Laughed the Spider, " Oh! much more l"
While the Clock called, loudly, " Four !"
And so frightened little Soapdish that she tumbled off the shelf.

"I think 'tis time to break up,
Before the people wake up,"
Said Miss Saucepan, yawning loudly, as she donned her shin-
ing hat;
And wee Patty Pan was sleeping,
And the Broom begun a-sweeping,
And the Poker and the Shovel on the floor were lying flat.-

Then to put him on his mettle,
To the Tongs said Madam Kettle:
"Before you stop, pray show us, dear, some steps entirely new."
So above his head at once
The conceited little dunce
Threw both legs with a flourish, and split himself in two!

---<>oo---

THE GRASS AND ITS FRIENDS.

THE sparkling, babbling baby-brook that ran gayly through
the meadow whispered to the sleeping grass, one lovely spring
morning, just as dawn was breaking, "Wake up, wake up, and
see what May has scattered over you." And the grass, awak-
ing from a pleasant dream of summer, beheld a number of
bright, yellow, star-shaped dandelions smiling in the early sun-
shine.

" Welcome 2). thousand times," said its many blades, in a
chorus of delight. "How sweet and fresh you look, with the
dew-drops clinging to your dainty petals of shining gold! But
you may well look bright and happy," they continued, in less
cheerful tones, "for you are flowers, and flowers so beloved by
the sun that he paints you his own beautiful color."

"And are you not happy, too P" asked the dandelions, in
innocent surprise.

"Yes, we are happy," answered the grass, with a little sigh;
" but we would be so much happier if we were flowers! We
are nothing, you know, but common grass, with no hope of
being anything better. No change for us. No budding and
turning into 'sweet blue, white, pink, or golden blossoms.
Grass we are, and grass we must remain until the end of our
days."

"For shame!" cried the dandelions, their honest faces all
aglow. "'Common grass,' indeed! Dear May told us all
about you, and the blissful mission that is yours, only yours.
before she dropped us here. You have been chosen to clothe
the whole earth, while the flowers you envy are only the orna-
ments that cling to the lovely robes you weave. Surely you
would not have been so chosen if you were not beautiful, and
mos! beautiful." I '

"Why are we never called so, then ?" asked the grass.
"Eventhe children never notice us; but, mark our words, the
moment they see you th'ey'll shout, 'Oh, the pretty, pretty dan-
delions!' They don't call us 'pretty '--oh no, indeed! Noth-
ing is ever said about w. W e're grass, that's all. No one ever
gathers us. We are never made into posies or worn in wavy
ringlets. Nobody admires us and nobody praises us."

"Not so, not so," murmured the brooklet, soft and low, and
its words all flowed in tune and rhyme. "I've sung yourpraises
many a time. And bird and bee oft tell to me, as through the
meadow and field I pass, how much they love the beautiful
grass. So don't get blue, whatever you do, 'for green's the
color, dear grass, for you. And, trust me, everywhere you
grow a joy you bring--I [wow 'tis so. And now, I pray, bend
over this way, and take the kiss I have for you."

The grass bent gracefully toward the brook and took, not
one but three kisses, and then the chattering little thing went
dancing on its way.

Early that evening, as the setting sun was sinking slowly
in the west, a strong, sunburnt young fellow, with a merry
twinkle in his bright brown eyes, came into the meadow, and
begun cutting some sods--u-histling as he worked--and pack-
ing them away in a wheelbarrow he had brought with him.

The grass that had talked with the dandelions, and been
kissed by the brook in the morning, was the last to be cut, and
so was placed upon the top of the load.

"Oh, what can this mean P" asked its many tiny blades,
[/zz's time in a chorus of sorrOw. " Why are we taken from our
home? Alas! we never knew how much we loved our beau-
tiful meadow until now, when we are leaving it forever. Where
can we be going?"

But just then the man took up the handles of the wheel-
barrow, and the grass only had time to wave a last farewell as
he trundled it away.

"Farewell !" called the dandelions; " Farewell !" murmured the
brook; and " Farewell!" sighed the grass that was left behind.

The young man wheeled the barrow into the front yard of
a newly-built little cottage on the other side of the road.

There was here no sign of anything green, but the brown
earth had been dug and nicely raked, and the grass heard it
saying softly to itself, in joyful tones, "Oh, now I shall be
dressed at lastl--here comes the beautiful, friendly grass to
cover me."

Then the grass thought of what the dandelions had said.

Down went the sods on the ground, and away went the
barrow for some more; and again and again it went, until at
least a dozen loads had been brought; and then, taking off his
coat, the very brown young man, whistling merrily all the time,
begun to make a grassplot.

Soon all the sods were put clown; and the tiny garden
commenced already to look bright and cheerful.

" Jenny l" called the brown-faced, brown-eyed, brown-haired
(wasn't he brown !) gardener, as he took off his hat to wipe his
brow.

A rosy-checked, blue-eyed young woman came to the cot-
tage door in answer to his call, with a rosy-cheeked, blue-eyed
baby girl in her arms. " Oh, the beautiful grass !" cried she,
when she saw what had been done; and," Pretty, pretty !" said
the baby girl, clapping her fat, dimpled hands.

Then the grass thought of what the brook had sung.

" It makes the place look pleasant at once," said the man,
leaning on his spade and looking smilingly at his work. " But
just wait till we have a good shower, and then it will be as
green as--as--green as--well, as green as grass, for I don't
know anything greener," he added, laughing. "And I say,
Jenny, what a splendid place it'll be for baby to tumble about
on! You can latch the gate, and then she can roll about here
as much as she pleases--bless her little heart!"

"Bess 'er ittie heart!" echoed baby, with funny gravity.

" Yes, indeed," answered the happy mother, kissing the soft.
sweet red mouth of her darling. "She'll have many a merry
hour here with the daisies and dandelions. How thankful we
ought to be," she went on, a moment after, her face growing
serious with a feeling of gratitude, " to Our Father in Heaven
for covering the earth with such a lovely garment--so soft for
the weary feet, so refreshing to the tired eyes! And do you
know, Ralph, I. never feel so sorry for the poor in great cities
as I do in summer, when I think of them shut in tall, dreary
brick houses, from the windows of which they can see nothing
but paving-stones, no beautiful grass, or else such little, strug.
gling patches that the sight makes them sadder than'ever."

"There! what did we tell you?" asked a voice, so tiny that
only the grass heard--and lo! a dandelion that had clung
to its friends, and so been carried along to share their new
abode! '

" Yes--yes, you were right," answered the grass. "We see
how blessed we are, and now we wouldn't change places with
the sweetest flowers that ever bloomed."
THE WONDERFUL NEST.

On, the beautiful, bright summer!
Ev'rywhere wild-flowers springing;

 
  
 
 
   

Honeysuckles sweetest greetings
To the lovely roses flinging; '
Brooklets sparkling through the mead- ilk
ows, [ing,
Humming-birds with gladness wing-

IN THE EVERGREEN FIVE BIRDIES.

Their way to where in gardens fair
The lily-bells are rmgmg,
Ringing, ringing--

The lily-bells are ringing.
Sunbeams on the greenswarcl dancing,
Gentle breezes perfume bringing;
In the evergreen five birdies
To their wee nest closely clinging,
Peeping over at the children
(Five of them, too), laughing, singing,
In nest most wonderful to see,
Between the branches swinging,
Swinging, swinging--
Between the branches swinging.

A LITTLE BROWN DOG.

HE was a poor little fellow, errand-boy in the large grocery
of Rice, Cloves, & Co. (I don't mean the brown dog, but Davey
Jacklow), and he earned just two dollars a week.

Sixty cents of this went for car-fare--he lived so far from
the store that he was obliged to ride to and from it--and the
rest to his mother, who, with that and the eight dollars a week
she received from the cloak-factory where she worked, sup.
ported herself, her children--Davey, twelve years of age; Eddie,
seven; and Jennie, two--and Mr. Jacklow.

Mr. Jacklow was her husband, and the less said about him
the better. I'll merely state that he could sit in a rocking-
chair and smoke and think longer than any man I ever knew.

But, besides this two dollars a week, Davey--who was a
bright-eyed, willing, whistling young chap--sometimes got a
two or five cent piece, or, more rarely, a dime, from his em-
ployers' customers when, the grocers' wagons being overloaded,
or the customers in a great hurry, he carried home their pur-
chases for them. And it was this money he had been saving
ever since the [St of January, for the purpose of having a good
time on the next holiday.

On Christmas-day they had had a real nice time at his
house. His " boss " had given him two dollars, and the super-
intendent of the place where his mother worked had given her
one, and somebody (they had never found out who) had sent
them a large turkey; and the dress-maker down-stairs had put
a box of tools in Eddie's stocking. Dear me! what am I say-
ing? She couldn't have done that. I meant to say she had
given Ned a box of tools, and Jennie a doll, in the name of
Santa Claus--and Davey had presented his mamma with a new
coffee-pot, and his mamma had presented him with a woollen
comforter and a pair of woollen gloves; and Mr. Jacklow had
bought himself a new pipe; and when Davey saw how happy
they all were he quickly made up his mind to give them a party
on the very next holiday, which would be the Fourth of July.

It was the 3d of July when my story commences, and Davey
had kept his resolution of saving every penny outside of his
wages. He had had to pass many a heap of rosy apples with-
out glancing at them, run away from many peanut-stands, force
himself not to look into the tempting windows of the candy-
stores, and go by on the other side when he knew himself near
a well-known bakery, to do so; but he llaa' done so, and now
his reward was near.

The house in which he lived was an old-fashioned one, in an
up-town street. A quarter of a century ago it had been a small
farm-house, surrounded by meadows; but now it had a large
tenement-house on each side, and a whole row of brick build-
ings in front of it. But one splendid old oak-tree still stood
before the door--"Just the thing to tack pin-wheels on," said
Davey to himself--and there were any number of children
around to cry " Oh l" and "Ah !" as the fireworks went off. I
have always noticed that, when a boy is setting off fireworks.
the more ab-ing and oh-ing there is the brighter the fireworks
seem to look to that boy. Well, Davey had laid out the supper
in his mind as follows: ice-cream (a whole quart), twelve-cent
sponge-cake, five sticks of molasses candy, pitcher of lemonade,
apple-pie, half a pound of cheese, and some baked potatoes (Mr.
Jacklow liked baked potatoes). And he meant to get his mother
and the rest of them out of the room--send them down to visit
the dress-maker, who at the last moment was to be let into the
secret--~set the table himself, and then, when all was ready, call
them up again. VVouldn't it be fun to look at their faces when
they saw the ice-cream, and the spongecake, and the molasses
candy, and the lemonade, and the apple-pie, and the cheese, and
the baked potatoes! It would be almost as good as the circus.
Davey had been there once, and had never forgotten how de-
lightful it was. And then, after the supper was over, and they
thought the entertainment at an end, wouldn't it be fun again
to see their faces when he invited them down on the front
stoop to see the pyrotechnic (look in your dictionaries) display!

50 Davey had been saving, and saving, and saving, until he
found himself, on the evening of the 3d of July, with one dollar
and eighty-two cents in his right-hand trouserspocket. Times
had been hard, very hard, since the new year begun, and people
had looked very sharply after their small change, or it is likely
he would have had double that amount. "But," he said to
himself, "a dollar will get the feast, and the rest will buy at
least a dozen nice fireworks."

He got home from the store on that evening too late and
too tired to go out for the things he wanted; but the next
morning he was up before the sun rose--and the sun rises pret-
ty early during the summer months--and dressed and out in
the street as the first sunbeams told the eastern sky morning
had come. The streets were almost deserted, and no fire-
crackers or pistol-shots yet broke the silence. But before he
had walked a block some cannons boomed in the distance, and
a peal of bells nearer by begun ringing "Yankee Doodle " very
merrily. Whistling, and jingling the coins in his pockets in
tune and time with the music of the bells, and wishing the
stores where he meant to buy the materials for his party would
open. he sauntered slowly along until he reached the dog-pound

 

a place where all stray dogs are taken in hot weather and
kept a day or two, so that their owners may, if they choose,
seek and reclaim them. If found to be friendless at the end
of that time, the poor things are put in a large tank prepared
for that purpose and drowned.

Davey heard the imprisoned dogs barking and yelping; and,
stopping a moment to listen to them, with a pitying look on his
face--for. like all kind-hearted boys, he clearly loved animals--
he saw, sitting upon the door-step, a very pretty little girl. She
wore a faded calico dress and a blue checked gingham apron;
the apron she had gathered up in her hand, as though it held
something of value, and her head and feet were bare. Her
large eyes were of a soft brown, and her hair, of the same color,
hung in straggling curls about her face. There wasn't another
creature, man, woman, or child, with the exception of a milk-
man on the next block, in sight; and Davey looked at her
with surprise. At last he said, with a smile, "I thought I
got up early, but you must have got up much earlier than
I did."

" I've been here all night," said the child, in a sweet, patient
voice.

"Here all night l" repeated Davey, with a long whistle.
"Good gracious! what 'd you do that for?"

"'Cause I want to go in the very minute the door opens.
My Prince "--with a sob--" is in there."

" Your dog P" asked Davey.

"Yes. He's the clearest little brown dog in all the world,
and I love him best of everything 'cept granny--and I love him
just the same as her when she scolds--and my mamma brought
him home one day just before she went to heaven, and I've had
him ever since; and he's the best dog that ever lived, and never
did anything wrong in all his life 'cept onst, when he stole a
piece of boiled corned beef somebody 'd set out in the back
arey to cool, and he wouldn't have done that 'cept he knew
how hungry granny and me was;" and the tears rolled down
her cheeks.

"Oh, I'm so sorry! Don't cry," said Davey. " Here, take
my handkerchief and wipe your eyes."

"They'll kill him," commenced the child again, " if I can't
coax them to let him out, and I don't want him to go to heaven
that way. I'd rather we'd both go together; and he could run
on in front, and then mamma 'd say, ' Why, here's Prince; Nelly
must be coming.' " _

"Are you sure he's in there P" asked Davey.

"Oh yes. He was playing by our door yesterday afternoon,
'most night, and I was poking chips in the stove to make the
kettle boil, and I heard him calling like he was in some trou-
ble; and I run out, and two awful men had him in a cart, and
Jimmy O'Neil said they was going to take him to the pound.
So I run after the cart, without putting my hat on, and soon it
went so fast I couldn't see it, and then I asked everybody where
the pound was. I 'membered the name by thinking of a pound
of brown sugar; and at last I got here, and it was shut up, and
so I stayed here all night; and do you think they'll open it
soon P"

"What are you going to do when they do open it ?" asked
Davey.

"Go in and beg the dog-man to give Prince back. He's
such a little dog they won't miss him."

" But he won't give Prince back unless you pay two dollars,"
said Davey.

"I haven't any money--not a cent," said the child; " but
I've brought these," rising and holding out her apron, which
held a tiny china doll, a headless cat of the same material, a
string of glass beads, two pink motto-papers, and a round white
shell. "These were all give to me Christmas," she said; "and
I've kept them good, all 'cept the cat, and her head's in my
pocket, and he can stick it on somehow, and the candies out of
the mottoes--I ate one and gave the other to granny--and the

man may have them every one, if he will let poor Princey go."
" I'm afraid he won't take them," said Davey, shaking his
head.

"He won't? Oh dear! what shall I do ?" cried the child.
" My dear little dog! my dear, dear little dog!"

" Don't! don't !" begged Davey, the tears starting to his own
eyes. "You .r/mll have Prince. I have a dollar and eighty-
two cents, and I'll borrow the other eighteen cents from my
mother."

The little girl's face lit up with joy; she thrust the toys
into his hand. " Take them, you good, good boy." She said,
"and I'll tell my mamma about you when I say my prayers
to-night." .

Davey put them back in her apron. "You keep them till
I come back," he said; "I won't be gone but a little while ;"
and away he ran to his home. There he found his mother
making the fire, and his father smelling the coffee she had
measured out ready for boiling.

" Mother," said he, " will you lend me eighteen cents ?"

"I intended to give you ten," she said, "for your Fourth of
July. But why do you want it so early in the morning?"

" Please, mammy," coaxed Davey, " make it eighteen, and I'll
pay it all back to you soon; and may I have a slice of bread-
and-butter for a poor little girl? I'll tell you all about it by-
and-by."

"I can't make it eighteen," said his mother; "I haven't an-
other cent. Take the ten if you want it. It's in my pocket-
book, in the top bureau-drawer, and the bread's on the table.
Don't bother me any more; I'm in a hurry."

Davey helped himself, and then away he ran again to where
Nellie patiently awaited him, a smile of perfect trust upon her
lips.

" It's all right," said Davey, putting the bread in her hand
(an uncommon thick slice it was, too, with plenty of butter).
" Eat that." 2

By this time there were a number of people in the street,
and pistols were being fired and torpedoes and fire-crackers
set off; and all the bells begun ringing "The Star-Spangled
Banner," and "My Country, 'tis of thee." anc "Three Cheers
for the Red, White, and Blue," and "Hail, Columbia!" And
Harry looked at the ice-cream stand, which the owner--a
jolly-faced old woman. who had just arrived with a bag and a
basket of fruit, cakes, and candy--was preparing for the day,
and at an early rocket that was going up in the sky; and
he thought of the long time he'd been saving the money,
and of the intended supper, and the fireworks. and the tene-
ment-house children oh-ing and ah-ing; and then, the door
of the pound being opened, he took Nellie by the hand and
marched in.

" Is there a little brown dog here P" he asked.

" Named Prince," said Nellie, her love making her bold--
" a dear little dog ?"

"Ha! ha l" laughed the man; "that's good. Why, there's
fifty brown dogs here, and all of 'em 'dear,' I think. 'I'wo dol-
lars apiece. Do you want to get one out P"

"Yes, sir," said Davey, "if you'll take a dollar and ninety-
two cents--all I have."

At this moment a tall, dark, odd-looking gentleman came
in at the door-way and stood just behind the children.

13
"Can't do it," said the man; "it's against the law to take
less than two dollars."

Nellie begun to sob again, and the tall gentleman came
forward.

"Your dog ?" he asked Davey.

"No, sir; hers," replied the boy.

" Your sister?" was the next question.

" No, sir; I never saw her till this morning. I came out to
buy some things for a Fourth of July party, and I took a walk
down this way 'cause the shops wasn't open, and I found her
sitting on the door-step, and she'd been sitting there all night."

"All night!" repeated the gentleman, just as Davey had
done, only without the whistle. "Tell me all about it."

And he looked so kind and good that Davey did tell him
all about it. And when the story was finished the gentleman
said to the man at the door, "You'd better take the money,
Lewis. But wait; we'll see if Prince is really here."

And, led by their new friend, the children went in. There
were dogs of all kinds there--all shapes, all sizes, all colors that
dogs could be--yelping, barking, growling, and moaning.

Nellie looked eagerly around, and shouted " Prince!" as loud
as she could shout, but could scarcely hear herself, so great was
the noise. But a little brown dog, whose ears must have been
much sharper than hers, sprung forward, with a cry of delight
that seemed to come out of the very top of his little brown
head. _

" It's Prince! it's Prince!" cried Nellie, clapping her hands
in delight; and the next moment he was in her arms. covering
her face with dog kisses.
Davey marched out, handing the door-man the money as he
passed. The tall gentleman followed. with the little girl and
her dog; and when they were all in the street once more he
stooped and patted Prince on the head, at the same time tuck-
ing Davey's handkerchief, which was hanging half-way out, into
his jacket pocket, and saying, "You'll lose that if you're not
careful. my boy."

Then he kissed both children and went into the pound
again. And Nellie threw her arms around Davey's neck and
gave him a good hug, and told him she should love him for-
ever, and made him promise to come and see her and Prince;
and they parted.

"And that's the end of our Fourth of July party," said
Davey, shortly after, finishingvhis breakfast and story at the
same time.

" You're a good boy, and did just right," said all the Jack-
low family, with the exception of Mr. Jacklow, who remarked,
mildly, that " that dollar and ninety-two cents would have kept
him in tobacco at long while."

And baby jennie came and gave her big brother a sweet
kiss--in fact, a wry sweet kiss, for some of the sirup which she
had been eating on her bread-and-butter went with it; and as
she toddled away Harry pulled out his handkerchief to wipe
his mouth. It came out with a jerk, and four bright new silver
half-dollars came with it, and, falling on the floor with a pleas-
ant sound, rolled away toward the corners as fast as they could.
But they were pounced upon before they had rolled a foot.

" The tall gentleman l" said Davey.

"God bless him!" said his mother.
" Three cheers for our side !" shouted Eddie, and proceeded
to give them.

"I wish I had the morning paper," said Mr. jacklow.

And there was a party, after all; and besides the family
there were three other guests--an old woman, a small girl, and
a little brown dog.

INDIGNANT POLL Y W00.

A TREE-TOAD, dressed in apple-green,

Sat on a mossy log " o
Beside a pond, and shrilly sung,

" Come forth, my Polly Wog--

My Pol--my Ly--my Wog, .

My pretty Polly Wog;
I've something very sweet to say,

My slender Polly Wog!

"The air is moist--the moon is hid

Behind a heavy fog; a
No stars are out to wink and blink

At you, my Polly Wog--

My Pol--my Ly--my Wog,

My graceful Polly Wog;
Oh, tarry not, beloved one!

My precious Polly Wog!"

Just then away went clouds, and there,
A-sitting on the log--Til/S SONG 0/: THE WRE/V. 197

The other end, I mean--the moon
Showed angry Polly Wog.

Her small eyes flashed--she swelled until
She looked almost a frog,

" How dare you call me, sir," she asked,
"Your precious Polly \Vog?

"Why, one would think your life was spent
In some low, muddy bog.
0 I'd have you know to strange young toads
. My name's Miss Mary Wog."

One.\vild. \rild laugh that tree-toad gave
And tumbled off the log,

And on the ground he kicked and screamed,
" Oh, Mary. Mary \Vog!
Oh, Ma! oh, Ry! oh, \Vog!
Oh. proud Miss Mary Wog!

~ Oh, goodness gracious !----what a joke!

'1)

Hurrah for 11/1113: W'og

THE SONG OF THE WREN.

IN a certain wild but beautiful country place, far from this
great city. stood a little white cottage all by itself, there being
no other house for ten or twelve miles, over which, in summer--
time, the wild-rose vines clambered until they reached the very
chimney, where, clinging to the red bricks, they flung out in
merry triumph slender, flower-laden branches like pennons on
the breeze. Under the cottage eaves some swallows built their
nests every spring, and to the garden came, as soon as the
yellow and white honeysuckles and blue larkspurs and many-
colored four-o'clocks bloomed, myriacls of humming-birds, look-
ing like rubies, and diamonds, and opals, and emeralds, and to-
pazes, and sapphires that had taken to themselves wings, and
flown from all parts of the world to visit the flower gems in this
lovely spot. In the autumn, when the leaves, dressed in their
gayest dress, were bidding farewell to the sunshine and the wind
and each other, hundreds of robin-redbreasts--" God's birds "----
hopped like little flames about the ground; and in a hollow tree
near the cottage door a pretty red-brown wren and his mate had
found shelter for a long time, and reared several broods. As
for the saucy, chattering, busy, fearless sparrows, they had feath-
er-lined nests wherever a sparrow's nest could be placed, and
that is almost everywhere--on the pump, behind the wood-pile,
in the barn, among the trees--and these nests they never for-
sook all the year round. W'hat wonder that the cottage was
called Bird House, and the clear little girl whose home it was
answered to the name of Birdie? No brothers or sisters had
the innocent, blue-eyed child, and, save the birds, no little
friends. But they loved her dearly, and were always near her;
so she never grew lonely, but was happy and contented from
morning until night. At early dawn, when a soft light in the
eastern sky told that the sun was coming, they tapped on her
window-panes to waken her; and when she appeared at the cot-
tage door they flew to meet her, alighting on her fair head, herTHE SONG 01" THE I'lr'Rlz'N. 199

shoulders. her outstretched hands, with loud, sweet, twittering
welcomes. Even strange birds just passing that way would join
the merry throng, and joyfully and gratefully partake of the
crumbs the dear one scattered for her friends. And often at
night, when Birdie awoke from a pleasant dream, and found
her room filled with the silver of the moon, she would hear
the sparrows and swallows say--still dreaming they--" Birdie,
sweet Birdie!"

She had learned their language when she was but a babe,
and knew when they were glad or sad; when they praised or
scolded; when they gave warning that the Spirits of the Storm
were abroad: when they said to their young. "Courage, little
ones; it is time to try your wings;" when they softly chirped, " To
sleep, to sleep ;" and when they sung songs of love or farewell.

And so it happened that she understood every word of the
song that the wren sung to her that winter afternoon. The
snow had been falling. and the sunshine was just coming back,
when she went out in the garden, in her Little Red Riding-hood
cloak, to share her bread with the sparrows and snow-birds.
Around her they flew, uttering cries of joy, when suddenly the
wren, forgetting his shyness, appeared among them; and this is
the song be sung:

"In the time of violets,
When the Spring came dancing
O'cr the meadow. through the wood.
Sunbeams round her glancing,
' Birdie's sweet. sweet, sweet,
Sweet,' sung the swallow;
' And where'er her footsteps roam
' 1 will follow, follow.'
"When the roses bloomed and blushed,

And the fragrant Summer

Kisses warm and sparkling smiles
Gave to each new-comer,

' Birdie's sweet, sweet, sweet,'
Sung the blackbird, clearly;

' Sweet as daisy-buds, and I
Love her dearly, dearly.'

"When the autumn leaves begun

Gold and crimson turning,

Robin-redbreast sung--his breast
Bright as sunset burning---

' Birdie's sweet, sweet, sweet,
Sweet as dewy clover,

And her praises shall be sung
All the wide world over.'

" Wrens and sparrows--all the birds,

Dear, that fly above thee--

For thy gentle words and ways,
For thy beauty, love thee.

Birdie sweet, sweet, sweet--
Happy be forever!

While the birds can guard thee, sweet,
Harm shall reach thee never."

" Thank you, dear wren--thank you, dear birds," said Birdie.
with tears in her beautiful blue eyes, when the song was ended:
and she went away to her own little room and said a prayer of
thankfulness.

And from that time the child's heart was lighter than ever,
and she sung,r all day long like a tuneful mocking-bird, blending771/; mu; 0/: rm: I!'/'\'/:'.\'. 201

all the sweet strains of her friend< in one delightful song, until
winter passed away. and the snow melted. and the snow-drop

peepecl out of the ground. ancl said. timiclly, "I am here: spare

 

HIRDIF. r\.\li "LR Lll'l'lJ'. l-'KIHVIM.

me. 0 Wind!" and while the springr covered the earth with
(lai.~ies and clanclelions and May buds and brave, honest grass.
and flung, delicate blossoms all over the orchards. Then came

the summer once more, and started millions of lovely "green
things agrowing," and filled the trees with thousands of joyous
young birds.

And one glowing July day, early in the morning, Birdie
wandered off to the woods, as she had often done before, to
look for wild flowers, and gather some green food for her feath-
ered pets. "I'll be back again in a little while, mamma," she
said as she left the cottage. But the hours went by, and noon
came, and she had not returned.

" Where is my little maid?" called her father, cheerily, as he
came in to dinner from the field where he had been working;
but no little maid replied.

"She has gone for bird weeds and flowers," said her mother.
"She will be here in a few moments."

But the dinner was eaten, and the father went back to his
work, and still no Birdie came.

The clock struck one--struck two--struck three, and then,
her heart growing heavier and heavier at every step, the fright-
ened mother started out to look for her darling. North, south,
east, west, half a mile each way from the cottage, she ran, stop-
ping every few minutes to call " Birdie! Birdie!" but only the
echoes answered her call. At last to the field where her hus-
band was working she flew. " Leave the plough," she cried,
wringing her hands, " and look for the child!"

North, east, south, west, :1 mile each way from his home,
went the father, shouting " Birdie! Birdie, little maid l" and the
echoes repeated "Birdie! Birdie, little maid!" but no other
sound he heard except the rustling of the leaves and the whir of
insect wings. The sun was beginning to sink in the west when,
tired and heart-sick, he came back again. " Perhaps she isTill-I SONG 0/" THE I'VA'EA'. 203

there now," he thought, a ray of hope lighting up his face as
he neared the garden gate; but a glance at his wife's tearful
eyes as she came to meet him told him he had hoped in vain.
" I'll saddle the horse and ride to the village," he said, "and
every father there will join me in the search for my child. And
we'll find her, never fear."

"God grant that you may--and alive !" sobbed the poor
mother. "My darling! oh, my darling !"

At that moment a flock of birds came in sight--so large a
flock that, wheeling around the head of the sorrowing mother,
it almost shut out from her the light of day.

Round and round her the birds circled, uttering strange,
eager sounds; then flew away a short distance, to return with
louder calls than ever.

"They miss her," said the father, who was just about to
mount his horse. " They have come to be fed."

" They have come to lead us to her," cried his wife, her
whole face growing glad and bright. "Look at them! They
are asking us to follow."

And the birds turned, as she made a few steps forward, and
flew slowly before her. To a narrow path up the nearest hill
they led--so narrow that the horse had to be left behind, and
the father, who in his impatience had ridden on in front, was
obliged to dismount and follow on foot. Over the hill and
across a bridge that spanned a wide stream they went, then up
some steep rocks, and down, down into a tiny green valley, from
which another flock of birds arose, with welcoming cries; and
there, in a little cave, imprisoned by a huge stone that had
fallen from the rock above across its mouth, the trees and
shrubs around her black with watching birds, sat Birdie, her
little hands patiently folded in her lap, a smile on her pale lips.
and faith shining from her heaven-blue eyes. And for once----
her heart being full to overflowing with love for her child. and
gratitude to the good God and them--the mother also under-
stood the language of the birds as they sung:

" Birdie, sweet, sweet, sweet,
Happy be forever!
While the birds can guard lhec, sweet,

Harm shall reach thee never."

---<,\70--

WISE Ill/BS. SI/VALLOW'.

MR5. SWALLOW had just finished her nest, and fastened it
snugly on one side of the chimney, when along came the North
Wind, in a terrible passion.

He had had a quarrel with some of his relations in Green-
land, and had rushed out, like the silly, bad-tempered old fellow
he was, to wreak his spite on whatever came in his way.

So, growling and shrieking and whistling and groaning, he
blew off any number of hats, scared hundreds of young blossoms
from the cherry-trees and left them to die on the road, rocked
all the little wooden houses like so many cradles, and then flew
from the streets to the chimneys.

Away went a brick here and there, and, alas! at the second
great puff away went Mrs. Swallow's nest too.

She had built it so carefully and wonderfully, carrying up
wisps of hay and bits of straw from the barn-yard, and lining
it with some of Gray Hen's softest breast-feathers!"/1515 .I/RS. SWALLO IV. 205

And now where was it? " Ha! ha! ha!" laughed the spite-
ful old \Vind, " wciuldn't you like to know ?"

Then he spied Mr. Swallow hurrying home with a fine worm
he had found, and he hastened to get behind him and drive
him along so fast that he came bump up against Mrs. Swallow,
nearly knocking her from her perch, and at the same time
dropped the worm he had carried so far.

"\Vhew!" said Mr. Swallow when he got his breath again.
"This is a blow."

"' It's an ill wind that blows nobody good," muttered the
worm as it crawled quickly away.

"But what's the matter, my dear?" continued Mr. Swallow.
" Why do you look so serious? And--bless my heart! where's
our nest P"

"That horrid old North Wind snatched it from the chimney,
first tumbling me out and rumpling all my feathers," answered
Mrs. Swallow, with tears in her round, black eyes. " And now
what an: we to do ?"

" Cheer up, my own dear birdie," chirruped her husband.
" I can't bear to see you cry. We'll get just inside the chimney
until we are quite sure he's gone, and then we'll call on Madam
Owl and ask her advice. They say she has become so wise,
through studying the stars night after night, and night after
night, that she knows everything, and so, of course, s/ze will be
able to tell us what to do."

" But, Swally," said Mrs. Swallow, " our family don't like
Madam Owl, and have never been friends with her. Only the
other day, when she was dozing, I pulled a feather out of her

head myself."
" That was very naughty, my dear," said Mr. Swallow, look-
ing as though he l/zoug/zl it rather cunning, "but I don't believe
she'll remember it, if we are very polite to her and pay her some
compliments. And now you'd better take a little nap, for
Madam Owl only receives company at night, and I'm afraid you
can't stay awake when it becomes dark unless you do."

So Mrs. Swallow, like an obedient wife, took a nap; and Mr.
Swallow did too, for that matter, although he said, when Mrs.
Swallow woke him, he'd only been thinking.

And as soon as evening came away they flew to the old
oak-tree where Madam Owl lived.

She had just supped off a plump young field-mouse, and was
very good-natured, and listened with the utmost patience until
they had told their story. Then she said, "Tu-whit-tu-whoo!
Oh! ah! yes!"

" Wasn't it too bad of the Wind P" asked Mrs. Swallow.

"Tu-whit--tu--whoo! Oh! ah! yes 1" answered Madam Owl.

"Can you tell us what to do ?" asked Mr. Swallow.

Madam Owl looked at the moon half an hour--looked at
the stars half an hour--looked at nothing half an hour--and
then said, very slowly, " Tu-whit-tu-whoo! Oh! ah! no-o--o l"

" Good-night," twittered the angry swallows, and flew quickly
back to their chimney again.

"Much good it did us going to Madam Owl!" said Mrs.
Swallow, with a pout, as soon as they reached home. "I never
did believe those stories about her knowing so much. Why, if
[said as little and had as big eyes as Madam Owl, no doubt all
the birds would call me wise too. And now I'll tell you, my
love, what [think we'd better do--get up with the sun to-mor-"arm" ill/NOTES Jun: AX HOUR." 207

row morning, make another nest, and fasten it on the other
side of the chimney."

"Upon my word, my dear," said Mr. Swallow, "you're an
ex-traor-di-na--ry bird !" and being very tired, he tucked his head
under his wing and went to sleep.

"SIXTY IWINUTES MAKE AN HOU ."

SIXTY seconds make a minute--sixty minutes make an
hour," sung brown-haired Nellie, on the afternoon of the very
last day of the year, as she rocked to and fro in her small rock-
ing-chair

 

a gift from Santa Claus--beating her breast with her
little fist, as though to beat the lesson so firmly in that it never
could get out again by any chance (I think it would have been
far more sensible to have pounded on her head for that purpose)
--" sixty seconds make a minute--sixty minutes make an hour,"
over and over again, until the childish voice grew fainter and
fainter, and the last " hour " never got farther than " on."

Then Nellie ceased rocking, and her head fell back against
the pretty scarlet-and-green " tidy " which she had found on her
Christmas-tree. and the dark-brown curls fell over the dark-
brown eyes, and she begun to think of nothing at all. And
while she was quietly thinking of nothing at all she suddenly
heard, to her great amazement. a tiny voice--as clear and sweet
as the tinkling of the' silver hell that hung from the necklace of
"Snow-and-cream," her favorite cat--repeat the 'words, " Sixty
minutes make an hour ;" and peeping through the cloud of hair
that veiled her eyes, she saw a wee figure standing before her,
dressed in white, with a daisy in its bosom, and a snow-drop
clinging to its pale, golden curls.

It had a round, cheery, baby-face, with a dimple in one rosy
cheek and another in the rosy chin, and its eyes were as blue as
the eyes of a kitten when it is only a few weeks old.

Dancing in at a hole in one of the window-panes, and thence
to the floor, on a long, slanting sunbeam, came other diminu-
tive figures, followed by still smaller ones, and the smaller ones
followed again by comical mites no higher than Nellie's new
silver thimble.

"Oh, you darlings!" cried Nellie, clapping her hands; " how
glad I am to see you! Are you fairies ?"

" No, clear," replied the baby-faced one, with a bright smile.
" We are Hours, Minutes, and Seconds, and we belong to the
year that is almost gone. I don't suppose you can remember
the Minutes and Seconds, your acquaintance with them was so
very slight; they stay such a short time that no one can become
well acquainted with them, sixty minutes and three thousand
and six hundred seconds coming and going during the visit of
one hour; but I am sure you can remember me and my sisters
and cousins--that is, some of us. It would be impossible for
you to remember us all, of course."

"Why, how many sisters and cousins have you, you cunning
tot ?" asked Nellie.

" T wenty-three sisters, and eight thousand seven hundred
and thirty-six cousins," answered the tot.

"Good gracious! and my stars !" exclaimed Nellie. " What
an awful--a very awful large family! I never heard of such a
thing. It stands to reason "-----Nellie borrowed this expression
from her papa--" that I couldn't remember--such a young
memory as I have--only six, going on seven--the half or quar-
ter of so many hundreds and thousands, even if I'd met them
all, which I don't believe I have."

" That's just what I was about to say," said the Hour. shak-
ing its light curls softly. "We don't expect you to remember
very many of us, and you're right in thinking you have not
known us all. In fact, but half of our number have been intro-
duced to you. The other half glided silently by while you
were sleeping, and some of us were so much alike that you
couldn't tell us apart; and a few of our relations have yet to
visit you--that is, if you stay up long enough to receive them.
The last will fly away as the clock strikes twelve and the mid-
night bells ring merrily to welcome the birth of the New Year."

" Oh dear, no," said Nellie; " I sha'n't see that one. I go to
bed zackly eight, 'less on par-tic~u-lar_'casions, and then nine;
but I don't think this is a par-tic-u-lar 'casion for me. But you
haven't told me who you are yet."

"I am the Hour that was with you the morning, nearly a
year ago, when your baby-brother broke the beautiful wax doll
Santa Claus had brought you, and you forced back the tears
when you saw his rose-bud mouth begin to tremble, and, taking
him in your arms, told him, ' Baa, baa, black sheep,' until he fell
asleep."

" I remember," said Nellie, her face all aglow; "and mamma
kissed me as she took baby Willie from me, and called me her
'own brave little daughter.' " '

" And I am the Hour," said a small, grave body, in a gray
dress, that hadn't even a bow of ribbon on it--with marks of

1-!
tears on its cheeks, and a red tip to its dot of a nose--" that
stayed with you when you were being punished for telling--"
" Don't mention it, please," interrupted a bright-faced, pleas-
ant-looking Hour, in a sky-blue robe, with a wreath of the tiniest
Chrysanthemums around its head. " What's the use of talking
about it? It isn't a cheerful subject, and I've no doubt Nellie
always told the truth after that. I heard her sobs of repentance

 

and her vows 'never never--never" to do so again, and saw
the smiles come back and chase away the clouds, when all was
joy and peace once more."

"I danced with her in the meadow," sung a graceful elf,
standing on the tips of its toes, and holding its arms above its
head, as though it were about to fly, "one summer day--the day
she gathered daisies and dandelions--and sung a sweet and joy-
ous song in answer to the bird that had a nest in the apple-tree.
In that nest were four baby-birds, and they peeped out and twit-
tered when they heard Nellie sing."

"Yes, yes, indeed!" cried Nellie. "And what big mouths
they had l"

"And I, Nellie, dear," said a queer sprite, with a pointed
cap, on the extreme point of which was a jolly little bell, "fell
into the brook with you, one August afternoon, when you
were trying to catch a frog. Kerchunk! how scared the frog-
folks were when you tumbled in among them !" and the sprite
laughed, and the jolly little bell laughed, and Nellie laughed
loudest of all.

"And I," cried another, tossing its head and trying to pout,
"sat by your side when you were sent from the supper-table
because you were naughty and wouldn't say 'please.'"
"And I," lisped a roly~poly, cunning little thing, "when you
said 'Please--please--please,' and grandma gave you a slice of
bread-and-butter. but you couldn't see the butter for the apple-
jelly."

"I remember. I remember," said Nellie. "I wish I had some
now."

"I was with you, dear one," murmured an Hour with kind,
gentle eyes, and low, pitying voice, "when your poor head ached
with a terrible pain, and between your moans you made a
prayer to the good God for help."

"I am the Hour," said a merry, twinkling, bird-like spirit,
with holly-berries hanging all over it, " that looked on when you
played games with your brothers just before you hung up your
stocking on Christmas-eve."

"And I saw you take it down the next morning, filled al-
most to bursting with good things to eat," said another, with
a face like a doll's plum-pudding, and little black currants for
eyes.

"And I--" But at that moment Nellie's arithmetic fell
from her lap with a bang! and away fled the Seconds, and
Minutes, and Hours up the long, slanting sunbeam, and out
at the window.

And when Nellie in a great hurry leaned out to look after
them she saw nothing but the snow, and two street-sparrows
picking up crumbs and chattering noisily to each other.
l5

STORIES IN PROSE AND VERSE.

THE GIFT OF TflE BIRDS.

No sweeter child could ever be

Than fair-haired, blue-eyed Cecily.

She loved all things on earth that grew;

The grass, the flowers, the weeds, she knew;

The butterflies around her flew,

That she might see their rainbowed wings.
The very bees and wasps would come
To greet her with a gentle hum,

And ne'er betray that they had stings.

But, most of all, the birds in throngs,

Where'er she went, with chirps and songs

Gave her glad welcome. Her first words

Had been, "I love the pretty birds ;"

And ever since her baby hand
Could scatter seed and crumbs of bread

Each day a waiting feathered band
The darling little maid had fed.

The loving, Winsome Cecily--

No dearer child e'er lived than she--
One Christmas-eve (in crimson hood

And cloak she'd in her garden stood,
That mom, and fed a hungry brood)
In her white bed lay fast asleep,

The moonlight on her golden hair,

Her hands still clasped as in the prayer,
" I pray thee, Lord. my soul to keep."
She slept, and dreamed of Christmas times,
Of Christmas gifts, and Christmas rhymes;
But in no vision did she see
The host that filled the cedar-tree--
The cedar-tree that. tall and straight,
Rose high above the garden gate,
And, though the winds were cold and keen,
Wore berries blue and branches green.

A hundred birds or more were there.
Some from the sunny Southland, where
The fragrant rose was blooming still,
And green grass covered field and hill.
And, free as ever, flowed the rill,
Had come in answer to the call
Of friends who at the North had stayed,
By stern old Winter undismayed,
To see the dainty snow-flakes fall.
These kindly greeted, with small head
Held on one side, a sparrow said,
" To choose a gift for Cecily
VVe've met tonight. What shall it be ?"
A flute-like trill, in graceful pride,
A thrush sung sweetly, then replied,
" What better than the gift of song ?"
" None better," answered all the throng:
And when, next dawn, sweet Cecily--

No sweeter child could ever be--

Into the sunlight smiling sprung,

In wondrous notes a hymn she sung.

Exultant on the air it rung,

And waked the echoes all about.
Straightway the morning brighter grew,
The pale sky turned a deeper blue,

The merry Christmas bells pealed out.

And, from that day, whoever hears

The dear maid sing sheds happy tears

(So potent is her power of song),

Forgetting pain and care and wrong,

Rememb'ring only Heaven is nigh,

Where dwells the Christ who came to die

On earth, that we might live alway,

And who was born on Christmas-day.

THE BUMP TOLD"

" Nor get into the hammock ?"

Well, if he hadn't been told not to get into it, it wouldn't
have been half so hard to stay out of it. And, above all things,
a hammock!

But Uncle John had said--oh! so gruffly--" Don't you try
to get into it; and, what's more, don't you go near it. When
I come home this evening we'll see. Now, mind!"

And so, of course, Harry had been thinking about it ever71113 BUMP TOLD. 215

since, and he couldn't, for the life of him. study his geography
lesson. Everything seemed bounded north, east, south, and
west by hammocks.

At last he threw clown his book and run out into the gar-
den, and stood looking at the red and yellow net as it hung
between two fine old oak-trees.

" I wouldn't go near it, now, if he said I might," said Harry.
" ' Try to get in it,' indeed, as though a baby couldn't get in a
hammock, let alone a fellow as big as I am! He needn't be

)

afraid; I'll stay away.' (He was standing, about thirty feet
from it, under a great big apple-tree.) "But I'll look at it as
much as I please.

"Uncle John's great, he is! What 'd he bring it here' for,
if he wasn't going to let a fellow swing, and swing right
away, too? The best fun in the world is swinging right away.
Wonder what it's made of? Don't care; I'll stay here and
eat apples."

And he sat down under the tree and picked up a fat. rosy-
cheeked apple and took a boy's bite out of it.

" It's sour," said Harry, making a wry face, and throwing
it away.

" Oh! what a story l" said the apple-tree, in a loud whisper.

" What ?" asked Harry. looking up at it.

But the tree only rustled its leaves angrily and said no
more.

"Oh dear !" groaned Harry; "what a long morning this is!
What shall I do? Halloo! there's a funny old toad. I'll catch
him and make him hop."

So he rolled over and over on the green grass until he
reached a large stone, under which the toad was sitting, with
three black beetles, playing house.

The toad had just told the brightest beetle that he might
take the other two and go to market to get something for din-
ner, when Harry put his hand in and seized it,

The poor thing was so frightened that it became as cold as
well-water.

" Ugh I" exclaimed Harry, dropping it in a hurry; and as
the toad made a feeble hop he continued, " Ha! ha! you can't
jump worth a cent." '

" You're polite," said the toad.

"What P" asked Harry. But the toad hopped off without
answering.

Just then a prince of the butterflies, dressed in purple and
gold, rose from a flower near by and flew in the direction of
the hammock.

" I'd like to have that butterfly," said Harry.

So he whistled a little, in a trifling manner, and went after it.

It flew straight ahead, but stopped just two feet this side
of the oak-trees to kiss a young white rose. Harry stopped
too, and when the butterfly unfolded its velvet wings to again
take flight, " No, you don't," said he, and threw his hat over it.

But it did, for when he raised his hat it darted out and
flew merrily before him.

"I bet I'll have you yet!'-' said Harry; and, starting to run
again, he came right up against the hammock.

" Crikey 1" said he. "Well, I never, if here isn't the ham-
mock! How funny! What a meany Uncle John is! I've a
good mindto get in for a few minutes. Who's to tell P"11/195. BEE EXPLAINS. 217

So he took hold of it, put up one foot carefully, swayed
about a little, then lifted the other foot, made a spring, and
landed head first on the ground on the other side.

" Ha! ha!" laughed the apple-trees

"You can't jump worth a cent," said the toad.

" No, you don't!" remarked the butterfly.

But Harry answered never a word. He got up with a
large bump on his forehead and went back to the house. And
[lie dump lo/a'.

IWRS. BEE PSXPLA/1VS

SAID Mrs. Wasp to Mrs. Bee,
"Will you a favor do me?

There's something I can't understand--
Please, ma'am, explain it to me:

Why do men build for you a house
And coax you to go in it,

While me--your cousin--they'll not let
Stay near them for a minute?

"I have a sting, I do confess,
And should not like to lose it;

But so have you, and when you're vexed
I'm very sure you use it."

" Well," said the bee, " to you, no doubt,
It does seem rather funny;

But people soon forget the stings
'Of those who give them honey."
"A PRIL-FOOL l"

THERE was one boy in the Merrit Academy who never
joined in any of the games; never went skating; never went
swimming; never made a snow man or threw snowballs; never
came to the meetings of the debating society, where such ques-
tions as "If a fellow asks a fellow for a bite of a fellow's apple,
which is the politer way to give it to a fellow--to bite off a
piece yourself, or let a fellow bite for himself?" were debated
with much mock gravity and real fun.

He looked with horror on all kinds of fighting; had no
admiration for great generals; thought war should be abol-
ished; shuddered at tales of cruelty and suffering; was con-
stitutionally timid and extremely credulous; hated thunder and
lightning; liked birds, flowers, pretty verses, and fairy tales;
believed in ghosts and supernatural beings; was very fair-haired,
very blue-eyed, tall, slender, and named Harold Lord. But
after the first week or two of his attendance at school--he was
a day scholar--his real name was never heard, for his school-
mates, quickly finding out his peculiar characteristics, skilfully
turned it into "Lady Harriet," and Lady Harriet he remained
for many a long year. Of course, being so girlish in his ap-
pearance, ways, and tastes, and of so reserved and gentle a dis-
position, the other boys rather looked down upon him, and,
after the manner of boys, made him the subject of much chaff
and many practical jokes; and so it came about, when Charley
Bennet and Ned Morningstar and Hen Rowe begun, on the
afternoon of the 3Ist of March, to talk about the [St of April,
they hit upon Lady Harriet as a boy who would make a capi-
tal "April-fool."

"We can have no end of fun with him," said Charley.
" You know he lives all alone with his grandmother--"

"A Little Red Riding-hood," interrupted Hen Rowe.

" Down by the pine woods," continued Bennet. "But the
question now in order is, what kind of fun shall it be ?"

"Dress up like Indians, and pretend you're goin' to scalp
him," proposed little Al Smith, who had joined the party--a
thing no other small boy in that establishment would have
dared to do; but then Alfred, as his aunt called him
very cross old aunt she was, too--had no father nor mother,
and was such a good-natured, willing, reliable young chap, that
his older school-mates made quite a pet of him, and allowed

and a

 

him many liberties they would have allowed to no one else in
his class.

"Nonsense, Smithey!" said Hen Rowe. "Ghosts is the
thing ;" and, striking an attitude, he quoted:

"'I am thy father's spirit,
Doom'd for a certain term to walk the night,
And for the day confined to fast in fires. . ..
I could a tale unfold, whose lightest word
Would harrow up thy soul, fre-e-e-cze thy young blood,
Make thy--' "

"That's quite enough of that, Rowe," said Bennet. "A
band of young desperadoes is my idea. The papers are full
.4.-

of 'em just now--fellows living in caves and other queer places,
and robbing right and left (result of reading too many dime
novels--heard the Professor say so this morning). Been 'round
here, too; stole Uncle Jeff's calf day before yesterday; and his
grandmother goes to sewing society tomorrow night."

"The calf's grandmother P" asked Hen Rowe.

" Didn't know you had any grandmother," said Bennet.

"Charley's hit on the very thing," declared Ned Morning-
star. "We'll let three or four other fellows into the joke, and
I'll be captain, and we'll wear masks, and all the old clothes
we can beg, borrow, or take, and get ourselves up prime as a
No. 1 band of reg'lar young villains. Aha! 'Your money or
your life l' " making a. lunge at small A].

"But you won't really hurt Lady Harriet ?" said the little
fellow, an anxious look coming into his soft, brown eyes. " He's
good to me, and gives me candy, and took me fishin' once."

"Took you fishin'!" repeated Charley Bennet, counterfeit-
ing the greatest astonishment. "If he did I'll bet he never let
you catch a fish. He'd 'a fainted when he saw it a-wriggling on
the hook."

"He did, too," answered Al, stoutly. "I caught four, and
six crabs, and he got eight ;" adding, frankly, "but he said he
didn't like to catch them, only his grandmother said he must."

" Very reprehensible old lady," said Hen Rowe, gravely, " to
allow her greediness for fish to trample on the softest feelings
of her grandson's head--I mean heart. But don't be afraid,
Smallbones"--stroking Al's dark curls--" we won't hurt him,
not a bit; make your mind easy about that. He shall live to
take you a-fishin' again."
"It does him good to wake him up once in a while," added
Ned Morningstar, "he's such a turtle. I think I see his face
when we all shout 'April-fool!"'

At .dusk the next evening, after Grandmother Lord had
gone to the sewing society, six or seven dreadful-looking ob-
jects came splashing through the mud up the road which led
to the cottage. They were dressed in uncouth garments of
all sizes and colors. Hats, brimless, or with brims very much
turned up or very much turned down, two flaming red turbans,
and a round, handleless basket, through the open wicker-work
of which the hair of the wearer straggled in the most outland-
ish and porcupinish manner, constituted their head--gear. The
leader carried a gun. The others were armed with hatchets,
knives, and clubs. All their faces were hidden by paper masks
painted in various colors. " This is the house," said one of
them, in a voice that seemed to come out of the ground be-
neath his feet, as they ranged themselves on the front porch,
and he rapped sharply on the door with the stick he carried.
It opened, and there stood Lady Harriet, gazing out with hor-
ror-stricken eyes upon the motley gang. "Your money or your
life !" demanded he of the gun, at the same time pointing the
weapon at the trembling boy.

Lady Harriet turned pale and shrunk back. "I have no
money," he said, in a faltering voice.

" Then we must have your life," was the gruff reply, " unless
you consent to become one of us. Seize him and search him !"

" Do go away and leave me alone," implored the boy, fall-
ing upon his knees and clasping his hands. "There is no use
--making me--join your gang," he continued, with chattering
teeth. " I--couldn't be a--a--what you are--to save--my life."

But the young desperadoes paid no attention to his entreat-
ies, and while two of their number rifled his pockets the others,
lighting a couple of lanterns they had brought with them, fol-
lowed their leader on a tramp through the house, with much
noise and deep growling. On the return of the latter the
pocket-searchers presented the captain with a half stick of pep-
permint candy, a knife, a dime, a small book ("The Language
of Flowers "), and some violets, wrapped in a handkerchief.

" Prisoner," said the captain, sternly--that is, as sternly as
the pebble he had under his tongue would allow--" if you make
an attempt to escape the consequences be on your own head.
Right about face! March !"

And away they went, dragging poor Lady Harriet, begging
and imploring to be set free, with them.

"Did you ever see any fellow so scared in all your life P"
whispered Charley Bennet to Hen Rowe as their victim begun
to cry and scream. I

" Never," said Rowe. "I begin to feel sorry for him. But
what a baby he is! Why don't he break and run? He can
make good time with those long legs when he's a mind to."

" Halt l" cried the captain, when they reached the pine
woods. " This has gone quite far enough. We want no cow-
ards among us. Boy, you are--" And the mouths of his fol-
lowers simultaneously opened for a tremendous shout, when--

" I perfectly agree with you," interrupted the prisoner, quick-
ly, wresting himself at the same time by a dexterous move-
ment from the grasp of the two boys who had held him; and0N GUARD. 223

then he went on, in his usual soft voice and slow way: "I mean
this joke's gone quite far enough. You came half an hour or
so before I expected you, but I think we've all acted our parts
first-rate. Good-evening, Captain Morningstar. Good-evening,
desperadoes. Farewell, April-fools." And he turned and walk-
ed leisurely toward his home again. .

"Jiminy!" exclaimed Ned Morningstar, snatching off his
mask and pulling a long face. " Somebody has--"

" Blundered," said Hen Rowe--

"Fools to the right of me,
Fools to the left of me,
Fools ev'ry side of me--

Oh, how they wondered!

But what's the use of being glum about it? I've an idea it
serves us right. Three cheers for Lady Harriet! He's not
such a fool as he looks."

"As we look, I think," said Roy Wheeler.

And then, like the jolly boys they really were, they gave
the cheers with a will, and followed them up with a roar of
laughter that awakened all the echoes for miles around.

--<>co--

0N GUARD.

HALT! Not a step farther! Don't move, for your life!

You're a very nice squirrel, I haven't a doubt
(Although you've forgotten, I see, to put on

Your kilt and your soldier-cap ere you came out);
But where you now are you must stop for an hour

Or two; and quite silent meanwhile you must keep,
For a weary, long way we have travelled today,
And my dear little master lies there fast asleep.

Of course you don't know--you've grown up in the woods,
With no one to teach you--how fine 'tis to be
Great artists as weare! You've heard but the birds,
And seen only squirrels jump round in a tree.
My master the sweetest of music can make
('Sh! you rustled a leaf--he haltopened his eyes),
And a gun I can handle, a drum I can beat,
And I dance like a fairy--I tell you no lies.

My dear little master! full oft he has shared,

Bite for bite, with me, squirrel, his very last crust;
And he's patiently carried me many a mile;

And that now [guard Izz'm I am sure is but just.
Curl your tail up still tighter, and don't let it fall,

Lest a noise it should make--it's remarkably big--
And, if you are good, by-and-by we may all

Have a right merry tune and a right merry jig.

----<>o<>--

THE GERANlU/W LEAF.

IT was away up in the top of a very tall house, in a little
room scarcely larger than a good-sized closet, with an old-fash-
ioned dormer-window and a sloping roof. Zadok had 'mounted
the only chair and lifted, from the small shelf where it had
always stood, the bright-leaved, sweet-smelling rose-geranium.
The plant proudly bore its first bunch of buds, and the fragrantTm: GER/1N] UM LEAF. 227

blossoms blushed with delight as they burst from the tiny green
leaves that had so long held them prisoners.

As the boy--he was only eight years old--looked tenderly
at them the tears came into his eyes, and he bent his head and
kissed them fondly.

"Mother," said he, "what do you think about it ?"

The pleasant-faced, black-eyed woman--in sat/z a shabby
dress and bonnet, and with 5245/: a forlorn old basket on her
arm l--stopped a moment in the door-way--she was going to
market, with two ten-cent silver pieces tied up in the corner of

 

a ragged silk handkerchief and said, in a cheery voice, "'It
is more blessed to give than to receive.' "

" I'll do it," said Zadok, a smile shining through his tears;
and, carrying the geranium in his arms, he followed her from
the room.

But when he lifted the flower-pot from its place a fading
leaf broke from the plant and floated down until it reached
the cage of the lame sparrow. Between the wires it passed,
and fell exhausted on the sanded floor.

"What does it mean ?" asked the lame sparrow. "Where
is my old friend, the geranium, going? And isn't it coming
.back again? How I shall miss it if it don't! Why, its lovely-
green leaves were the very first things that greeted me when
Zadok brought me here. A cruel boy had broken my leg with
a stone, and Zadok, who saw him do it, dropped his basket--he
sells pins and buttons, you know--"

" I do," said the leaf.

"And he took me in his hands, oh, so gently! and brought
me home to this nice little room, you know--"
l9

8 STORIES IN ['ROSE AND VERSE.

" I do," said the leaf.

"And he nursed me until my leg was well again. I don't
limp at all now."

"You do," said the leaf.

" What?" twittered the sparrow, angrily.

"Nothing," said the leaf.

" But where Izas it gone ?" continued the. sparrow. He meant
the geranium.

" I'll tell you," said the leaf, ,with a sigh that filled the cage
with a fragrance like that of the roses. " You remember the
poor woman that lives across the way?"

"I do," said the sparrow. " When my cage used to hang
out of the window, those bright October days, I could look right
into her room. She was always and forever sewing, poor thine,
making feathers--I mean jackets--for small boys. I wish she
could make one for Zadok, for his is nearly worn out; and she
had scarcely any seed--I mean bread--for herself and her old '
mother to eat. She gave me some ehickweed once--tied a
small. stone to it and threw it over. It-fell on top of the cage.
I wonder where she got it P" i

" I'll tell you," said the leaf. "'She got it in the country. the
day she went to bring the baby-girl home."

"The baby-girl--what baby-girl ?" asked the sparrow.

" I'll tell you," said the leaf. "The poor jacket-maker had a
poor sister, who lived somewhere near the green fields; and one
day this sister died, leaving nothing behind her but a baby-girl.
Well, the aunt--that's the jacket-maker, you know--"

" I do," said the sparrow.

"Sold her plain gold ring," continued the leaf, " and her
work-table to get the money to bring the child to the garret-
room across the way, which is still poorer than ours, you
know."

"I do," said the sparrow; "no carpet there, and we have
three yards !" ,

"The blue-eyed baby," said the leaf, "misses her mamma
and her old home sadly, and cries for the green grass and the
pretty flowers."

"She couldn't have them in winter, anyhow," said the spar-
row. " Don't she know that P"

" I'll tell you," said the leaf, " though every word I speak
takes from my strength and shortens my life, now that I have
no mother-stem to cling to. It seems, in her own little home,
her own mamma kept, all winter long, in the corner between
the stove and the window, a half a dozen or so pretty plants, to
cheer them through the dreary days. They were the baby-girl's
only friends, and she loved them dearly. 'Shall I nebber see
my pitty flowers again?' she was saying the evening Zadok
knocked at the door."

"Why did Zadok knock at the door?" asked the sparrow.

"He went to carry some'buttons to the jacket-maker," an-
swered the leaf, "and he saw the fair-haired baby-girl, and
thought her as beautiful as a little angel; and when he came
home--you were asleep at the time--he told his mother the
whole story just as l have told it to you. And now can't you
guess the rest P"

" I've never been good at guessing since I broke my leg,"
said the sparrow.

"Well, I'll tell you," said the leaf. " Dearly as he loves the
geranium, he has taken it across the way, to leave it there, for to-
night is Christmas-eve, and tomorrow will be Christmas-clay, and
Zadok wants the bright flowers to be the first things the home--
sick baby sees when she opens her blue eyes in the morning."

"As 'dearly as he loves the geranium,' " repeated the spar-
row. " You may well say so. Why, he watched it and cared
for it almost as much as he did for me; and he's so poor he
can't buy another. He saved for weeks and weeks, cent by
cent, before he could buy this cage I live in, the dear, good
little fellow !"

I " He will be rewarded," said the leaf, faintly; "if not here
on earth, in the land above. I am sure the angels of the holy
Christmas-time will tell this story to God, and there will be
kept for him a beautiful, beautiful flower in Heaven. Good-
night!" And, with a last sweet sigh, the spirit of the leaf
passed away.

HOW THEY Il/ADE THE SNOI/V.

CHRISTMAS-EVE, and no snow! The sky as bright and thick
with glittering stars as though the sun had been broken into
millions of tiny pieces and been scattered over the clear, dark
heavens. '

How could Santa Claus's sleigh glide over bare roof-tops
and hard, stony streets?

The reindeers would be sorely tired, poor things, dragging
so heavy a burden, and, perhaps, would not be able to go more
than half their journey; and so just half the little girls and boys
would have no Christmas presents!
" Oh dear! and oh dear !" said golden-haired Arthur, as the
dreadful thought came to him, "I might be in the wrong half ;"
' and he knelt down again, although he had only the moment be-
fore said " Amen " to " Now I lay me," and made a little prayer
for himself: "Please, dear Lord, let the snow-makers make
some snow. You know it always ought to snow Kissmas-eve.
so that the reindeers can go as fast as fast, and all the chilluns
laugh to-morrow morning. Amen."

And then he got into bed, tucked his cold little feet under
his night-gown, and tried to go to sleep.

But the Sandman must have been very busy that Christmas-
eve, for he never came near blue-eyed Arthur.

He couldn't keep his eyes shut, no matter what he did. He
squeezed the lids together so tight that his nose was no longer
a nose, but a mass of funny little wrinkles. He put his chubby,
dimpled hands over his face, but they wouldn't stay there; down
they came, and fell flat on the counterpane, while he found him-
self peering out into the darkness again.

Nine o'clock struck--staring wide awake. Ten o'clock
struck--couldn't go to sleep. " Sumthin' going to happen," said

he, softly, to himself. "Sumthin' always happ'nin'.' And sure
enough, when the bird in the cuckoo-clock flew out and cried
" Cuckoo " eleven times a soft light shone into the bedroom, and
he heard a slight tapping like sleet or hail striking against the
window-panes, and then a queer-looking little body rode in at
the half-opened window on a moonbeam.

It was old, for it had a beard--but the funniest kind of a
beard, all made of icicles. And it had a crown on its head, and

that was made of icicles too; and its coat was of the whitest
fur, and from the skirt. hung little bells that tinkled as it moved.
and they were all made of ice too. "Dood gacious!" cried
rosy-cheeked Arthur, sitting straight up in bed. "Who are
you, and where did you come from, and what do you want,
and ain't you cold ?"

" I'm the Ice King," it answered; "and I'm not cold, and I
come from Snowland, and my sister is Queen of the Snow.
She was too busy to come herself, so she sent me to bring you."

" Bring me where ?" asked Arthur.

" Don't waste time asking questions," answered the Ice King;
"step on' the moonbeam, and you'll know in a few minutes."

" That won't hold me," said Arthur, getting out of bed;
" and, besides, I'll catch my death 0' cold going out. 'ithout my
hat."

" Boys that associate with the Ice King and his sister never
catch cold," said the Ice King, sternly. "Come on." And he
took Arthur's hand, and away they went out of the window----
up, up into the air.

Oh, what a fine ride it was! The stars grew brighter and
brighter as they grew nearer and nearer to them, and all around
them they heard faint whisperings like the rustling of autumn
leaves--the air~children talking merrily together.

At last, just as the Man in the Moon burst out laughing at
seeing a boy so far above the world in his night-gown, they
stopped; and " Oh-h-h!" exclaimed Arthur, as he looked upon
the scene before him.

The floor of the .place where they stood was made of the
clouds we see from our earth, and far above shone a sky bluer
and brighter than you can imagine. All around were little peo-
ple dressed like the Ice King, only they wore no crowns; but, on
a throne of purest snow, in an arch formed by a frozen rainbow,
sat the daintiest of creatures, looking as though she had been
made of white rose-buds. She was dressed in a white garment,
trimmed with feathers from the breast of the swan, and span-
gled here and there with flashing diamonds. Her faint, golden
hair fell in rippling waves to her tiny feet, and in her right hand
she held a sceptre of frosted silver. '

" Snow-people," she said. in a voice as sweet as the tinkling
of ice in a glass pitcher, "the little boy is here. To work--to
work; it is time the snow was falling." '

And immediately the shining creatures begun to catch the
air. as it were, in their little hands--for Arthur could see noth-
ing else--and then, pressing their palms tightly together for one
moment, they opened them the next to let fall the most beauti-
ful snow-flakes.

" Hurry! hurry !" cried the Snow Queen, and " Hurry !
hurry!" shouted her people, in clear and ringing voices.

And oh, how fast they worked! Snow-flake after snow-flake
fell from the clouds.

"Let me make some too," said golden-haired Arthur, and
he caught the cold air in his hands, pressed it, and out fell a
hard little lump.

" Stop, stop l" cried the Snow Queen, with a bird-like laugh;
"your hands are too large--besides, they're a boy's, and you
make snowballs."

"Dood gacious!" said Arthur, "I hope that didn't hit any
one down there." So he didn't try to help any more, but stood.
looking and laughing at the fun.
Such a jolly time! The stars winking and blinking; the
snow-babies tumbling about on the soft cloud-floor; the Ice
King shouting, "Faster! fasterl! faster!!!"

At last " Hark! hark!" called the Snow Queen--and twelve
o'clock floated up from the church-bells below.

And then came a rush and a tinkling of sleigh-bells. "There
goes Santa Claus !" cried the Snow-people. " Hurrah! hurrah !"

"Good-bye,blue-eyed Arthur," said the beautiful Queen.
" Your prayer has been granted; good-bye, and a merry Christ-
mas to you."

"And a merry Christmas to you," repeated her subjects over
and over, their voices growing fainter and fainter as Arthur felt
himself falling softly through the cold air; and as they entirely
died away he awoke, to find himself at home in his own little
bed, with the bedclothes on the floor, and a sunbeam lying on
the pillow.

" Did they really make it ?" he cried, as he sprung from the
bed and flew to the window.

The trees were dressed in garments like those the Snow
Queen wore, the ground was covered with snow, and hanging
from the window-ledge was the Ice King's crown, a. mimic rain-
bow frozen in each glittering icicle!

--<>oo--

THE 70LLY DOG'S PRACTICAL 9'0KE.

'TWAS near dinner-time,.and the pudding was hot,
So Nelly, her checks all aglow

(The master liked icy-cold pudding), ran out,
And popped the dish into the snow."PRAY Do 1' noun": YOURSELF."

For though on that morn smiling April was born,
A snow-heap that March left behind.

When he hastened away, in a dark corner lay
Of the garden, blown there by the wind.

Singing merrily, back to the kitchen went Nell,
When a jolly dog came up the lane.

"Aha! something good I" and he stopped and he sniffed,
Looked around, cocked his cars, sniffed again.

Then, the gate being open, he boldly walked in,
Going straight to the snowy spot where

The dish sat a-cooling--three great gulps he gave,
And a pudding no longer was there.
Down the stoop flew the maid. " I must now take it in,
For I'm sure by this time it is cool."

Said the dog, running off, " Pray don't trouble yourself;
1 have taken it in--April-fool !"

--<>o<>>--

"CHIRP" AND "SWEET."

THERE never had been such a gloomy time in our family
before. I mean since I can remember, and I am eleven, and
large for my age; (they call me "little Mollie," 'cause mamma is
" Mollie," too, though she really isn't much bigger than I am,)
and can remember 'way back to when I was four years old, and
wore a lace cap, with blue rosettes. And what made it gloom-
ier was because'it was the last week in April.

The last week in April used to be in our house just like the
week before Christmas, everybody making pretty things and hid-
ing them from everybody else; and lots of smiles and whispers
and bangwhango (I got that word from Brother Lou) secrets
all around.

'Cause papa and mamma were married the first week in
May, twelve years ago (the 2d); and I--their oldest child I
am--was born the first week in May (the 4th); and brother
Louis--he's suc/z a good boy I--was born the first week in May,
eight years ago (the 4th too); and dear, darling, blue-eyed baby
Violet came last May (the 7th). Isn't it funny? I-Iis "little
May blossoms " papa calls us.

But there were no secrets, no smiles, no whispers, no mak-
ing and hiding away things l/zz's last week in April. Oh, dear
me! no, indeed; for papa had lost his situation. Not through
any fault of his own, for papa is the best man in the whole
world; but the old firm died. No, I don't think it was the firm;
but somebody died, and there was something wrong about
money--'pears to me there's always something wrong about
money--and so the store was closed; and papa had nothing to
do, and couldn't find anything to do anywhere.

And two of Cousin Annie's music pupils--she only had four
(Cousin Annie boarded with us)--went to their grandmamma,
across the sea, and two stopped taking lessons, 'cause times
were so hard; and she couldn't get any more, for the same rea-
son. And the coal was out, and the flour-barrel empty, and the
rent hadn't been paid for two months; and how could we be
happy? -

But I must say mamma--she's the dearest mamma that ever
lived--looked just as sweet and patient as ever, in Spite of all
the dreadful trouble, 'cept once in awhile, when baby was asleep
and she thought nobody was looking at her, there'd come a
wrinkle in the middle of her forehead, like when you're puzzling
over a horrid sum in fractions.

There wasn't a dollar; no, nor a half a dollar; no, nor a
quarter of a dollar, in the house (oh! I forgot to tell you that
papa spent all his savings a few days before he lost his situation
on grandfather's funeral). And if the baker hadn't bought
papa's silver watch, and agreed to pay for it in bread, and the
grocer trusted us for a barrel of potatoes--a little frozen they'd
been, and he couldn't sell them to any one else--we would have
had nothing to eat.

Louis and I used to make believe we didn't want but two
slices of bread and two potatoes, when we could have eaten four
potatoes 52g, and four slices of bread t/zz'ne, so that papa, mam-
ma, and baby Violet could have more.

And I can just tell you it isn't so easy pretending you've
had enough, when you could eat twice as much, 'specially when
you're children, with .as good appetites as any children in the
United States of America.

Grandfather was mamma's father. And a nice old man he
was, too; only, I must say, he was rather stingy.

Papa had taken care of him ever since Lou was a baby, and
he had never given us a thing but a box of candies at Christ-
mas-time, and mamma a calico dress on the anniversary--my!
that's a long word, but there's longer in my definition-book--of
her wedding-day; though he earned a dollar a day every year of
his life, from the Ist of April till the ist of October, gardening.

But when he was dying he said to papa, " John, you've been
like an own son to me, and you'll find enough money to bury
me decently, and a hundred or so over, in--" And then he
died, before he could tell in what.

We searched everywhere for the money--in grandfather's
trunk (we even knocked the bottom out). and in all his pockets,
and under the carpet in his bedroom, and in the stove-hole in
the wall; but not a dollar did we find.

And it was the 13th of April--Emma Hill's birthday; and
I couldn't go to her party, because I had no dress, and we
expected to be turned out of our rooms in a few days, and we'd
had nothing but stale bread and cold water for breakfast, dinner,
and tea--when a man knocked at our door and said there was
a fire a few doors below, and some of the firemen would have to
go out at our scuttle with their hose, to send a stream of water
on the roofs of the other houses, so that they might not take
fire too.

We lived on the top floor, and above us was a little bit of a
loft--a heat-trap, papa called it; and he said it was put there to
catch some of the heat of the sun in summer, so that it could
not all go down-stairs--so small that Louis couldn't stand up '
straight in it; and there was no floor, only big beams, not very
close together.

Mamma kept some rags and old newspapers in one corner,
and some medicine-bottles on a little shelf; but we children
were forbidden to go up there, though it would have been a
splendid place to play Gypsies in. But mamma said she didn't
care to see the gypsies' legs breaking through her ceiling and
hanging over her head.

Well, a small ladder that stood in our entry was used for a
stairs to this loft, and up the ladder the firemen went, papa after
them, Lou after papa, and I after Lou.

You see, in the excitement we forgot all about being told
not to go in the loft. But as soon as papa spied us peeping out
of the scuttle at the blaze and smoke he said, "Go down, in-
stantly, children I" And we minded him of course.

Soon after the fire was put out, and the firemen and papa
came clown too, and we all went to bed, and fell sound asleep,
and didn't wake up till morning. At least,[didn't. And when
I did open my eyes the very first things I thought of were
" Chirp" and " Sweet." .

Now I must go back a year or more, and tell you about
" Chirp" and " Sweet," my birds. ,

One winter morning I was lying in bed, calling myself "a
lazy thing," and vowing that I'd jump out the very next mo-
ment, and then not doing it. It was so cold I could see my
breath, and it looked like smoke, when I heard a slight sound
at my window. "That's an icicle falling," thought I. But soon
came a tap and a chirp. I tell you I flew out of bed quick and
ran to the window; and there, sitting on the sill, looking in,
what do you think I saw? Not one little bird, as I had ex-
pected, but lwo bright-eyed, brown-feathered darlings. I opened
the window softly and crept away to the darkest corner of the
room, and stayed there as still as a mouse, not feeling the cold
at all. Wasn't that queer? And by-and-by in came one little
bird, and in a minute or two after the other. They flew to the
mantel, and sat there chirping and turning their little round
heads from side to side. And Ivcame out of the corner and
shut the window down, and then hurried and dressed myself, and
ran to mamma'for some bread-crumbs to feed them. They were
a little strange at the very first, and flew away and sat on my
book-rack, when I came near them to put the crumbs on the
mantel; but they soon came back, and ate their breakfast, look-
ing at me so cunning after every crumb they took, as much as
to say, "We know you love us." And they have lived with me
ever since that day.

Where they came from I never found out; but papa says
they must have been some child's pets, and got lost somehow.

But how did they know enough to stop at my window?
Perhaps some bird-angel told them they would find a friend
in me.

I named one " Chirp" and the other " Sweet," and mamma
bought me a nice little cage, where they stay while I am at"CHIRP" AND "SH/131572" 241

school; but when I am at home they are with me almost all
the time, one on each shoulder.

Well, the next morning after the fire the very first thing I
thought was, " Good gracious! I didn't feed 'Chirp' and
'Sweet' last night." I had just opened the door of their cage
to call them to supper, when the man knocked at our door and
told us about the fire.

" Poor little things!" said I to myself, hurrying on my
clothes, and not stopping to button my shoes. " That is the
reason they haven't talked any this morning." You know they
always begun to talk the moment daylight came, and sometimes
a little before. "'They're so hungry they can't talk." And I
went to the cage--and they were gone.

Then I searched my room carefully in every nook and cor-
ner, and even shook out the clothes in my closet. But no sign
of them. Oh clear! how badly I felt! A greatglump came in
my throat and big tears in my eyes.

I went out into the kitchen, where mamma was dressing
the baby by the fire, crying, "Oh, mammal mamma! my
darling birds are gone. They must have flown away last
night."

"Are you sure ?" asked mamma. And Violet, the sweet
little thing, put up her lip when she saw me crying, ready to
cry too.

" Yes. Their cage is empty, and they are nowhere in my
room. They must have followed me up the ladder and gone
out at the scuttle, and been so scared by the smoke and flames
that they dropped dead or something," I sobbed. " Oh, why did
I forget them? I never forgot them before."

16
" Don't cry, my daughter," said mamma, kissing me. " Per
haps they are in the loft. You may go up and look for them.
Push the scuttle open first, so that you can see, and be careful
that you don't fall between the beams. Dear me! there's the
landlord. I hear his voice down-stairs. He'll be here next ;"
and she sighed a great sigh.

I climbed up the ladder into the loft, crawled to the centre-
beam, then stood up and unlatched the scuttle.

Down on my hands and knees I went again, and peeped
into every corner, calling " Chirp " and "Sweet" all the time.

At last, as I was about giving up in despair, I heard a faint
sound coming from the place where the old newspapers were,
under the medicine-shelf; and, pulling the rags and papers
away, I saw grandfather's old straw garden-hat, which had been
hidden behind them.

And in the hat were my little pets.

But they were so tired and hungry and frightened that they
didn't know me at first, and wouldn't come out. But, after I
had coaxed for a few minutes, out came " Chirp," and I put my
hand in to take out " Sweet ;" but her wee feet had caught in
something and she couldn't get them loose. So I carried the
hat with her in it down-stairs, " Chirp " sitting in his old place
on my shoulder.

"Oh, I am very glad !" said dear mamma, when she saw me,
forgetting her own troubles for a moment. And baby Violet
pat-a--caked as fast as she could. '

"Sweet's" feet were entangled in some threads in the lin-
ing of the hat in such a queer way that I could not move them
without hurting her.
"Take the scissors and cut the lining out, my dear," said
mamma. " That will be the easiest and shortest way."

I did so. and "Sweet" was free. And there under the lining
lay five crisp, clean, lovely one-hundred-dollar bills!

I had found grandfather's money.

 

THANKS TO THE MADEIRA VINE.

THE founo'clock seeds, having been planted, just two feet
apart, the last day in May, had all, by the middle of June, sent
sturdy little rootlets down into the ground, and two dark-green
leaves above the ground, except one.

There was a broad space where it should have been, and the
two young plants at either end of the space looked \vonderingly
across it at each other.

" Where can our sister he ?" at last they said, in the same
breath.

" Alas !" answered a tiny, muffled voice, "I am still here
where the gardener placed me, in the dark ground."

" Why don't you come up? Why do you stay there ?" asked
the young plants, eagerly.

" There's a cruel stone above me that keeps me from mak-
ing my way to the light," replied the little prisoner. "It's a
small stone, but, alas! large enough to hold me captive.- What
shall I do? Must I perish here, and never give to the dewy eve
the fragrance of lovely, many-colored flowers--flowers beloved by
the moon and stars--flowers fltly called 'belles of the night?' "

" Poor little one!" said the young plants, in pitying tones.
" If it were anything but a stone that barred your way there
might be some hope of getting through it. But with 'a stone
that is impossible. We know not what to say to you. We fear--"

" Nonsense !" said a strong, cheery voice, and a Madeira
vine looked down on them from a wire. by the aid of which it
was climbing to the top of the porch. " You four-o'clocks are
so timid. Why, your beautiful blossoms can never make up
their minds to face the sun until he begins to slowly sink in the
west. But I've no fault to find 'with you about that. Be as
'modest as you please, but don't be faint-hearted. That you can-
not force your way through the stone, little seed, is true; but
you can go around it. Be patient, persevering, and never de-
spair. Feel your way gently along the earth until you reach a
spot where the stone is not. Then bravely turn your green
leaves toward the sky and hasten to join your sisters."

" But will I be as--as--as--pretty as they?" asked the little
seed, timidly. " Won't I be crooked, or something?"

"Not a bit of it," said the cheery Madeira vine. "All the
crooked of you will be underground, and that won't be much.
And what matter when, at last, you spring gladly into the light,
if you have had a little more work and trouble to get here than
the others? Believe me, you'll enjoy life all the more. The
sunshine will be brighter, the grass greener, the songs of the
birds sweeter to you than to your sisters, who came straight
up to them."

"Well, sister?" said the young plants, when the vine had
finished and once more waved its sprays in the summer air.

" I'm going round," answered the tiny voice, more muffled
than ever; and in a few days another happy little plant stood
rejoicing in the sunshine, thanks to the Madeira vine!A Sill/[1E GRACE.

"\w. Tlmxx THEE FOR Tuv mum; CARE."

A SAMPLE GRACE.

No kindred hath small Winifred
But her old grandfather, and he
Hath not a soul but her--and they

Together live in poverty.
So poor they are, my children, that
But seldom do they taste of meat,
And very oft of bread and milk

They scarcely have enough to eat.

N.
U:
STORIES IN PROSE AND VERSE.

And yet at every simple meal,
With folded hands, uplifted face,
The child in rev'rent silence waits
Till the old man has said this grace:
"We thank thee for thy loving care
That gives us, Lord, our daily bread."
Then, in the sweetest, childish voice,
"Amen!" says little Winifred.

THE END.INTERESTING BOOKS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.

THE BOY TRAVELLERS IN THE FAR EAST. By THOMAS W. KNox.
Four Parts. Copiously Illustrated. Sro, Cloth, $3 00 each.
PART I. Anvnx'rt'nus or Two You'rus IN A JOURNEY TO JAPAN AND CHINA.

PART 11. Anvns'rurcus or Two Yocrus IN A JOURNEY TO SIAM AND JAVA.
With Descriptions of Cochin-China, Cambodia, Suuiutra,und the Malay Archipel-
ago.

PART III. ADVENTURES or Two You'rus IN A JOURNEY TO CEYLON AND
INDIA. With Descriptions of Borneo, the Philippine Islands, and Bannuh.

PART IV. ADVENTURES 0? Two You'rus I): A Jouusz T0 EGYPT AND PAL-
ESTLVE.

HUNTING ADVENTURES ON LAND AND SEA. By THOMAS W.
KNOX. Two Parts. Copionsly Illustrated. Svo, Cloth, $2 50 each.
PART I. TIII: Yocxc Nmuons Ix NORTH AMERICA. .

PART 11. THE YOUNG Nmuons AuouND 1'11}: Wounn.

THE HISTORY OF A MOUNTAIN. By Eusfizn RECLUS. Illustrated
by L. Bennett. 121110, Cloth, $1 25.

WHAT MR. DAR\VIN SAW IN IIIS VOYAGE ROUND THE WORLD
IN THE SHIP "BEAGLE." Illustrated. Sro, Cloth, 353 00.

FRIENDS \VOR' 'I'I I(NO\VING. Glimpses of American Natural History.
By ERNEST INGERSOLL. Illustrated. 115nm, Cloth, $1 00.

WHO WAS PAUL GRAYSON? By JOHN I'IABBEBTON, Author of "Hel-
en's Babies." Illustrated. 161110, Cloth, $1 00.

THE FOUR )IACNICOLS. By "7. BLACK. Ill'd. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00.
AN ADVENTURE IN TI'IULE. By W. BLACK. 410, Paper, 10 cents.

TOBY TYLER; OR, TEN WEEKS WITH A CIRCUS. By JAMES Ons.
Illustrated. leo, Cloth,$l 00.

MIL STUBBS'S BROTHER. A Sequel to " Toby Tyler." By J A3135 Gus.
Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, $1 ()0.

TIM AND TIP; OR, THE ADVENTURES OF A BOY AND A DOG.
By JAMES OTIS. Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, 81 00.

)IILDRED'S BARGAIN, AND OTHER STORIES. By LUCY C. LILLIE.
Illustrated. 16Ino, Cloth, $1 00.

NAN. By LUCY C. LILLIE. Illustrated. 1(imo, Cloth, $1 00.

NEW GAMES FOR I'ARLOR AND LAWN. By G. B. BARTLETT.
IGIno, Cloth, $1 00.

BY CHARLES CARLETON COII'FIN. Four Volumes. Illustrated. Svo
Cloth, s3 00 each.

Tin-2 STORY OF LIBERTY.--OLD TIMI-ZS IN THE Commas--Tim BOYS
0? '76. A History of the Battles of the RC\'0lllLl01L--BU1LD1NG THE
NATION.

)2 Interesting Books for Young People.

 

CAMP LIFE IN THE WOODS; AND THE TRICKS OF TRAPPING
AND TRAP MAKING. By \V. I'IAMIIJ'ON GIBSON, Author of "Pas-
toral Days." Illustrated by the Author. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00.

THE TALKING LEAVES. An Indian Story. By W. O. STODDARD. Il-
lustrated. 16luo, Cloth, 31 00.

DIDDIE, DUMI'S, AND TO"; OR, PLANTATION CIIILD -LIFE. By
LOUISE-CLARKE I'ruNEIJJt. Illustrated. 16Ino, Cloth, 81 00.

THE MORAL PIRATES. By W. L. ALDEN. Ill'd. 16nto, Cloth, 81 00.

THE CRUISE OF THE "GHOST." By W. L. ALDEN. Illustrated. 16mo,
Cloth, 81 00.

THE CRUISE OF THE CANOE CLUB. By W. L. ALDEN. Illustrated.
1_6mo, Cloth, $1 00.

HOW TO GET STRONG, AND HOW TO STAY SO. By VVILLIAII
BLAIKIE. With Illustrations. 16mo, Cloth, $1 00.

THE HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES NAVY, FOR BOYS. 13y
Bsxsox J. Lossmc, LLJ). Illustrated. 121110, Cloth, $1 75.

FRENCH HISTORY FOR ENGLISH CHILDREN. Bv SARAH Bnoou.
Revised and Edited by GEORGE CARY EGGLESTON. With Illustrations
and Maps, 12mo, Cloth, $1 00.

THE ADVENTURES OI" A YOUNG NATURALIST. By LUCIEN BIART.
With 117 Illustrations. 12mo, Cloth, $1 75.

AN INVOLUNTARY VOYAGE. By Locum Bum. Illustrated. 12mo,
Clot $1 25.

THE BOYI'IOOD 0F MARTIN LUTHER; or, The Snfl'erings of the Lit-
tle BeggarwBoy who afterward became the Great German Reformer.
By HENRY MAYIIEW. Illustrated. 16Ino, Cloth, $1 25.

THE STORY OF TIIE PEASANT-BOY PIIILOSOPHER. (Founded on
the Early Life of Ferguson, the Shepherd-Boy Astronomer, and intended
to show how a Poor Lad heranle Acquainted with the Principles of'Nal-
nral Science.) By HENRY MAYHI-zw. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25.

YOUNG BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. A Story to show how Young Benja-
min Learned the Principles which raised him from a I'rinter's Boy to
the First Ambassador of the American Republic. By HENRY Marumr.
Illustrated. 16mo, Cloth, 81 25.

THE WONDERS OF SCIENCE; or, Young Humphry Davy (the Cornish
Apotheeal'y's Boy who Taught Himself Natural Philosophy, and event-
ually became President of the Royal Society.) The Life ot'a Wonderful
Boy. By HENRY Marnuw. 16mo, Cloth, $1 25.

SCIENCE FOR THE YOUNG. B JACOB ABBO'I'r. Illustrated. 4 rols.:
IIeaL--Ligltt-- Water and Lam .----Force. 12mo, Cloth, 81 50 each.
 

ROUND THE \VORLD; including a Residence in Victoria, and a Journey
by Rail across North America. By a Boy. Edited by SAMUEL SMILES.
Illustrated. 12mo, Cloth, $1 50.

THE SELF-HELP SERIES. By SAMUEL SMILES. ,

SEI.F-I'IEI.P. 12mo, Cloth, s1 00.--CnAnAm'i-:u. l2mo, Cloth, 81 00.--
Tnmm'. 12mo, Cloth, 31 00.--Du'rv. I2mo, Cloth, $1 00.

THE BOYHOOD 01" GREAT MEN. By Jon}: G. EDGAR. Illustrated.
IGnm, Cloth, 8| 00.

THE FOO' 'PRINTS OI" FAMOUS MEN. By JOHN G. EDGAR. Illus-
trated. 16nio, Cloth, 81 00.

HISTORY FOR BOYS; or, Annals of the Nations of Modern Europe. By
JOHN G. EDGAR. Illustrated. . l6mo, Cloth, $1 00.

SEA-KINGS AND NAVAL HEROES. A Book for Boys. By JOHN G.
EDGAR. Illustrated. 16Ino, Cloth, $1 00.

THE WARS OI" THE ROSES. By JOHN G. EDGAR. ' Illustrated. leo,
Cloth, 31 00.

POLITICS FOR YOUNG AMERICANS. By )nARths NonDuom-x 12mo,
Half Leather, 75 cents.

STORIES OF THE ISLAND WORLD. By CHARLES NORDHOFF. Illus--
trated. l2mo, Cloth, $1 00.

THE THOUSAND AND ONE NIGHTS; or, The Arabian Nights' Enter-
tainments. Translated and Arranged for Family Reading, with Explan-
atory Notes, by E. \V. LANE. 600 Illustrations by Harvey. 2 vols,
12mo, Cloth, $3 50.

STORIES 01" THE GORILLA COUNTRY. By PAUL B. Du CHAILLU.
Illustrated. 12nm, Cloth, $1. 50.

THE COUNTRY OI" THE D'VARFS. By PAUL B. DU CnAILLU. Illus-
trated. I2Ino, Cloth, :31 50.

\VILD LIFE UNDER THE EQUATOR. By PAUL B. DL' CHAILLU. Il-
lustrated. 12mo, Cloth, 81 50.

MY AI'INGI KINGDOM: with Life in the Great Sahara, and Sketches of
the. Chase ol' the Ostrich, Hyena, &c. By PAUL B. Du CHAILLU. Illus-
trated. l2mo, Cloth, 31 50.

LOST IN THE JUNGLE. By PAUL B. DU CHAILLU. Illustrated. 12mo,
Cloth, 541 50.

OUR CHILDREN'S SONGS. Illustrated. Svo, Ornamental Cover," 00.

THE HISTORY OF SANDFORD AND MERTON. By THOMAS DAY.
l8mo, Half Bound, 75 cents.

YOUTH'S HEALTH-BOOK. 32am, Paper, 25 cents; Cloth, 40 cents.

STORIES OF THE OLD DOMINION. From the Settlement to the End
of the Revolution). By J on): ESTES Coon; Illustrated. l2mo, Cloth,
31 50.H"

THE HISTORY 01" A MOU'I'IIFUL OI" BREAD, and its Effect on the
Organization oI'Men and Animals. By JEAN MACE. Translated from
the Eighth French Edition by Mrs. ALFRED Garry. 121110, Cloth, $1 75.

THE SERVAN'I'S OI" THE STOMACII. By JEAN MACE. Reprinted
from the London Edition, Revised and Corrected. 121110, Cloth, 81 75.

FRED MARKHAM IN RUSSIA; Or, The Boy Travellers in the Land of
the Czar. By \V. H. G. KINGSTON. Illustrated. Small 4w, Cloth, 75 cts.

SELF-MADE MEN. By CHARLES C. B. SEYMOUR. Many Portraits. 121110,
Cloth, $1 75. '

THE LIFE AND SURI'RISING ADVENTURES OF ROBINSON CRU-

SOE, of York, Mariner; with a Biographical Account of DEFOE. Illus-
trated by Adams. Complete Edition. 121110, Cloth, 81 00.

THE S\VISS FAMILY ROBINSON ; or, Adventures ofa Father and Moth-
er and Four Sons on 11 Desert Island. Illustrated. 2 vols., 181110, Cloth,
81 50.

THE SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON--Continued: being a Sequel to the
Foregoing. 2 vols., 181110, Cloth, $1 50.

DOGS AND THEIR DOINGS. By Rev. F. 0. MORRIS, B.A. Illustrated.
Square 81'0, Cloth, Gilt Sides, 8'1 75.

TALES FROM THE ODYSSEY FOR BOYS AND GIRLS. By C. M. B.
321110, Paper, 25 cents; Cloth, 40 cents.

THE ADVENTURES OF REUBEN DAVIDGER; Seventeen Years and
Four Months Captive among the Dyaks of Borneo. By J. GREENWOOD.
SVO, Cloth, Illustrated, 81 25; 4to, Paper, 15 cents.

WILD SPORTS OF THE WORLD. A Book of Natural History and
' Adventure. By J.Gmumwooo. Illustrated. Crown,8vo,Cloth,$2 50.

CAST UP BY THE SEA; or, The Adventures of Ned Grey. By Sir SAM-
UEL \V. BAKER, M.A., F.R.S., I".R.G.S. 121110, Cloth, Illustrated, :31 25;
4to, Paper, 15 cents.

HOMES WITHOUT HANDS: Being a Description of the I-Iabitations of
Animals, classed according.r to their Principle of Construction. By the
Rev. J. G. WOOD, M.A., F.L.S. With about 140 Illustrations engraved
on \Vood by G. Pearson, from Original Designs made by I". W. Keyl and
E. A. Smith, under the Author's Snperintendcnce. 81'0, Cloth, $4 50;
Sheep, $5 00; Roan, $5 00; IIall'Calf, $6 75.

THE ILLUSTRATED NATURAL HISTORY. By the Rev. J. G. \Voov,
M.A., F.L.S. \Vith 450 Engravings. 121110, Cloth, $1 05.

 

PUBLISHED BY HARPER & BROTHERS, New YORK.

W Any of the alum works cent by mall, postage prepafd. (a any part a] the United Slams, on receipt of
. the price.1111:1-1111 fl - -. - . - - -. . - - - . .T. - ,- .\_ 1 - - --. --- ..-..-- - -- 11.- - _. -- 11-; ,- . 1-1-1- . .. n. . ,I - 7-. .
a '. 1-... WI!.. 9-1.0. '3'...- a.' ' , . - u 2- - .- ml - - --. --_. -. - - -- - - - - - - - - .

I I r"; I. I .I '1'!)1C=1| I"I.fi-- -
}SS'4fiuo Tmlwq-Ia'bpqu-nr t4...-
0 03"".1' Inn-"a0 -

t .514? .

.,. _ - .- - -.- ,. -. . ; . . . ,- . ., . - <<2: 3.71111". _. .WE-Q.
Van-dun... . 7. . . . . , .. - . 1......>> .oxu,.-n4..... 3.
3-3., -. . _ ., f . . . - . - .- . . - . - , $11

-[.Y= 1 IL. I
u-Kufi:
-' .
--

.ulaw'b .uu ..
-C
.14 rim. $3.13.); .-

vu'l I
-1 D.

1 . .u m .w .n n A ..
. "Mg 1-... u! . a. 1-1-5. v. p : .15. o. Alwaha' xlflafikutqiw. .
(7'4 {.13 JEUROpfllC/0i Q... I". . 9...>>.k .r Ital}... so} .1
AL. .7 - -

a..\ E.>> Q .

 

11%! -m- ,fl-fltrh; u-nru.