911119323 '

 

Thu Baldwin Libnry"w n, wTHE

LIFE AND ADVENTURES

l
0F

ROBINSON CRUSOEROBINSON CRUSOE'S ADVEN'I'URES.

_\v(THE LIFE

AND

STRANGE ADVENTURES

OF

ROBINSON CRUSOE,

As Related by. Himself.

Bx'

- DANIEL DEFOE.

151m] One Hundred and Seventeen Original Illusu'atzons.

W. B. CONKEY COMPANY,
CHICAGO.

.I v.-"xms "ms GAME mung)" ('32.)[All-

"rnxs "'AS GAME INDEED" . . . . . . . . . 4
HEADPIECE . . . . . . . . . . . 11
"'vov'xg nur A FRESH-WATER SAILOR'" , . . . . . 15
"ms WALKED o.\' FOOT To unuou'm" - . . . . . . 19
"svxmssn IN we <<may or nu: MORNING". . . . . . . 23
"I PROVE!) vmu' DEXTEROUS" . . . . ._ ._ . . 24
"'w you com: NEAR Tm: near, x'u. $5007 100'" . . . . 26
"w: FILLED mm JARS" . . . . . . . . . 29
"x BOUGHT up. A NEGRO SLAVE" . . . . . . . , 3"!
"L'ooxxxt; ovxm nu: CHARTS" . . . . . , , . 41
"WE mas-ramp OUR Dnsmucnox mm aux own HANDS" . . . 42
"I was now LANDED" . . . . . . . . . 45
"x 25mm A smu mucus 0P Roma" . . . . , , . 48
"sum-:5 THAT WERE NOT FELLOWS " . . . . . .

'x FELL PAST ASLEEP" . . . . . . .. . . 50
"A com'ussn scumuxo Ami cmrmc" . . . . . . "
"THE x11) FOLLOWED ms" . . . . . . . . . 60

  
 

WANTED non-mm: THAT up. couu) maven mt" . . . . 64

may ALL "can mom- UPON THE DOG" . . . . g . 68
"A mm: or wum mesons" . . . . . . . . 69
"I WAS scnmsxm AND PERFEC'I'LY ASTONISHED" . . . ._ . 72
"omunmc m TOOLS" . . . . . . . . . '13
"l CAUGHT A mum; non-mu" . . . . . . . . '16
"A LARGE TORTOISE, on TURTLE" . . . . _ 'n

, "woman IT on THE cons" . . . . . . . 81
PAGE

"1 WENT ur 1m: cam: FIRST " . . . . . . , 87
"I sowun m' GRAIN " _ . . . . V . . . 90
"I DascENDED A LITTLE ON 1ch suns or THAT DELICIOUS VALLEY " . . 91
"I xNocxnn 1T nowza WITH A STICK" . . . . . . - 98
"AN IXFINITI': NumuI-zk ov FOWLS" . . . . . . . 100
"1 ann AGAIN" . . . . . . . . . .104
"I RANGE!) my.>> IN cums "' . . . . . . . . 105
"WHAT 01m, MISSIIAI'BN, UGLY THINGS I MADE" . . . . . 109
"I ":50sz TO DIG IN'I-o rm: suxnca or run mum" . . . 113
' 'I; 3mm: ME A SUIT 0F CLO'I'NBs" . . - . . . . . 118
"I BROUGHT 11' INTO THE cxmsx" . . . h . . . . 1'21
"I FELL 9N MY KNIcIss" . . . . . . . . .126
"HOW LIKE A KING I DINED" . . . . . . . . 130
"I swoon LIKE ONE TWNDBRSTRUCK" . . . . . . .132
"I IIAD uv COUNTRY SEAT" . . . . . . . . 185
"My EVENING DIVERSION" . . . . . . . . .140
"TU 5m: II- I COULD cassava ANY nous" . . . ' . . . 147
"A PLACE WHERE 'I-IIImF. HAD mum A Imus MADE" . . . . ,149
"1 s'muum mu A LITTLE" . . . . . . . . 152
"A LIGHT 01-' 50m: FIRE uwN THE SIIonE" . . . . . .158
"nu: coxx'sz or A DROWNED my" . . . . . . . 161
"BEGaN T0 EXAMINI: nu: PARTICULARS" . . . . . .164
"1 WAS THE.' usLIGIsI) T0 moor" . . . . . . . . 169
'uANCING ROUND THE FIRE" . . . . . . . . I71
"Ar ONE anv CUT OPP HIs HEM)" . . . . . . . 1'74
"1 PRESENTED MY PIECE" . . . . . . . . .179
"I ENTERED INTO A LONG DISCOURSE" . . . . . . 183
"uI'oN SEEING THIS non, FRIDAY swoon JIUSING A Gun \vIIILE" . .187
"INCH BY INCII UPON GREAT ROLLERS" . . . . . . 190
'I MADE DIRECTLY TOWARDS THE POOR VICTIM" . . . . . 195
"IN nus rosrun: w: MARCHBD our" . . . . . . 196
' "1 FIRED AGAIN AMONG THE MIN/.21) wnu'rcuus" . . . . . 197
"\vnINGING MV swoxv our or $5 HAND" . . . . . . 201
"m' ma PLAINLY nxscovmum A 51111' LYING AT AN ANCHOR " . . . 205
"'WHAT ARE Y2, GENTLEMIIN?" . . . . . . - . 209
"may BEGGED ma mmcv" . . . . . . . . 212
"snow THE NEW CAPTAIN THROUGH 'I'I-II: HEAD" . . . . . 221
"1 snowy." TNBM THE NEW CAYI'MN HANGING AT THE YARD'ARX OP Tm: smr" 22?
"wow THIS HE PULLS our AN OLD POUCH" . . . . . 281
"TWO or 1-11: Ivnuvns I'LEW III'ON T1112\GL'IDE " . . . . . 23-5
"'WIIAT YOU No com; "MI-Hm?" . . . . . . . 239

"THEY CAME 0N us WITH A GKOWLING KIND OF A NOISE" . - - .242LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

PART II. .

"I Human UPON MY OWN LAND "
"IT WAS ALL T0 N0 PURPOSE" .
"THE SHIP mam up" . .

"THE MATE BROUGHT sxx MEN WITH um" .

"I FOUND THE POOR MEN ON BOARD ALMOST IN A TUMULT

"I CAME FAIR ON TKE SOUTH SIDE OF MY ISLAND." .
"'no You xor meow ms?" . . . .
"BABE mm: sun>> on" . . . . .

"WITH 0241-: 31.0w 01' ms FIST Kxocxum um DOWN"

"THEY CAME UP I.\' A VERY sunmssxvn, HUMBLE

"THEY "'ERE SURPRISE!) "'I'I'H SEEING A LIGHT" .

"INDIANS JUST comm; 0N SHORE" .

"PLACBD HIMSELF 1151-"sz14 mu AND nus SAVAGE"

"11mm: STRANGE mm comm: TOWARDS um"

"DREW LOTS AMONG THEM" .

"THREE SAVAGES may? BEHIND, AND LYING FAST ASLEEP"
"ALL 'rItEm HUTS AND HOUSEHOLD STUFF FLAMING L'P TOGETHER"

"CAMP. RANGING ALONG nus snow." .
'mst'rmmn 1111352 r-oox cstTcRus"

"Am THEIR PROVISIONS VERY THANKFULI.\'"
"IN THIS GREAT REEJII'VE LIVED THE nuusu

"we MADE A SPLKNDID FEAST" .-
"MAnx EVERY on: A LIGHT con"
"WE WALKED 0s" . . . .
"MADE x: A van LOW now" .
"mm; ALL mm: TO ME" . .
"ATKINS AND ms TAWNY WIFE" .

' w: CALLED Hm I.\' ALON

"MADE max KNKKL HY Hm ' .
"WE _>!ARRIPSD 7mm THE snua DAY"
"GAVE 'nusn SUCH A nmnsmn"
"I HAVE BROUGHT you As ASSISTANT"

  

"GIVING THEM A SALUTE OF FIVE GUNS'

"KILLED,PO0K FRIDAY" . . .
"WI: GAVE 'num A VOLLIzv" .
"rm: cow warn- ox savour: THEM" .

mm [was "

"IKE snownn ME THE won FELLOW HANGING" .
"COMES TO ME 0st DAY AN ENGLISHMAN" .

"COULD SEE THE BOATS AT A DISTANCE

MARKER "

Inn.

2.56
. 261
284
. 269
272
. 273
279
. 282
28"!
. 290
291
. 295
298
. 304
307
. 312
315

. 335
559

347to ' Renmsow CRUSOE.

_ non.
"ran NAULED H811 SAIL" . . . . . . . . 406
"'wau. "mm, JACK! GIVE THE)! 5mm mom; 0? 11"" . . 1 . 412
"A non CAME on" . . . . . . . . 418
"mwucm' "1!anch or THINGS TO SELL" . . . . . . 416
"m: emu-z 'm in: mm our. 01" THE MISSIONARY rkms'rs" . . . 424
"A's sooN AS THEY s.\w us, oxr. on 1-1ng 81.22"! A KIND m7 HORN" . . 481
"KILLED 'A'HK SECOND wn'n HIS PISTOL" . . . . . . 435
"'1'\\'0.(JF 1mm smzan THE rum"! AND TOOK fins mum." . . L440
"SENT THREE mnssn'xcnns '1'0-115'I . .' - . . . . . 449
"mmmm: us Is PINE vzxxsox" . . . . . . . . 454

mnmmca . . . . . ; . . . . 463
 

though not of that country, my father being a foreigner, of Bremen,

who settledfxrst at Hull; he got a good estate by merchandise, and
leaving off his trade, lived afterwards at York; from whence he had marv
ricd my mother, whose relations were named Robinson, a very good family .
in that country, and from whom I was called Robinson Kreutznaer; but, by
the usual corruption of words in England. we are now called, nay. we call
ourselves. and write our name, Crusoe; and so my companions always
called me.

I had two elder brothers, one of whom was lieutenant-colonel to an
English regiment of foot in Flanders, formerly commanded by the famous
Colonel Lockhart. and was killed at the battle near Dunkirk against the
Spaniards. What became of my second brotherl never know, any more
than my father or mother did know what was become of me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to any trade, my head
began to be filled very early with rambling thoughts; my father, who was
very ancient. had given me a competent share of learning. as far as house- I
education and a country free-school generally goes, and designed me [or
the law; but I would be satisfied with nothing but going to sea; and my
inclination to this led me so strongly against the will, nay, the commands.
of my father, and against all the entreaties and persuasions of my mother
and other friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in that propen-
sion of nature, tending directly~to the life of misery which was to befall
me;

My father, :1 wise and grave man, gave me serious and excellent coun-

D

I WAS born in the year 1632. in the city of York, of a good family,
set against what he foresaw was my design. He called me one morning
into his chamber, where he was confined by the gout, and expostulatcd
very warme with me upon this subject; he asked me what reasons, more
than a mere wandering inclination, I had for leaving my father's house
and my native country, where I might be well introduced. and had a
prospect of raising my fortune by application and industry, with a life of
ease and pleasure. llc told me it was men of desperate fortunes on one
hand.-or of aspiring, superior fortunes on the--other, who went abroad
upon adventures, to rise by enterprise and make themselves famous in
undertakings of a nature out of the common road; that these things were
all either too far above me or too far below me ; that mine was the middle
state, or what might be called the upper station of low life, which he had
found by long experience was the best state in the world, the most suited

.' to human happiness, not exposed to the miseries and hardships. the labor
. . . . .
_and sufferings of the mechanic part of mankind, and not embarrassed With

the pride, luxury. ambition, and envy of the upper part of mankind. He
told me I might judge of the happiness of this state by this one thing, Vin,
that this was the state of life which all other people envied; that kings have
frequently lamented the miserable consequence of being born to great
things, and wished they had been placed in the middle of the two extremes,
between the 'mean and the great ; that the wise man gave his testimony to
this, as the just standard of true felicity, when he prayed to have neither
poverty nor riches. -

He bade me observe it, and I should always find that the calamities of
life were shared among the upper and lower part of mankind ; but that the
middle station had the fewest disasters, and was not ekposcd to so many
vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of mankind ; nay, they were not
subjected to so many distempers and uneasiness, either of body or mind, as
those were who, by.vicious living, luxury and extravaganccs on one hand,
or by hard labor, want of necessaries, and mean or insufi'lcicnt diet on the
other hand, bting distempers upon themselves by the natural consequences
of their way of living ; that the middle station of lifewas calculated for all
kind of virtues and all kind of enjoyments; that peace and plenty were the
handmaids of a middle fortune; that temperance, moderation. quietness,
health, society, all agreeable diversions, and all desirable pleasures, were
the blessings attending the middle station of life; that this way men Went
silently and smoothly through the world. and comfortably out of it, not
embarrassed with the labors of the hands or of the head, not sold to a life
of slavery for daily bread, nor harassed with perplexed circumstances,
which rob the Soul of peace, and the body of rest; nor enraged with the
passion of envy, or the secret burning lust of ambition for great things; but,
in easy circumstances, sliding gently through the world,and sensibly tasting
the sweets of living, without the bitter; feeling that they are happy, and
learning by every day's experience to know it more sensibly.MY FATHER'S ADVICE. . 13

After this he pressed me earnestly,and in the most afieCtionatc manner,
not to play the young man, nor to precipitate myself into miseries which
nature, and the station of life I was born in, seemed to have provided
, against; that I was under no necessity of seeking my bread; that he would
do well for me, and endeavor to enter me fairly into the station of life which
he had just been recommending to me; and that if I was not very easy and
happy in the world, it must' be my mere fate or fault that must hinder it;
and that he should have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his
duty in warning me against measures which he knew would be to my hurt;
in a word. that as he would do very kind things for me, if I would stay and
settle at home as he directed, so he would not have so much hand in my
misfortunes as to give me any encouragement to go away; and to close all.
he told me I had my elder brother for an example. to whom he had used
the same earnest persuasions to keep him from going into the Low Country
wars, but could not prevail, his young desires prompting him to run into the
army, where he was killed; and though he said he would not cease to pray
for me, yet he would venture to say to me. that if I did take this foolish.
step, God would not bless me. and I should have leisure hereafter to reflect
upon having neglected his counsel. when there might be none to assist
in my recovery.

I observed in this last part of his discourse, which was truly prophetic,
though I suppose my father did not know it to be so himself-4 say, I
observed the tears run down his face very plentifully, especially when he
spoke of my hrother who was killed; and that when he spoke of my having
leisure to repent. and none to assist me, he was so moved that he broke
off the discourse and told me his heart was so full he could say no more
to me.

I was sincerely affected with' this discourse, as indeed who could be
otherwise? and I resolved not to think of going abroad any more, but to
settle at home according to my father's desire. But. alas! a few days were
it all off; and. in short, to prevent any of my father's further importunities,
in a few weeks after I resolved to run quite away from him. However, I
did not act quite so hastily neither as the first heat of my resolution
prompted, but I took my mother at a time when I thought her a little more
pleasant than ordinary, and told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent
upon seeing the world that I should never settle to anything with resolu-
tion enough to go through with it, and my father had better give me his
consent than force me to go without it; that I was now eighteen years old,
which was too late to go apprentice to a trade, or clerk to an attorney; that
I was sure, if I did, I should never serve out my time.but I should certainly run
away from my master before my time was out, and go to sea; and if she
would speak to my father to let me go one voyage abroad. if I came home
again. and did not like it, I would go no more, and I would promise. by a
double diligence, to recover the time that I had lost.
This put my mother into a great passion; she told me she knew it would
be to no purpose to speak to my father upon any such subject; that he
knew too well what was my interest to give his consent to anything so much
for my hurt, and that she wondered how I could think of any such thing
after the discourse I had had with my father, and such kind and tender
expressions as she knew my father had used to me, and that in short, if I
would ruin myself, there was no help for me; but I might depend I should
never have their consent to it; that for her part she would not have so much
hand in my destruction. and I should never have it to say that my mother
was willing when my father was not. -

Though my mother refused to move it to my father, yet I heard after-
ward that she reported all the discourse to him, and that my father, after
a great concern at it. said to her with a sigh: "That boy might be happy
it he would stay at home; but if he goes abroad he will be the most miser-
able wreteh that ever was born; I can give no consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke loose, though. in the
meantime I continued obstinately (leaf to all proposals of settling to busi-
ness, and frequently expostulatcd with my father and mother about their
being so positively determined against what they knew my inclinations
prompted me to. But being one day at Hull, whither I went casually, and
without any purpose oImaking an elopement at that time--but I say, being
there, and one of my companions being going by sea to London in his
father's ship. and prompting me to go with them, with the common allure-
ment of a sea-faring man. that it should cost me nothing for my passage, I
consulted neither father nor mother any more, nor so much as sent them
word of it; but leaving them to hear of it as they might, without asking
God's blessing, or my father's, without any consideration of circumstances
or consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the Ist of September,
lost. I went on board a ship bound for London. Never any young adven-
turer's misfortunes, I believe, began sooner or continued longer than mine,
The ship was no sooner got out of the Humber than the wind began to
blow. and the sea to rise in a most frightful manner; and, as I had never
been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly siCk in body, and terrified in
mind: Ihegan now seriously to reflect upon what] had done, and how
justly I was overtaken by the judgment of Heaven (or my wicked leaving

' my father's house and abandoning my duty. All the good counsels of my
parents, my father's tears and my mother's entreaties, came now fresh into
my mind; and my conscience. which was not yet come to the pitch of hard-
ness to which it has come since, reproached me with the contempt of advice
and the breach of my duty to God and my father.

All this while the storm increased, and the sea went very high, though
nothing like what I have seen many times since; no, not what I saw a few
days after; but it was enough to affect me then, who was but a young sailor,
and had never known anything of the matter. I expected every wave would
have swallowed us up. and that every time the ship (all down. as I thought
_it did, in the trough or hollow of the sea, we should never rise more; in this
agony of mind I made many vows and resolutions. that if it would please
God to spare my life in this one voyage, if ever I got once my foot upon

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"vou'iuz mm A FRESH-WATER SAILOR '" (fi. 16).

dry land again, I would go directly home to my father, and never set it into
a ship again while I lived; that I'would take his advice, and never run
myself into such miseries as these any more. Now I saw plainly the good-
ness of his observations about the middle station of life, how easy. how
comfortable he had lived all his days, and never had. been exboscd toi
.
1

 

i
h
l

 

 

16 ROBINSON CRUSOE.

tempests at sea, or troubles on shore; and, in short, I resolved that I would,
like a true repcnting prodigal, go home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while the storm lasted,
and indeed some time after; but the next day the wind was abated, and the
sea calmer, andl began to be a little inured to it; however, I was very
grave for all that day, being also a little sea--sick still; but towards night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a charming fine evening
followed; the sun went down perfectly clear, and rose so the next morn-

- ing, and having little or no wind and a smooth sea, the sun shining upon it.

the sight was, as I thought, the most delightful that ever] saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more sea--sick, but very
cheerful, looking with wonder upon the sea that was so rough and terrible
the day before, and could be so calm and so pleasant in so little :1. time
after. And now, lest my good resolutions should continue, my companion
who had enticed me away comes to me.

" Well, Bob," says he, clapping me upon the shoulder, " how do you do
after it? I warrant you were frighted, wer'n't you, last night. when it blew
but a capful of wind? "

"A capful d'you call it? " said I; " 'twas a terrible storm."

"A storm, you fool, you! " replies he; " do you call that a storm? why.
it was nothing at all; give us but a good ship and sea-room and we think
nothing of such a squall of wind as that; but you're but a fresh-water sailor,
Bob. Come, let us make a bowl of punch, and we'll forget all that; d'ye see
what charming weather 'tis now?"

To make short this sad part of my story, we went the way of all sailors;
the punch was made, and I was made half drunk with it; and in that one
night's wickedness I drowned all my repentance, all my reflections upon my
past conduct, all my resolutions for the future. In a word. as the sea was
returned to its smoothness of surface and settled calmness by the abatement
of that storm, so the hurry of my thoughts being over, my fears and appre-
hensions of being swallowed up by the sea being forgotten, and the current
of my former desires returned, I entirely forgot the vows and promises that
lmade in my distress. I found, indeed, some intervals of reflection; and
the serious thoughts did, as it were, endeavor to return again sometimes;
but I shook them off, and roused myself from them as it were from a dis-
temper, and applying myself to drinking and company. soon mastered the
return of those fits, for so I called them; and I had, in five or six days, got
as complete a victory over my conscience as any young fellow that resolved
not to be troubled with it could desire. But I was to have another trial for
it still; and Providence, as in such' cases generally it does, resolved to leave
me entirely without excuse; for if I would not take this for a deliverance,
the next was to be such aone as the worst and most hardened wretch among
us would confess both the danger and the mercy.

The sixth day of our being at sea we came into Yarmouth Roads; theTHE STORM IN YARMOUTH ROADS. 1'!

wind having been contrary, and the weather calm, we had made but little
way since the storm. Here we were obliged to come to an anchor, and here
we lay, the wind continuing contrary, viz., at southwest, for seven or eight
days, during which time a great many ships from Newcastle came into the
same Roads, as the common harbor where the ships might wait for a wind
for the river.

We had not, however, rid here so long but we should have tided it
up the river, but that the wind blew too fresh, and, after we had lain four or
five days, blew very hard. However, the Roads being reckoned as good as
an harbor. the anchorage good, and our ground-tackle very strong, our men
were unconcerned. and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but spent
the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the sea; but the eighth day,
in the morning, the wind increased, and we had all hands at work to strike
our top-masts. and make everything snug and close, that the ship might
ride as easy as possible. By noon the sea went very high indeed, and our
ship went forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought once or twice
our anchor had come home; upon which our master ordered out the sheet-
anchor. so that we rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered out
to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now Ibegan to see
terror and amazement in the faces even of the seamen themselves. The
master, though vigilant in the business of preserving the ship, yet as he
went in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly to himself say,
several times, " Lord, be merciful to us! we shall be all lost! we shall be all '
undone!" and the like. During these first hurries I was stupid, lying still in
my cabin. which was in the steerage, and cannot describe my temper. I
could ill resume the first penitence, which I had so apparently trampled
upon, and hardened myself against: I thought the bitterness of death had
been past, and that this would be nothing. too, like the first; but when the
master himself came by me, as I said just now, and said we should be all
lost, I was dreadfully frighted. I got up out of my cabin, and looked out;
but such a dismal sight I never saw; the sea ran mountains high, and broke
upon us every three or four minutes. When I could look about, I could see
nothing but distress round us; two ships that rode near us, we found, had
cut their masts by the board, being deep-laden; and our men cried out that
a ship which rode about a mile ahead of us was foundered. Two more
ships, being driven from their anchors, were run out of the Roads to sea,at
all adventures, and that not with a mast standing. The light ships fared
the best, as not so much laboring in the sea; but two or three of them drove,
and came close by us, running away with only their spritsail out before the
wind.

Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the master of our ship
to let them cut away the foremast, which he was very unwilling to do; but

the boat'swain protesting to him that if he did not the ship would founder,' 18 ROBINSON caisson.

he consented; and when they had cut away the foremast, the mainmast
stood so loose, and shook the ship so much, they were obliged to cut that
' away also, and make a clear deck.

And one must judge what a condition I must be in at all this, who was
but a young sailor, and who had been in such a {right before at but a little.
But if I can express at this distance the thoughts I had about me at that
time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account of my former con-
victions, and the having returned from them to the resolutions I had wick-
edly taken at first, than I was at death itself; and these, added to the ter-
ror of the storm, put me into such a condition, that I can by no words
describe it. But the worst was not come yet; the storm continued with such
fury that the seamen themselves acknowledged they had never seen a worse.
We had a good ship, but she was deep-laden, and wallowed in the sea, so
that the seamen every now and then cried out she would founder. It was
my advantage, in one respect, that I did not know what they meant by
flmmlcr, till I inquired. However, the storm was so violent that I saw, what
is not often seen, the master, the boatswain, and some others more sensible
than the rest, at their prayers, and expecting every moment when the ship
would go to the bottom. In the middle of the night, and under allthe rest
of our distresses, one of the men that had been down to see, cried out we
had sprung a leak; another said there was [our feet water in the hold.
Then all hands were called to the pump. At that word, my heart, as I
thought, died within me; andI tell backwards upon the side of my bed,
where I sat. into the cabin. However. the men roused me, and told me
that I, that was able to do nothing before, was as well able to pump as
another; at which I stirred up, and went to the pump, and worked very
heartily. While this was doing, the master seeing some light colliers who,
not able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and run away to the
sea, and would come near us, ordered to fire a gun as a signal of distress.
I, who knew nothing what they meant, thought the ship had broken, or
some dreadful thing happened. In a word. I was so surprised that I fell
down in a swoon. As this was a time when everybody had his own life to
think of, nobody minded me, or what was become of me; but another man
stepped up to the pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let me lie,
thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while before I came to my-
self. -

We worked on; but the water increasing in the hold, it was apparent that
the ship would founder; and though the storm began to abate a little, yet
as it was not possible she could swim till we might run into any port. so the
master continued firing guns for help; and a light ship, who had ritl it out
just ahead of us, ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the utmost
hazard the boat came near us; but it was impossible for us to get on board
or for the boat to lie near the ship's side, till at last the men rowing very
heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our men mast them a ropeWE LEAVE THE SHIP. 15

over the stem with a buoy to it,and then veered it out a great length; which
they, after much labor and hazard, took hold of, and we hauled them close
under our stern, and got all lnto their boat. It was to no purpose for them
or us. after we were in the boat; to think of reaching to their 'own ship; so
all agreed to let her til-hie, and only to pull her in towards short: as

 

"WE WALKED ON 3001' T0
YARMUUTH." (p.20).

much as we could; and our master promised them that if the boat was
staved upon shore, he would make it good to their master: so partly row
ing and partly driving, our boat went away to 'thc northward, sloping
towards the shore almost as far as Winterton N css'.

We were not much more than a quarter of an hour out of our ship till we
saw her sink, and then I understood for the first time what was meant by a
ship foundering in the sea. I must acknowledge I had hardly eyes to look
up when the seamen told me she was sinking; for from the moment that
they rather put me into the boat, than that I might be said'to go in, my
heart was, as it were, dead within me, partly with fright, partly with horror
of mind, and the thoughts of what was yet before me.

While we were in this condition. the men yet laboring at the car to bring
the boat near the shore, we could see (when, our boat mounting the waves,
we were able to see the shore) a great many people running along the
strand, to assist us when we should come near; but we made but slow way
towards the shore; nor were we able to reach the shore till, being past the
lighthouse at Winterton, the shore falls off to the westward, towards Cromer,
and so the land broke off a little the violence of the wind. Here we got in.
and, though not without much difficulty, 'ot all safe on shore, and walked
afterwards on foot to Yarmouth, where, as unfortunate men, we were used
with great humanity, as well by the magistrates of the town, who assigned
us good quarters, as by particular merchants and owners of ships, and had
money given us sufficient to carry us either to London or back to Hull. as
we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull, and have gone
home, I had been happy,and my fathei,an emblem of our blessed Saviour's
parable, had even killed the fatted calf for me; for hearing the ship I went
away in was cast away in Yarmouth Roads, it was a great while before he
had any assurances that l was not drowned.

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy that nothing could
resist; and though I had several times loud calls/from my reason, and my more
composed judgment, to go home, yet I had no power to do it. I know not
what to call this, nor will I urge that it is a secret overruling decree that
hurries us on to be the instruments of our own destruction, even though it
be before us, and that we rush upon it with our eyes open. Certainly, noth-
ing but some such decreed unavoidable misery attending, and which itwas
impossible for me to escape, could have pushed me forward against the calm
reasonings and persuasions of my most retired thoughts, and against two
such visible obstructions as I had met with in my first attempt.

My comrade, who had helped to harden me before, and who was the
master's son. was now less forward than I. The first time he spoke to me
after we were at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days, for we
were separated in the town to several quarters--I say the first time he saw
me, it appeared his tone was altered; and looking very melancholy, and
shaking his head. he asked me how I did,_ and telling his father who 1 was,
and howl had come this voyage only for atrial, in order to go farther
abroad: his father turning to me with a very grave and concerned tone,
" Young man," says he, " you ought never to go to sea'any more; you ought
to take this for a plain and visible token that you are not to be a sea-faringANOTHER VOYAGE. 21

man." "Why, sir." said I, " will you go to sea no more?" " That is another
case," said he; " it is my calling. and therefore my duty; but as you made
this voyage for a trial, you see what a taste Heaven has given you of what
you are to expect if you persist. Perhaps this has all befallen us on your
account, like Jonah in the ship of Tarshish. Pray," continues he, "what
are you; and on what account did you go to sea? " Upon that I told him
some of my story; at the end of which he burst out into a strange kind of
passion: " What had I done," says he, " that such an unhappy wretch should
come into my ship? I. would not set my foot in the same ship with thee
again for a thousand pounds." This indeed was, as I said, an excursion of
his spirits, which were yet agitated by the sense of his loss, and was farther
than he could have authority to go. However, he afterward talked very
gravely to me, exhorting me to go back to my father, and not tempt Provi-
dence to my ruin; telling me I might see a visible hand of Heaven against
me. "And, young man," said he, " depend upon it, if you do not go back,
wherever you go, you will meet with nothing but disasters and disappoiut~
ments, till your father's words are fulfilled upon you."

We parted soon after, for I made him little answer, and I saw him no
more; which way he went I know not. As for me, having some money in
my pocket, I traveled to London by land; and there, as well as on the road,
had many struggles with myself what course of life] should take, and
whether I should go home or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions that offered to my
thoughts; and it immediately occurred to me how I should be laughed at
among the neighbors, and should be ashamed to see, not my father and
mother only, but even everybody else; from whence I have often since
observed how incongruous and irrational the common temper of mankind is,
especially of youth, to that reason which ought to guide them in such cases,
viz., that they are not ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not
ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to be esteemed fools, but
are ashamed of the returning which only can make-them be esteemed wise
men. .

In this state of life, however, I remained some time, uncertain what
measures to take, and what course of life to lead. An irresistible reluctance
continued to going home; and as I stayed awhile, the remembrance of the
distress I had been in wore off; and as that abated, the little motion I had
in my desires to a return wore off with it, till at last I quite laid aside the
thoughts of it, and looked out for a voyage.

That evil influence which carried me first away from my father's house,
which hurried me into the wild and undigested notion of raising my fortune;
and that impressed those conceits so forcibly upon me, as to make me deaf
to all good advice, and to the entreaties and even the commands of my
father--1 say, the same influence, whatever it was, presented the most
unfortunate of all enterprises to my view; andI went on board a vessel
bound to the coast of Africa; or, as our sailors vulgarly call it, a voyage to
Guinea".

It was my great misfortune that in all these adventuies I did not ship
myself as a sailor; when, though I might indeed have worked a little harder
than ordinary, yet at the same time I should have learned the duty and
office of a [oremast man, and in time might have qualified myself for a mate
or lieutenant, if not for a master. But as it was always my fate to choose for
the worst, so I did here; for having money in my pocket, and good clothes
upon my back, I would always go on board in the habit of a gentleman;
and so I neither had any business in the ship nor- learned to do any,

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good company in London,
which does not always happen to such loose and misguided young fellows as

'I then was; the devil generally not omitting to lay some snare for them very
early; but it was not so with me I first got acquainted with the master ofa
ship who had been on the coast of Guinea, and who, having had very good
success there, was resolved to go again; this captain taking a fancy to my
:onversation, which was not at all disagreeable at that time, hearing me say
i had a mind .to see the world, told me if I would go the voyage with him,
I should be at no expense; I should be his messmate and his companion;
anti if I could carry anything with me, I should have all the advantage of
it that the trade would admit, and perhaps I might meet with some
encouragement.

I embraced the offer; and entering into a strict friendship with this cap-
tain, who was an honest, plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him,
and carried a small adventure with me, which, by the disinterested honesty
of my friend the captain. I increased very considerably; for I carried about
PS40 in such toys and trifles as the captain directed me to buy. This PS40 I
had mustered together by the assistance of some of my relations whom I
corresponded with, and who. I believe, got my father, or at least my
mother, to contribute so much as that to my first adventure.

This was the only voyage which I may say was successful in all my
adventures, and which I owe to the integrity and honesty of my friend the
captain; under whom also I got a competent knowledge of the mathematics
and the rules of navigation, learned how to keep an account of the ship's
course, take an observation, and, in short, to understand some things that
were needlul to be understood by a sailor; for, as he took delight to
instruct me, I took delight to learn; and, in a word, this voyage made me
both a sailor and a merchant; [or I brought home five pounds nine ounces
of gold-dust for my adventure, which yielded me in London, at my return,
almost PS300; and this filled me with those aspiring thoughts which have
since so completed my ruin.

' (mined--A district 0; that part at the West Coast 0! Main-II when the lgpdrung pun-Ir dun east and Nib
The six monies into which it in divided are known to sailors under the names 0! Sim Loam). Grain
Coast. Ivory Coast. Gold Con-h Slave Cow. and Benin.A GUINEA TRADER. 23

  

"stmrmsuu IN THE on" or 4
THE bionsxxo."

Yet even in this voyage I had mymisiortuncs too; particularly, that l was
continually sick, being thrown into a violent calenture by the excessive heat
of the climate; our principal trading being upon the coast, from the latitude
of fifteen degrees north, even to the line itself.

I was now set up for 3 Guinea trader; and my friend, to my great mis-
fortune, dying soon after his arrival, I resolved to go the same voyage
again, and I embarked in the same vessel with one who was his mate in the
former voyage, and had now got the command of the ship. This was the
unhappiest voyage that ever man made; for though I did not carry quite
PS100 of my new-gained wealth, so that I had PS200 left which l had
lodged with my' friend's widow, who was very just to me, yet I fell into
terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first Was this, viz., our ship
making her Couts'e' towards the Canary Islands, or rather between those
islands and the African shore, was surprised in the gray of the morning by
a Moorish rover of Sallee, who gave chase to us with all the sail she could
make. We crowded alsoas much canvas as our yards would spread. or our
masts carry, to haVe got clear; but finding the pirate gained upon us, and
would certainly Come up' with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight; our
ship having tWelve guns. and the rogue eighteen. About three in
the afternoon he came up with us. and bringing--to by mistake, just athwart
our quarter, instead of athwart our stern as he intended, we brought eight
of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a. broadside upo." him,
which made him sheer off again, after returning our fire, and pouring in
also his small shot from near two hundred men which he had on board.
However, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping close. He pre-
pared to attack us again,' and we to defend ourselves; but laying us on
board the next time upon our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon our
decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking the sails and rigging.
We plied them with small shot, half-pikes, powder-chests and such like,
and cleared our deck of them twice. However, to cut short this melancholy
part of our story, our ship being disabled, and three ofour men killed, and
eight wounded, we were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners
into Sallee. a port belonging to the Moors.

The usage I had there was not so dreadful as at first I apprehended; nor
was I carried up the country to the Emperor's court, as the rest of our men
were, but was kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize, and
made his slave, being young and nimble, and fit for his business. At this
surprising change of my circumstances from a merchant to a miserable
slave, I was perfectly ovenvhelmcd; and now I lodtcd back upon my
father's prophetic discourse to me, that I should be miserable and have
none to relieve me; which I thought was now so effectually brought to
pass, that I could not be worse; for now the hand of Heaven had overtaken
me, and I was undone without redemption. But. alas! this was but a taste
of the misery I was to go through, as will appear in the sequel of this story.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home to his house, sol
was in hopes that he would
take me with him when he
went to sea again, believing
that it would some time or
other be his fate to be taken by
a Spanish or Portuguese man-
of--war; and that then Ishould
be set at liberty. But this hope
of mine was soon taken away ;
for when he went to sea. he left
me on shore to look after his
little garden, and do the com-
mon drudgery of slaves about
his house; and when he came
home again from his cruise, he
ordered me to lie in the cabin
to look after the ship.

Here I meditated nothing
but my escape, and what method
Imight take to effect it; but
found no way that had the least
Pl'ObilbilitY in it; nothing pre- "I mover) vanr Dex-renous." (p.25).A DEXTEROUS FISHERMAN. 2.5

sentcd to make the supposition of it rational; for I had nobody to com-
municate it to that would embark with me; no fcllmwslave, no Englishman,
Irishman, or Scotsman .there but myself; so that for two years, though I
often pleased myself with the imagination, yet I never had the encouraging
prospect of putting it in practice.

After about two years, an odd circumstance presented itself. which put
the old thought of making some attempt for my liberty again in my head.
My patron lying at home longer than usual without fitting out his ship,
which, as I heard, was for want of money, he used constantly, once or twice
a week, sometimes oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's pin-
nace, and go out into the road a-fishing; and as he always took me and a
young Moresco with him to row the boat, we made him very merry, and I
proved very (lexterous in catching fish ; insomuch that sometimes he would
send me with a Moor, one of his kinsmen, and the youth, the Moresco, as
they called him, to catch a dish of fish for him.

It happened one time that, going a-fishing with him in a calm morning.
a fog rose so thick, that, though we were not half a league from shore, we
lost sight of it ; and rowing we knew not whither or which way we labored
all day, and all the next night ; and when the morning came, we found we
had pulled out to sea instead oi pulling in for the shore; and that we were
at least two leagues from the land. However, we got well in again,
though with a great deal of labor, and some danger; for the wind began
to blow pretty fresh in the morning; but particularly we were all very
hungry.

But our' patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to take more care of
himself for the future; and having lying by him the long--boat of our English
ship which he had taken, he resolved he would not go a-fishing any more
without a compass and some provision; so he ordered the carpenter of his
ship, who also was an English slave, to build a little state-room, or cabin,
in the middle of the long-boat, like that of a barge, with a place to stand
behind it to steer, and haul home the main-sheet; and room before for a
hand or two to stand and work the sails. She sailed with what we call a
shoulder-of-mutton.sail; and the boom jibbed over the top of the cabin,
which lay very snug and low, and had in it room for him to lie. with a slave
or two, and a table to eat on, with some small lockers to put in some bot-
tles of such liquor as he thought fit to drink, and particularly his bread, rice
and coffee.

We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing; and as 1 was most dex-
terous to catch fish for him, he never went without me. It happened that
he had appointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure or for fish, with
two or three Moors of some distinction in that place, and for whom he had
provided extraordinarily, and had therefore sent on board the boat over--
night a larger store of provisions than usual; and had ordered me to get
ready three fusils'E with powder and shot, which were on board his ship, for
that they designed some sport of iowling as well as fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed; and waited the next morning
with the boat washed clean, her ancient'f' and pendants out, and everything
to accommddate his guests; when by and by my patron came on board
alone, and told me his guests had put off going, from some business that
fell out, and ordered me, with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the
boat and catch them some fish; for that his Iriends were to sup at his house;
he commanded me, too, that as soon as I had got some fish, I should bring
it home to his house; all which 1 prepared to do.

This moment, my former notions of deliverance darted into my thoughts,
for now I found I was likely to have a little ship at my command; and my
master being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not {or fishing business,
but for a voyage; though I knew not, neither did I so much as consider,
whither I would steer; for anywhere to get out of that place was my desire.

My first contrivance was to make a pretense to speak 'to this Moor, to
get something for our subsistence on board; for I told him we must not
presume to eat of our patron's bread. He said, that was true; so he brought
a large basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind, and three jars with fresh
water, into the boat. I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood,
which it was evident, by the make, were taken out of some English prize,
and I conveyed them into the boat while the Moor was on shore, as if they
had been there before for our master. I conveyed also a great lump of
beeswax into the boat, which weighed about half an hundrcdweiglit, with a
parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a. saw, and a hammer, all of which were
of great use to us afterward, especially the wax to make candles; Another
trick I tried upon him which he innocently came into also: his name was
Ismael, which they call Muley, or Moely; so I called to him: "Moely," said
1, "our patron's guns are all on board the boat; can you not get a little
powder and shot? It may be we may kill some alcamies" (a fowl like our
curlews) "for ourselves, for I know he keeps the gunner's stores in the ship."
"Yes," says he, "l'll bring some;" accordingly. he brought a great leather
pouch, which held about a pound and a half of powder, or rather more: and
another with shot, that had five or six pounds, with some bullets, and put
all into the boat. At the same time I had found some powder of my mas-
ter's in the great cabin, with which I filled one of the large bottles in the
case, which was almost empty, pouring what was in it into another; and
thus furnished with everything neediul, we sailed out of the port to fish.
The castle, which is at the entrance of the port, knew who we were, and
took no notice of us; and we were not above a mile out of the port before
we hauled in our sail, and sat us down to fish. The wind blow from the
N.N.E., which was contrary to my desire; for had it blown southerly, I had

' Mail. In French word, meaning at light musket or "NEIGflk.
1' Ancient. the old word. derivui from tho quuh undone. tor a this, or the man who units it."'1? YOU cow. mun 1m: BOAT. l'LL 51-1001 you" (/1. '28).

21
been sure to have made the coast of Spain, and atvleast reached to the bay .
of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow which way it would, I would be
gone from that horrid place where I was, and leave the rest to fate.

After we had fished some time and caught nothing, for when I had fish
on my hook I would not pull them up, that he might not see them. I said
to the Moor, "This will not do; our master will not be thus served; we must
stand farther off." He, thinking no harm, agreed, and, being in the head
of the boat, set the sails; and. as I had the helm,I ran the boat out near
a league farther, and then brought her to as if Iwould fish; when, giving
the boy the helm, I stepped forward to where the Moor was, and making
as if 1 stooped for something behind him, I took him by surprise with my
arm under his waist, and tossed him clcar overboard into the sea. He rose
immediately. for he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to be taken
in, telling me he would go all over the world with me. He swam so strong
after the boat. that he would have reached me very quickly, there being
but little wind; upon which I stepped into the cabin, and fetching one
of the fowling-pieces, I presented it at him, and told him I had done
him no hurt, and if he would be quiet I would do him none: " But," said I,
" you swim well enough to reach the shore. and the sea is calm; make the
best of your way to shore. and I will do you no harm; but if you come near
the boat, I'll shoot you through the head, for I am resolved to have my
liberty." So he turned himself about, and swam for the shore, and I make
no doubt but he reached it with ease, for he was an excellent swimmer.

1 could have been content to have taken this Moor with me, and have
drowned the boy, but there was no venturing to trust him. When he was
gone, I turned to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him, " Xury,
if you will be faithful to me. I'll make you a great man; but if you will not
stroke your face to be true to me" (that is, swear by Mahomet and his
father's beard). "Imust throw you into the sea too." The boy smiled in
my face, and spoke so innocently, that I could not mistrust him, and swore
to be faithful to me. and go all over the world with me.

While I was in the view of the Moor that was swimming,l stood out
directly to sea, with the boat rather stretching to windward, that they
might think me gone towards the Straits" mouth (as indeed any one
that had been in their wits must have been supposed to do); for who would
have supposed we were sailing on to the southward, to the truly barbarian
coast, where whole nations of negroes were sure to surround us with their
canoes. and destroy us; where we could never once go on shore but we
should be devoured by savage beasts, or mere merciless savages cf human
kind?

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening I changed my course, and
steered directly south and by east, bending my course a little towards the
east, that I might keep in with the shore, and having a fair, fresh gale of

whom. the Shiite 0! Gibraltar.WITH XURY IN THE BOAT. 29

wind and a smooth, quiet see, I made such sail that I believe by the next
day at three o'clock in the afternoon, when I first made the land, I could
not be less than one hundred and fifty miles south of Sallee, quite beyond
the Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any other king there-
abouts, for we saw no people. V

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors, and the dreadful

    

c.1453
N- W"
Qtyii'wiflf;
.1 K<<HM I,| '
"ll H .

gig-gall" ;

         
  

.. .\ \- ""
"nurzull'ufl'w/JI
II/p'l'l 0

Wm

"we FILLED oux JARS " (15. 31).

apprehensions I had of falling into their hands, that I would not stop or go
on shore or come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair till I had sailed in
that manner five days, and then, the wind shifting to the southward, 1 con-
cluded also that if any of our vessels were in chase of me. they also would
now give over; so I ventured to make to the coast and came to an anchor in
the mouth of a little river, I knew not what nor where; neither what lati-
tude. what country, what nation. or what river. I neither saw nor desired to
see any people; the principal thing I Wanted was fresh water. We came
into this creek in the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it was
darl: and discover the country; but as soon as it was quite dark we heard
such dreadful noises of the barking. roaring and howling of wild creatures.
of we knew not what kinds. that the poor boy was ready to die with fear, and
begged of me not to go on shore till day. "Well, Xury," said I, "then I
won't, but it may be we may see men by day who will be as bad to us as
those lions." "Then we give them the shoobgun," says 'Xury, laughing,
"make them run wey." Such English Xury spoke by conversing among as
slaves. However, 1 was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and I gave him a
drain (out of our patron's case at bottles) to cheer him up. After all, Xury's
advice was good and I took it. We dropped our little anchor and lay still
all night. I say still, for we slept none; for in two or three hours we saw
vast great creatures (we knew not what to call them), of many sorts, come
down to the sea shore and run into the water, wallowing and washing them-
selves for the pleasure of cooling themselves; and they made such hideous
liowiings and yellings that I never, indeed. heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully frighted, and indeed so was I, too; but we were
both more Irighted when we heard one mighty creature come swimming
towards our boat; we could not see him, but we might hear him by his
blowing to be a monstrous. huge. and furious beast. Xury said it was a lion
and it might be so for aught I know; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh
the anchor and row away. " No," says I, "Xury, we can slip our cable, with
the buoy to it, and go to sea; they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner
said so but I perceived the creature, whatever it was, within two oars' length,
which something surprised me; however. I immediately stepped to the
cabin~door, and taking up my gun. fired at him, upon which he immediately
turned about and swam towards the shore again.

But it is impossible to describe the horrid noises and hideous cries and
honlings that were raised, as well upon the edge of the shore as higher
within the country, upon the noise or report of agun. a thing I have some
reason to believe those creatures had never heard before. This convinced
me that there was no going on shore [or us in the night upon that coast,
and how to venture on shore in the day was another question, too; for to'
have fallen into the hands of any of the savages had been as bad as to have
fallen into the paws oI lions and tigers, at least we were equally apprehen-
sive of the danger of it.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore somewhere or other
for water, for we had not a pint left in the boat; when or where to get it was
the point. Xury said, it I would let him go on shore with one of the jars,
he would find it there was any water, and bring some to me. 1 asked him
why he would go? why I should not go, and he stay in the boat? The boy
answered with so much affection. that made me love him ever after. Says"'E VENTURE ON SHORE. 31

he, "If wild mans come, they eat me, you go wey." "Well, Xury," said I,
"we will both go, and if the wild mans come, we will kill them, they shall
eat neither of us." So I gave Xui'ya piece of rusk-bread to eat, and a dram
out of our patron's case of bottles which I mentioned before; and we hauled
the boat in as near the shore as we thought was proper, and waded on
shore, carrying nothing but our arms, and three jars For water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing the comingof canoes
with savages down the river; but the boy, seeing a low place abouta mile up
the country, rambled to it, and by and by I saw him come running towards me.
I thought he was pursued by some savage, or frighted with some wild beast,
and I ran forward towards him to help him; but when Icame nearer to him,
I saw something hanging over his shoulders, which was a creature that he
had shot, like a hare, but different in color, and longer legs; however, we
were very glad oi it, and it was very good meat; but the great joy that poor
Xury came with, was to tell me he had found good water, and seen no wild
mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such pains for ..'a.tcr, fora
little higher up the creek where we were, we found the water fresh when the
tide was out, which flows but a little way up; so we. filled our jars, and
feasted on the hare we had killed, and prepared to go on our way, having
seen no footsteps of any human creature in that part of the country.

As I had been one voyage to this Coast before, I knew very well that
the Islands of the Canaries, and the Cape (le Verd Islands also, lay not far
off from the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an observation to
know what latitude we were in, and did not exactly know, or at least not
remember, what latitude they were in, I. knew not where to look for them,
or when to stand of! to sea towards them; otherwise I might now easily have
found some of these islands. But my hope was that if I stood along this
coast till I came to that part where the English traded, I should find some
of their vessels upon their usual design of trade, that would relieve and take
us in.

By the best of my calculation, that place where I now was must be
that country which, lying between the Emperor of Morocco's dominions
and the negroes, lies waste and uninhabited, except by wild beasts; the
negrocs having abandoned it, and gone further south, for fear of the Moors;
and the Moors not thinking it worth inhabiting, by reason of its barrcnness;
and indeed both forsaking it because of the prodigious numbers of tigers,
lions, leopards, and other furious creatures which harbor there; so that the
Moors use it for their hunting only, where they go like an army, two or
three thousand men at a time; and, indeed, for near a hundred miles
together upon this coast, we saw nothing but a waste uninhabited country by
day, and heard nothing but howlings and roarings of wild beasts by night.

Once or twice in the day-time I thought I saw the Pico of Teneriffe,
being the high top of the mountain Tenerifte in the Canaries; and had a
great mind to venture out, in hopes of reaching thither; but having failed
twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds, the sea also going too high
for my little vessel; so I resolved to pursue my first design, and keep along
the shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water, after we had left this
place, and once in particular, being early in the morning, we came to an
anchor under a little point of land, which was pretty high; and the tide
beginning to flow. we lay still to go farther in. Xury, whose eyes were
more about him than it seems mine were. calls softly to me, and tells me
that we had best go farther off the shore; "for,"says he, "luok,yonder lies
a dreadful monster on the side of that hillock, fast asleep." I looked
where he pointed, and saw a dreadful monster, indeed, for it was a terrible
great lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the shade of a piece of
the hill that hung, as it were, a little over him. "Xury," says I, "you shall
go on shore and kill him." Xury looked frighted, and said, "Me kill! he
eat me at one mouth," one mouthful he meant. However, I said no more
to the boy, but bade him be still, and took our biggest gun, which was
almost musket~hore. and loaded it with a good charge of powder, and with
two slugs, and laid it down; then I loaded another gun with two bullets, and
the third (for we had three pieces) I loaded with five smaller bullets. Itook
the best aim I could with the first piece to have shot him in the head,but he
lay so, with his leg raised a little above-his nose, that the slugs hit his leg
about the knee and broke the bone. He started up growling at first, but
finding his leg broke. fell down again; and then got up upon three legs,
and gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard. I was a little surprised
that I had not hit him on the head; however, I took up the second piece
immediately, and though he began to move off, fired again, and shot him
in the head, and had the pleasure to see him drop; and making but little
noise, he lay struggling for life. Then Xury took heart, and would have
me let him go on shore. "Well, go," said I; so the boy jumped into the
water, and taking the little gun in one hand, swam to shore with the other
hand, and coming close to the creature. put the muzzle of the piece to his
ear. and shot him in the head again, which dispatched him quite.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food; and I was very sorry
to lose three charges of powder and shot upon a creature that was good for
nothing to us. However, Xury said he would have some of him; so he
comes on board, and asked me to give him the hatchet. "For what, Xury?"
said I. "Me cut off his head," said he. However, Xury could not cut oil
his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it with him, and it was 3 mon-
strous great one.

I bcthought myself however, that perhaps the skin of him might. one
way or other, be of some value to us; and I resolved to take off his skin if
I could. So Xury and I went to work with him; but Xury was much the
better workman at it, for I knew very ill how to do it. Indeed. it took us up

-TRAFFIC "'ITII THE NATIVES, 38

both the whole day, but at last we got off the hide of him, and spreadingit
on the top of our cabin. the sun effectually dried it in two days' time. and
it afterwards served me to lie upon.

After this stop we made on to the southward continually for ten or
twelve days. living very sparingly on our provisions, which began to abate
very much, and going no oftener into the shore than we were obliged to for
fresh water. My design in this was to make the River Gambia or Senegal:
that is to say, anywhere about the Cape dc Verd, where I was in hopes to
meet with some European ship; and if I did not I knew not what course I
had to take but to seek for the islands or perish there among the negroes.
I knew that all the ships from Europe which sailed either to the coast of
Guinea or to Brazil. or to the East Indies, made this cape or those islands
and, in a word. I put the whole of my fortune upon this single point. either
that I must meet with some ship or must perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days longer, as I have
said. I began to see that the land was inhabited; and in two or three places
as we sailed by we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us; we could
also perceive they were quite black and stark nakcd. I was once inclined
to have gone on shore to them. but Xury was my better counselor and said
to me. "No go. no go." However. I hauled in nearer the shore that I might
talk to them. and I found they ran along the shore by me a good way; I
observed they had no weapons in their hands, except one. who had a long
slender stick. which Xurysaid was a lance,-and that they could throw them
a great way with good aim. so I kept at a distance, but talked to them by
signs as well as I could. and particularly made signs for something to eat;
they beckoned to me to stop my boat and they would fetch me some meat
Upon this. I lowered the top of my sail and lay by, and two of them ran up
into the country, and in less than half an hour came back and brought with
them two pieces of dry flesh and some corn, such as is the produce of their
country; but we neither knew what the one or the other was; however, we
were willing to accept it. but how to come at it was our next dispute, for I
would not venture on shore to them. and they were as much afraid of us;
but they took a safe way for us all. for they brought it to the shore and laid
it down.and went and stood a great way off till we fetched it on board. and
then came close to us again.

We made signs of thanks to them, for we had nothing to make them
amends; but an opportunity offered that very instant to oblige them won-
derfully, for while we were lying on the shore came two mighty creatures.
one pursuing the other (as we took it) with great fury from the mountains
towards the sea. Whether it was the male pursuing the female, or whether
they were in sport or in rage we could not tell, any more than we could
tell whether it was usual or strange. but I believe it was the latter. because,
in the first place, those ravenous creatures seldom appear but in the night.
and in 'the second place we found the people terribly frighted, especially
the women. The man that had the lance or dart did not fly from them,
but the rest did; however, as the two creatures ran directly into the water
they did not offer to fall upon any of the negroes. but plunged themselves
into the sea, and swam about as if they had come for their diversion. At
last one of them began to come nearer our boat than at first I expected, but
I lay ready for him. for I had loaded my gun with all possible expedition,
and bade Xury load both the others. As soon as he came iairly within my
reach I fired, and shot him directly in the head. Immediately he sank
down into the water, but rose instantly and plunged up and down as if he
was struggling for life, and so indeed he was; he immediately made to the
shore, but between the wound, which was his mortal hurt, and the stran-
gling of the water, he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to express the astonishment of these poor creatures at
the noise and fire of my gun; some of them were ready even to die for fear,
and fell down as dead with the very terror. But when they saw the creature
dead, and sunk into the water, and that I made signs to them to come to
the shore, they took heart and came to the shore, and began to search for
the creature. I found him by his blood staining the water; and bythe help
of a rope, which I slung round him, and gave the negroes to haul, they
dragged him on shore. and 1 found that is was a most curious leopard,
spotted, and fine to an admirable degree; and the negroes held up their
hands with admiration, to think what it was I killed him with.

The other creature. frighted with the flash of fire and the noise of the
gun. swam to the shore, and ran up drirectly to the mountains from whence
they came, nor could I at that distance know what it was. I found quickly
the negroes were for eating the flesh of this creature, so I was willing to
have them take it as a favor from me; which, when I made signs to them
that they might take it, they were very thankful for. Immediately they fell
to work with him; and though they had no knife, yet, with a sharpened piece
of wood, they took off his skin as readily, and much more readily, than we
would have done with a knife. They offered me some of the flesh, which I
declined, making as if Iwould give it them; but made'signs for the skin,
which they gave me very freely, and brought me a great deal more of their
provision, which, though I did not understand, yet I accepted. Then I
made signs to them for some water, and held out one of my jars to them,
turning its bottom upward, to show that is was empty,and that I wanted to
have it filled. They called immediately to some of their friends, and there
came two women, and brought a great vessel made of earth, and burnt as I
suppose in the sun; this they set down for me, as before, and I sent Xury
on shore with my jars and filledvthem all three. The women were as stark
naked as the men.

I was now furnished with roots and corn, such as it was, and water;
and leaving my friendly negroes,l made forward for about eleven days
more, without ofifering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run out aI'ICKED UP BY A PORTUGUESE SHIP. 35

great length into the sea, at about the distance of four or five leagues before
me; and the sea being very calm, I kept a large offing to make this point.
At length, doubling the point at about two leagues from the land,I saw
plainly land on the other side, to seaward; then I concluded, as it was most
certain indeed, that this was the Cape dc Verd, and those the islands called,
from thence, Cape dc Vcrd Islands. However, they were at a great dis--
tance, and I could not well tell what I had best do; torif I should be taken
with a fresh gale of wind, I might neither reach one nor other.

In this dilemma, as 1 was very pensive, I stepped into the cabin and sat
me down, Xury having the helm; when, on a sudden, the boy cried out.
" Master, master, a ship with a sail! " and the foolish boy was frighted out
of his wits thinking it must needs be some of his master's ships sent to pur-
sue us, when I knew we were gotten far enough out ofthcir reach. I jumped
out of the cabin, and immediately saw, not only the ship, but that it was a
Portuguese ship; and, as I thought, was bound to the coast of Guinea, for
negroes. But, when I observed the course she steered, I was soon convinced
they were bound some other way, and did not design to go any nearer the
shore; upon which I stretched out to the sea as much as I could, resolving
to speak with them it possible.

"1th all the sail I could make, I found I should not be able to come in
their way, but that they would be gone by before I could make any signal
to them; but after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to despair, they.
it seems. saw me by the help of their perspective glasses, and that it was
some European boat, which they supposed must belong to some ship that
was lost; so they shortened sail to let me come up. I was encouraged with
this, and as I had my patron's ancient on board. I made a wait ofit to them
[or a signal of distress, and fired a gun, both of which they saw; for they
told me they saw the smoke, though they did not hear the gun. Upon these
signals they very kindly brought to, and lay by [or me; and in about three
hours' time I came up with them

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in Spanish, and in French,
butI understood none of them; but at last a Scotch sailor, who was on
board, called to me; and I answered him, and told him I was an Englishman,
that had made my escape outoi slavery from the Moors at Sallee; they then
bade me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and all my goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me, which any one will believe, that I was
thus delivered, as I esteemed it, from such a miserable and almost hopeless
condition as I was in; and I immediately offered alll had to the captain of
the ship, as a return for my deliverance; but he generously told me,hc would
take nothing from me, but that all I had should be delivered safe to me,

_ when I came to the Brazils. " For," says he, " I have saved your life on no
other terms than as Iwould be glad to be saved myself; and it may. one
time or other, be my lot to be taken up in the same condition. Besides."
said he, "when I carry you to the Brazils, so great a way from your own
country, in should take from you what you have, you will be starved there,
and then Ionly take away that life Ihave given. No, no," says he; "Seignor
Inglese " (Mr. Englishman), "I will carry you thither in charity, and these
things will help you to buy your subsistence there, and your passage home
a ma."

g As he was charitable in this proposal, so he was just in the performance
to a tittle; for he ordered the seamen that none should offer to touch any--
thing;r I had; then he took everything into his own possession. and gave me
back an exact inventory of them, that I might have them, even to my
three earthen jars.

As to my beat, it was a very good one; and that he saw, and told me,
he would buy it of me for the ship's use; and asked me what I would have
{or it. ltold him. he had been so generous to me in everything, that I
could not offer to make any price of the boat, but left it entirely to him:
upon which he told me he would give me a note of his hand to pay me
eighty pieces of eight for it at Brazil; and when it came there, if any one
offered to give more, he would make it up. He offered me also sixty pieces
oi eight more [or my boy Xury, which I was 10th to take; not that I was
unwilling to let the captain have him, but 1 was very loth to sell the poor
boy's liberty, who had assisted me so faithiully in procuring my own. How-
ever, when I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just, and offered
me this medium, that he would give the boy an obligation to set him free in
ten years, it he turned Christian; upon this, and Xury saying he was willing
to go to him, I let the captain have him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and I arrived in the Bay dc
Todos los Santos, or All Saints Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And
now I was once more delivered from the most miserable of all conditions of
life; and what to do next with myself I was to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave me, I can never enough remem-
ber; he would take nothing of me [or my passage, gave me twenty ducats
for the leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin, which I had in my boat,
and caused everything I had in the ship to be punctually delivered to me;
and what I was willing to sell, he bought of me: such as the case of bottles,
two oi my guns and a piece of the lump of beeswax, for I had made candle-s
of the rest; in a word, I made about two hundred and twenty pieces of eight
3f all my cargo; and with this stock, I went'on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here. but being recommended to the house of a
good, honest man, like himself, who had an ingmio, as they call it (that is,
a plantation and a sugar-house), I lived with him some time, and
acquainted myself, by that means, with the manner of their planting and mak-
ing of sugar;and seeing how well the planters lived, and how they get rich
suddenly, I resolved, if I could get a license to settle there, I would turn
planter among them; resolving, in the meantime, to find out some way to
get my money. which I had left in London. remitted to me. To this pur-IN THE BRAZILS. 31

pose, getting a kind of letter of naturalization. I purchased as much land
that was uncured as my money would reach, and formed a plan {or my
plantation and settlement; such<< a. one as might be suitable to the stock
which I proposed to myself to receive from England.

I had a neighbor, a Portuguese. of Lisbon, but born of English parents,
whose name was Wells,and in much such circumstances as l was Icall him
neighbor, because his plantation lay next to mine, and we went on Very
sociably together. My
stock was but low, as
well as his; and we
rather planted for food
than anything else, for
about two years. How-
ever, we began to in-
crease, and our land he-
gan to come into order;
so that the third year
we planted some tobac-
co. and made each of us
a large piece of ground
ready for planting canes
in the year to come;
but we both wanted
help; and nowI found,
more than before, I had
done wrong in parting
with my boy Xury.

But, alas! [or me to
do wrong that never'clid
right, was no great won~
der. Ihad no remedy
but to go on. I had got
into employment quite
remote to mygeniusand
directly contrary to the
lifeI delighted in, and
for which I forsook my
father's house, and broke through all his good advice; nay, I was coming
into the very middle station, or upper degree of low life, which my father
advised me to before, and which, if I resolved to go on with. I might as
well have stayed at home, and never fatigued myself in the world, as I have
clone; and I used often to say to myself. "I could have done this as well in
England, among my friends. as have gone five thousand miles off to do it
among strangers and savages, in a wilderness. and at such a distance as

 

"I noucnr me A NEGRO suvr-z" (p. 89).
never to hear from any part of the world that had the least knowledge
of me."

In this manner I used to look upon my condition with the utmost regret.
I had nobody to converse with but now and then this neighbor; no work to
be done but by the labor of my hands; and I used to say, I lived just like a
man cast away upon some desolate island, that had nobody there but him-
self. But how just has it been; and how should all men reflect, that when
they compare their present conditions with others that are worse. Heaven
may oblige them to make the exchange, and be convinced of their former
felicity by their experience~--I say. how just has it been that the truly soli-
tary life I reflected on, in an island,'or mere desolation, should be my lot,
who had so olten unjustly compared it with the life which I then led, in
which, had I continued, I had in all probability been exceedingly prosper-
ous and rich.

I was in some degree, settled in my measures for carrying on the planta-
tion before my kind friend, the captain ol the ship that took me up at sea,
went back; for the ship remained there.in providing herlading. and prepar-
ing for her voyage, ncar three months; when, telling him what little stock I
had left behind me in London, he gave me this friendly and sincere advice:
"Seignor Inglese," says he (for so he always called me) " if you will give
me letters. and a procuration here in form to me, with orders to the person
who has your money in London. to send your effects to Lisbon, to such
persons as I shall direct, and in such goods as are proper for this country, I
will bring you the produce of them, God willing, at my return; but, since
human affairs are all subject to changes and disasters, I would have you give
orders but for one hundred pounds sterling, which. you say, is half your
stock, and let the hazard be run for the first: so that. if it come safe, you
may'order the rest. the same wa ' and if it miscarry, you may have the
other half to have recourse to for your supply,"

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so' friendly, that I could not
but be convinced it was the best course I could take; so I accordingly pre
pared letters to the gentlcwoman with whom I had left my money, and a
procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he desired.

I wrote the English captain's widow a lull account of all my adventures.
my slavery. escape, and how I had met with the Portuguese captain at sea.
the humanity of his behavior, and what condition I was now in, with all
other necessary directions for my supply; and when this honest captain
came to Lisbon, he found means, by some of the English merchants there,
to send over not the order only. but a full account of my story, to a
merchant at London, who represented it effectually to her; whereupon
she not only delivered the money, but out of her own pocket sent the
Portugal captain a very handsome present for his humanity and charity
to me.

The merchant in London vested this hundred pounds in English goods,.\'IY PLANTATION IN THE BRAZILS. 39

such as the captain had written for, sent them directly to him at Lisbon,
and he brought them all safe to me to the Brazils; among 'which, without
my direction (for l was too young in my business to think of them). he had
taken care to have all sorts of tools, iron work. and utensils necessary for
my plantation. and which were of great use to me.

When this cargo arrived. I thought my fortune made. forI was surprised
with the joy of it; and my good steward. the captain. had laid out the five
pounds. which my friend had sent him for a. present for himself, to purchase
and bring me over a servant. under bond for six years' service. and would
not accept of any consideration, except a little tobacCo.which Iwould have
him accept. being of my own produce. '

Neither was this all; for my goods being all English manufacture, such
as cloth, stuffs. bai c, and things particularly valuable and desirable in the
country. I found means to sell them at a very great advantage; so that I
may say I had more than four times the value of my first cargo. and was

- now infinitely beyond my poor neighbor--l mean in the advancement of my
plantation; for the first thing I did. I bought me a negro slave and an Euro-
pean servant also; I mean another besides that which the captain brought
me from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the very means of' our
greatest adversity. so was it with me. I went on the next year with great
success in my plantation: [raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my own
ground, more than I had disposed of for neees it's among my neighbors.
and these fifty rolls, being each of above a hundred \ ight, were well cured,
and laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon. And now increas-
ing in business and wealth, my head began to be full of projects and under-
takings beyond my reach; such as are indeed often the ruin of the best
heads in business Had I continued in the station Iwas nowin. I had room
for all the happy things to have yet befallen me. for which my father so
earne; ._\' recommended a quiet. retired lite, and which he had so sensibly
described the middle station of life. to be full of; but other things attended
me, and I was still to be the willful agent of all my own miseries; and par-
ticularly. to increase my fault. and double the reflections upon myself,
which in my future sorrows I should have leisure to make, all these mis-
carriages were procured by my apparent obstinate adhering to my foolish
inclination of wandering abroad. and pursuing that inclination. in contradic'
tion to the clearest viewsof doing myself good in a fair and plain pursuit
of those prospects and those measures of life which nature and Providence
concurred to present me will). and to make my duty.

As I had once done thus in breakiz away from my parents. so I could
not be eontcnr now. but I must go and leave the happy View I had of being
a riehand thriving man in my new plantation. only to pursue a rash and
immnderate desire of rising faster than the nature of the thing admitted;
and thus I cast myself down again into the deepest gulf of human misery
that ever man fell into. or perhaps could be consistent with life, and a state
of health in the world. _

To come then by just degrees to the particulars of this part of my story:
You may suppose that having now lived almost four years in the Brazils,
and beginning to thrive and prosper very well upon my plantation, 1 had
not only learned the language, but had contracted acquaintance and friend-
ship among my fellow-planters, as well as among the merchants of St. Sal-
vadore, which was our port; and that. in my discourse among them, I had
frequently given them an account 0[ my two voyages to the coast of Guinea,
the manner ol trading with the negroes there, and how easy it was to pur-
chase upon the coast for trifles--such as beads. toys, knives, scissors,
hatchcts, bits of glass, and the like--not only goldrdust, Guinea grains, elc-
phants' teeth, ctc., but negroes, for the service of the Brazils. ingreat numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my discourses on these heads.
but especially to that part which related to the buying negroes, which was
a trade, at that time. not only not far entered into, but, as far as it was, had
been carried on by the Asslento, or permission, of the King of Spain and
Portugal, and engrossed in the public stock ; so that few negroes were
brought, and those excessively dear.

It happened, being in company one day with some merchants and
planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those things very earnestly.
three of them came to me the next morning. and told me they had been
musing very much upon what I had discoursed of with them the last night,
and they came to make a secret proposal to me; and. after enjoining me
secrecy, they told me that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea;
that they had all plantations as well as I, and were straitened for nothing
so much as servants ; that as it was a trade that could not be carried on,
because they could not publicly sell the negroes when they came home, so
they desired to make but one voyage. to bring the negroes on shore pri-
vately, and divide them among their own plantations ; and. in a word, the
question was. whether I would go their supercargo in the ship, to manage
the trading part upon the coast of (Iuinea; and they offered me that I
should have my equal share of the negroes. without providing any part of
the stock.

This was a fair proposal, it must he confessed, had it been made to any one
that had not had a settlement and plantation of his own to look after. which
was in a fair way of coming to be very considerable. and with a good stock
upon it. But for me, that was thus entered and established, and had noth-
ing to do but go on as I had begun. for three or four years more. and to
have sent for the other hundred pounds from England ; and who in that
time, and with that little addition. could scarce have failed of being worth
three or four thousand pounds sterling. and that increasing too--for me to
think of such a voyage was the most preposterous thing that ever man in
such circumstances could be guilty of.I MAKE MY \VII.I.. 4|

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could no more resist the
offer than I could restrain my first rambling designs. when my father's good
counsel was lost upon me. In a word, I told them that I would go with all
my heart, if they would undertake to look after my plantation in my
absence, and would dispose of it as I should direct, if I miscarried. This
they all engaged to do, and entered into writings and covenants to do so. I
made a formal will, disposing of my plantation and effects in case of my
death, making the
captain of the ship
that had saved my
live, as before, my
universal heir, but
obliging him to
dispose of my ef-
fects as] had di-
rected in my will;
one-halfof the
produce being
to himself, an d
the other to be
shipped to Eng-
land.

In short, I took
all possible cam
tion to preserve
my effects, and to
keep up my plan-
tation. Had I used
half as 'much pru-
dence to have
looked into my
own interest, and

have made a judg-
ment of what I "LOOKING OVER nu: CHARTS " (p. 43;

 

o u gh t to have

clone, and not to

have done, I had certainly never gone away from so prosperous an under~
taking, leaving all the probable views of a thriving circumstance, and gone
upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its common hazards, to say nothing
of the reasons I had to expect particular misfortunes to myself.

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the dictates of my fancy
rather than my reason; and, ac'cordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the
cargo finished, and all things done as by agreement, by my partners in the
voyage. I went on board in an evil hour again. the Ist of September. 1659.
being the same day eight years that I went from my father and mother at
Hull, in order to act the rebel to their authority and the fool to my own
interest. _

Our ship was abcut one hundred and twenty tons burden. carried six
guns, and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy, and myself. We had
on board no large cargo of goods, except of such toys as were fit for our
trade with the negroes, such as heads, bits of glass, shells, and odd trifies.
especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors, hatchets, and the like.

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing away to the north-
ward upon our own coasts, with design to stretch over for the African
coast, when they came into about ten or twelve degrees of northern lati-
tude; which, it seems, was the manner of their course in those days. We
had very good weather, only excessively hot, all the way upon our own
coast till we came to the height of Cape St. Augustino; from whence, keep-
ing farther off at sea, we lost sight of land, and steered as if we were bound
for the isle Fernando de Noronha, holding our course N.F.. by N., and
leaving those isles on the cast. In this course we passed the line in about
twelve days' time, and were, by our last observation. in seven degrees
twenty-two minutes northern latitude, when a violent tornado, or hurricane.
took us quite out of our knowledge. It began from the southeast, came
about to the northwest, and then settled into the northeast, from whence
it blew in such a terrible manner, that for twelve days together we could do
nothing but drive, and, scudding away before it, let it carry us wherever
fate and the fury of the winds directed; and during these twelve days I

 

"we was-mum mm DESTRUCTION wx-rn 01m owx HANDS" (p. 44)A VlOLiL'NT TORNADO. 43

need not say that I expected every day to be swallowed up; nor did any in
the ship expect to save their lives.

In this distress we had, besides the terror of the storm, one of our men
died of the calenturc, and a man and a boy washed overboard. About the
twelfth day, the weather abating a little, the master made an observation as
well as he could, and found that he was in about eleven degrees of north
latitude, but that he was twenty-two degrees of longitude difference west
from Cape St Augustine; so that he found he was gotten upon the coast of
Guiana, or the north part of Brazil, beyond the river Amazones towards that
of the river Omonoque, commonly called the Great River; and now he
began to consult with me what course he should take, for the ship was
leaky, and very much disabled, and he was for going directly back to the
coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that. and looking over the charts of the sea--
eozut of America with him, we concluded there was no inhabited coun-
try for us to have recourse to till we 'zuue within the circle of the Caribhee
Islands. and therefore resolved to stand away for Barbadoes, which, by
keeping off at sea, to avoid the iii-draft of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we
might easily perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail; whereas we
could not possibly make our voyage to the coast of Africa. without some
assi ice both to our ship and to ourselves.

\ ith this design we changed our course, and steared away N.W. by W.,
in order to reach some of our English islands, where I hoped for relief; but
our voyage was otherwise determiner], for. being in the latitude of twelve
degrees eighteen minutes, a second storm came upon us, which carried us
away with the same impetuosity westward. and drove us so out of the way

_ of all human commerce, that had all our lives been saved as to the sea, we
were rather in danger of being; devoured by savages than ever returning to
our 0W" Colll'ltl'y.

In this (listr . the wind still blowing very hard, one of our men early
one morning erred out, "Land!" and we had no sooner run out of the cabin
to look out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were, than the
ship struck upon a sand, and his moment, her motion being so stopped,the
sea broke over her in such a manner that we expected we should all have
perished immediately, and we were even driven into our close quarters, to
shelter us from the very foam and spray of the sea.

It is not easy for any one who has not been in the like condition to
describe or conceive the consternation of men in such circumstances. We
knew nothing where We were, or upon what land it was we were driven;
whether an island or the main, whether inhabited or not inhabited. As the
rage of the wind was still great, though rather less than atfirst, we could
not so much as hope to have the ship hold many minutes without breaking
in pieces, unless the winds, by a kind of miracle. should turn immediately
about. In a word. we sat looking one upon another, and expecting death
every moment, and every man acting accordingly. as preparing for another
world, for (here was little or nothing more for us to do in this; that which
was our present comfort, and all the comfort we had, was that, contrary to
our expectation, the ship did not break yet, and that the master said the
wind began to abate.

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little abate, yet the ship
having thus struck upon the sand, and sticking too fast for us toexpect hergct--
ting off, we were in a dreadful condition indeed,and had nothing to do but to
think of saving our lives as well as we could. We had a boat at our sternjust
before the storm, but she was first stavcd by dashing against the ship's rud-
der, and in the next place she broke away, and either sunk or was driven off
to sea; so there was no hope from her. We had another boat on board,
but now to get her off into the sea was a doubtful thing; however, there was
no room to debate, for we fancied the ship would break in pieces every
minute, and some told us she was actually broken already.

in this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of the boat, and with the
help of the rest of the men, they got her flung over the ship's side; and get<<
ting all into her, let go, and committed ourselves, being clcven'in number,
to God's mercy and the wild sea; for though the storm was abated consider-
ably, yet the sea went dreadfully high upon the shore, and might be well
called (inner/r1 are, as the Dutch call the sea in a storm.

And now our case was very dismal indecd,for we all saw plainly that the
sea went so high that the boat could not escape, and that we should be
inevitably drowned. As to making sail, we had none. nor, if we had, could
we have done anything with it; so we worked at the oar towards the land.
though with heavy hearts, like men going to execution, for we all knew
that when the boat came near the shore, she would be dashed in a thousand
pieces by the breach of the sea. However, we committed our souls to God
in the most earnest manner; and the wind driving us towards the shore, we
hastened our destruction with our own hands, pulling as well as we could
towards land.

What the share was, whether rock or sand, whether steep or shoal, we
knew not; the only hope that could rationally give us the least shadow of
expectation, was if we might happen into some bay or gulf, or the mouth of
some river, where by great chance we might have run our boat in, or got
under the lee of the land, and perhaps made smooth water. But there was
nothing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and nearer the shore, the
land looked more frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed or rather driven. about a league and a half, as we
reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-like, came rolling astern of us, and
plainly bade us expect the coup de grace. In a word. it took us with such a
fury that it overset the boat at once, and separating us as well from the
boat as from one another, gave us not time hardly to say, "0 God! " for we
were all swallowed up in a moment.SHII'WRECKE D. 45

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which I felt when I sank
into the water, for though I swam very well, yet I could not deliver myself
from the waves so as to draw breath, till that wave having driven me, or rather
carried me, a vast way on towards the shore, and having spent itself, went
back, and left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead with the water I
took in. I had so much presence of mind, as well as breath left. that
seeing myself nearer the mainland than I expected, I got upon my feet,
and endeavored to make on towards the land as fast as I could, before
another wave should return and take me up again; but I soon found it was
impossible to avoid it, for I saw the sea come after me as high as a great
hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I had no means or strength to con-

 

": was now LANDED" (f. 47).

tend with; my business was to hold my breath, and raise myself upon the
water, if I could, and so by swimming to preserve" my breathing, and pilot
myself toward the shore if possible; my greatest concern now being that the
wave, as it would carry me a great way towards the shore when it came on,
might not carry me back again with it when it gave back towards the sea.
The wave that came upon me again buried me at once twenty or thirty
feet deep in its own body, and I could feel myself carried with a mighty
force and swiftness towards the shore a very great way; but I held my breath,
and assisted myself to swim still forward with all my might. I was ready
to burst with holding my breath, when as I felt myself rising up, so, to my

immediate relief, I found my head and hands shoot out above the surface"x 35mm A sum. macs or now" ()6. 49).SAFE 0N SHORE. 47

of the water, and though it was not two seconds of time that I could keep
myself 50, yet it relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new courage. I
was covered again with water a good while, but not so long but I held it out;
and finding the water had spent itself, and began to return, I struck forward
against the return of the waves, and felt ground again with my feet. I stood
still a few moments to recover breath, and till the waters went from me,
and then took to my heels, and ran with what strength I had. farther
towards the shore. But neither would this deliver mt: from the fury of the
sea, which came pouring in after me again; and twice more I was lifted up
by the waves and carried forwards as before, the shore being very flat.

The last time of these two had well-nigh been fatal to me, for the sea
having hurried me along, as before, landed me, or rather dashed me, against
a piece of a rock, and that with such force as it left me senseless, and in-
deed helpless. as to my own deliverance, for the blow, taking my side and
breast. beat the breath as it were quite out of my body, and had it returned
again immediately,l must have been strangled in the water, but I recov-
ered a little before the return of the waves, and seeing I should be covered
again with the water, I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock. and so
to hold my breath, if possible, till the wave went back. Now, as the waves
were not so high as at first, being nearer land, I held my hold till the wave
abated. and then fetched another run, which brought me so near the shore
that the next wave, though it went over me, yet did not so swallow me up
as to carry me away, and the next run I took I got to the mainland, where,
to my great comfort, I elambered up the cliffs of the shore, and sat me
down upon the grass, free from danger and quite out 'of the reach of the
water. I

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to look up and thank
God that my life was saved, in a case wherein there was some minutes
before scarce any room to hope. I believe it is impossible to express, to
the life, what the eestasies and transports oi the soul are when it is so saved,
asI may say, out of the very grave; and I do not wonder now at that
custom, when a maler'actor, who has the halter about his neck, is tied up,
and just going to be turned off, and has a reprieve brought to him--I say,
I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it, to let him blood that very
moment they tell him of it, that the surprise may not drive the animal
spirits from the heart and overwhelm him.

" For sudden joys. like griefs, confound at first."

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands. and my whole being,
as I may say, \vrapt up in a contemplation of my deliverance; making a
thousand gestures and motions, which I cannot describe; reflecting upon
all my comrades that were drowned, and that there should not be one soul
saved but myself; for, as for them.l never saw them afterwards, or any sign
of them, except three of their hats, one cap, and two shoes that were not
fellows

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when, the breach and froth of the
sea being so big Icould hardly see it, it lay so far off; and considered,
Lord! how was it possible I could get on shore?

After I had solaced' my mind with the comfortable pait of my condition,
I began to look round me, to see what kind of place I was in, and what was
next to be done; and I soon found my comforts abate, and that, in a word,
I had a dreadful deliverance, for 1 was wet, had no clothes to shift' me, nor
anything either to eat or drink, to comfort me; neither did I see any pros-
pect before me but that of perishing with hunger, or being devoured by
wild beasts; and that which was particularly afflicting to me was, that I
had no weapon, either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance, or
to defend myself against any other creature that might desire to kill me
for-theirs. In a word, I had nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco--pipe,
and a little tobacco in a box. This was all my. provision; and this threw
me into terrible agonies of mind, that for awhile Iran about like a madman.
Night coming upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider what would
be my lot if there were any ravenous beasts in that country, seeing at night
they always come abroad for their prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts, at that time, was to get up
into a thick bushy tree, like a fir, but thorny,which grew near me,and where
I resolved to sit all night. and consider the next day what death I should
die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life. ' I walked about a furlong from the
shore, to see in could find any fresh water to drink, which I did to my great
joy; and having drunk, and put a little tobacco in my mouth to prevent
hunger, I went to the tree, and getting up into it, endeavored to place
myself so that if I should sleep I might not fall. And having cut mea short
stick, like a truncheon, for my defense, I took up my lodging; and being

 

 

 

 

 

 

" snocs 'rnn wrmr x-m' FELLOWS "A VISIT TO THE wnncx. . 49

excessively fatigued. fell fast asleep, and slept as comfortably as,I believe.
{cw could have done in my condition, and found myself more refreshed
with it than I- think I ever was on such an occasion.

When I waked it was broad day,the weather clear,and the storm abated,
so that the sea did not rage and swell as before: but that which surprised me
most was, that the ship was lifted off in the night from the sand where she
lay, by the swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost as far as the rock
which I at first mentioned, where I had been so bruised by the wave dash--
ing me against it. This being within about a mile from the shore where I
was, and the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished myself on board.
that at least I might save some necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my apartment in the tree, I looked about me
again, and the first thing I found was the boat, which lay, as the wind and
sea had tossed her up, upon the land, about two miles on my right hand. I
walked as far as Icould upon the shore to have got to her, but found a
neck, or inlet, of water between me and the boat. which was about half
a mile broad, 501 came back for the present. being more intent upon
getting at the ship, where I hoped to find something for my present sub-
sistence.

A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and the tide ebbed so far
out, that I could come within a quarter of a mile of the ship. And here I
found a fresh renewing or' my grief; for I saw evidently that if we had kept
an board, we had been all sale; that is to say, we had all go. safe on shore.
and 1 had not been so miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all com-
fort and company, as I now was. This forced tears to my eyes again, but
as there was little relief in that. I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship;
so I pulled off my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity, and took
the water. But when I came to the ship, my diFficulty was still greater to
know how to get on board; for, as she lay aground, and high out of the
water, there was nothing within my reach to lay hold of. I swam round
her twice, and the second time I espied a small piece of rope. which I
wondered I did not see at first, hanging down by the fore-chains so low
that, with great difficulty, I got hold of it, and by the help of that rope got
up into the forecastle of the ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged,
and had a great deal of water in her hold; but that she lay so on the side
of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth. that her stern lay lifted up upon
the bank, and her head low, almost to the water. By this means all her
quarter was free, and all that was in that part was dry; for you may be sure
my first work was to search, and to see what was spoiled and what was
free. And. first, I found that all the ship's provisions were dry and
untouched by the water, and being very well disposed to eat, I went
to the bread-room, and filled my pockets with biscuit. and ate it as I went
about other things, for I had no time to lose. I also found some rum in
the great cabin, of which I took a large dram. and which I had, indeed,
   
   
 

"' need enough of to spirit me for
'-- nhat was before me". Now I
wanted nothing but a boat, to
_ ;. furnish myseli with many things

necessary to me. -

It was in \rain to sit still and
wish for what mu: not to be had;
V and this extremity roused my ap-
'plication. We had several spare yards.
and two or three large spars of wond,and
=1 spare topmast 01' two in the ship. I
resolved to fall to work with these, and
l flung as many of them overboard as I
could manage [or their weight, tying every
one with a rope, that they might not drive
away. When this was done I went down

"l mm. "51' Anni-"MAW. the ship's side, and pulling them to me I

tied four of them together at both ends,

as Well :19 I could. in the form of a rait,

and laying two or three short pieces of
plank upon them, crossways, I found I' could wall: upon it very well, but
that it was not able to hear any great weight, the pieces being: too light
So 1 went to work, and with the carpcntc'r' 3 saw I cut a spare topmast into
three lengths. and added them to my raft, with a great deal of labor and
pains. But the hope of [urnishing myself with necessuiics encouraged me
to go beyond whatl should have been able to have done upon another
uceasion.

My rall was now strong enough to beau-any reasonable weight. My nextLOADING TIIE RAFT. .51

care was what to load it with, and hmv to preserve what I laid upon it from
the surf of the sea; but I was not long considering this I first laid all the
planks or boards upon it that I could get, and having.r considered well what
I most wanted, I first got three of the scamcn's chests, which I had broken
open and emptied, and lowered them down upon my raft; the l' ' of these
1 filled with provisions--viz., bread. rice, three Dutch cheeses. five pieces
of dried goat's flesh (which we lived much upon), and a little remainder
oI European corn, which had been laid by [or some [owls which we brought
to sea with us, but the [owls were-killed. There had been some barley and
wheat together; but, to my great disappointment, I found aitez'wards that
the rats had eaten or spoiled it all. As. for liquors I found several cases
of bottles belonging to our skipper, in which were some cordial Waters,
and. in all, about five or six gallons of arrack. These I stowed by them--
selves, there being no need to put them into the chest. nor any room [or
them. While I was doing this, I found the tide began to flow. though very
calm, and I had the mortification to see my coat. shirt, and waistcoat, which
I had left on shore upon the sand, swim away, As for my breaches, which
were only linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board in them and my stock-
ings. However. this put me upon rummaging [or clothes, or' which I found
enough, but took no more than I wanted for present use, for I had other
things which my eye was more upon; as, first, tools to work with on shore;
and it was after long searching that I found out the carpenter's chest, which
was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much more valuable than a ship~
lading of gold would have been at that time. I got it down to my raft.
whole as it was, without losing time to look into it. {or I knew in general
what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms. There were two
very good Eowling'picccs iu the great cabin and two pistols. 'l'hesel secured
first, with some powdenhorns, a small bag of shot. and two old rusty
swords. [ ltncw there were three barrels of powder in the ship, but lcncw
not where our gunner had stowed them; but with much search I found
them two of them dry and good. the third had taken water. Those two 1
got to my raft with the arms. And now I thought myself pretty well
freighter]. and began to think how I should get to shore with them, having
neither sail, ore, nor rudder, and the least capiul of wind would have ever-
set all my navigation.

I had three encouragements: first, a smooth, calm sea; secondly, the
tide rising and setting into the shore; thirdly, what little wind there was
blew me towards the land. And thus, having found two or three broken
oars. belonging to the boat, and besides the tools which were in the chest.
two saws, an axe, and a hammer, with this cargo I put to sea. For a. mile.
or thereabouts, my raft went very well, only that I found it drive a little
distant from the place where I had landed before, by which Iperceived
that there was some indraught of the water, and Consequently, I hoped to
find some creek or river there. which I might make use of as a port to get
to land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was. There appeared before me a little opening of
the land. I found a strong current of the tide set into it; so I guided my
raft as well as I could, to keep in the middle of the stream.

But here I had like to have suffered a second shipwreck, which, if I had,
I think verily would have broken my heart, lor. knowing nothing of the
coast, my raft ran aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not being
aground at the other end, itwanted but a little that all mycargo had slipped
off towards the end that was afloat. and so fallen into the water. I did
my utmost, by setting my back against the chests, to keep them in their
places. but could not thrust off the raft with all my strength; neither durst
[ stir from the posture I was in; but holding up the chests with all my
might, I stood in that manner near half an hour, in which time the rising of
the water brought me a littlemore upon a level; and a little after. the water
still rising, my raft floated again, and l thrust her off with the oar Iliad into
the channel, and then driving up higher. I at length found myselfin the
mouth of a little river, with land on both sides, and a strong current or tide
running up. I looked on both sides for a proper place toget to shore, for
t was not willing to be driven too high up the river; hoping in time to see
some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place myself as near the coast
as I could.

At length [spied a little cove on the right shore of the creek, to which,
with great pain and difiiculty,l guided my raft, and at last got so near, that
reaching ground with my oar, 1 could thrust her directly in. But here I
had like to have dipped all my cargo into the sea again; for that shore lying
pretty steep--that is to say. sloping--there was no place to land but where
one end of my float, if it ran on shore, would lie so high. and the other sink
lower as before, that it would endanger my cargo again. All that I could
do was to wait till the tide was at the highcst, keeping the raft with my oar
like an anchor, to hold the side of it fast to the shore, near a flat piece of
ground. which I expected the water would flow over, and so it did. As
soon as. I found water enough. for my raft drew about a foot of water, I
thrust her upon that flat piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her,
by sticking my two broken oars into the ground--one on one side near one
end, and one on the other side near the other end; and thus I lay till the
water ebbed away and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore. .

My next work was to View the country. and seek a proper place for my
habitation, and where to stow my goods, to secure them from whatever
might happen. Where I was. I yet knew not; whether on the continent or
an island; whether inhabited or not inhabited; whether in danger of wild
beast or not. There was a hill not above a mile from me, which rose up
very steep and high, and which seemed to ovcrtop some other hills, which
lay as in a ridge from it, northward. I took out one of the fouling-pieces,A SECOND CARGO. 5E

and one of the pistols, and ahorn of powder; and thus armcd,I traveled for
discovery up to the top of that hill, where, after I had with great labor and
difiicult'y got to the top, I saw my fate, to my great afliiction--viz., that l
was in an island environed every way with the sea: no land to be seen
except some rocks, which lay a great way off, and two small islands. less
than this, which lay about three leagues to the west. '

I found also that the island I was in was barren, and, as Isaw good
reason to believe, uninhabited, except by wild beasts, of which, however, I
saw none. Yet I saw abundance of (owls, but knew not their kinds; neither.
when I killed them, could i tell what was fit for food,and what not. At my
coming back, I shot at a great bird, which I saw sitting upon :1 tree. on the
side ofa great wood. I believe it was the first gun that had been fired there
since the creation of the world. I had no sooner fired but from all parts of
the wood there arose an innumerable number of {owls of many sorts. mak-
ing a confused screaming and crying, every one according to his usual note,
but not one of them at any kind that l knew. As for the creature I killed,
I took it to be a kind of hawk, its color and beak resembling it, but it had
no talons or claws more than common. lts flesh was carrion, and lit for
nothing.

Contented with this discovery. 1 came back to my raft, and fell to work
to bring my cargo on shore, which took me up the rest of the day; what to
do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed where to rest, for l was
afraid to lie down on the ground, not knowing but some wild beast might
devour me; though, as I afterwards found, there was really no need for those
fears.

However, as well as I could. I barricaded myself round with the chests
and boards that I had brought on shore, and made a kind of but for that
night's lodging. As for food, I yet saw not which way to supply myself.
except that I had seen two or three creatures, like hares, run out of the wood
where I shot the fowl.

I now began to consider that I might yet get a great many things out oi
the ship which would be useful to me, and particularly some of the rigging
and sails, and such other things as might come to land; and I resolved to
make another voyage on board the vessel, if possible. And as I knew that
the first storm that blew must necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved
to set all other things apart, till I got everything out of the shipthat I could
get. Then I called a council--that is to say, in my thoughts--whether I
should take back the raft, but this appeared impracticable; so I resolved to
go as before, when the tide was down, and I did so, only that I stripped
before I went from my hut, having nothing on but a checkered shirt, a pair
of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my feet.

I got on board the ship as before. and prepared a second raft; and, hav-
ing had experience of the first. I neither made this so unwieldy. nor loaded
it so hard, but yet I brought away several things very useful to me; as. first,r

.14 ROBINSON CRUSOE.

in the carpenter's stores I found two or three bags full of nails and spikes.
a great screw-Jack, a dozen or two of hatchets, and, above all, that most
uscl'ul thing called a grindstone. All these I secured, together with several
things belonging to the gunner, particularly two or three iron crows, and
two barrels of musket bullets, seven mnskcts, and another iowling--picce,
with some small quantity of powder more, a. large bag full of small shot,
and a great roll of sheet'lead; but this last was so heavy I could not hoist
it up to get it over the ship's side.

Besides these things, I took all the men's clothes that I could find, and
a spare Ioretopsail, a hammock, and some bedding; and with this I loaded
my second raft, and brought them all safe on shore, to my very great
comfort. I

I was under some apprehension during my absence from the land, that
at least my provisions might be devoured on shore; but when I came back
I found no sign of any visitor; only there sat a creature like a. wild cat upon
one of the chests. which, when I came towards it, ran away a little distanee,
and then stood still. She sat very composed and unconcerned, and looked
full in my face, as if she had a mind to be acquainted with me. I presented
my gun to her, but, as she did not understand it. she was perfectly uncon-
cerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away, upon which I tossed her a bit of
biscuit, though, by the way, I was not very free of it, for my store was not
great; however, I spared her a bit, I say, and she went to it, smelled at it,
and ate it, and looked (as pleased) [or more; but I thanked her, and could
spare no more, So she marched off.

Having got my second cargo on shore--though I was obliged to open
the barrels of powder, and bring them by parcels, for they were too heavy,
being large casks-----I went to work to make me a little tent, with the sail
and some poles which I cut {or that purpose; and into this tent I brought
everything that I knew would spoil either with rain or sun; and I piled all

' the empty chests and casks up in a circle round the tent, to fortify it from
any sudden attempt, either from man or beast.

When I had done this, I blocked up the door of the tent with some
boards within, and an empty chest set up on end without; and spreading
one of the beds upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my head.
and my gun at length by me, I went to bed for the first time, and slept very
quietly all night. I was very weary and heavy, for the night before I had
slept little, and had labored very hard all day, its well to fetch those things
from the ship as to get them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that ever was laid up, I
believe, for one man; but. still I' was not satisfied, for. while the ship sat
upright in that posture, I thought I ought to get everything out of her that
I could; so every day, at low watcr,l went on board, and brought away
something or other; but particularly the third time I went, I brought away
as much of the rigging as I could, as also all the small ropes and rope twine
THE LAST OF THE SHIP.
I could get:
with a piece oi A" <<Vac
spare Canvas-
which was to '1

mcnd the sails
npnn occasion,
and the barrel of wet gunpowder.
In n word. I brought away ail the
sailsfirst and last; only that I was
(ain to cut them in pieces; and
bring as much at a time as I could,
[or they were no more useful to
mc_ for sails. but as mere canvas
only.

'But that which comforted me
more still was that at last 0' all,
after I had made five or six suzh
voyages as these, and thought I
had nothing more to expect from
:hc ship that was wonh my med-
dling with--I say. after 51.11 this, I
found a great
hogshend of
bread, t h 1' e (2
large runlcts
of rum, or spir<<_
its, a box of
fine sugar, and
a barrel of fine
flour; this was
surprising to
me. because I
had given over
expecting any
more provis-
ions except
w h at w a s
Spoiled by the
water. I soon
emptied t h c

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

   

:- - ..))ii.'in/'\..('
#534.

"\
hogshead 0i ' [Mill
the bread. and
wrapped It "P- 'A cowusun scnsnmmn ANL

parcei by pa: cnvmc " (p. 53x

53
eel, in pieces of the sails, which I cut out; and, in a word, I got all this safe
on shore also. though at several times.

The next day I made another voyage, and now, having plundered the
ship of what was portable and fit to hand out, I began with the cable. Cut-
ting the great cable into pieces such as I could move, I got two cables and
'a hawscr on shore, with all the iron--work I could get, and having cut down
the spritsnil yard, and the mizzcn yard, and everything I could to make a
large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy goods and came away. But
my good luck began to leave me, for this raft was so unwieldy, and so over-
laden, that after I was entered the little cove, where I had landed the rest
of my goods, not being able to guide it so handily as I (lid the other, it
oversct, and threw me and all my cargo into the water. As for myself, it
was no great harm, for Iwas near the shore; but as to my cargo, it was
great part of it lost. especially the iron, which I expected would have been
of great use to me; however, when the tide was out,l got most of the pieces
of cable ashore, and some of the iron, though with infinite labor, for I was
fain to dip for it into the .water, a-work which fatigued me very much.
After this, I went every day on board. and brought away what I could get.

I had now been thirteen days on shore, and had been eleven times on
board the ship, in which time I had brought away all that one pair of hands
could well be supposed capableof bringing; though I verily believe, had the
calm weather held, I should have brought away the whole ship, piece by piece;
but preparing the twelfth time to go on board, I found the wind began to
rise. However, at low water I went on board, and thoixgh I thought I had
mmmaged the cabin so cficctually that nothing more could be found, yet
I discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which I found two or
three razors, and one pair of large scissors, with some ten or a dozen of
good knives and forks; in another I found about thirty-six pounds value in
money---some European coin, some Brazil, some pieces of eight, some gold,
and some silver.

I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. " Oh, drug! " said I aloud,
"what art than good for? Thou art not worth to me --no, not the taking off
the ground; one of those knives is worth all this heap; I have no manner
of use for thee; e'en remain where thou art, and go to the bottom, as a
creature whose life is not worth saving." However, upon second thoughts,
I took it away; and wrapping all in a piece of canvas, I began to think of
making another raft, but while I was preparing this I found the sky over-
cast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter of an hour it blew a fresh
gale from the shore. It presently occurred to me that it was in vain to pre-
tend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and that it was my business to
be gone before the tide of flood began, otherwise I might not be able to
reach the shore at all. Accordingly, I let myself down into the water, and
swam across the channel which lay between the ship and the sands, and
even that with difficulty enough, partly with the weight of the things I hadI PITCH MY TENT. 57

i about me, and partly. from the roughness of the water; for the wind rose
very hastily, and before it was quite high water it blew a storm.

But I was gotten home to my little tent, where I lay, with all my wealth
about me very secure. It blew very hard all that night, and in the morning,
when I looked, out. behold, no more ship was to be seen. I was a little
surprised, but recovered myself with this satisfactory reflection, that I had
lost no time, nor abated any diligence, to get everything out of her that
could be useful to me; and that, indeed, there was little left in her that I
was able to bring away, if I had had more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or of anything out of her,
except what might drive on shore from her wreck, as. indeed, divers pieces
of her afterwards did; but those things were of small use to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about securing myself against
either savages, if any should appear, or wild beasts, if any were in this land;
and I hadmany thoughts of the method how to do this, and what kind of
dwelling to make--whether I should make me a cave in the earth, or a tent
upon the earth; and, in short, I resolved upon both; the manner and descrip-
tion of which it may not be improper to give an account of.

I soon found the place I was in was not fit for my settlement, particularly
because it was upon a low moorish ground near the sea, and I believed
would not be wholesome, and more particularly because there was no fresh
water near it; so i resolved to find a more healthy and more convenient spot
of ground. .

I consulted several things in my situation, which 1 found would be proper
for me; first, health and fresh water, I just now mentioned; secondly, shelter
from the heat of the suit; thirdly, security from ravenous creatures, whether
man or beast; fourthly, a view to the sea, that it God sent any ship in sight,
I might not lose any advantage {or my deliverance, of which I was not willing
to banish my expectation yet. _

In search of a place proper for this, I found a little plain on the side of
a rising hill, whose front towards this little plain was steep as a house-side,
so that nothing could come down upon me from the top. On the side of the
rock there was a hollow place, worn a little way in, like the entrance or door
of a cave; but there was not really any cave, or way into the rock, at all.

On the flat of the gt'cen,just below this hollow place, I resolved to pitch
my tent. This plain was not above a hundred yards broad, and about twice
as long, and lay like a green beiore my door; and, at the end of it, descended
irregularly every way down into the low ground by the sea-side. It was on
the N.N.\V. side of the hill,so that it was sheltered from the heat every
day, till it came to the W. and by 5. sun or thereahouts, which, in those
countries. is near the setting. '

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half-circle before the hollow place,
which took in about ten yards in its semi-diameter from the rock, and
twenty yards in its diameter from its beginning and ending.
In this half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes. driving them into
the ground till they stood very firm like piles, the biggest cud being out of
the ground above fivc foot and a hall, and sharpened on the top. The two
rows did not stand above six inches from one another. '

Then I took the. pieces of cable which I had cut in the ship, and laid
them in rows, upon one another, within the circle, between theie two rows
of stakes, up to the top, placing other stakes in the inside, leaning against
them, about two fcct and a halt" high, like a spur to a post; and this fence
was so strong that neither man nor beast could get into it or over it. This
cost me a great deal of time and labor, especially to cut the piles in the
woods. bring them to the place. and drive: them into the earth.

The entrance into this place I made to he. not by .1 door, but by a short
ladder to go over the top, which ladder, when I u as in, I liltcd over after
me; and so I was completely fenced in 1nd fortified, as I thought, from all
the world, and consequently slept sccure in the night, which otherwise I
could not have done; though, as it appeared afterwards, there was no need
of all this caution from the enemies that I apprehended danger from.

Into this fence. or fortress, with infinite labor, I carried all my riches. all
my provisions, ammunition, and Stores, of which you have the account
above; and I made me a large tcnt also, to preserve me from the rains,that
in one part of the year are very violent thorc. I nmdc it doublo--viz" one
smaller tcnt within, and one larger tent above it; and covered the upper-
most part of it with u lurgt': tarpaulin, which I had saved among the sails.

And now I lay no more for awhile in the bed which I had brought on
show. but in a hammock. which was indeed a vcry good one, and belonged
to the mate of the ship

lnto this font I brought all my pim 15mm, and everything that would
spoil by the wet, and having thus inclosed all my goods, I made up the
entrance, which till now 1 had left open, and so passed and ie-passed, as I
said by a short ladder

W hen I had done this, I began to work my way into the rock, and bring-
ing allthe earth and stones that I dug down out through my term] laid
them up within my fence, in the nature of a terrace, so that it raised the
ground within about a foot and a half; and thus I made mo a cave, just
behind my tcnt. which served me like a ccllar to my house.

It cost mo much labor and many days before. all these things were
brought to perfection, and thcrclorc I must go back to Sumo other things
which took up some at my thoughts, At the same time it occurred. after I
had laid my scheme {or the setting up the tent, and making the cave, that a
storm of rain falling: from a thick, dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning,r
happened, and after that, a great clap of thunder, as is naturally the effect
of it. I was not so much surprised with the lightning, as I was with the
thought which darted into my mind as swift as the lightning itself, " Oh, my
powder! " My very heart sank within me when I thought that, at. one blast,l KILL A GOAT. of!

:11! my powder might be destroyed, on which not my defense only, but the
providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended. I was nothing near so
anxious about my own danger. though, had the powder took fire, I had
never known who had hurt me. _

Such impression did this make upon me, that after the storm was over,
I laid aside all my work, my building and fortifying, and applied myself to
make bags and boxes to separate my powder, and to keep it a little and a
little in a parcel, in hopes that, whatever might come. it might not all take
fire at once; and to keep it so apart that it should not be possible to make
:"e part fire another. I finished this workin about a fortnight; and I think
my powder, which in all was about one hundred and forty pounds weight,
was divided into no less than a hundred parcels. As to the barrel that had
been wet, I did not apprehend any danger from that; so I placed it in my
new cane, which, in my faney,I called my kitchen; and the rest I hid up
and down in holes among,r the rocks, so that no wet might come to it, mark~
ing very carefully Where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing. I went out at least once
every (lay with my gun, as well to divert myself as to see if I could kill any-
thing fit for food, and, as near as I could, to acquaint myself with what the
island produced. The first time Iwent out, I presently discovered that
there were goats in the island, which was a great satisfaction to me; but
then it was attended with this misfortune to "ID, viz.. that they were so shy.
so subtle, and so Shift of foot, that it was the most difficult thing in the world
to come at them; but I was not discouraged at this, not doubting but I
might now and then about one, as it soon happened; for after I had found
their haunts a little, I laid wait in this manner for them: I observed if they
saw me in the valleys, though they were upon the rocks, they would run
away, as in a terrible fright; but if they were feeding in the valleys. and I
was upon the rocks. they took no notice of me; from whence I concluded
that, by the position of their optics, their sight was so directed downward
that they did not readily-See objects that were above them; so afterwards I
tool; this method--l always climbed the rocks first, to get above them, and
then had frequently a fair mark.

The first shot I made among these creatures, I killed a she-goat, which
had a little kid by her, which she gave suck to, which grieved me heartily;
for, when the old one fell, the kid stood stock--still by her, till I came and
took her up; and not only so, but when I carried the old one with me upon
my shoulders, the kid followed me quite to my inclosure; upon which I
laid down the dam, and tool: the kid in my arms, and carried it over my
pale, in hopes to have bred it up lame, but it would not eat; so Iwas forced
to kill it and eat it my$el f. These two supplied me with flesh a great while,
forI ate sparingly and saved my provisions, my bread especially, as much -

as I possibly could.
Having now fixed my habitation, I found it absolutely necessary to pro-
vide a place to make a fire in, and iuel to burn; and what I (lid for that, as
also how I enlarged my cave, and what conveniences I made, I shall give a
full account of in its place; butI must now give some little account of my-
self, and of my thoughts about living,
which, it may well be supposed, were
not a few.

I had a dismal prospect o[ my con-
dition, for as I was not east away upon
that island without being driven, as is
said, by a. violent storm quite out of
the course of our intended voyage, and
a great way, vizi, some hundreds of
leagues, out of the ordinary course of
the trade of mankind, I had great rca:
son to consider it as a determination
of Heaven that in this desolate place
and in this desolate manner, I should
end my life. The tears would run plen-
tifuIIy down my face when I made these
reflections; and sometimes I would ex-
postulate with myself why I'm-
vidence should thus completely "
ruin its creatures, and render
them so absolutely miserable,
so without help abandoned, and so en-
tirely depressed, that it could hardly
be rational to be thankful for such a life.

But something always returned swift
upon me to check these thoughts, and
to rcprove me; and particularly one day
walking with my gun in my hand by
the sea--side, I was very pensive upon
the subject of my present condition,
when Reason, as it were, put in expos-
tulating with me the other way, thus:
"Well, you are in a desolate condition,
it is true; but, pray remember, where "THEKID wouowao ur."(p.:29).
are the rest of you? Did not you come
eleven of you into the boat? Where
are the ten ? Why were not they saved,
and you lost? Why are you singled out? Is it better to be here or there P"
.And then 1 pointed to the sea. All evils are to be considered with the good
that is in them and with what worse attended them.

Then it occurred to me again, how well I was furnished for my subsistA HOME MADE CALENDAR. Bl

ence, and what would have been my case if it had not happened (which was
a hundred thousand to one) that the ship floated from the place where first
she struck,an<l was driven so near to the shore that 1 had time to get all
these things out of her? What would have been my case, if 1 had been
forced to have lived in the condition in which I at first came on shore,with-
out necessaries of life, or any means to supply and procure them? " Par-
ticularly," said I aloud (though to myself), " what shouldI have done with.
out a gun, without ammunition, without any tools to make anything, or to
work with? without clothes, bedding, a tent, or any manner of coverings 'r'"
and that now I had all these to asufi'icient quantity, and was in a fair way
to provide myself in such a manner as to live without my gun, when my
ammunition was spent; so that I had a tolerable view of subsisting without
any want as long as I lived; for I considered from the beginning how I
would provide for the accidents that might happen, and for the time that
was to come. even not only after my ammunition should be spent, but even
after my health and. strength should decay.

_ I confess I had not then entertained any notion of myammunition being
destroyed at one blast--I mean my powder being blown up by lightning;
and this made the thoughts of it surprising to me, when it lightened and
thundered, as I observed just now.

And now, being to enter into a melancholy relation of a scene of silent
life, such. perhaps, as was never heard of in the world before, Ishall take it
from its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, by my account,tl'.e
30th of September when, in the manner as above said, I first set [out upon
this horrid island; when the sun being to us in its autumnal equinox, was
almost just over my head, for I reckoned myself. by observation, to be in
thelatitude of nine degrees twenty'two minutes north ofthe line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days it came into my thoughts
that I should lose my reckoning of time for want of books and pen and ink,
and should even forget the Sabbath-day from the working days; but to pre-
vent this I cut it with my knife upon a large post, in capital letters, and
making it into a great cross 1 set it up on the shore where I first landed,
vi7..,"I came on shore here on the 30th of September, 1659."

Uponthe sidesof this square post I cut every day a notch with my knife and
every seventh notch was as long again as the 'rest, and every first day of the
month as long again as that long one, and thus I kept my calendar, or
weekly, monthly and yearly reckoning of time.

In the next place we are to observe that among the many things which
I brought from the ship in the several voyages which. as above mentioned,
I made to it, I got several things of less value, but not at all less useful to
me. which I omitted setting; don-n before: as. in particular. pens, ink and
paper, several parcels in the captain's, mate's, gmmer's and carpenter's keep-
ing, three or {our compasses, some mathematical instruments, dials. per-
spectives, charts. and books of navigation, all which I huddled together,
whether I might want them or no; also I found three very good Bibles
which came tome in my cargo from England and which I had packed up
among my things; some l'ortugucsc books also, and. among them, two
or three Popish prayer--books, and several other books, all which I carefully
secured. And I must not forget that we. had in the ship a dog and two cuts
of whose eminent history I must have occasion to say something in its place,
for I carried both the cuts with me. and us for the dog. he jumped out of
the ship of himself, and swam on shore to me the day after I went on
shore nith my first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many years. I
wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor any company that he could
make up to me. Ionly wanted to have him talk to me. but that he could
not do. As I observed before,I found puns, ink and paper, and l husbanded
them to the utmost. and lshall show that while my ink lasted I kept things
very exact; but after that was gone 1 could not, for I could not make any
ink by any means that I could devise.

.-'\nd this put me in mind that I wanted many things. notwithstanding all
that I had amassed together; and of these, ink was one. as also a spade. pick-
uxe and shovel to dig or remove the earth, needles. pins and thread; as for
linen. I soon learned to want that without much difiiculty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on heavily; and it was near
a whole year before I had entirely finished my little pale. or surrounding
habitation. 'l'he piles or stakes, which were as heavy as l could well lift.
were a long time in cutting and preparing in the woods, and more, by 'lar, in
bringing home. so that I spent sometimes two days in cutting and bringing,r
home one of those posts, and a third day in driving it into the ground. for
which purpose I got a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last bcthoughtmyseli
of one olthe iron crows, which. however. though I found it, yet made. driving
those posts or piles very laborious and tedious work. But what need I
have been concerned at tho tediousncss of anything,r I had to do, seeing: I
had time enough to do it in? nor had I any other employment. if that had
been over, at least that I could foresee, except the ranging the island to
suck for food. which I did. more or less every day.

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and the circumstances
I was reduced to. and I drew up the state of my affairs in writing, not so
much to leave them to any that were to come alter me. for I was like to -
have but few hairs, as to deliver my thoughts from daily poring upon them.
and afflicting my mind; andas my reason began now to master my dcspon--
dency, I began to comfort. myself as well as I could. and to set the-good
against the evil. that I might have something to distinguish my case from
worse. and Istated it very impartially. like debtor and creditor, the com-
fort I enjoyed against the miseries I suffered, thus:THE EVIL--TH}: GOOD. 68

EVIL
I am cast upon a horrible, desolate

GOOD.
But I am alive; and not drowned, as all my

island; voidpl all hope of recovery. '

I an) singled (mi and scpamtcd. as
it were, from all me world, to be with
arable.

ship's comimiiy was,

Bur I am singled out,xan,from all the ship's
crcw, to he spur from death: and Hi: that mirac-
ulously saved in from death can deliver me from
[his condiliou.

Ilul I am no! slarv and pcrishing on a bar-
run place, affording no 5 . i nance.

But l mu innhnl climule, when: if I had clothes.
I could hardly wear them.

But I our car. on an l<l'l:ld whcrcl sec in] wild
boasts to hurt me. as I saw on the coast 01 Africa:
_ and whzu if i had been Shipwrecked there?

I have no soul to speak to or roller: But God wonderIully sent the ship in near
ult- enougli to the shore, tlmr l lmv: gm nu: so many

nccussm)' things as will either supply my wants
or enable me to supply myself, even as long as I
Live.

Upon the whole. hen: was an undoubted lcstimony that there was scarce
any condition in the world so miserable but there was something iicgarivc,
or something positive to be thankful for in it; and let this stand as a diruc-
tion. from the experience of the most miserable ol all conditions in this
world--that we may always-[ind in it something to comfort onr'sclvcs from,
and to set. in the duscription oi good and evil, on the credit side of the
account.

Having n0w brought my mind a little to relish my condition, and giving
ovcr looking out to sea ii I could spy .1 ship 1 say, giving over these things,
I began to apply myself to accommodate my way of living, and to make
things as easy to me as I could.

I have already described my habitation, which was a tent under the side
of a rock, surrounded will) a strong pale of posts and cables; but I might
now rather call it a Wall, for I raised a, kind of wall up against it of furfs.
about two fuck thick, on the outside; and after some time (I think it was a
year and a half) I raised rafters Iron] it, leaning to [ho rock. and thatched
or covered it with bonghs of trees, and such things as I could get to keep
out the rain, which I found at some times of the your very violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my goods into this pale, and
into the cave which I had made behind me. But I must observe, too, that
at first this was a confused heap of goods, which. as they lay in no order,
so they took up all my place. I had no room to turn myself, so I set
myself to enlarge my cave, and worked farther into the earth, for it was a
loose, sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labor I bestowed on it, and
so when I found I was pretty safe as to beasts of prey. I worked sideways,
to the right hand, into the rock, and then turning tothc right again worked
quite out. and made Inc a. door to come out on the outside of my pale or

fortification.

1 mo divided from mankind, a soli-
mryxmc hnnxshnrl 1 rom human society.
I have no ClOUIES to cover inc.

 

 

 

I am without any defense. or means
to rcsi. any violence of man or htasl.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it was a back way to my
tent and to my storehouse, but gave me room to Slow my goods,

And now I began to apply myself to make such necessary things as I
found I most wanted. particularly a chair and a table, for without these I
was not able to enjoy thc_fe\v comfortsl had in the world. Icould not
write, or eat, or do several things with so much pleasure without a table

50 I went to work, and here I must needs observe that as reason is the
substance and original of the mathematics, so by stating and squaring

 

"I WANTED NOTHING THAT HE COULD FETCH ME" ".82).

everything by reason, and by making the most rational judgment of things,
every man may be, in time, master of every mechanic art. ] had never
handled a tool in my life, and yet, in time, by labor, application and con-
trivance. I found, at last, that I wanted nothing but I could have made it.
especially if I had had tools. However, I made abundance at things, even
without tools; and some with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet,
which, perhaps, were never made that way before, and that with infinite
labor. For example, if I wanted a board, I had no other way but to cut
down a tree, set it on an edge before me, and hcw it flat on either side withI BEGIN MY JOURNAL. 65

my axe till I had brought it to be as thin as a plank and then dub it smooth
with my adze. It is true, by this method I could make but one board out of
awholc tree, but this I had no remedy for but patience, any more than I
had for the prodigious deal of time and labor which it took me up to make
a plank or board, but my time or labor was little worth. and so it was as well
employed one way as another.

HoweverJ made mea table and a chair. as I observed above, in the first
place, and this I did out of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my
raft from the ship. But when I had wrought out some boards as above]
made large shelves of the breadth of a foot and a half, one over another,
all along one side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails and iron-work on;
and, in a word, to separate everything at large into their places that I
might come easily at them; also I knocked pieces into. the wall of the rock
to hang my guns and all things that would hang up, so that had my cave
been lo be seen, it looked like a general magazine of all necessary things.
and I had everything so ready at my hand that it was a great pleasure to
me to see all my goods in such order, and especially to find my stock 01
all necessaries so great.

And now it was when I began to' keep a journal of every day's employ.
ment, for, indeed, at first I was in too much hurry, and not only a hurry as
to labor, but in too much discomposure of mind, and my journal would
have been full of many dull thing's; for example. I must have said thus:
" St)". the 3091--2" her I had got to shore, and had escaped drowning.
instead of being thankful to God lor my deliverance, having first vomited,
with the great quantity of salt water which was gotten into my stomach,
and recovering myselfa littlc,I ran about the shore wringing my hands
and beating my head and face, ex'claimingr at my misery, and crying out I
was undone, undone! till, tired and faint, I was forced to lie down on the
ground to repose, but durst not sleep, (or fear of being devoured."

Some days after this, and after I had been on board the ship, and had
got all I could out of her, yet I could not forbcar getting up to the top of a
little mountain, and looking out to sea. in hopes of seeing a ship; then
fancy at a vast distance I espied a sail, please myself with the hopes of it,
and then, after looking steadily till I was almost blind, lose it quite, and sit
down and weep like a child. and thus increase my misery by my folly.

But having gotten over these things in some measure, and having settled
my household stuff and habitation. made me a table and a chair, and all as
handsome about me as I could, I began,l say, to keep my Journal, of which
I shall here give you the copy (though in it will be told all these particulars
over again), as long as it lasted. for at last, having no more ink, I was

forced to leave off.
THE. JOURNAL.
Srptmbtr 30. 1659--1. poor miserable Robinson Crusoe, being ship-
5
wrecked, during a dreadful storm, in the offing, came on shore on this dis-
xnal. unfortunate island, which I called "The Island of Despair," all the rest
of the ship's company being drowned, and myself almost (lead.

All the rest of the day I spent in afflicting myself at the dismal circum-
stances I was brought to, viz., I had neither food. house, clothes, weapon,
nor place to fly to; and. in despair of any relief, saw nothing but death
before me; either that I should be devoured by wild beasts, murdered by
savages, or starved to death for want of food. At the approach of night I
slept in a tree, for fear of wild creatures; but slept soundly, though it rained
all night. ' '

October l.------In the morning I saw, to my great surprise, the ship had
floated with the high tide, and was driven on shore again, much nearer the
island; which, as it was some comfort, on one hand (for seeing her sit
upright, and not broil-en to pieces, I hoped, if the wind abated, I might get
on board, and get some food and necessaries out of her for my relief), so.
on the other hand, it renewed my grief at the loss of my comrades, who, I
imagined, it we had all stayed on board, might have saved the ship, or at
least,that they would not have been all drowned, as they were; and that,
had the men been saved, we might perhaps have built us a boat out of the
ruins of the ship to have carried us to some other part of the world. I
spent great part of this day in perplexing myself on these things; but at
length, seeing the ship almost dry, I went upon the sand as near as I could,
and then swam on board. This day also it continued raining, though with
no wind at all.

From the is! of October to "It uric--All these days entirely spent in many
several voyages to get all I could out of the ship. which I brought on shore,
every tide of flood, upon rafts. Much rainalso, in these days, though with
some intervals of fair weather; but it seems this was the rainy season.

0d. 24.--I ovcrset my raft. and all the goods I had got upon it, but
being in shoal-water, and the things being chiefly heavy. I recovered many
of them when the tide was out.

0d. 25.----It rained all night and all day, with some gusts of wind; during
which time the ship broke in pieces, the wind blowing a little harder than
before. and was no more to be seen, except the wreck of her, and that
only at low water. Ispent this day in covering and securing the goods
which I saved, that the rain might not spoil them.

06!. 26.--I walked about the shore almost all day, to find out a place to
fix my habitation, greatly concerned to secure myself from any attack in
the night, either from wild beasts or men. Towards night I fixed upon a
proper place, under a rock. and marked out a semi-circle for my encamp-
men, which I resolved to strengthen with a work, wall. or fortification,
made of double piles. lined within with cables, and without with turf.

From the 26th to the 30th, I worked very hard in carrying all my goodsM Y JOURNAL. 61'

to my new habitation, though some part of the time it rained exceeding
hard.

The 3Ist, in the morning, I went out into the island with my gun,to seek
{or some food, and discover the country; when I killed a she-goat, and her
kid followed me home, which I afterwards killed also, because it would not
feed.

Norwmbcr 1. --I set up my tent under a rock, and lay there for the first
night; making it as lame as I could, with stakes Lhiven 1n to swing my ham-
mock upon. .

Arm). 2. --I set up all my chests and boards and the pieces of timber which
made my rafts, and with them formed a fence round me. a little within the
place I had marked out for my fortification.

Now. 3.--I went out with my gun, and killed two fowls like ducks, which
were very good food. In the afternoon went to work to make me a table.

Nazv. 4.--Tl1is morning I began to order my times of work, of going out
with my gun, time of sleep, and time of diversion: viz., every morning I
walked out with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain; then
employed myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then ate what I had to
live on; and from twelve to two Ilay down to sleep, the weather being
excessive hot; and then in the evening, to work again. The \mxking part
of this day and the next were wholly employed in making this table, for I
was yet but a very sorry workman, though time and necessity made me a
complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe they nould do any one
else.

'01). 5.--This day I went abroad with my gun and my dog. and killed a
wild eat; her skin pretty soft, but her llesh good for nothing. Every crea-
tureI killed, I took off the skins and preserved them. Coming back by the
sea-shore, I saw many sorts of sea-fowls, which I did not understand; but
was surprised, and almost irighted. with two or three seals. which, while I
Was gazing at, not well knowing what they were, got into the sea, and
escaped me for that time.

Nov. 6.--After my morning walk, I went to work with my table again,
and finished it, though not to my liking; nor was it long before I learned to
mend it.

Not). 7.~--Now it began to be settled fair weather. The 7tl1,8th, 9th, 10th,
and part of the 12th (for the 11th was Sunday according to my reckoning),
I took wholly 11p to make me a. chair, and with much ado brought it to a
tolerable shape, but never to please me; and even in the making I pulled it
to pieces several times.

It aha--I soon neulec'ted keeping Sundays; for, omitting my mark for
them on my post, I forgot which was which.

Nov. 13.--This day it rained, which refreshed me exceedingly. and
cooled the earth; but it was accompanied with terrible thunder and light-
ning, which frighted me dreadfully for fear of my powder. As soon as it
was over, I resolved to separate
my stock of powder into as
many little parcels as possible,
that it might not be in danger.
New. 14, Is, )6.--These three
days I spent in making little

"am!!! ALI. FACED Anon-1' UPON
1m: n06" (p. 71).

made use of the iron crows. which
were proper enough, though heavy;
hut the next thing was a shovel or
spade; this was so absolutely neces--
sary that indeed I could do nothing
effectually without it; but what kind
of one to make I knew not.

Nazi. 18.--Thc next day, in search-
ing the Woods, I found a. tree of that
wood, or like it, which in the Brazils
they call the iron-tree forits exceed:

  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

square chests. or
boxes, which
might hold about

a pound, or two
pounds at most, of
powder; and so.
putting the pow.

der in, I stowed

it in places as secure
and remote from one
another as possible. On
one of these three days
I killed a large bird that
was good to eat, but I
knew not what to call it.
Nazi. I 7.--This day I
began to dig behind my tent
into the rock, to make room
for my further Conveniency.
Nata--Th re e things I
wanted exceedingly [or this
work: viz" a pickuxc, a.
shovel, and a wheelbarrow,
or basket; so I dcsisted from
my work, and began to con-
sider how to supply that
want, and make me some
tools As {or the pickaxc, 1MY DIARY CONTINUED. 69

ing hardness; of this, with great labor, and almost spoiling my axe, I cut a
piece, and brought it home, with difficulty enough, [or it was exceeding
heavy. The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no other way, made
me along while upon this machine, for I worked it effectually by little and
little into the form of a shovel or spade; the handle exactly shaped like
ours in England, only that the board part having no iron shod upon it at
bottom. it would not last me so long; however, it served well enough for
the uses which I had occasion to put it to ; but never was a shovel, I
believe, made after that fashion, or so long making. I

I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket, or a wheelbarrow. A basket
I could not make by any means,
having no such things as twigs
that would bend to make
wicker-ware--at least, none yet
found out; and as to the wheel-
barrow, I fancied I could make
all but the wheel; but that I
had no notion of; neither did
I know how to go about it ; be-
sides, I had no possible way
to make iron gudgeons tor the
spindle or axis of the wheel to
run in; so I gave it over, and
so, for carrying away the earth
which I dug out of the cave, I
made me a. thing like a hod,
which the laborers carry mortar
in when they serve the brick-
layers. This was not so dim. "A am>> on WILD PIGEONS" (p.71).
cult to me as the making the
shovel; and yet this and the
shovel, and the attempt which I made in vain to make a wheelbarrow, took
me up no less than [our days, I mean always excepting my morning's walk
with my gun, which I seldom failed, and very seldom failed also of bringing
home something lit to eat.

New. 23.--I\'Iy other work having stood still, because of my making these
tools, when they were finished I went on, and working every day, as my
strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days entirely in widening and
deepening my cave, that it might hold my goods commodiously.

Nola--During all this time I worked to make this room. or cave,
spacious enough to accommodate me as a warehouse or magazine, a
kitchen, a (lining--room, and a cellar. As for a lodging I kept to the tent;
except that sometimes, in the wet season of the year, it rained so hard that
I could not keep myself dry, which caused me afterwards to cover all my
place within my pale with long poles. in the form of rafters. leaning
against the rock. and load them with flags and large leaves of trees, like a
thatch.

Dta'mlitr Io.--I began now to think my cave or vault finished, when on
a sudden (it seems I had made it too large) a great quantity oi earth fell
down from the top and one side; so much that, in short. it frighted me. and
not without reason, too; for if I had been under it. I had never wanted a
grave digger. Upon this disaster I had a great deal of work to do over
again, for I had the loose earth to carry out; and, which was of more
importance, 1 had the ceiling to prop up. so that I might be sure no more
would come dmvn.

Dec. IL--This day I went to work with it accordingly, and got two
shores or posts pitched upright to the top, with two pieces of board across
over each post; this I finished the next day. and setting more posts up with
boards, in about a week more I had the roof secured; and the posts, stand-
ing in rows, served me for partitions to part off my house.

Dec. I7.--l"rom this day to the 20th I placed shelves. and knocked up
nails on the posts to hang everything up that could be hung up; and now
I began to be in some order within doors.

Dec. zo.--Now I carried everything into the cave, and began to furnish
my house, and set up some pieces of board like a dresser. to order my
victuals upon; but board began to he very scarce with me; also I made me
another table.

Dec. 24.--l\-Iuch rain all night and all day; no stirring out.

Dec. r25.----Rain all day.

Dec. 26.--No rain, and the earth much cooler than before, and pleasantcr.

Dec. 27.--Killed a young goat, and lamed another so that I catched it,
and led it home in a string: when I had it at home, I bound and splintered
up its leg which was broke.

1V. B.--I took such care of it that it lived. and the leg grew well and as
strong as ever; but by nursing it so long it grew tame, and fed 'upon the
little green at my door, and would not go away. This was the first time
thatI entertained a thought of breeding up some tame creatures. that I
might have food when my powder and shot were all spent.

Dec. 28, 29. 30, 3r.--Great heats, and no breeze. so that there was no
stirring abroad. except in the evening, for food; this time I spent in putting
all my things in order within doors.

January I.--Vcry hot still: but I went abroad early and late with my gun,
and lay still in the middle of the day. This evening. going farther into the
valleys which lay toward the center of the island, I found there was plenty
of goats, though exceedingly shy, and hard to come at; however. I resolved
to try if I could not bring my dog to hunt them down.

Jan. 2.--Accordingly, the next day I went out with my dog. and set himHOUSEHOLD AFFAIRS. 71

upon the goats: but I was mistaken, for they all faced about upon the dog,
and he knew his danger too well, for he would not come near them.

Jan. 3.--I began my fence, or wall; which,bein;,r still jealous of my being
attacked by somebody, I resolved to make very thick and strong.

N. B.--This wall being described before,I purposely omit what was said
in the Journal; it is sufficient to observe that I was no less time than from
the 3d of January to the 14th of April working, finishing and perfecting this
wall, though it was no more than about twenty-four yards in length, being
a half--circle, from one place in the rock to another place, about eight yards
from it, the door of the cave being in the center behind it.

All this time I worked Very hard,the rains hindering me many days, nay,
sometimes weeks together; but I thought I should never be perfectly secure
till this wall was finished; and it is scarce credible .what inexpressible labor
everything was done with, especially the bringing piles out of the woods,
and driving them into the ground; for I made them much bigger than I
needed to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double-fenced. with a turf
wall raised up close to it,I persuaded myself that if any people were to
come on shore there, they would not perceive anything like a habitation;
and it was very well I did sc, as may be observed hereafter, upon a very
remarkable occasion.

During this time I made rounds in the woods for game every day, when
the rain permitted me, and made frequent discoveries in these walks of
something or other to my advantage; particularly 1 found a kind of wild
pigeons. which build, net as wood-pigeons in a tree, but rather as house-
pigeons, in the holes 9" the rocks; and taking some young ones I endeav-
ored to breed them up tame, and did so; but when they grew older they
flew all away, which perhaps was at first for want of feeding them, for I had
nothing to give them; however,I frequently found their nests and got their
young ones, which were very good meat.

And now, in the managing my household affairs, I found myself want-
ing in many things. which I thought at first it was impossible for me to
make; as, indeed, as to some of them it was; for instance, I could never
make a cask to be hooped. I had a small runiet or two. as I observed
before, but Icould never arrive to the capacity of making one by them.
though I spent many weeks about it; I could neither put in the heads, nor
join the staves so true to one another as to make them hold water, so Igavc
that also over.

In the next place, I was at a great loss for candles, so that as soon as it
was dark, which was generally by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed.
I remembered the lump of beeswax with which I made candles in my
African adventure, but I had none of that now; the only remedy I had was,
that when I had killed agoat I saved the tallow. and with a little dish made of
clay. which I baked in the sun, to which I added a wick of some oakum, J
made me a lamp; and this gave me light. though not a clear steady light like a
candle. In the middle of all my labors it happened that, rummaging my
things, I found a. little bag which. as I hinted before, had been filled with
corn for the feeding of poultry--not for this \=oyage,but before, as I suppose.
when the ship came from Lisbon. What little remainder of corn had been in
the bag was all devoured by the rats, and I saw nathing in the bag but
husks and dust; and being willing to have the bug for some other use (I
think it was to put powder in, when I divided it for fear of the lightning. or
some such use), I shook the husks of corn out of it on one side of my for-
tification, under the rock.

It was a little before the great rains just now
mentioned that I threw this stuff away, taking no
notice of anything. and not so much as remem-
bering that I had thrown anything there, when,
about a month after or thereabouts, I saw some
few stalks of something green shooting ripen the
ground, which I fancied might be some plant I
had not seen; but I was surprised and perfectly
astonished when, after a little longer
time, I saw about ten or twelve cars
come out which were perfectly green
barley. of the same kind as our
European>> nay, as our F. ngl i sh
barley.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
     

It is impossible
to express the aston-
ishment and confu-
sion of my thoughts
on this occasion; I
had hitherto acted
upon no religious
foundation at all; in-
deed, I had very few
notionsof religion in
my head, nor had on-
tertained any sense
of anything that had
beinllen me. other-
wise than asa chance,
or, as we lightly say,
what pleases God.
without so much as
inquiring in to the
"x was suxriusnn AND rune-rm asroxismsp" end of Providence inAN UNEXI'ECTED CROP. 1'3

these things. or l-Iis order in governing events in the world. But after I
saw hark grow there in a climate which I knew was not proper for corn,
and especially that I knew not how it came there, it startled me strangely,
and I began to suggest that God had miraculously caused this grain to
grow without any help 'of seed sown, and'that it was so directed purely for
my sustenance in that wild, miserable place.

This touched my heart a
little, and brought tears out of
my eyes, and I began to bless
myself that such a prodigy of
Nature should happen upon my
account; and this was the more
strange to me because I saw
near it still, all along by the side
of the rock, some other strag-
gling stalks, which proved to be
stalks of rice. and which I knew,
becausel had seen it grow in
Africa when I was ashore there.

I not only thought these the
pure productions of Providence
for my support, but not doubt-
ing but that there was more in
the place, I went all over that
part of the island where I had
been before, peering in every
corner and under every rock,
to see for more of_ it, but I
could not find any. At last it
occurred to my thoughts that
_I had shaken the bag of chick-
ens' meat out in that place; and
the wonder began to cease; and
I must confess my religious
thankinlness to God's provi-
dence began to abate too. upon "GRINDING MY TOOLS" (15. 77).
the discovering that all this was
nothing but what was common;
though I ought to have been as thankful for so strange and unforeseen
providence as if it had been miraculous; for it was really the work of
Providence as to me, that should order or appoint that ten or twelve grains
of corn should remain unspoiled, when the rats had destroyed all the rest.
as if it had been dropped from Heaven; as also that I should throw it out
into that particular place, where, it being in the shade of a high rock, it
sprang up immediately; whereas, if I had thrown it,anywhere else at that
time, it had been burnt up and destroyed.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be sure, in their season,
which was about the end of June; and laying up every corn, I resolved to
sow them all again, hoping in time to have some quantity, sufl'icient to sup-
ply me with bread. But it was not till the fourth year that I would allow
myself the least grain of this corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I
shall say afterwards, in its order; (or I lost all that I sowed the first season.
by not observing,r the proper time; for I sowed it just before the dry season,
so that it never came up at all, at least, not as it would have done; of which
in its place.

Besides this barley. there were, as above, twenty or thirty stalks of rice,
which I preserved with the same care, and whose use was of the same kind,
or to the same purpose, viz.. to make me bread. or rather food; for I found
ways to cook it up without baking, though I did that also after some time.

But to return to my Journal: .

I worked excessive hard these three or four months, to get my wall done,
and the 14th of April I closed it up. contriving to go into it, not by a door,
but over a wall, by a ladder, that there might be no sign on the outside of
my habitation. _

April 16,--1 finished the ladder; so I went up the ladder to the top, and
then pulled it up afterme,and let it down on theinside: this was a complete
inclosure to me; for within I had room enough, and nothing could come at
me from without, unless it could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had almost had all my
labor overthrown at once. and myself killed. The case was thus: As I was
busy in the inside of it, behind my tent, just in the entrance into my cave, l

.was terribly frighted with a most dreadful surprising thing indeed; for, all
on a sudden, I found the earth came tumbling down from the roof of my
cave, and from the edge of the hill over my head, and two of the posts I
had set up in the cave cracked in a frightful manner, I was heartily scared;
but thought nothing of what really was the cause, only thinking that the top
of my cave was falling in, as some of it had done before, and for fearl
should be buried in it, I ran forwards to my ladder, and not thinking myself
safe there neither, 1 got over my wall for fear of the pieces ot the hill, which
I expected might roll down upon me. I was no sooner stepped down upon
the firm ground, than I plainly saw it was a terrible earthquake; for the
ground I stood on shook three times at about eight minutes' distance, with
three such shocks as would have overturned the strongest building that
could be supposed to have stood upon the earth; and a great piece of the
top of the rock which stood about half a mile from me, next the sea, fell
down with such a terrible noise as I neverheard in all my life. I perceived
also the very sea was put into a violent motion by it; and I believe the
shocks were stronger under the water than on the island.EARTHQUAKE AND STORM. i 75

I was so amazed with the thing itself, having never felt the like or dis--
coursed with any one that had, that I was like one dead or stupefied; and
the motion of the earth made my stomach sick like one that was tossed at
sea: but the noise of the falling at the rock awaked me as it were, and
rousing me from the stupefied condition I was in. tilled me with horror. and
I thought of nothing then but the hill falling upon mytentand all my house>>
hold goods, and burying all at once; and this sunk my very soul within me
a second time.

After the third shock was over, and I felt' no more for some time. I
began to take courage; and yet I had not heart enough to get over my wall
again, for [ear of being buried alive, but still sat upon the ground, greatly
cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what to do. All this while, I had
not the least serious religious thought; nothing but the common "Lord have
mercy upon me!" and u hen it \\ as over, that went away too

While I sat thus,I found the air overcast, and it grew cloudy, as if it
would rain; soon after that the wind arose by little and little, so that in less
than half an hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane of wind; the sea "as. all
on a sudden, covered with foam and froth; the shore was covered with the
breach of the water; the trees were torn up by the roots; and a terrible storm
it was. This held about three hours, and then began to abate; and then in
two hours more it was calm. and began to rain very hard. All this while I
sat upon the ground very much terrified and dejected; when on a sudden it
came into my thoughts that these winds and rain being the consequences of
the earthquake, the earthquake itself was spent and over. and 1 might ven-
ture into my cave again. With this thought, my spirits began to revive; and
the rain also helping to persuade me.I went in and sat down in my tent; but
the rain was so violent that my tent was ready to be beaten down with it;
and I was forced to gointo my cave. though very much afraid and uneasy, for
tear it should fall on my head. This violent rain forced me to a new work,
viz., to cut a hole through my new fortifications, like a sink, to let the water
go out, which would else have drowned my cave. After I had been in my
cave some time, and found still no more shocks of the earthquake follow, I
began to be more composed. And now to support my spirits, which indeed
wanted it very much. I went to my little store and took a small sup of rum;
which, however, Idid then and always very sparingly, knowing I could have
no more when that was gone. It continued raining all that night, and great
part of the next day. so that] could not stir abroad; but my mind being more
composed, I began to thinl: of what I had best to do; concluding that if the
island was subject to these earthquakes, there would be no living for me in
a cave. but I must consider of building me some little hut in an open place
which I might surround with a wall, as I had done here. and so make myself
secure from wild beasts or men; for I concluded iI I stayed where I was I
should certainly, one time or other be buried alive.

With these thoughts, I resolved to mow my tei t from the place where
it now stood,
which was just
u n d c r t h c
hanging preci-
pice of th e
h i l l ; a n d
which, if it
s h o u l d be
shaken again,
would certain-
ly fall upon
my tent; and
I spent the two
n e x t d a y s ,
being the 19th
and 20th of
April. in con-
triving where
and how to re-
move my habitation. The [ear of
being swallowed up alive made
me that I never slept in quiet;
and yet the apprehensions of lying-
abroad without any fence were
all-most equal to it; but still, when
I looked about, and saw how
everything was put in order, how
pleasantly concealed I was. and
how safe from danger, it made me
loth to remove. In the mean-
time. it occurred to me that it
would require a vast deal of time
(or me to do this, and that I must
be contented to run the venture
"'_ where l was, till I had formed a
camp {or myself, and had secured
it so as to remove to it. So with
this resolution [composed myself
for a time, and resolved that 1
would go to work with all speed
to build me a wall with piles and
cables, etc.. in a circle, as before, and set my tent up in it, when it was fin-
ished; but that I would venture to stay where I was till it was finished. and
fit to remove to. This was the amt.

   
 

"1 CAUGHT A room: uommm " (1). 78).I GRIND .\IY TOOLS, 77

April 22.--The next morning I be-
gan to consider of means to put this
resolve in execution; but I was at a
great loss about my tools. I had three
large axes, and abundance o[ hatchets
(for we carried the hatchets for traffic
with the Indians); but with much chop-
ping and cuttingvknotty hard wood,
" ',.'-' they were all full of notches, and dull;
and though I had a grind stone. I
could not turn it and grind my tools
too. This cost me 'as much thought as
a statesman .would have bestowed upon
a grand point of politics. or a judge
upon the life and death of a man. At
length Icontrived a wheel with a string
to turn it with my Ioot, that I might
have both my hands at liberty.

Able--I had not seen any such thing
in England, or at least not to
take notice how it was done.

' though since I have observed

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

it was very common
there; besides that,
my grindstone was
very large and heavy.
This machine cost me
a full week's work to
bring it to perfection.

11/) H! 28, 29.--
These two whole (lays
I took up in grinding
my tools, my machine
for turning my grind-
s t on e performing
very well.

April 30.--Having perceived my bread had been Iowa great while, I
now took a survey of it,and reduced myself to one biscuit-cake a day.

which made my heart very heavy.
ISP d.

 

"A LARGE TORTOISE, on TURTLE" (p.79).
Jl'lay L--In the morning, looking towards the sea-side, the tide being
low, I saw something lie on the shore bigger than ordinary. and it looked
like a cask. When I came to it, I found a small barrel. and two or three
pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on shore by the late hur-
ricane; and looking towards the wreck itself.I thought it seemed to lie
higherout of the water than it used to do. I examined the barrel which
was driven on shore, and soon found it was a barrel of gunpowder; but it
had taken water. and the powder was cakcd as hard as a stone; however, I
rolled it farther on shore for the present, and went on upon the sands, as
near as I could to the wreck of the ship, to look [or more.

When I came down to the ship I found it strangely removed. The
torecastle, which lay before buried in sand, was heaved up at least six feet,
and the stern, which was broken to pieces and parted from the rest by the
force of the sea soon after I had left- rummaging of her, was tossed, as it
were, up, and cast on one side; and the sand was thrown so high on that
side next the stern, that whereas there was a great placeof water before,
so that I could not come within a quarter oi a mile of the wreck without
swimming,1 could now walk quite up to her when the tide was out. I was
surprised with this at first, but soon concluded it must be done by the
earthquake; and as by this violence the ship was more broken open than
formerly, so many things came daily on shore. which the sea had loosened.
and which the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of removing my
habitation, and I husied myself mightily, that day especially, in searching
whether I could make any way into the ship; but I found nothing was to
be expected of that kind, for that all the inside of the ship was clicked
up with sand. However, as I had learned not to despair of anything, I
resolved to pull everything to pieces that I could of the ship, concluding
that everything I could get from her would be of some use or other to
me. -
May 3.--l began with my saw. and cut a piece of a beam through, which
I thought held some of the upper part or quarter-deck together, and when I
had cut it through, I cleared away the sand as well as I could from the side
which lay highest; but the tide coming in, I was obliged to give over {or
that time.

dirty 4.--I went a-lishing, but caught not one fish that I durst eat of, till
I was weary of my sport; when, just going to leave off, I caught a young
dolphin. I had made me a long line of some rope-yarn, but I had no books;
yet I frequently caught fish enough, as much as I cared to eat: all which I
dried in the sun,and ate them dry.

Alia}: 5,--Worked on the wreck; out another beam asunder, and brought
three great fir planks off from the decks. which I tied together, and made
swim on shore when the tide of flood came on.

May 6.--Worked on the wreck; got several iron bolts out of her, andSTRIPP'ING TIIE WRECK. 79

other pieces of iron-work; worked very hard, and came home very much
tired, and had thoughts of giving it over.

May 7.-~\Vcnt to the wreck again. with an intent not to work, but found
the weight of the wreck had broken itself down, the beams being cut; that
several pieces of the ship seemed to lie loose, and the inside of the hold
lay so open that I Could see into it; but it was almost full of water and sand.

11/171)! 8 -----\-\"ent to the wreck, and carried an iron crow to wrench up the
deck, which lay now quite clear of the water or sand. I wrenehed open
two planks. and brought them on shore also with the tide. I left the iron
crow in the wreck for next day.

May 9.---Went to the wreck, and with the crow made way into the body
of the wreck, and felt several casks, and loosened them with the crow, but
could not break them up. I felt also a roll of English lead, and could stir
it, but it was too heavy to move.

111(1)! 10, II, 12, 13, 14.--\-\"ent every day to the wreck; and got a great
deal of pieces of timber, and boards, or planks, and two or three hundred-
weight of iron.

[Way 15 --I carried two hatchets, to try if I could not cut a piece off the
roll of lead, by placing the edge of one hatchet, and driving it with the
other; but as it lay about a foot and a half in the water,I could not make any
blow to drive the hatchet. '

[Way 16.--It had blown hard in the night. and the wreck appeared more
broken by the force of the water; but I stayed so long,r in the woods, to get
pigeons for food, that the tide prevented me going to the wreck that day.

1W1} 17.--I saw some pieces of the wreak blown on shore at a great dis-
tance, near two miles off me, but resolved to see what they were, and found
they were pieces of the head, but too heavy for me to bring away.

May 24.--F.very day, to this day, I worked on the wreck; and with hard
labor I loosened some things so much with the crow, that the first flowing
tide several casks floated out. and two of the seamen's chests; but the wind
blowing from the shore, nothing came to land that day but pieces of tim-
ber and a hogshead which had some Brazil pork in it; but the saltwater and
the sand had spoiled it. Icontinued this work every day to the 15th ofjunc.
except the time necessary to get food, which I always appointed. during
this part of my employment, to be when the tide was up. that I might be
ready when it was ebbed out; and by this time I had gotten timber and plank
and iron work enough to have built a good boat, if I had known how; and
also I got, at several times. and in several pieces, near one hundred weight
of the sheet-lead.

June vii--Going down to the seaside I found a large tortoise, or turtle.
This was the first I had seen, which, it seems, was only my misfortune, not
any defect of the place or the scarcity; for had I happened to be on the
other side of the island I might have had hundreds of them every day, as I
found afterwards, but perhaps had paid dear enough for them.
1mm 17 Ispent in cooking the turtle. I found in her threesccre eggs,
and her flesh was to me, at that time, the most savory and pleasant that
ever I tasted in my life, having had no flesh,but of goats and fowls, since I
landed in this horrible place.

_ JIIIII' 18.~-- Rained all the day and I stayed within. I thought, at this time,
the rain felt cold and I was something chilly, which I knew was not usual in
that latitude,

fun: Ig.----Very ill. and shivering, as if the weather had been cold.

lime 20.--No rest all night; violent pains in my head and feverish.

lune 21.----\/.'ery ill; frighted almost to death with the apprehensions of
my sad condition--to be sick, and no help; prayed to God, for the first
time since the storm off flu", but scarce knew what Isaid or why, my
thouahts beingr all confused

lime 22 --A little better. but under dreadful apprehensions of sickness.

flow 23. --\r'ery bad again; cold and shivering, and then a violent head-
ache.

fun: 24.--Much better.

Jmu: 25.----An ague. very violent; the fit held me seven hours; cold fit,
and hot with faint sweats after it.

jmzr 26.--Better, and having no victuals to eat, took my gun, but found
myself very weak; however, I killed a she-goat. and with much difficulty
got it home, and broiled some of it and ate. I would fain have stewed it
and made some broth, but had no pot. '

Jam 27.----The aguc again so violent that I lay abed all day and neither
ate nor drank. I was ready to perish {or thirst, but so weak I had no
strength to stand up or to get myself any water to drink. Frayed to God
again, but was light~headed, and when I was not. I was so ignorant that I
knew not what to say, only I lay-and cried, " Lord, look upon me! Lord,
pity me! Lord, have mercy upon me!" Isuppose I did nothing else for
two or three hours, till the fit wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not awake
till far in the night. \Vhen I awoke I found myself much refreshed but
weak, and exceeding thirsty; however, as I had no water in my whole hab--
itation, I was forced to lie till morning and went to sleep again. In this sec'
and sleep I had this terrible dream: I thought that I was sitting on the ground.
on the outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew after the earth-
quake, and that I saw a man descend from a great black cloud, in a bright
flame of fire. and light upon the ground; he was all over as bright as a
flame, so that I could but just hear to look towards him; his countenance
was most inexprcssibly dreadful, impossible for words to describe. When he
stepped upon the ground with his feet I thought the earth trembled, just as
it had done before in the earthquake, and all the air looked, to my appre-
hension, as if it had been filled with flashes of fire. He was no sooner landed
upon the earth but he moved forwards towards me, with along spear or
weapon in his hand to kill me, and when he came toa rising gi'cund.at someA TERRIBLE VISION. 81

distance, he spoke to me, or I heard a voice so terrible that it is impossible
to express the terror of it. All that I can say I understood was this: "See-
ing all these things have not brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt
die;" at which words, I thought he
lifted up the spear that was in his
hand to kill me.

No one that shall ever read
this account will expect that I
should be able to describe the

  
 

"momma n ox 'n-nz coaes" (/1. 8A).

horrors of my soul at this terrible vision. I mean that even while it was a
dream, I even dreamed of those horrors. Nor is it any more possible to
describe the impression that remained upon my mind when I awaked and
found it was but a dream.

Iliad, alas! no divine knowledge. What I had received by the good
instruction of my father was then worn out by an uninterrupted series, for
eight years, of sea-faring wickedness, and a constant conversation with none
but such as were, like myself, wicked and profane to the last degree. I do
not remember that I had, in all that time, one thought that so much as
tended either to looking upwards towards God, or inwards towards a reflec-
tion upon rany own ways; but a certain stupidity of soul, without desire ot
good, or conscience of evil, had entirely overwhelmed rue; and I was all
that the most hardened, unthinking, wicked creature among our common
sailors can be supposed to he ~not having the least sense, either of the fear
of God in dangers, or of thankfuluess to God in deliverances.

In the relating what is already past of my story, this will be the more
easily believed when I shall add, that through all the variety of miseries
that had to this day beiallen me, I never had so much as one thought of its
being the hand of God, or that it was a just punishment for my sins, my
rebellious behavior against my father, or my present sins, which were great,
or so much as a punishment for the general course of my wicked life.
When I was on the desperate expedition on the desert shores of Africa, I
never had so much as one thought of what would become of me. or one wish
to God to direct me whither I should go, or to keep me from the danger
which apparently surrounded me, as well from voracious creatures as cruel
savages; but I was merely thoughtless of God or :1 Providence. Iaeted
like a mere brute, from the principles of nature, and by the dictates of corri-
inon sense only, and indeed hardly that. When I was delivered and taken
up at sea by the Portugal captain, well used, and dealt itxstly and honorably
with, as well as charitably, I had not the least thankfulness in my thoughts.
\Vhen, again, I was shipwrecked, ruined, and in danger of drowning on this
island. I was as far from remorse. or looking on it as a judgment. l only
said to myself often that I was an unfortunate dog, and born to be always
miserable. '

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found all my ship's crew
drowned. and myself spared, I was surprised with a kind of ecstasy, and
some transports ol soul. which, had the grace of God assisted. might have
come up to true thankfuluess; but it ended where it began, in a mere com.
mon flight of joy, or, as I may say, being glad I was alive, without the least
reflection upon the distinguishing goodness of the Hand which had pre-
served me, and had singled me out to be preserved when all the rest were
destroyed, or an inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful to me.
Even just the same common sort of joy which seamen generally have after
they have got safe ashore from a shipwreck, all which they drown in the
next bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over, and all the rest
of nly life was like it, Even when I was afterwards, on due Consideration.
made sensible of my condition, how I was cast on this dreadful place. out of
the reach of humankind, out of all hope of relief, or prospect of redemption.
as soon as I saw a. probability of living, and that I should not starve an'd
perish for hunger, all the sense of my affliction wore off, and I began to be
very easy, applied myself to the works proper for my preservation and sup.
ply, and was far enough from being afflicted at my condition, as a judgment
from Heaven, or as the hand of God against me. These were thoughts
which very seldom entered into my head.

The growing up of the corn, as is hinted in my Journal, had, at first,REPFOACHES OF THE PAST. 53

some little inllucnce upon me, and began to affect me with s rionsness, as
long as I thought it had something miraculous in it; but as soon as ever
that part of the thought was removed. all the impression which was raised
from it wore off also, as l have noted already. Even the earthquake,
though nothing could be more terrible in its nature, or more immediately
directing to the. invisible power which alone directs such things, yet no
sooner was the first {right over but the impression it had made went off also.
I had no more sense of God, or H is judgments--much less of the present
afiiiction of my circumstances being from His hand--than if I had been in
the most prosperous condition of life. But now, when I began to be sick,
and a leisurely View of the miseries of death came to placeitself before me.
when my spirits began to sink under the burden of a strong distemper, and
nature was exhausted v..th the violence of the fever. conscience, that had
slept so long. began to awake, and I began to reproach myseli with my past
life. in which I had so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, provoked the
justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes, and to deal with me in
so vindictive a manner. These reflections oppressed me from the second
or third day of my d miper: and in the violence, as well of the fever as of
the dreadful reproaehes ol my conscience. extorted some words from me like
praying to God, though I cannot say they were either a prayer attended
with desires or with hop it was rather the vo ' of mere fright and
distress. My thoughts were confused, the convictions great upon my mind,
and the horror of dying in such a mis . ahle condition raised vapors into my
head with the mere apprehensions: and it: these hurries of my soul, i knew
not what my tongue ' ht exprc But it was rather exclamation. such
as. " Lord, what a miserable (treat am i! If I should be sick. Ishall cer>>
tainly die [or want of help. and what \i'iil become of me?" Then, the tears
burst out of my eyes, and I could say no more for a good while. In this
interval, the good advice of my father came to my mind, and presently his
prediction. which i mentioned at the beginning,r of this ory, viz.. that if I
did take this foolish step. God would not hless me. and [would have leisure
hereafter to reflect upon having" neglected his counsel, when there
might be none to assist me in my recovery. " Now," said I aloud. " my dear
father's words are come to pass; God's justice has overtaken me, and I have
none to help or hear me. i rejected the voice of Providence. which had
creit'ully put me in a posture or station of life wherein I might have been
nappy and easy; but I would neither see it myself, nor learn to know the
blessing of it from my parents. I left them to mourn over my folly, and
now I am left to mourn under the consequences of it. I refused their help
and assistance, who would have lifted me into the world, and would have
made everything easy to me; and new I ha edimculties to struggle with too
great for even nature itself to support. and no assistance, no help, no com-
fort, no advice." Then I cried out, " Lord. be my help, ior I am in greatz

84 ROBINSON CRUSOE.

distress." This was the first prayer, if I might call it so, that I had made
for many years. But I return to my journal:

jun: 28. - llavinp; been somewhat refreshed with the sleep I had had. and
the lit being entirely off, I got up, and though the fright and terror of my
dream was very great. yet. I considered that the fit of the agguc would return
(in the next day. and now was my time to get SOII'IL'tlIlug to refresh and
support myself when I should be ill, and the first thing I did, I filled a
large square case-bottle with water, and set it upon my table, in reach of
my bed; and to take off the chill or aguish disposition of the water. I put
about a quarter of a pint of rum intoit, and mixed them together. Then I
got me a piece of the goat's flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could cat
very little. I walked about, but was very weak, and withal very sad and
heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable condition. dreading the return
of my distemper the next day. At night, I made my supperof three of the
turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and ate, as we call it, in the
shell, and this was the first bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing to,
even, as I could remember, in my whole life.

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself so weak that I could
hardly carry the gun, for I never went out without that; so I went out but
a little way. and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon the sea,
which was just before me, and very calm and smooth. As I sat there, some
thoughts such as these occurred to me! " What is the earth and sea, of
which I have seen so much? thrice is it produced? And what am I. and
all the other creatures, wild and tame, human and brutal? Whence are we?
Sure we are all made by some Secret l'ower, who formed the earth and sea.
the air and sky. And who is that?" Then it followed inusl naturally->>-"It
is God that has made it all. Well, but then," it came on strongly, " if God
has made all these things, Ile guides and governs them all, and all things
that concern them; for the Being that could make all things must- Certainly
have power to guide and direct them. If so, nothing can happen. in the
great circuit of His works. either without His knowledge or appointment.

"And it' nothing;r happens without His knowledge. He knows that I am
here, and am in this dreadful condition; and if nothing happens without Ilis
appointment, He has appointed all this to befall me." Nothing occurred to
my thoughts to contradict any of these conclusions, and therefore it rested
upon me with the greater force, that it must needs be that God had
appointed all this to befall me; that I was brought to this miserable circum-
stance by His direction, He havingr the sole power, not of me only, but of
everything that happened in the world. Immediately it followed: "Why
has God done this to me? What have I done to be thus used?" My con-
science presently checked me in that inquiry, as if I had blasphemed, and
methought it spoke to me like a voice, " Wretch, dost I/um ask what thou
hast done? Look back upon a dreadful misspent life, and ask thyself what
thou hast not done? Ask, why is it that thou wort not long ago destroyed?A NOVEL REMEDY. 8-5

Vt'hy wcrt thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads? killed in the fight, when
the ship was taken by the Sallc man-of--war? devoured by the wild beasts
off the coast of Africa? or drouned lurr'zr, when ail the crew perished but
thyself? Dost 1/10?! ask, 'What have I done?" I was strum dumb with
these reflections. as one astonished, and had not a word to say--no, not to
answer to myself--but rose up pensive and sad, walked back to my retreat.
and went up over my wall, as it I had been going- to bed; but my thoughts
were sadly disturbedmnd I had no inclination to 51 ~ '1); so I sat clown in my
chair, and lighted my lamp, for it began to be dar . Now, as the apprehen-
sions of the return of my distemper terrified me very much. it occurred to
my thoughts that the Brazilians take no physic, but their tobacco for
almost all distempers. and I had a piece of a. roll of tobacco in one of the
chests, which was quite cured, and some also that was green, and not quite
cared.

Iwent, directed by Heaven, no doubt; for in this chest I found a cure
both [or soul and body I opened the chest, and found what I looked for,
\-'iz., the tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there too, 1 tool: out
one of the Bibles which I mentioned before, and which to this time I had
not found leisure, or so much as inclination, to 1001: into. l say 1 tool: it
out, and brought both that and the tobacco with me to the table. W'hat. use
to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to my distemper or whether it was
good for it or no; but I tried several experiments \iith if I u'usx'esolved
it should heal one way or other. I first took a piece of leaf and chewed it
in my mouth, which, indeed, at first, almost stupefied my bra>> i, the tobacco
being green and strong. and that I had not been much user! to it. Then 'I

. tool; some and steeped it an hour or two in some rum, and resolved to take
a dose of it when I lay down; and, lastly, I burnt some upon a pan of coals,
and held my nose close over the smoLe of it as long as I could bear it, as
well for the heat as the virtue oi it, and I held it almost to suffocation, In
the interval of this operation, I tool: up the Bible, and began to read; but
my head was too much disturbed with the tobacco to bear reading. at least
at that time; only having opened the book casually, the words first that
occurred tome were these, " Call upon Me in the day oI trou 'e. and I will
deliver thee, and thou shalt glori' ' Me." 'l'hcse uords were cry apt to my
case, and made some impression upon my thoughts at the time of rca
them, though not so much as they did afterwards; for, as for being (Irm-
lhc word had no sound, as 1 may say, to me; the thing was so remote, so
impossible in Inyapprchension of things, that I began to say, as the children
of Israel did when they were promised flash to eat, "Can God spread a table
in the wilderness?" so I began to say. "Can God I'Iiu'. cit deliver me from
this place? " And as it was not for many . ears that : hopes appeared,
this prevailed very often upon my thoughts; but, howe ', the words made
a great impression upon me, and I mused upon them veryotten. It grew
now late. and the tobacco had. as I said, dozcd my head so much that I

 
  

 
 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 
 

 

F-
inclined to sleep: so I left my lamp burning in the cave, lest I should want
anything in the night, and went to bed. But before I lay down, I did what
I never had (lone in all my life: I knecled down, and prayed to God to ful-
fill the promise to me, that if I called upon Him in the day of trouble, He
would deliver me. After myhroken and imperfect pray er was 0v er, I drank
the rum in which I had steeped the tobacco, uhich was so strong and rank
of tne tobacco that, indeed, I could scar get it down; immediately upon
this I went to bed; and I found pres-Lully it flew up into my head violently ,
but I fell into a. sound sleep and Walked no more till, by the sun, it must
necessarily be near three o'clock in the afternoon the next day; nay, to this
hour lam partly of opinion that I slept all the next (lay and night. and till
almost three the d:-.y after; for otherwise I know not how I should losen
day out of my reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared some years
after I had done; iorif I had lost it by crossing'' and re~crossinSS,Y the line,l
should have lost more than one. day; but in my account it was lost. and I
never knew which way. Be that, however, one way or other, when I awaked
I found myself exceedingly refreshed and my spirits lively and cheerful;
when I got up I was stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach
better, for I was hungry: and, in short, I had no fit the next day. but. con--
tinued much altered for the better. This was the 39th.

The 30th was my well day. of course, and I went abroad with my gun,
but did not care to travel too far. I killed a sea-fowl or two, something
like a brand goose, and brought them home; but was not very forward to
eat them; so I ate some more of the Lurtlc's eggs,_which were very good.
This eveninchr I renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did me good
the day before, viz., the tobacco steeped in rum; onlyI did not take so
much as before, nor did I chew any of the leaf. or hold my head over the
smoke; however, I was not so well the next day. which was the [st of July,
as I hoped I should have been; [or I had a little spice of the cold fit, but
it was not much.

July 2.-----I renewed the medicine all the three ways' and dosed myselt
with it as at first, and doubled the quantity which I drank.

Jul' 3.7 I missed the fit for good and all, though I did not recover my
fuil strength for some weeks aftcxz While I was thus gathering strength.
my thoughts rzin exceedingly upon this Scripture. "I will deliver thee;"
and the impossibility of my deliverance lay much upon' my mind, in bar
of my ever expecting it; but as I was discouraging myself with such
thoughts, it occurred to my mind that I pored so much upon my deliver--
ance from the main affliction, that I disregarded the deliverance I had
received, and I was, 3's it were, made to ask myself such questions as these,
viz; " Have I not been delivered, and wonderfully too, from sickness?
from the most distressed condition that could be, and that was so frightful
to me? and what notice had I taken oi it? Had I done my part? God
had delivered me, but I had not glorified Him; that is to say, I had notA HEARTFELT PRAYER. I 87

owned and been thankful for that as a deliverance; and how could I expect
greater deliverance?" This touched my heart very much; and immediately
I kneeled down, and gave God thanks aloud for my recovery from my
sickness.

July4.--~In the morn-
ing. 1 took the Bible;
and beginning at the
New Testament, I be-
gan seriously to rend it,
and imposed upon my-
self to read a while
every mor n i ng and
every night; not tying
myself to the number
of chapters, but as long
as my thoughts should
engage me. It was not
longuilerlsctseriously
to this \vork.till1{ound
my heart more deeply
and sinccrcly affected
with the wickedness of
my past life. The im-
pression of my dream
revived; and the words
" All these things have
not brought thee to re-
pentance," ran seriously
in my thoughts. I was
earnestly begging of
God to give me repent-
ance, when it happened
providentially the very
day that, reading the
Scripture, I came to
these words: " He is
exalted a. Prince and a. "I WENT UP THE 'cnmuc Fmsr" (/1. 89).
Saviour, to give rcpcnl-- '
uncc and to give remis-
sion." Ithrew down the book; and with my heart as well as my hands
lifted up to heaven, in a kind of ecstasy of joy. I cried out aloud, "Jesus,
Thou Son of David! Jesus, Thou Cxaltcd Prince and Saviour! give me
repentance! " This was the first time I could say, in the true sense of the
words. that I prayed in all my life, for now I prayed with a sense of my
condition, and with'a true Scripture view of hope, founded on the encoun
agcmcut ot the Wmd of God; and from this time, I may say, I began to
have hope that (zod would hear me.

Now I began to construe the woids mentioned above, " Call on Me; and
I will dcliv c1 thee,' in a different sense from what I had ever done bciom;
for then I had no notion of anything being called deliverance but my being
delivered from the captivity I was in: for though I was indeed at large in
the place. yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and that in the worst
sense in the world. But now I learned to take it in another sense; now I
looked back upon my past life with such horror, and my sins appeared so
dreadf11l,tl1at my soul sought nothing of God but deliverance from the load
of guilt that bore down all my comfort. As for my solitary life, it was
nothing; I dir'. not so much as pray to be delivered from it, or think of it;
itwas all of no consideration, in/comparison of this! And I added this part
here, to hint to whoever shall read it, that whenever they come to a true
sense of things. they will find deliverance from sin a much greater blessing
than deliverance from afilictionz

But, leaving this part, I return to my journal:

My condition began now to be, though not less miserable as to my way
of living, yet much easier to my mind; and my thoughts being directed, by
a constant reading the Scripture and praying to God, to things of a higher
nature, I had a great deal oi comfort within, which, till now, I knew noth-
ing of; also. my health and strength returned. I bestirrcd myself to furnish
myself with everything that I wanted, and make my way of living as regu-
lar as I Cut: 'ld.

I"1om the 4th day of July to the l4th I was chiefly employed m walking
about with my gun in my hand, a little and a little at a time, as a man that
was gathering up his strength after a fit of sickness; for it is hardly to be im-
agined how low I was, and to what weakness I was reduced. The applica4
tion which I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what had never
cured an ague before; neither can I rcconunend it to any one to practice-
by this experiment; and though it did cariy off the fit, yet it rather con--
tributed to weaken me, [or I had frequent convulsions in my nerves and
limbs for some time. I learned from it also this, in particular. that being
abroad in the rainy season was the most pernicious thing to my health that
could be, especially in those rains which came attended with storms and
hurricanes of wind; for as the rain which came in a dry season was always
most accompanied with such storms, so I found this rain was much more
dangerous than the rain which fell in September and October.

I had now been in this unhappy island above ten months; all possibility
of deliverance from this condition seemed to be entirely taken from me.
and I firmly believed that no human shape had ever set foot upon that
place. Having now secured my habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind,THE FERTILE SIDE OF THE ISLAND. '39

I had a great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the island. and to
see what other productions I might find, which yet I knew nothing of.

It was the Isth of July that I began to take a more particular survey of
the island itself. I went up the creek first. where, as I hintedI I brought
my rafts on Shore. 1 found, after I came about two miles up, that the tide
did not flow any higher, and that it was no more than a little brook of runv
ning water, and very fresh and good; but this being the dry season, there
was hardly any water in some parts of it; at least, not enough to run in any
stream. so as it could be perceived. On the banks of this brook, I found
many pleasant savannahs or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered with
grass; and on the rising parts of them, next to the higher grounds, where
the water, as it might be supposed, never nverflowed, I found a great deal
of tobacco.grccn, and growing to u grcatand very strong stalk. There were
divers other plants. which I had no notion of or understanding about, and
might. perhaps, have virtues of their own. which I could not find out. I
searched for the cassava root, which the Indians in all that climate make
their bread of, but I could find none. 1 saw large plants of aloes, but did
not then understand them. I saw several sugur'canes, but wild, and, for
want oi cultivation, imperfect. I contented myself-with these discoveries
for this time, and came back, musing with myself what course I might take
to know the virtue and goodness of any of the fruits of plants which 1
shonid discover, but could bring it to no conclusion; for, in short, I had
made so little observatim'. while I was in the Brazils, that I knew little of
the plants of the field; at least, very little that might. serve me to any put"
pose now in my distress.

The next day, the lfith. I went up the same way again; and after going
something further than I had gone the day before, I found the brook and
savannuhs cease, and the country became more woody than before. In this
part 1 lound different fruits, and particularly I found melons upon the
ground, in great abundaneemnd grapes upon the t'rees' the vines had spread
indeed over the trees, and the elust of grapes were 1' t nnwin their prime,
very ripe and rich. This was it sznpusi 1: discovery, and I was exceeding
glad of them; but I was warned by my xpcrienee to eat sparinglyof them,
remembering that, when I was ashore in Barbary, the eating ofgrapes killed
several of our Englishmen, \\ ho were slaves there, by throwing them into
fluxes and fevers. ButI found an excellent use for these grapes; and that
was, to cure or dry them in the sun. and keep lncm as driedgrapes or raisins
are kept, which I thought would be, as indeed they were, as wholesome and
us agreeable to eat. when no grapes might he had.

I spent all that evening there, and want not back to my habitation, which
by the way, was the first night, as I might say, I had lain from home. In
the night I tool: my first contrivance, and got up into a tree, where I slept
well; and the next morning proceeded upon mydiscovery, truvelihg nearly
iour miles, as I might judge by the length of the valley, keeping still due .
north. with a ridge of hills on the south and noxth side of me. At the end
of this march I came to an opening, where the country seemed to descend
to the west; and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out of the side
of the hill by me, ran the other way, that is, due east; and the country
appeared so fresh, so green, so flourishing, everything being in a constant

 

"i SDWED 3w GRAIN "(1), 94).

verdurc, m" flourish of spring. that it looked like a. planted garden. I
descended a little on the side of that delicious valley, surveying it with a.
secret kind of pleasure, though mixed with other afflicting thoughts, to
think that this was all my own; that I was king and lord of all this country
indefensibly, and had a right of possession; and, if I could convey it, I
might have it in inheritance as completely as any lord of a manor in Eng.
land. I saw here abundance of cocoa--trees, orange and lemon, and Citron'"I nnscnmmu .\ 1.1-1": LE 0N THl-I sum or THAT ml.1.u.:xous VALLEY" ([1. 96').
9|
trees; but all wild, and few bearing any fruit, at least not then. However,
the green limes that I gathered were not only pleasant to eat, but V
wholesome; and I mixed their juice afterwards with water, which mad
very wholesome, and very cool and refreshing. I found now I had business
enough to gather and carry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well
oI grapes as limes and lemons, to furnish myself for the wet season. which
I knew was approaching. In orrler to do this', I gathered a great heap of
grapes in one place, a lesser heap in another place, and a great parcel of
limes and lemons in another place; and taking a few oI each with me, I
traveled homeward, and resolved to come again, and bring a bag or sack, or
what I could make to carry the rest home. Accordingly, having spent three
days in this journey, I came home (so I must now call my tent and mycave);
but before'l got thither, the grapes were spoiled; the richness of the fruit,
and the Weight of the juice, having broken them and bruised them. they
were good for little or nothing; as to the limes, they were good, but Icould
bring but a {can

The next clay, being the Iglh, I went back, having made me two smail
bags to bring home my harvest; but 1 was surprised when, coming to my
heap of grapes, which were so rich and fine when I gathered them. I found
them all spread abroad, trodden to pieces. and dragged about. some here.
some there, and abundance eaten and devoured. By this l concluded there
were some wild creatures thcrcabouts. which had dune this. but what they
were] knew not. However, as I found there was no laying them up on
heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, hot that one way they would be
destroyed, and the other way they would be crushed with their own weight,
I took another course, for Igathererl a large quantity of the gra ,and
hung them upon the out branches of the trees. that they might cure and
dry in the sun; and as for the limes and lemons. I carried as many back as
I could well stand under.

When .I came home from this journey, I contemplated with great
pleasure the trinitfulncss OI that valley, and the pleasantness of the situa-
tion: the security from storm on that side of the water, and the wood, and
concluded that I had pitched upon a place to fix my abode which was by
far the worst part of the country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of
removing my habitation, and to look out (or a place equally safe as where
now I was situate, if possible, in that pleasant, Iruitiul part of the island.

This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceeding fond of it for
some time. the pleasantness of the place tempting me, but whenl came to a
nearervicw of it,I considered that l was now by the seaside, where it was at
least possible that something might happen to my advantage, and that the
same ill fate that brought me hither might bring some other unhappy
wrctehcs to the same place, and though it was scarce probable that any
such thing should ever happen, yet to inclose myself among the hills and
woods in the center of the island was to anticipate my bondage and toTOO M ANY CATS. 93

render such an affair not only improbable but impossible, and that therefore
I ought not by any means to remove. Ilowever, I was so enamored with
this place that I spent much at my time there for the whole remaining
part of the month of July; and though, upon second thoughts, I resolved as
above not to remove, yet I built me a little kind of a bower,and surrounded
it at a distance with a strong fence, beluga double hedge as high as I couZd
reach, well staked and filled between with brushwood, and here I lay very
secure, sometimes two or three nights together. always going over it with a
ladder as before, so that I fancied now I had my country house and my
sea--coast house, and this work took me up to the beginning of August.

I had but newly finished my fence and began to enjoy my labor,but the
rains came on and made me stick close to my first habitation; for though I
had made me a tent like the other, with a piece of a sail. and spread, it
very well. yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me from storms, nor a.
cave behind me to retreat into when the rains were extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had finished my bower and
began to cnio myself. The 3d of August I found the grapes I had hung
up were perk. .ily dried, and indeed were excellent good raisins of the sun;
so I began to take them down from the trees, audit was very happy that I
did so, [or the ruins which followed would have spoiled them, and I had lost
the best part of my winter food, for l had above two hundred large bunches
of them. No sooner had I taken them all down and carried most of them
home to my Carve but it began to rain, and from hence, which was the 14th
of August, it rained more or less every day till the middle of October. and
sometimes so violently that I could not stir out of my cave for several days.

In this season I was much surprised with the increase of my family; I
had been concerned for the loss of one of my cats who ram away from me,
or as I thought had been dead, and I heard no more tidings of her till. to
my astonishment she came home about the end of August with three
kittens. This was the more strange to me because. though I had killed a
wild cat, as Icalled it, with my gun, yet I thought itwas a quitediffcrent kind
from our European cuts, but the young cats were the same kind of house-
brecrl as the old one, and both my cats being femalch thought it very
strange. But from these three cats I afterwards came to he so postcred with
cats that I was forced to kill them like vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive
them from my house as much as possible.

From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain. so that I could not
stir, and was now very careful not to be much wet. In this confinement, l
begun to be straitened for food; but venturing out twice, I one day killed a
goat; and the last day, which was the 26th, found a very large tortoise,
which was a. treat to me, and my food was regulated thus: I ate a bunch
of raisins (or my breakfast; a piece of the goat's flesh, or at the tux-tic, for
my dinner, broiled (for, to my great misfortune. I had no vessel to boil or
stewanything), and two or three of the turtle's eggs for supper.
During this confinement in my cover by the rain. I worked daily two or
three hours at enlarging my on ve, and by degrees worked it on towards one
side, till I came to the outside of the hill, and made a door or way out,
which can-re beyond my ienee or wall; and so I came in and out this way.
But I was not perfectly easy at lying so open; tunes I had managed myself
before, I was in a perfect enclosure; whereas now. I thought, I lay
exposed, and yet I could not perceive that there. was any living thing
to fear; the biggest creature that I had yet seen upon the island being a
goat.

.Sff'l. 3oi--I was now come to the. unhappy anniversary of my landing.
I cast up the notches on my post, and Iound I had been on shore three
hundred and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn last, setting it
apart for religious exercise,prostrating myself on the ground with the most
serious humiliation, confessing my sins to God, acknowledging His righteous
judgment upon me, and praying to Him to have mercy on me through Jesus
Christ; and having not tasted the least refreshment for twelve hours, even
till the going down of the sun, I then ate a biscuit-cake and a bunch of
grapes, and went to bed, finishing the day as I began it. I had all this time
observed no Sabbathvday, for as at first I had no sense of religion upon my
mind, I had, after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks by making a
longer nntch than ordinary for the Sabbath-day. and so did not really know
what any of the days were; but now, having east up the days as above, I
found I had been there a year; so I divided it into wee s, and set apart
every seventh day for a Sabbath: though I found at the end of my account
I had lost a day or two in my reckoning. A little after this, my inl: began
to fail me, and so I contended myself to use it more sparingly, and to write
clown only the most remarkable events 0[ my life, without continuing a
daily memorandum of other things.

The rainy season and the dry season began to now appear regular to
me, and Ilearned to divide them so as to provide for them accordingly;
but I bought all my experience before I had it.and this I am going to relate
was one of the must discouraging experiments that I made at all.

I have mentioned that I haul saved the few ears of barley and rice which
I had so surprisingly found spring up, as I thought, of themselves; and I
believe there were about thirty stalks of rice. and about twenty of barley;
and now I thought it a proper time to saw it, alter the rains, the sun being
in his southern position, going from me. 'Aecordingly, I dug)r up a piece of
ground as well as I could with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two
parts, I sowed my grain; but as I was sowing, it casually occurred to my
thoughts that I would not sow it all at first, because I did not know when was
the proper time [or it, so I sowed about two-thirds of the seed, leaving
about a handful of each. It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I
did so, for not one grain of that I sowed thistime came to anything; for the
dry months following. the earth having had no rain after the seed was sown,THE SEASONS. 95

it had no moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at all till the wet
season had come again, and then it grew as if it had been newly sown.
Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily imagined was by the
drought, I sought for a moister piece of ground, to make another trial in.
and I (lug up a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed the rest of
my seed in February, a little before the vcrnaicquinox; and this, having the
rainy months of March and April to water it, sprang up very pleasantly.
and yielded a very good crop; but having part of the seed left only, and
not daringr to sow all that I had got, I had but a small quantity at last, my
whole crop not amounting to above half a peck of each kind. But by this
experiment I Was made master of my business, and knew exactly when the
proper season was to sow. and that I might expect two seedtimes and two
harvests every year.',\\-'hile this corn was growing I made a little discovery,
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the rains were over. and
the weather began to settle, which was about the month of November, I
made a visit up the country to my bower, where, though I had not
been some months,I found all things just as I left them. The circle or
double hcc'ge that I had made was not only firm and entire. but the stakes
which I had cut off of some trees that grew thereabouts were all shot out
and grown with long branches, as much as a \t-'illo'.\-'>>trce usually shoots the
first year after lopping its head. I could not tell what tree to call it that
the stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and yet very well pleased, to
see the young trees grow; and I pruned them, and led them up to grow as
much alike as I could; and it is scarcely crediblehow beautiful a figure they
grew into, in three years; so that though the hedge made a circle of about
twenty-five yards in diameter. yet the trees, forsach 1 might now call then'_
soon covered it. and it was a complete shade, sufficient to lodge under azl
the dry season, This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and make
me a hedge like this in a semicircle round my wall (I mean that of my first
dwelling). which I did; and placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at
about eight yards distance [ruin my first fence, they grew presently. and

. were at first a fine cover to my habitation, and afterwards served for a
defense also, as I shall observe in its order.

I found now that the seasons of the year might generally be divided, not
into summer and winter, as in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and thedry
seasons. which were generally thus:

The half of February. the whole of March and the half of April--rainy,
the sun being then on or near the equinox.

The half of April. the whole oi May, June and July. and the half or
August--dry, the sun being then to the north of the line.

The half of August. the whole of September and the half of October--
rainy, the sun being then come back.

The half of October, the whole of November. December and january,
and the half of February--dry, the sun being then to the south of the line.
The rainy seasons sometimes held longer or shorter, as the winds hap--
pcncd to blow, but this was the general observation I mudc. After I had
found, by experience, tllt' ill consequence of being abroad in the rain,l took
care to furnish myself with provisions beforehand, that I might not be
obliged to go out, and I sat within doors as much as possible during the wet

 

"I KsOcm-zn 11' now): mm a STICK " (p.98).

months. In this time I found much employment, and very suitable also to
the time, for I found great occasion of many things which I had no way to
turnish myself with but byhard labor and constant application; particularly,
I tried many ways to make myself a basket. but all the twigsl could get for
the purpose proved so brittle that they would do nothing. It proved of
excellent advantage to me now that when I was a boy I used to take great
delight in standing at a basket-maker's, in the town where my father lived,A NEW LAND. 97

to see them make their wicker-ware; and being, as boys usually are, very
ofiiciuus to help,and a great observer ol' the-manner how they worked those
things, and sometimes lcnt a hand, I haul by this IIIL'ilIIS so full knowledge
of the methods of it. that I wanted nothing but the materials; when it caunc
into my mind that the twigs of that Inn: from whence I cut my stakes that
grew, might possibly be as tough as the sullows, willows and osicrs in Eng-
land, and I resolved to try Accordingly. the next (lay I went to my cuun~
try house, as I called it, and, cutting 502m: of the smaller twigs, I found them
to my purpose as much as I could dc; 'c; wherenpnn I came the next
time prepared with n halchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon found,
for then: was a great plenty of them. These I set up to dry within my cir-
cle of hcdgcs, and. when they were. fit for use, I carriml them to my Cavc;
and here, during the next season. I employed mysclf in making. us well n51
could, a great many baskets, both to carry earth or to carry or lay up any-
thing as I had occasion; and though I (litl not finishthcnl \-'Cl'}' handfiomcly'
yet I made them sufficiently suw'iccublc iur my purpose; and thus, after-
wards, I tuuk care nex er [u be without them; and us my wicker--ware
decayed, I made more, cspcciuily strong, deep baskets to place my corn in,
instead of sacks, when I should come to have any quantity of it.

Having: mastered this difficulty, and employed a world of time abmxt it,
I bestined myself to see, if possible, how try supply two wants. I had nu
vessel tu hold anything that was liquid. except two runlcts, which were
almost full of rum, and SUIIIC glass bOIlICS--SUHIC OE tlu: common size, and
oLItcrs which were cztsc--bofilcs. stqunrc, for thc holdi: _; oi wutur,5 ts, etc.
I had not so much :15 :7. p0: to boil anything: in, except a great kcztl" which
I saved out DI the ship, and which was two big for such 11 ed it
for. viz... to make broth and stew a hit of mmt h) itsel I. The second thing I
Iain wouldhave had was a tubaicco--pipc,but it wu impossible to.- mulu make
one; however, I Inuml :1 mmtx'ivnncc fortlmt. too. at last. I cmpioycd niysuII
in planting my. :cond few of 5:352; m" piles,and in this wickcrvn'ork, all the
summer or dry scusun, when another business took me: up more time than It
could be imagined I could spam. ,

I mcntioned'lmt'm'e that I had a great mind tu see the whole island, and
that I had traveled up thehrook, and so on to when: I built my bun er. and
where I had an opening qui'u-c to the sea on the other side oi the ' land. I
now resolved to travel quite across to the arm-shore on that side; so taking
my gun, :x hatchet, and my dog, and a. larger qumztity 0E powder and shot
than usual, with two If nit-cakes and a giant bunch of mi: :5 in my pouch
for my store, I began my journey \thn I had mount the vale nhcrc my
lmwcr stood, as above. I came within View of the sun to the west, and it
being a vent clear d; -, I fairly descvicd lanLl--u'hctiiur an island or a conti-
nent I could not tell; but it lay \'cry high. extending from the W. to the
W.S.W., at a very great distance; by my guess, it could not be less than fit-

teen or twenty leagues off.
1

 

 

      

  

:5 as I die:
I could not tell what part of the world this might be, otherwise than that
I knew it must be part of America, and, as I concluded, by all my observa-
tions, must be near the Spanish dominions, and perhaps was all inhabited by
savages, where, if I should have landed, I had been in a worse condition
than I was now; and therefore I acquiesced in the dispositions of Provi-
dence, which I began now to own and to believe ordered everything for the
best; I say I quieted my mind with this, and left afflicting myself with fruit~
less wishes of being there.

Besides, after some pause upon this affair, I considered that if this land
was the Spanish coast. I should certainly, one time or other, see some ves-
sel pass or repass one way or other; but if not, then it was the savage coast
between the Spanish country and the Brazils, which wer: indeed the worst
of savages, for they are cannibals, and fail not to murder and devour all the
human bodies that fall into their hands. -

With these considerations I walked very leisurely forward. I found
that side of the island wherel now was much pleasantcr than mine--the
open or savannah fields sweet, adorned with flowers and grass, and full of
very fine woods. I saw abundance of parrots, and fain would I have caught
one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and taught it to speak to me
I did, after some painstaking, catch a young parrot, for I knocked it down
with a stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home; but it was some
years before I could make him speak; however, at last, I taught him to call
me by my name very familiarly. But the accident that followed, though it
be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.

1 was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I found in the low grounds
hares (as I thought them to be) and foxes; but they differed greatly from
all the other kinds I had met with, nor could I satisfy myself to eat them,
though I killed several. But I had no need to be venturous, for I had no
want of food, and of that which was very good, too, especially these three
sorts, viz., goats, pigeons and turtle, or tortoise, which, added to my grapes,
Leadenhall Market could not have furnished a table better than I, in pro-
portion to the company; and though my case was deplorable enough, yet I
had great cause for thankfulness that I was not dri\'.:n to any extremities
for food, but had rather plenty, even to dainties.

. Inever traveled in this journey above two mi.es outright in a day, or
thereabouts; but I took so many turns and returns to see what discoveries
I could make, that I came weary enough to the place where I resolved to
sit down for all night; and then I either reposed myself in a tree, or sur-
rounded myself with a row of stakes set upright in the ground, either from
one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could come at me without wak-
ing me. As soon as I came to the sea-shore I was surprised to see that I
had taken up my lot on the worst side of the island, for here, indeed, the
shore was covered with innumerable turtles, whereas, on the other side I
had found but three in a year and a half. Here was also an infinite numberTHE RETURN HOME 99

of fowls of many kinds, some of which I had not. seen before, and many of
them very good meat, but such as I knew not the names of, except those
called penguins.

I could have shot as many as l pleased, but was very sparing of my pow
dcr and shot, and therefore had more mind to kill a she-goat,it' I could.
which I could better feed on; and though there were many goats here. more
than on the other side of the island, yet it was with much more difficulty
that 1 could come near them, the country being flat and even. and they sav-
me much sooner than when I was on the hills. >

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter than mine; but
yet I had not the least inclination to remove. for as I was fixed in my habi-
tation it became natural to me. and I seemed all the while I was here to be
as it were upon :1 journey, and from home. However, I traveled along the
shore of the sea towards the cast, I suppose about twelve miles. and then
setting (11) a great pole upon the shore for a mark. I concluded I would go
home again, and that the next journey I took should be on the other side
of the island east from my dwelling, and 50 round till I came to my post
again, of which in its place.

I took another way to come back than that I went, thinking I could eas-
ily keep all the island so much in my View, that I could not. miss finding
my first dwelling by viewing the country; but i found myself mistaken. for.
being come about two or three miles, I found myself descended into a very
large valley, but so surrounded with hills, and those hills covered with
wood, that I could not see which was my way by any direction but that of
the sun. nor even then unless I knew very well the position of the sun at
that time of the day. It happened. to my furzhcr misfortune, that the
weather proved hazy for three or four days while I was in this valley, and
not being able to see the sun, I wandered about very uncomfortably, and at
last was obliged to find out the sea-side. look for my post. and come back
the same way I went; and then, by easy journeys. I turned homeward. the
weather being exceeding hot, and my gun. ammunition, hatchet, and other
things, very heavy.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and seized upon it, and I
running in to take hold of it, caught it. and saved it alive from the dog. I
had a great mind to bring it home it I could, for I had often been musing
whether it might not be possible to get :1 kid or two, and so raise a breed of
tame goats, which might supply me when my powder and shot should be
spent. I made a collar to this little creature, and with a string, which I
made of some rope-yarn, which I always carried about me.I led him along,
though with some difi'iculty, till I came to my bower, and there I inclosed
him and left him, for l was very iizipat'ient to be at home, from whence I
had been absent above a month

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to come into my old
hutch, and lie down in my hammock~bed. This little wandering journey,
without settled place of abode, had been so unpleasant to me that my own
house, as I called it to myself. was a perfect settlement to me. compared to
that; and it rendered everything about me so comfortable, that I resolved
I would never go a great way
from it again, while it should
be my lot to stay on tho

. L. island.

I reposed myself here a
week, to rest and regale my-
self after my long journey;
rluring which most of the
time was taken up in the
weighty affair of making a
cage [or my Poll, who began
now to be a mere domestic,
and to be m igh ty well
acquainted with me. Then
I began to think of the poor
kid which I had pent in with-
in my little circle. and re~
solved to go and {etch it home, or
give it some food. Accordingly I
went. and found it where I left it, (or
indeed it could not get out. but was
almost starved for want of food. I
went and cut boughs of trees and
branches of such shrubs as I could
l ' fiml, and threw them over, and hav-
' " ing fed it I tied it as I did before to
lead it away; but it was so tame
with beingr hungry that I had no
need tohave tied it, Iorit followed
me like a dog; and as I continually
fed it, the creature became so loving, so gentle. and so fond. that it became
'rom that time one of my domestics also, and would never leave me aften
"ads.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now come. and I kept the
30th of September in the same solemn manner as before, being the anni-
versary of my landing on the island, having now been there for two years,
and no more prospect of being delivered than the first day I cattle there. I
spent the whole (lay in humble and thankfulacknowledgements of the
many wonderful mercies which my solitary condition was attended with,
and without which it might have been infinitely more miserable. Igavc
humble and hearty thanks that God had been pleased to discover to me

   
 

"an Ixt--'mrri-i NUMBER or I-'U\\'LS" ()6. 98].NEW R ESOLUTIONS. 101

that. it was possible I might be more happy in this solitary condition than
I should have been in a liberty of society. and in all the pleasures of the
world; that He could fully make up to me. the. dc 'eneies of my solitary
state. and lhe want of human society, by His pres r and the comznunicn'
tion of His grace to my soul; supporting, comforting and encouraging
me to depend upon Ilis providence here. and hope for His eternal presence
hereafter. -

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much more happy the life I
now ch was. with all its miserable circumstances. than the wicked, cursed,
abominable lilo I led all the past part of my days; and now having changed
both my sorrows and my joys, my very desires altered. my affections
changed their gusts, and my delights were perfectly new from what they
were at first coming. or, indeed, for the tuo years pusl.

Before, as I walked about. eiilier on my hunting or for viewing the
country. the anguish oi my soul at my eondnion would break out upon me
on a sudden. and my very heart would die within ruc,to think of the woods.
the mountains. the deserts I was in, and how 1 was a prisoner, locked up
with the eternal bars and bolts of the ocean, in an uninhal'ntmi wilderness,
without redemption. In the. midst of the greatest composures of my mind
this would break out upon me like astorm,nzirl make me wring my hands and
weep like a child. Sometimes it would lake me in the middle o[ my work,
and I would immediately sit down and sigh, and look upon the ground lor
an hour or two together: and this was still worse to me, for if I could bur5t
out into tears. or vent my :If by words, it would go ol'f,'a:1Ll the grief having
exhausted it. .lf would abate.

But nowl began to exc ' e myself with new thoughts. I daily read
the W'ord of God. and applied all the comforts oi it In my Pl'i'fimli stale.
One morning. being- \'er_y sad. I opened the Bible upon these \v'u ' I will
never leave (lice. nor forsake thee." Immediately it occurred that these words
were to me; why else should they be directed in such a manner. just at the
moment when I was mourning over my condition, .15 one forsaken of God
and man? "\VL'II, then." said I. " if God does not forsake me, of whnr ill
consequence can it be. or what matters it. though (he world should all for-
sake me. seeing, on the other hand, if I had ail the world, and .shuuld lose
the favor and blessing of God, there would he no comparison in the loss?"

From this moment I began to conch lc. in my mind that it was possible
for me to be more. happy in this forsaken. sullen-y condition. than it was
probable I should ever have been in any other particular state in the
world; and with this thought I was going in give thanks to God for luring
iug me to this place. I .cnow not what it was, but something shocked my
mind at that thought. and I durst not speak the words. " llou' cans: thou
become such a. hypocrite," said I, even audibly, " to pretend to be. thankful
for a Condilion which, however thou mayest endeavor to be contented with,

_ thOu wouldst rather pray heartily to be delivered from?" So I stopped
there; but though I could not say I thanked God for being there. yet I sin-
cerely gave thanks to God for opening my eyes, by whatever afflicting
providences, to see the former condition of my life, and to mourn for my
wickedness, and repent. I never opened the Bible, or shut it, but my very
soul within me blessed God for directing my friend in England, without any
order of mine, to pack it up among my goods, and for assisting me after-
wards to save it out of the wreck of the ship.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my third year; and though
I have not given the reader the trouble of so particular an account of my
works this year as the first. yet in general it may be observed that I was
very seldom idle, but having regularly divided my time according to several
daily employments that were before rue, such as, first, my duty to God. and
the reading the Scriptures, which I constantly set apart some time for, thrice
every day; secondly, the going abroad with my gun for food, which gener-
ally took up three hours in every morning, when it did not rain; thirdly, the
ordering, curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or caught for
my supply: these took up great part of the day; also, it is to be considered
that in the middle of the day, when the sun was in the zenith. the violence
of the heat was too great to stir out; so that about four hours in the even-
ing was all the time I could be supposed to work in, with this exception,
that sometimes I changed my hours of hunting and working, and went to
work in the morning. and abroad with my gun in the afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labor, I desire may be added the exceeding
laboriousness of my work; the many hours which, for want of tools, want
of help, and want of skill, everything I did took up out of my time; for
example. I was full two~and--iorty days in making a board for a long shelf,
which I wanted in my cave; whereas two sawyers, with their tools and a
saw-pit, would have cut six of them out of the same tree in half a day.

My case was this: it was to be a large tree which was to be cut down,
because my board was to be a broad one. This tree I was three days a-cut-
ting down, and two more cutting off the boughs, and reducing it to a log.
or piece of timber. Withincxpi'essible hacking and hewing, I reduced both
the sides of it into chips till it began to be light enough to move; then I
turned it, and made one side of it smooth and flat as a board from end to
end; then turning that side downward, cut the other side till I brought the
plank to be about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides. Any one
may judge the labor of my hands in such a piece of work; but labor and
patience carried me through that, and many other things; I only observe
this in particular, to show the reason why so much of my time went away
with so little work. viz., that what might be a little to be done with help and
tools, was a vast labor and required a prodigious time to do alone, and by
hand. But notwithstanding this, with patience and labor. I went through
many things, and indeed everything that my circumstances made necessary
to me to do, as will appear by what follows. 'FEATHERED 'I'HIEVES. 103

I was now in the months of November and December, expecting my crop
of barley and rice. The ground I had manured or dug up for them was not
great; for. as I observed, my seed of each was not above the quantity of
half a peck, for I had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season; but
now my crop promised very well, when on a sudden l found I was in danger
of losing it all again by enemies of several sorts, which it was scarcely pos~
sible to keep from it; as, first, the goats, and wild creatures whichI called
hares. which, tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and day, as
soon as it came up, and ate it so close that it could get no time to shoot up
into stalk.

This I saw no remedy for but by making an inclosure about it with a.
hedge,which I did withagreat deal oI toil, and the more because it required
a great deal of speed; the creatures daily Spoiling my corn. Ilowever, as
my arable land was but small, suited to my crop, I got it totally well fenced
in about three weeks' time; and shooting some of the creatures in the day-
time. I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him up to a stake at the
gate, where he would stand and bark all night long; so in a little time the
enemies forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and well, and
began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts ruined me before, while my corn was in the blade, so
the birds were as likely to ruin me now, when it was in the ear; for going
along by the place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop surrounded
with fowls, of I know not how many sorts, who stood, as it. were. watching
till I should be gone. I immediately lct fly among them, {or I always had
my gun with me. I had no sooner shot but there rose up a little cloud of
fowls, which I had not seen at all, from amongY the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few days they would
devour all my hopes; that I should be starved, and never be able to raise a
crop at all; and what to do I could not tell; however, I resolved not to lose
my corn, if possible, though I should watch it night and day, In the first
place, I went among it, to see what damage was already done, and found
they had spoiled a good deal of it; but that as it was yet too green for them,
the loss was not so great but the remainder was likely to be agood crop, if
it could be saved

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away, I could easily see
the thieves sitting upon all the trees about me, as if they only waited till I
was gone away, and the event proved it to be so; for as I walked off, as iII
was gone. I was no sooner out of their sight but they dropped down one by
one into the com again. I was so provoked that I could not have patience
to stay till more came on, knowing that every grain that they are now was,
as it might be said. a pccleload to me in the consequence; but coming upto
the hedge, I fired again. and killed three of them. This was what I wished for;
$01 took them up. and served them as we serve notorious thieves in Eng-
land, viz.. hanged them in chains, for a terror to others. It is impossible to
imagine almost that this should have had such an effect as it had, for the
fowls would not only not eum'e at the corn. but, in short, they forsnok all
that part of the island, and I could never see a bird near the: place as long

as my scare-

crows hung
~ there. This
'1' I was very

fl glad of, you
%- maybesure,
'3'" an d about
/ .-- the In t te r
end of De-
c e m b c r.
which was
our second
harvcst of the year, I
reaped my corn.

l was udly put to it.
for a scythe or sickle to
cut it (lawn. and all I (could do was to
make one. as well as I Could, out of
one of the broad-swords. or cullasscst
which I saved among the arms out of
' the ship. Ilowevcr. as my crop "us
it" but small, I had no great difficulty to cut it
N" down; in short, I reaped it in my way, {or I

cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it
away in a great basket which I had made. and so
rubde it out with myvhamls; and at the end of
all my harvesting l {mind that out of my half-peck
of seed I had near two bushels at rice, and above
two bushels and a half of barley; that is to say,
by my guess. for I had no measure at that; time.

However. this was a great encouragement to
me, and I foresaw that in time it wuuld please
God to supply me with bread; and yet here I was
perplexed again. for I neither knew how to grind

or make meal of my corn, or indeed how to clean
it and part it; nor, if made into mcul. how to make bread of it; and it how
to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. These things being added to
my desire of having a good quantity for store. and to secure a constant
supply, I resolved not to taste any of this crop. but to preserve it all for
seed against: the next season; and, in the meantime, to employ all my study

   
   
      
 

"i FIRED AGAIN "(15. 103).FARMING OPERATIONS. 105

and hours of working to accomplish this great work ol providing myself
with corn and bread.

It might be truly said that now I worked for my bread. It is a little
wonderful, and what I believe few people have thought much upon, viz.,
the strange multitude of little things necessary in the providing, producing,
curing, dressing, making. and finishing this one article of bread.

I, that was reduced to a mere state of nature, found this to my daily
discouragement, and was made more and more sensible of it every hour,
even alter I had got the first handful of seed-
corn, which. as I have said, came up unex-
pectedly, and indeed to a surprise.

First, I had no plow to turn up the earth;
no spade or shovel to dig it. Well, this 1 con-
quered by making me a wooden spade, as I
observed before, but this did my work but in a
'wooden manner; and though it cost me a great
many days to make it, yet for" want at iron it
not only wore out the sooner, but made my
work the harder, and made it be performed
much worse. However, thisI bore with too,
and was content to work it out with patience,
and bear with the badness of the performance.
\\-'l1en the corn was sown,l had no barrow, but
was forced to go over it myself, and drag a
great heavy bough of a tree over it, to scratch
it, as it may be called, rather than rake or
harrow it. W'hen'it was growing, or grown, I
have observed already how many things I
wanted, to fence it, secure it, mow or reap it,
cure and carry it home, thrash, part it from the "1 HANGED THEM IN CHAINS"
Chad, and save it. Then I wanted a mill to (#103)-
grind it, sieves to dress it, yeast and salt to
make it into bread, and an oven to bake it in;
and all these things I did without, as shall be observed; and yet the corn
was an inestimable comfort and advantage to me too. But this, as 1 said,
made everything laborious and tedious to me; but that there was no help
(or, neither was my time so much less to me, because, as I had divided it, a
Certain part of it was every day appointed to these works: and as I had
resolved to use none of the Corn for bread till I had a greater quantity by
me, I had the next six months to apply myself wholly, by labor and inven<<
tion, to.f'urnisl1 myself with utensils proper for the performing all the
operations necessary for making the corn, when I had it, fit for my use.

But first I was to prepare more land. for I had now seed enough to sow
above an acre of ground. Before I did this, 1 had a week's work at least to
make me a spade, which, when it was done, was but a sor y one indeed.and
very heavy, and required double labor to work with it. However, I went
through that, and sowed my seed in two large flat pieces of ground, as near
my house as I could find them to my mind, and fenced them in with a good
hedge, the stakes of which were all cut of that wood which I had set before.
which I knew Would grow; so that in one year's time] knew I should have
a quick or living hedge that would want but little repair. This work was not
so little as to take me up less than three months, because great part of that
time was 0! the wet season, when I could not go abroad. Within-door--
that is, when it rained and I could not go out--I found employment in the
following occupations, always observing that all the while I was at work I
diverted myself with talking to my parrot, and teaching him to speak; and
I quickly learnt him to know his own name. and at last to speak it out
pretty loud--" Poll," which was the first word I ever heard spoken in the
island by any mouth but my own. This. therefore, was not my work, but
an assistant to my work: for now,as I said, I had a great employment upon
my hands. as follows--viz, I had long studied, by some means or other. to
make myself some earthen vessels, which, indeed, I wanted sorely, but knew
not where to come at them. However, considering the heat of the climate,
I did not doubt but if I could find out any clay,l might botch up some such
pot as might, being dried by the sun, be hard enough and strong enough to
bear handling and to hold anything that was dry and required to be kept so;
and as this was necessary in preparing corn, meal, etc.. which was the thing
I was upon, I resolved to make some as large as I could, and fit only to
stand like jars to hold what should be put into them.

It would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh at me, to tell how
many awkward ways I took to raise this paste; what odd, misshapen, ugly
things I made; how many of them tell in, and how many fell out-llie clay
not being stiff enough to bear its own weight; how many cracked by the
over-violent heat of the sun, being set out too hastily; and how many fell
to pieces with only removing. as well before as after they were dried; and, in
a word, how. after having labored hard to find the clay--to dig it. to temper
it, to bring it home, and work it--I could not make above two large earthen
ugly things (I cannot call them jars) in about two months' labor.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and hard. I lifted them
very gently up and set them down again in two great wicker baskets, which
I had made on purpose for them, that they might not break; and as between
the pot and the basket there was a little room to spare, I stuffed it full of the
rice and barley straw; and these two pots being to stand always dry, I thought
would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the meal when the corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large pots, yet I made
several smaller things with better success, such as little round pots. flat
dishes. pitchers, and pipkins, and anything my hand turned to. and the heat
of the sun baked them strangely hard.I MAKE SOME EARTHEN"'ARE. 10'!

But all this would not answer my end, which was to get an earthen pot
to hold what was liquid and bear the lire, which none of these could do. It
happened after some time, making a pretty large tire for cooking my meat,
when I went to put it out after I had done with it, I found a broken piece of
one of my earthenware vessels in the fire,burnt as hard asa stone. and red as
a tile. 1 was agreeably surprised to see it,and said to myseli that certainly
they might be made to burn whole it they would burn broken. ,

This set me to study how to order my fire so as to make it bunt me
some pets. I had no notion of a kiln such as the potters burn in, or of glaz-
ing them with lead, though I had some lead to do it with; but I placed
three large pipltins and two or three pots in a pile, one upon another, and
placed my firewood all round it, with a great heap of embers under them.
I piled the fire with fresh Iuel round the outside and upon the top till I
saw the pots in the inside red-hot quite through, and observed that they
did not crack at all. When I saw them clear red, I let them stand in that
heat about five or six hours. till I found one of them, though it did not
crack, did melt or run; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted
by the violence of the heat, and would have run into glass it I had gone
on; so I slacked my re gradually till the pots began to abate of the red
color, and watching them all. night, that I might not let the fire abate too
fast, in the morning I had three very good (I will not say handsome) pip-
kins and two other earthen pots as hard burnt as could be desired, and one
of them perfectly glazed with the running of the sand.

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no sort of earthen-
ware for my use, but I must needs say, as to the shapes oi them, they were
very indiflerent, as any one may suppose, when I had no way of making
them but as the children make dirt pies, or as a woman would make pics
that never learned to raise paste.

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal to mine when I
found I had made an earthen pot that would hear the tire.and I had hardly
patience to stay till they were cold before I set one on the fire again, with
some water in it, to boil me some meat, which it did admirably well; and
with a piece of a kid I made some very good broth. though I wanted oat-
meal and several other ingredients requisite to make it as good as I would
have had it. '

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp or beat some
corn in, for as to the mill. there was no thought of arriving to that perfec-
tion of art with one pair of hands. To supply this want I was at a great
loss, for, of all the trades in the world, I was as perfectly unqualified for a
stone-cutter as for any whatever, neither had I any tools to go about it with.
I spent many a day to find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow and
make (it (or a mortar, and could find none at all, except what was in the
solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut out; nor, indeed, were the
rocks in the island of hardness sufficient, but were all of a sandy, crumbling
stone, which would neither bear the weight of a heavy pestle, nor would
break the corn without filling it with sand. ~ 50, after a great deal of time
lost in searching;r for a stone, I gave it over, and resolved to look out a great
block of hard wood, which I found, indeed, much easier; and getting one
as big as I had strength to stir, I rounded it and formed it on the outside
with my axe and hatchet, and then, with the help of fire and infinite labor,
madea hollow place in it,as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes. After
this I made a great heavy pestle, or heater, of the wood called the ironwood;
and this I prepared and laid by against I had my next crop of corn,which I
proposed to myself to grind. or rather pound my corn or meal to make my
bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or sierce, to dress my meal, and
to part it from the bran and husk; without which I did not see it possible I
could have any bread. This was a most difficult thing, so much as but to
think on; for to be sure I had nothing like the necessary things to make it
with--I mean fine thin canvas, or stuff to sierce the meal through. And
here I was at a full stop for many months, nor did I really know what to do.
Linen I had none left but what was more rags. I had goats'-lrair, but
neither knew I how to weave or spin it; and had I known how, here were no
tools to work it, with. All the remedy that I found for this was, that at last
I did remember I had, among the seamcn's clothes which were saved out of
the ship, some neckclolhs of calico or muslin; and with some pieces of
these I made three small sieves. but proper enough for the work, and thus
I made shift for some years. How I did afterwards I shall show in its place.

The baking part was the next thing to be considered, and how I should
make bread when I came to have corn; for, first, I had no yeast. As to that
part, as there was no supplying the want,so I did not concern myself much
about it. But for an oven 1 was indeed in great pain._ At length I found
out an experiment for that also, which was this: I made some earthen
vessels very broad, but not deep--that is to say, about two feet diameter,
and not above ninc inches dcep;tl1ese I burned in the fire as I had clone the
other, and laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a. great fire
upon the hearth. which I had paved with some square tiles, of myown
making and burning also. But I should not call them square.

When the firewood was burned pretty much into embers, or live'coals, I
drew them forward upon this hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there I
let them lie till the hearth was very hot; then, sweeping away all the
embers, I set down my loaf or loaves, and whelrning down the earthen pot
upon them, drew the embers all round the outside of the pot to keep in and
add to the heat; and thus, as well as in the best oven in the world, I halted
my barley leaves, and became, in little time, a good pastry-cool: into the
bargain; for I made myself several cakes and puddings of the rice. Indeed,
I made no pies, neither had I anything to put into them, supposing I had,
except the flesh either of fowls or goats.HOPES OF ESCAPE. 109

It need not be wondered at if all these things took me up most part of
the third year of my abode here; [or it is to be observed that, in the inter-
vals of these things, I had my new harvest and husbandry to manage; [or I
reaped my corn in its season, and carried it home as well as I could, and
laid it up in 'hc ear in my large baskets till I had time to rub it out, [or I
had no [100! to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash it with.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing. I really wanted to
build my barns bigger. I wanted a place to lay it up in, for the increase of
the corn now yielded me so much that I had of the barley about twenty
bushels, and of the rice as much. or more; insomuch (hall now resolved to
begin to use it freely, for my bread had been quite gone a great while;

 

"wnar om), mssnarsumorv THINGS I nans"(p. 106).

also I resolved to see what quantity would be sufficient for me a whole
year, and to sow but once a year.

Upon the whole, I Iound that the forty bushels of barley and rice were
much more than I could consume in a year, so I resolved to sow just the
same quantity every year that I sowed the last. in hopes that such a quan-
tity would fully provide me with bread, etc.

All the while these things were doing, you may be sure my thoughts
ran many times upon the prospect of land which I had seen from the other
side of the island; and I was not without secret wishes that I was on shore
there, Iancying that, seeing the mainland and an inhabited country, I might
find some way or other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find
some means of escape. . -

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers of such a condi-
tion, and how I might fall into the hands of savages, and perhaps such as I
might have reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers of Africa;
that if I once came into their power I should run a hazard more than a
thousand to one of being killed, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had
heard that the people of the Caribbean coasts were Cannibals. or man-eaters,
and I knew by the latitude that I could not be far off from that shore: that
suppose they were not cannibals. yet they might kill me, as many
Europeans who had fallen into their hands had been served, even when
they had been ten or twenty together--much more I. that was but one. and
could make little or no defense. All these things, I say, which I ought to
have considered well of, and I did cast up in my thoughts afterwards, yct
took up none of my apprehensions at first, and my head ran mightily upon
the thought of getting over to that shore.

Now, I wished for my boy Xury, and the long boat with the shoulder-
oI--mutton sail, with which I sailed above a thousand miles on the coast of
Africa; but this was in min Then I thought I would go and look at our
ship's boat. which, as I have said, was blown up upon the shore a'great way
'in the storm when we were first cast away. She lay almost where she did
at first, but not quite, and was turned by the force of the waves
and the winds almost bottom upward against the high ridge of beachy
rough sand. but no water about her as before. If I had had hands to have
refitted her, and to have launched her into the water. the boat would have
done well enough, and I might have back into the Brazils with her easily
enough; butI might have easily foreseen that] could no more turn her
and set her upright upon her bottom than Icould remove the island. How-
ever. I went to the wood and cut levers and rollers, and brought them to
the boat, resolved to try what I could do, suggesting to myself that ifl
could but turn her down 1 might easily repair the damage she had received
and she would be a very good boat, and I might go to sea in her very

easily.
I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless toil. and spent, Ithink
three or four weeks about it. At last' finding it impossible to heave it up

with my little strength, I fell to diggingaway the sand. lo undermine it, and
so to make it fall down. setting pieces of wood to thrust and guide it right
in the fall. _

But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up again, or to get under
it, much less to move it forward towards the water, so I was forced to give
it over; and yet. though I gave over the hopes ofthc boat. my desire to ven~
ture over for the main increased, rather than decreased. as the means for it
seemed impossible.

This at length set me upon thinking whether it was not possible to make
myself acanoe, or periagua,suchas the natives of those climates make,evcn
without tools,or, as I might say, without hands--viz.. ofthe trunk of a great
tree. This I not only thought possible. but easy, and pleased myself
extremely with my thoughts of making it, and with my having much more1 MAKE A CANOE. ' 111

convenience forit than any of the negmes or Indians; but not at all consid-
ering the particular inconveniences which Ilay under more than the Indians
did, viz., want of hands to move it into the waterwhen it was made, a difi'i-
culty much harder for me to surmount than all the consequences of want of
tools could be to them. For what was it to me that when I had chosen a
vast tree in the wood, Imight with great trouble cut it down, ii, alter I might
be able with my tools to hcw and dub the outside into the proper shape of
a boat, and burn or out out the inside to make it hollow, so as to make a boat
of it-<<if, after all this. I must leave it just there where I found it. and was
not able to launch it into the water?

One Would have thought I could not have had the least reflection upon
my mind of my circumstances while I was making this boat, but I should
have immediately thought how I should get it into the sea; but my thoughts
were so intent upon my voyage over the. sea in it, that I never once consid-
ered how I should get it off the land; and it was really. in its own nature,
more easy for me to guide it over forty-five miles of sea than about forty-
five fathoms of land. where it lay, to set it afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that ever man did,
who had any of his senses awake. I pleased myself with the design, without
determining whether I was ever able to undertake it; not but that the difii-
culty of launching my boat came ot'ten into my head,but I put a stop to my
inquiries into it by this foolish answer which Igave myself: "Let me first make
it; I warrant I shall find some way or other to get it along when it is done."

This was a most preposterous method; but the eagerness of my fancy
prevailed, and to work I went and felled a cedar tree. I question much
whether Solomon ever had such a one for the building the Temple at Jeru-
salem; it was five feet ten inches diameter at the lower part next the stump,
and four feet eleven inches diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, after
which it lessened for awhile, and then parted into branches. It was not
without infinite labor that I felled this tree. I was twenty days hacking
and hewing at it at the bottom. I was fourteen more getting the branches
and limbs and the vast spreading head of it cut off, which Ihaekcd and
hewed through with my axe and hatchet. and inexpressible labor. After
this it cost me a month to shape it and dub it to a proportion, and to some-
thing like the bottom of a boat. that it might swim upright as it ought to do.
It cost me near three months more to clear the inside. and work it out so as
to make an exact boat of it. This I did, indeed. without fire, by mere
mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labor, till I had brought it to be
a very handsome periagua, and big enough to have carried six-and-twenty
men. and consequently bigr enough to have carried me-and all my cargo.

When I had gone through this work 1 was extremely delighted with it.
The boat was really much bigger than ever I saw a canoe or pcriagua, that
was made of one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke it had cost, you

may be-sure--for there remained nothing but to get it into the water; and
had 1' gotten it into the water. I make no question but I should have begun
the maddest voyage and the most unlikely to be performed that ever was
undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me, though they cost
infinite labor, too. It lay about one hundred yards from the water, and not
more;' but the first inconvenience was it was up-hiil towards the cre ~k.
Well, to take away this discouragement, I resolved to dig into the surface of
the earth. and so make a declivity. This I began. and it cost me a prodig--
ious deal of pains (but who grudge pains that have their deliverance in
view?). But when this was worked through. and this difliculty managed, it
was still much at one, for I could no more stir the canoe than I could the
other heat. Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved to cut
a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the canoe, seeing I could not bring"
the canoe down to the water Well. I began this work, and when I began
to enter into it and calculate how deep it was to be dug. how broad, how
the stuff was to be thrown out, I found that, by the number of hands I had.
being none but my own, it must have been ten or twelve years before I could
have gone through with it, for the shore lay so high that at the upper end
it must have been at least twenty feet deep; so at length, though with great
reluctancy, I gave this attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily. and now I saw, though too late. the folly of
beginning a work before we count the cost, and before we judge rightly of
our own strength to go through with it.

In the middle of this Work I finished my fourth year in this place. and
kept my anniversary with the some devotion, and with as much comfort as
ever before. for. by a constant study and serious application of the Word of
God, and by the assistance of His grace, I gained a different knowledge
from what I had before I entertained dil'l'erent notions of things. I looked
now upon the world as a thing remote, which I had nothing to do with, no
expectation from, and, indeed. no desires about; in a word, I had nothing
indeed to do with it. nor was ever likely to have. So I thought it looked,
as we may perhaps look upon it hereafter. vizu as a place] had lived in,hut
was come out of it. And well might I say. as Father Abraham to Dives,
" Between me and thee is a great gulf fixed."

In the first place I was removed from all the wickedness of the world
here; I had neither the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eye. nor the pride of
life. I had nothing to covet, for I had all I was now capable of enjoying; 1
was lord of the whole manor, or, if I pleased, I might call myself Ling or
emperor over the whole country which I had possession of. There were no
rivals; I had no competitor, none to dispute sovereignty or command with
me. I might have raised ship-loadings of corn. but I had no use for it. so 1
let as little grow as I thought enough for my occasion. I had tortoises or
turtles enough, but now and then one was as much as I could put to any use.
I had timber enough to have built a fleet of ships. and I had grapes enoughUSELESS GOLD.

to have made wine, or'
to have cured into rais-
ins, to have loaded that
fleet when it had been
built.

But all I could make

to eat and to supply my
wants, and what was all
the rest to me? If I
killed more flesh than I
could eat the dog must
eat it. or the vermin; if I
sowed more com than I
could eat, it in ust be
spoiled; the trees that I
cut down were lying to rot
on the ground; I could
make no more use of them than
for fuel. and that I had no occr' ~
sion for but to dress my food.
In a word, the nature and
experience of things dictated
tu me upon just reflection, that
all the good things of this world
are no further good to us than
they are for our use; and that,
whatever we may heap up in-
deed to give others, we enjoy as
much as we can use and no

more. The most covetous, '

griping miser in the world
would have been cured of the
vice of covetousncss if he had
been in my case, for I possessed
infinitely more than Ikncwwhat
to do with. I had no room for
desire. except it was of things
which I had not, and they were
but trifles, though, indeed. of

  
 
    
 
   
   

113

"1 RESOLVED 'l'O DIG lX'I'fl TlIP. SURFACE OF

THE EARTH"

(p. 112;.

great use to me. Ihad, as I hinted before, aparcel of money, as well gold as
silver. about thirty-six pounds sterling. Alas] there the nasty, sorry. use-
less slufislay! I had no manner of business for it, and I often thought with
myself that I would have given a handful of it for a gross of tobacco-pipes,
or for a hand-mill to grind my corn; nay,I would have given it all for
sixpenny-worth of turnip and carrot seed out of England, or for a handful
of peas and beans and a bottle of ink. As it was, I had not the least
advantage by it, or benefit from it, but there it lay in a drawer and grew
moldy with the. damp of the cave in the wet seasons, and if I had had the
drawer full of diamonds it had been the same case, they had been of no
manner of value to me, because of no use.

' Iliad now brought my state of life to be much easier in itself than it was
at first, and much easier to my mind as well as to my body. I frequently
sat down to meat with thankfulness and admired the hand of God's provi'
dence which had thus spread my table in the wilderness. Ilearned to look
more upon the bright side of my condition, and less upon the dark side, and
to consider what I enjoyed rather than what I wanted, and this gave me
sornecimes such secrct comforts that I cannot express them, and which I
take notice of here, to put those discontented people in mind of it, who can-
not enjoy comfortably what God has given them, because they see and covet
something that He has not given them. All our discontents about what we
want appeared to me to spring from the want of thankfulness for what we
have.

Another reflection was of great use to me and doubtless would be so to
any one that should fall into such distress as mine was, and this was to com--
pare my present condition with what I at first expected it would be; nay,
with what it would certainly have been if the good providence of God had
not wonderfully ordered the ship to be cast up nearer to the shore, where I
not only could come at her. but could bring what I got out of her to the
shore, for my relief and comfort, without which, I had wanted for tools to
work, weapons for defense, and gunpowder and shot for getting my food.

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in representing to myself,
in the most lively colors, how I must have acted if I had got nothing out of
the ship. How I could not have so much as got any food, except fish and
turtles, and that, as it was long before I found any of them, I must have
perished first; that I should have lived, if I had not perished, like a mere
savage; that if I had killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance, I had no
way to flay or open it, or part the flesh from the skin and the bowels, or to
cut it up, but must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my claws, like a
beast. .

These reflections made me very sensible of the goodness of Providence
to me, and very thankful for my present condition, with all its hardships
and misfortunes, and this part also I cannot but recommend to the reflection
of those who are apt, in their misery, to say, "Is any affliction like mine i'"
Let them consider how much worse the cases of some people are, and their
case might have been, if Providence had thought fit. .

I had another reflection, which assisted me also to comfort my mind withTERRIBLE REFLECTIONS. 115

hopes, and this was comparing my present situation with what I had deserved,
and had therefore reason to expect from the hand of Providence. I had lived
a dreadful life, perfectly destitute of the knowledge and [carpi God. I had
been well instructed by father and mother, neither had they been wanting
to me in their early endeavors to infuse a religious awe of God into my mind,
a sense of my duty and what the nature and end of my being required of
me. But, alas! falling early into the sea-faring life, which, of all lives, is
the most destitute of the fear of God, though I-Iis terrors are always before
them--I say, falling early into the seariaring life, and into sea-faring com-
pany, all that little sense of religion which I had entertained was laughed
out of me by my messmates; by a hardened despising of dangers. and the
views of death, which grew habitual to me; by my long absence from all
manner of opportunities to converse with anything but what was like my-
self. or to hear anything of what was good or tended towards it.

So void was I of everything that was good, or of the least sense of what
I was, or was to he, that. in the greatest deliverances l enjoyedwsuch as
my escape from Sallee, my being taken up by the Portuguese master of the
ship, my being planted so well in the Brazils, my receiving the cargo from
England.and the like--I never once had the words, "Thank God!" so much
as on my mind. or in my mouth. nor in the greatest distress had I so much
thoughts as to pray to Him. or so much as to say. "Lord. have mercy upon
me!" no. not to mention the name of God. unless it was to swear by, and
blaspheme it. _

I had terrible reflections upon my mind for many months, as I have
already observed. on the account of my wicked and hardened liie past, and
when I looked about me. and considered what particular providences had
attended me sin'cc my coming into this place, and how God had dealt
bountifully with me--had not only punished me less than my iniquity had
deserved. but had so plentifully provided for me--this gave me great hopes
that my repentance was accepted, and that God had yet mercies in store
for me.

With these reflections. I worked my mind up, not only to resignation to
the will of God in the present disposition of my circumstances, but even to
a sincere thankiulness for my condition, and that I, who was yet a. living
man. ought not to complain, seeing I had not the due punishment of my
sins. That I enjoyed so many mercies which I had, no reason to have
expected in that place. ThatI ought nevermore to repinc at my condition,
but to rejoice, and to give daily thanks for that daily bread, which nothing
but a crowd of wonders could have brought. That I ought to consider I
had been fed even by a miracle. even as great as that of feeding Elijah by
ravens--nay, by a long series of miracles. And that 1 could hardly have
named a place in the uninhabited part of the world where I could have been
cast more to my advantage; a place where. as I had no society. which was
my afliiction on one hand, so I found no ravenous beasts, no furious wolves
or tigers, to threaten my life, no venomous creatures or poisonous, which I
might have fed on to my hurt, no savages to murder and devour me. In a
word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so it was a life of mercy
another, and I wanted nothing to make it a life of comfort but to be able to
make my sense of God's goodness to me, and care over me in this condition.
be my daily consolation; and after I made a just improvement of these
things, I went away, and was no more sad. I had now been here so long.
that many things which I brought on shore for my help were either quite
gone, or very much wasted and near spent.

My ink, as I observed, had been gone some time, all but a very little,
which I eked out with water, a little and a little, till it was so pale, it scarce
left any appearance of black upon the paper. As long as it lasted, I made
use of it to minute down the days of the month on which any remarkable
thing happened to me; and first; by casting up times past, I remembered
that there was a strange concurrence of days in the various providences
which befell me, and which, if I had been superstitiously inelinedto observe
days as fatal or fortunate, I might have had reason to have looked upon
with a great deal of curiosity.

First, I had observed that the same day that I broke away from my
lather and my friends, and ran away to Hull, in order to go to sea, the same
day afterwards I was taken by the Sallec man-of--war, and made a slave;the
same day of the year that l escaped out of the wreck of that ship in Yar-
mouth Roads, that same day of the year afterwards I made my escape from
Sallee in a boat; the. same day of the year I was born on~viz.. the 20th of
September--the same day I had my life so miraculously saved twenty-six
years after, when I was cast on shore in-this island; so that my wicked life
and solitary life began both on a day.

The next thing to my ink being wasted, was that of my bread--I mean
the biscuit which I brought out of the ship. This I had husbanded to the
last degree, allowing myself but one cake of bread a day for above a year;
and yet I was quite without bread for 'a year before I got any corn of my
own; and great reason I had to be thankful that [had any at all, the getting
it being, as has been already observed, next to miraculous.

My clothes, too, began to decay mightily; as to linen, I had had none at
good while, except some checkered shirts which I found in the chests of the
other seamen, and which I carefully preserved; because many times Icould
bear no other clothes on but a shirt; and it was a very great help to me that
I had, among all the men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts.
There were also several thick watch coats of the seamen 's which were left
behind but they were too hot to w;ear and though it is true that the weather
was so violently hot that there was no need of clothes, yet I could not go
quite naked--no, though I had been inclined to it, which I was not; nor
could I abide the thoughts of it, though I was all alone. One reason whyI
could not go naked was, I could not bear the heat of the sun so well whenI MAKE AN UMBRELLA. 117

quite naked as with some clothes on; nay, the very heat frequently blistered
my skin; whereas. with a shirt on, the air itself made some motion, and.
whistling under the shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No more
could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat of the sun without a cap or

. a hat; the heat of the sun, beating with such violence as it doesin that place.
would give me the headache presently, by darting so directly on my head,
without a hat or cap on. so that I could not bear it; whereas, if I put on my
hat, it would presently go away.

Upon these views, I began to consider about putting the few rags I had,
which I called clothes, into some order, I had worn out all the waiscoats
-I had, and my business was now to try if I could not make jackets out of
the great watch-coats which I had by me, and with such other materials as I
had, so I set to work tailoring, or rather indeed botehing. for I made most
piteous work of it. However, I made shift to make two or three waist--
coats, which I hoped would serve me a great while, as for breeches or
drawers I made but a very sorry shift indeed till afterwards.

I have mentioned that Isaved the skins of all the creatures that I killed
-----I mean four-footed ones--and I had them hung up, stretched out with
sticks in the sun, by which means some of them were so dry and hard'that
they were fit for littie, but others it seems were very useful. The first thing
i made of these was a great cap for my head, with the hairon the outside to
shoot off the rain, and this I performed so wellthat. after}! made me a suit
of clothes wholly of those skins--that is to say, a waistcoat and hreeches
open at the knees. and both loose, for they were rather wanting to keep me
cool than to keep me warm. I must not omit to acknowledge that they
were wretchedly made. for if I was a bad' carpenter I wasaworse tailor.
However, they were such as I made a very good shift with, and when I was
abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair of the waistcoat and cap being
outermost, I was kept very dry.

After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to make an umbrella.
I was - indeed in great want of one, and had a great mind to make one. I
had seen them made in the Brazils, where they are very useful in the great
heats which are there. and I felt the heats every jot as great here, and
greater too, being nearer the equinox; besides, as I was obliged to be much
abroad. it was a most useful thing to me, as well for the rains as the heats.
I took a world of pains at it. and was a great while before I could make
anything likely to hold; nay, after I thought I had hit the way. I spoiled
two or three before I made one to my mind. But at last I made one that
answered indiflcrently well; the main difi'icultyl found was to make it to
let down. 1 could make it spread, but it it did not let down too, and draw
in, it would not be portable for me any way but just over my head. which
would not do. However, at last, as i said. I made one to answer, 1 covered
it with skins. the hair upwards. so that it cast off the rain like a penthouse
and kept off the sun so eiiectually that I could walk out in the hottest of
the weather with greater advantage than 1 could before in the coolest. and
when I had no need of it, I could close it and carry it under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably. my mind being entirely composed by
resigning to the will of God, and throwing myself wholly upon the disposal
of His providence. This made my life better than sociable, {or when I
began to regret the want of conversation, I would ask myself, whether thus
conversing mutuallywith my own thoughts. and (as I hope I may say) with
even my Maker, by ejacu-
lations and petitions, was not
better than the utmost enjoy-
ment of human society in the
world?

I cannot say that, after'
this. for five years, any ex-
traordinary thing happened
to me, but I lived on in the
same course, in the same
posture and place. just as
before. The chief thing I
was employed in, besides my
yearly labor of planting my
barley and rice and curing
my raisins--of both which I
always kept up just enough
to have sufl'icient stock of the
year's provisions beforehand
~~~l say, besides this yearly
labor and my daily labor of
going out with my gun, I had
one labor, to make me a

"I MADE m>>: A SUIT 0F CLOTHES" (f. "7). canoe, which at last 1 fin-

ished; so that, by digging a

canal to it of six feet wide
and four feet deep, I brought it into the creek, almost half a. mile. As for
the first, which was so vastly big. as I made it without considering before-
hand, as I ought to do. how I should be able to launch it. so. never being
able to bring it into the water, or bring the water to it. I was obliged to let
it lie where it was, as a memorandum to teach me to be wiser the next
time. Indeed, the next time, though I could not get a tree proper for it,
and was in a place where I could not get the water to it at any less distance
than, as I have said, of near half a mile, yet, as I saw it was practicable at
last, I never gave it over; and though I was near two years about it, yet 1
never grudged my labor, in hopes of having a boat to go off to sea at last.

However, though my little periagua was finished. yet the size of it wasA VOYAGE 0F DISCOVERY. 119

not at all answerable to the design which I had in view when I made. the
first--I mean of venturing over to the term fir-ma. where it was above forty
miles broad. Accordingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end
to that design, and now I thought no more of it. As I had a boat, my next
design was to make a tour round the island; for as I had been on the other
side in one place, crossing, as I have already described it, over the land. so
the discoveries I made in that journey made'me very eager to see other
parts of the coast; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but sailing
round the island.

For this purpose, and that I might do everything with discretion and
consideration. I fitted up a little mast in my boat, and made a sail to it out
of some of the pieces of the ship's sails, which lay in store, and of which I
had a great store by me. Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the
boat, I found she would sail very well; then I made little lockers, or boxes,
at each end of my boat, to put provisions, necessaries. ammunition. etc..
into, to be kept dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea; and a little,
long, hollow place I cut in the inside of the boat, where I could lay my gun,
making a flap to hang down over it, to keep it dry.

I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern. like a mast, to stand over
my head, and keep the heat of the sun off of me. like an awning. And thus
1 every now and then took a little voyage upon the sea; but never went far
out. nor far from the little creek. At last. being eager to View the circum-
ference of my little kingdom, I resolved upon my tour; and accordingly I
victualcd my ship for the voyage, putling in two dozen of loaves_(cakes I
should rather call them) oi barley-bread. an earthen pot full of parched
rice (:1 food I ate a great deal of), a little bottle of rum, half a goat, and
powder with shot for killing more, and two large watch-coats (of those
which. as I mentioned before,I had saved out of the seamen's chests).
These I took, one to lie upon and the other to cover me in the night.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my reign, or my captiv-
ity, which you please, that I set out on this voyage, and I found it much
longer than I expected; for though the island itself was not very large, yet
when I came to the east side of it, I found a great ledge of rocks lie out
about two leagues into the sea--some above water. some under it; and
beyond that a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more, so that I was
obliged to go a great way out to sea to double that point.

When I first discovered them, I was going to give over my enterprise,
and come back again, not knowing how far it might oblige me to go out to
sea, and. above all. doubting how I should get back again, so I came to an
anchor; for I had made a kind of an anchor with a piece of broken grap-
pling which I got out of the ship. r

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went on shore, climbing up
a hill which seemed to overlook that point, where I saw the full extent of
it, and resolved to venture.
In my viewing the sea from that hill where I stood, I perceived a strong
and, indeed, a most furious current, which ran to the east, and even came
close to the point; and I took the more notice of it because I saw there
might be some danger; that when I came into it, I might be carried out to
sea by the strength of it, and not be able to make the island again. And,
indeed, had I not got first upon this hill, I believe it would have been so.
for there was the same current on the other side of the island. only that it
set off at a farther distance, and I saw there was a strong eddy under the
shore; so I had nothing to do but to get out of the first current, and I should
presently be in an eddy. *

I lay here, however. two days, because the wind, blowing pretty fresh at
E.S.E., and that being just contrary to the current, made a great breach oi
the sea upon the point; so that it was not safe for me to keep too close to
the shore for the breach, nor to go too far off, because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having abated overnight, the
sea was calm, and I ventured. But I am a warning-piece to all rash and
ignorant pilots, for no sooner was I come to the point, 'when I was not even
my boat's length from the shore, but I found myself in a great depth of
water, and a current like the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along with
it with such violence that all I could do could not keep her so much as on
the edge of it; but I found it hurried me farther and farther out from the
eddy, which was on my left hand. There was no wind stirring to help me.
and all that I could do with my paddles signified nothing. And now I
began to give myself over for lost, for as the current was on both sides of
the island, I knew in a few leagues' distance they must join again, and then
I was irrecoverably gone; nor did I see any possibility of avoiding it; so
that 1 had no prospect before me but of perishing, not by the sea. for that
was calm enough, but of starving from hunger. I had, indeed. found a tor-
toise on the shore, as big almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into the
boat; and I had a great jar of fresh water--that is to say, one of my earthen
pots; but what was all this to being driven into the vast ocean, where, to be
sure, there was no shore, no mainland or island, for a thousand leagues at
least? -

And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of God to make the
most miserable condition that mankind could be in worse. Now I looked
back upon my desolate. solitary island as the most pleasant place in the
world, and all the happiness my heart could wish for was to be there again.
I stretched out my hands to it with eager wishes. "0 happy desert!" said
I, "I shall never see thee more. 0 miserable creature! whither am I going?"
Then I reproached myself with my unthankful temper. and how I had
repined at my solitary condition; and now what would I give to be on shore
there again! Thus, we never see the true state of our condition till it is
illustrated to us by its contraries, nor know how to value what we enjoy,
but by the want of it. It is scarcely possible to imagine the consternationDRIVEN FROM HOME. 121

I was now in, being driven from my beloved island (for so it appeared to
me now to be) into the wide ocean, almost two leagues. and in the utmost
despair of ever recovering it again. However, I worked hard, till, indeed,
my strength was almost exhausted, and kept my boat as much to the north-
ward--that is. towards the side of the current which the eddy lay onv--as

 

 

"r nnuUGHT 11' mo THE cxwt" (p. 118).

possibly I could; when about noon, as the sun passed the meridian. I
thought I felt a- little breeze of wind in my face, springing up from the
55.1%. This cheered my heart a little, and especially when, in about half
an hour more, it blew a pretty small, gentle gale. By this time I had got at
a frightful distance from the island, and had the least cloudy or hazy
weather intervened, I had been undone another way, too, for I had no com-
pass on board and should never have known how to have steered towards
the island, ii I had but once lost sight of it. But the weather continuing
clear, I applied myself to get up my mast. again, and spread my sail, stand-
ingnwuy to the north as much as possible, to get out of the current.
Just as I had set up my mast and sail. and the boat began to stretch away,
I saw even by the clearness of the water some alteration of the current was
near; for where the current was so strong, the water was foul: but perceiv-
ing the water clear, I found the current abate; and presently I found to the
east, at about half a mile,a breach of the sea upon some rocks. 'l'hese
rocks, I found, caused the current to part again,and as the main stress of it
ran away more southerly, leaving the rocks to the northeast, so the other
returned by the repulse of the rock, and made a strong eddy, which ran
back again to the northwest, with a very sharp stream.

They who know what it is to have a reprieve brought to them upon the
ladder, or to be rescued from thieves just going to murder them, or who
have been in such extremities, may guess what my present surprise of joy
was, and how gladlyl put my boat into the stream of this eddy; and the
wind also freshening, how gladly I spread my sail to it, running cheerfully
before the wind, and with astrong tide or eddy under foot.

This eddy carried me about a league in my way back again, directly
towards the island, but about two leagues more towards the northward than
the current lay which carried me away at first; so that when I came near
the island, I found myself open to the northern shore of it--that is to say,
the other end of the island, opposite to that which I went out from.

When I had made something more than a league of way by help of this
current or eddy, I found it was spent, and saved me no farther. However,
I found that being between two great currents--viz., that on the south side,
which had hurried me away, and that on the north, which lay about two
leagues on the other side--I say, between these two, in the wake of the
island, I found the water at least still. and running no way; and having still
a breeze of wind fair (or me, I kept on steering directly for the island,
though not making such fresh way as I did before.

About four o'clock in the evening, being then within about a league of
the island, I found the point of the rocks which occasioned this disaster
stretching out, as is described before, to the southward, and Casting off the
current more southerly, had.of course, made another eddy lo the north; and
this I found very strong, but not directly setting the way my course lay,
which was due west. but almost full north. However, havinga fresh gale,l
stretched across this eddy, slanting northwest; and in about an hour came
within about a mile of the shore, where, it being smooth water. I soon got
toland.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave God thanks for my
deliverance. resolving to lay aside all thoughts of my deliverance by my
boat; and refreshing myself with such things as I had, I brought my boat
close to the shore, in a little cove that I had spied under some trees. and
laid me down to sleep, being quite spent with the labor and fatigue of the
voyage.

I was now at a great loss which way to get home with my boat! I hadA STRANGE VOICE. 1533

run so much hazard. and knew too much of the case, to think of attempting
it by the way I went out; and what might be at the other side (I mean the
west side) I knew not. nor had I any mind to run any more ventures. So I
resolved on the next morning to make my way westward along the shore,
and to see if there was no creek where I might lay up my trigatein safety, so
as to have her again, if I wanted her. In about three miles or thereabouts,
coasting the shore, I came toa very-good inlet, or bay, about a mile over, which
narrowed till it came to a very little rivulet or brook, where I found a very con-
venient harbor for myboat. and where she lay as if she had been ina little
clock made on purpose {or her. Here I put in, and having stowed my boat
very safe. I went on shore to look about me, and see where I was.

I soon found I had but little passed the place where I had been before.
when I had traveled on foot to that shore; so, taking nothing out of my
boat but my gun and umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot, I began my
march. The way was comfortable enough after such a voyage as I had been
upon. and I reaChcd my old bower in the evening. where I found everything
standing as I left it; for I always kept it in good order. being, as I said
before, my country-house.

I got over the knee. and laid me down in the shade to rest my limbs,
[or I was very weary. and fell asleep. But judge you, if you can, that read
my Story, what a surprise I must have been in when I was awaked out of
my sleep by a voice, calling me by name several times: "Robin, Robin.
Robin Crusoe! poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Where
are you? Where have you been? "

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with rowing, or paddling, an
it is called, the first part of the day, and walking the latter part. that I did
not awake thoroughly; and dozing between sleeping and waking, thought I
dreamed that somebody spoke to me; but as the voice continued to repeat,
" Robin Crusoe! Robin Crusoe!" at lastI began to awake more perfectly,
and was at first dreadfully frightened, and started up in the utmost conster.
nation. But no sooner were my eyes open but I saw my Poll sitting on the
top of the hedge, and immediately knew that it was he that spoke to me;
for just in such bemoaning language I had used to talk to him and teach him;
and he had learned it so perfectly that he would sit upon my finger, and
lay his bill close to my face, and cry, " Poor Robin Crusoe! Where are
you? Where have you been? Ilow came you here?" and such things as
I had taught him.

However. even though I knew it was the parrot, and that indeed it could
be nobody else, it was a good while before I could compose myself. First,
A was amazed how the creature got thither; and then, how he should just
keep about the place, and nowhere else; but as I was well satisfied it could
be nobody but honest Poll. I got over it; and holding out myhand, and call-
ing him by his name, " Poll," the sociable creature came to me, and sat upon
my thumb, as he used to do. and continued talking to me, " l'oor Robin
Crusoe! and how did I come here? and wherehad I been?" just as if he had
been overjoyed to see me again; and so I carried him home along with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some time, and had enough
to do for many days to sit still and reflect upon the danger I had been in. I
would have been very glad to have had my boat again on my side of the
island; but I knew not how it was practicable to get it about. As to the
east side of the island, which I had gone round, I knew well enough there
was no venturing that way; my very heart would shrink, and my very blood
run chill. but to think of it; and as to the other side of the island, I did not
know how it might be there. But supposing the current ran with the same
force against the shore at the east as it passed by it on the other, I might
run the same risk of being driven down the stream, and carried by the island,
as I had been before of being carried away from it. So with these thoughts
I contented myself to be without any boat, though it had been the product
of so many months' labor to make it. and of so many more to get it into the
sea.

In this government of my temper I remained near a year; lived a very
sedate, retired life, as you may well suppose; and my thoughts being very
much composed as to my condition, and fully comforted in resigning
myselito the dispositions of Providence. I thought I lived really veryhap-
pily in all things, except that of society.

I improved myself in this time in all themechanic exercises which my
necessities put me upon applying myself to; and I believe I should, upon
occasion, have made a very good carpenter, especially considering how few
tools I had.

Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected perfection in my earthenware,
and contrived well enough to make them with a wheel, which I found infi-
nitely easier and better, because Imade things round and shaped, which
before were filthy things indeed to look on. But I think 1 was never more
vain of my own performance, or more joyful for anything I found out, than
for my being able to make a tobacco-pipe; anr', though it was a very ugly,
clumsy thing when it was done, and only burnt red, like other earthenware,
yet as it was hard and firm, and would draw the smoke, I was exceedingly
comforted with it. for I had been always used to smoke; and there were
pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not thinking that there was
tobacco in the island; and afterwards, whenI searched the ship again, I
could not come at any pipes. '

In my wickem'are also 1 improved much, and made abundance of neces-
sary baskets, as well as my invention showed me; though not very hand-
some. yet they were such as were very handy, and convenient for laying
things up in. or fetching things home. For example, if I killed a goat
abroad,I could hang it up ina tree, flay it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces.
and bring it home in a basket; and the like bya turtle; I could cut it up,
take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh, which was enough forTRAPPING THE COATS. 125

me. and bring them home in a basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also.
large deep baskets were my receivers for my corn, which I always rubbed
out as soon as it was dry, and cured; and kept it in great baskets, instead of
a granary.

I began now to perceive my powder abated considerably; and this was
a want which it was impossible for me to supply, and I began seriously to
consider whatl must do when I should have no more powder; that is to say,
how I should do to kill any goats. I had, as Iobscrved in the third year of
my being herc, kept a young kid, and bred her up tame; I was in hopes of
getting a he-kid; but I could not by any means bring it to pass, till my kid
grew an old goat; and as I could never find in my heart to kill her, she died
at last of mere age.

But being now in the eleventh year of my residence, and. as I have said,
my ammunition growing low. I set myself to study some art to trap and
snare the goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them alive, and
particularly I wanted a she-goat great with young. To this purpose, I made
snares to hamper them, and I believe they were more than once taken in
them; but my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and always found
them broken, and my baitdevoured. At length. I resolved to trya pitfall, so
I dug several large pits in the earth, in places where I had observed the goats
used to feed, and over these pits I placed hurdles. of my own making, too,
with a great weight upon them, and several times I put ears of barley and
dry rice. without setting the trap, and I could easily perceive that the goats
had gone in and eaten up the corn. for I could see the marks of their feet.
At length, I set three traps in one night, and going the next morning, I
found them all standing, and yet the bait eaten and gone. This was very
discouraging. However, I altered my traps; and, not to trouble you with
particulars, going one morning to see my traps, I found in one at them a
a large old he-goat, and in one of the others, three kids, a male and two
females.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him; he was so fierce I
durst not go into the pit to him; that is to say, to go about to bring him
away alive, which was what I wanted. I could h 'e killed him. but that
was not my business, nor would it answer my end; so I even let him out,
and he ran away, as if he had been frighted out of his wits. But I had [or-
got then whatI learned afterwards, that hunger will tame a lion. If I had
let him stay there three or four days without food, and then have carried
him some water to drink, and then a little corn. he would have, been as
tame as one of the kids; for they are mighty sagacious, tractable creatures,
where they are well used. .

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no better at that time.
Then I went to the three kids, and, taking them one by one, I tied them
with strings together, and with some difficulty brought them all home.

It was a good while before they would feed, but throwing them some
sweet corn. it tempted them and they began to be tame. And now Hound
that if chpectetl to supply myself with guats'flcsh, when 1 had no powder
or shct left, breeding some up tame was my only way, when, perhaps,l
might have them about my house like a flock of sheep. But, then, it
occurred to me that I must keep the tame from the wild, or else they
would always run-wild when they grew up, and the only way for this was to
have some inclosed piece of ground, well fenced either with hedge or pale.

 

 

"I FELL on MY xunns"(p.122).

to keep them up so effectually, that those within might not break out. or
those without break in.

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands. yet, as I saw there _
was an absolute necessity for doing it. my first piece of work was to find out a
proper piece of ground--viz, where there was likely to be herbage for them
to eat, water for them to drink, and cover to keep them from the sun.

Those who understand such inclosures will think I had very little con-
trivance. when l pitched upon a place very proper for all these, being a plain.1 SET UP A DAIRY. 12?

open piece of meadow land, or Savannah (as our people call it in the West-
em colonies). which had two or threelittle drills of fresh water in it, and at
one end was very woody; I say. they will smile at my forecast, when Ishall
tell them I began byinclosing of this piece of ground in such a manncrthat
my hedge or pale must have been at least two miles about. Nor was the
madness of it so great as to the compass, for if it was ten miles about I was
like to have time enough to do it in; but I did not consider that my goats
would be as wild in so much compass as if they had had the whole island,
and I should have so much room to chasethem in that I should nevercutch
them.

My hedge was begun and carried on, I believe, about fifty yards, when
this thought occurred to me; so I presently stopped short, and, for the first
begirming,1 resolved to inclose a piece ofahout one hundred and fifty yards
in length, and one hundred yards in breadth, which, as it would maintain as
many as I should have in any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I
could add more ground to my inclosure.

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to work with courage.
I was about three months hedging in the first piece; and, till I had done it,
I tethered the three kids in the best part of it,and used them to feed as near
me as possible, to make them familiar; and very often I would go and
carry them some cars of barley. or a handful of rice, and feed them out of
my hand; so that, alter my inclosure was finished, and I let them loose,thcy
would follow me up and down, bloating after me for a handful of com.

This answered my end, and in about a year and a half I had a flock of
about twelve goats, kids and all, and in two years more Lhad three-and'
forty, besides several that I took and killed for my food; and after that, I
inclosed five several pieces of ground to feed them in, with little pens to
drive them into, to take them as I wanted them, and gates out of one piece
of ground into another.

But this was not all; for now I not only had goat's flesh to feed on when
I pleased, but milk too--a thing which, indeed, in my beginning I did not
so much as think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts, was really
an agreeable surprise; for now I set up my dairy. and had sometimes a
gallon or two of milk in a day. And as Nature, who gives supplies of food to
every creature, dictates cvcn naturally how to make use of it. so I, that
never milked a cow, much less a goat, or saw butter or cheese made, very
readily and handily, though after a great many essays and miscarriages,
made me both butter and cheese at last, and never wanted it afterwards.
How mercifully can our Creator treat His crcatures even in those condi-
tions in which they seemed to be overwhelmed in destruction! How can He
sweeten the bitterest providences, and give us cause to praise Him for dun-
geons and prisons! What a table was here spread for me in a wilderness
where I saw nothing at first but to perish for hunger!

It would have made a Stoic smile to have seen me and my little family
sit down to dinner. There was my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole
island. I had the lives of all my subjects at absolute command. I could
hang, draw, give life and liberty and take it away, and no rebels among all
my subjects. Then to see how like a. king 1 dined too, all alone. attended
by my servants! Poll, as if he had been my favorite, was the only person
permitted to talk to me; my dog, who was now grown very old and crazy,
and had found no species to multiply his kind upon, sat always at my right
hand; and two cats, one on one side the table, and one on the other, expect-
ing now and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of special favor.

But these were not the two cats which I brought on shore at first, for
they were both of them dead, and had been interred near my habitation by
my own hand; but one of them'having multiplied by I know not what kind
of creature, these were two which I preserved tame; whereas the rest ran
wild in the woods. and became, indeed, troublesome to me at last, for they
would often come into my house, and plunder me, too, till at last I was
obliged to shoot them, and did kill a great many. At length they left me.
With this attendance and in this plentiful manner I lived; neither could I
be said to want anything but society; and of that, in some time after this, I_
was likely to have too much.

Iwas something impatient, asI have observed, to have the use'of my
boat, though very loth to run any more hazard; and, therefore, sometimes]
sat contriving ways to get her about the island, and at other times I sat
myself down, contented enough without her. But] had a strange uneasiness
in my mind to go down to the point of the islandwhere, asI have said, in my
last ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore lay, and how the current
set, that I might see what I had to do. This inclination increased upon nie
every day. and at length I resolved to travel thither by land; and, follow-
ing the edge of the Shore. 1 did so; but had any one in England met such a
man as l was, it must either have frighted them or raised a great deal of
laughter;and as I frequently stood still to look at myself,I could not but smile
at the notion of my traveling through Yorkshire with such an equipage, and
in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of my figure, as follows:

Ihad a great, high, shapelcss cap made of goat skin, with a [lap hang-
ing down behind, as well to keep the sun from me as to shoot the rain off
from running into my neck; nothing being so hurtful in these climates as
the rain upon the flesh under the clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat's skin, the skirts coming down to about the
middle of the thighs, and a pair of open-knecd breeches of the same; the
breeches were made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung down
Such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons, it reached td the mid-
dle of my legs. Stockings and shoes I had none, but had made me a pair
of somethings--I scarce knew what to call them--like buskins. to flap over
my legs and lace on either side like spattcrdashes, but of a most barbarous
shape, as, indeed, were all the rest of my clothes.MY QUAINT APPEARANCE. 129

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which I drew together with
two thongs of the same. instead of buckles; and in a kind of a frog on
either side of this, instead of a sword and dagger, hung a little saw and a
hatchet, one on one side. one on the other. I had another belt not so broad,
and fastened in the same manner. which hung over my shoulder, and at the
end of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches. both made of goat's skin.
too. in one of which hung my powder, in the other my shot. At my back I
carried my basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my head a great
clumsy, ugly, goat-skin umbrella. but which, after all, was the most neces>>
sary thing I had about me next to my gun. As for my face. the color of it
was really not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a man not at all

except what grew on my upper lip, which I had trimmed into a large pair
of Mahometan whiskers. such as I had seen worn by some Turks at Sallee;
for the Moors did not wear such, though the Turks did. Of these mous-
tachios. or whiskers, I will not say they were long enough to hang my hat
upon them, but they were of a length and shape monstrous enough, and
such as in England would have passed for frightful.

But all this is by the bye; for, as to my figure, I had so few to observe
me that it was of no manner of consequence, so I say no more to that part.
In this kind of dress I went my new journey, and was out five or six days.
I traveled first along the sea-shore, directlyto the place where I first brought
my boat to an anchor, to get up upon the rocks; and having no boat now to
take care of, I went over thcland a nearer way to the same height that [was
upon before. when, looking forward to the point of the rock which lay out,
and which I was obliged to double with my boat. as I said above, Iwas
surprised to see the sea all smooth and quiet--no rippling, no motion. no
current any more there than in other places. I was at a strange loss to under-
stand this, and resolved to spend some time in the observing it.to sec ifnoth-
ing from the sets of the tide had occasioned it; but I was presently
convinced how it was--viz., that the tide of ebb setting from the west, and
joining with the current of waters from some great river on the shore, must be
the occasion of this current, and that according as the wind blew more forci-
ble from the west or from the north, this current came near, or went farther
from the shore; for, waiting thereabouts till evening, I went up to the rock
again. and then the tide of ebb being made, I plainly saw the current again
as before, only that it ran farther off, being near half a league from the
shore, whereas in my case it set close upon the shore and hurried me in my
canoe along with it, which at another time it would not have done.

This observation convinced me that I had nothing to do but to observe
the ebbing and the flowing of the tide, and I might very easily bring
my boat about the island again; but when I began to think about putting it
in practice, I had such terror upon my spirits at the remembrance of the
danger I hatl been in, that I could not think of it again with any patience;
but, on the contrary, I took up another resolution, which was more safe,
though more laborious--and this was, that I would build, or rather make
me another periagua, or canoe, and so have one for one side of the island,
and one for the other. '

You are to understand that now I had. as I may call it, twu plantations
in the island; one my little fortification or tent,with the wall about it, under

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"now LIKE A 1mm 1 mum)" (:5. I28).

the rock, with the cave behind me. which by this time I had enlarged into
several apartments, or caves, one within another. One of these. which was
the driest and largest, and had a door out. beyond my wall or fortification--
that is to say, beyond where my wall joined to the rock-- was all filled up
with the large earthen pots, of which Iliave given an account, and with
fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold five or six bushels each,
where I laid up my stores of provisions, especially my corn, some in the
ear, cut off short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with my hand.
As for my wall, made, as before. with long stakes or piles, those piles
grew all like trees, and were by this time grown so big, and spread so veryMY ISLAND FARM. 131

much,that there was not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any
habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little farther within the land, and upon .
lower ground, lay my two pieces of corn-land, which I kept duly cultivated
and sowed, and which duly yielded me their harvest in its season; and
whenever I had occasion {or more com, I had more land adjoining, as fit as
that. '

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now a tolerable planta-
tion there also; for first, I had my little bower, as I called it, which I kept
in repair--that is to say, I kept the hedge which circled it in, constantly
fitted up to its usual height, the ladder standing always in the inside. I
kept the trees, which at first were no more than my stakes, but were now
grown very firm and tall, always so cut that they might spread and grow
thick and wild, and make the more agreeable shade, which they did effectu-
ally to my mind. In the middle of this I had my tent always standing,
being a piece of a sail spread over poles set up for that purpose, and which
never wanted any repair or renewing; and under thisl had made me a
squab, or couch, with the skins of the creatures I had killed, and with other
soft things, and a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-bed-
ding, which I had saved; and a great watch-coat to cover me; and here,
whenever I had occasion to be absent from my chief seat.l took up my
country habitation.

Adjoining to this I had my inclosures for my cattle--that is to say, my
goats; and as I had taken an inconceivable deal of pains to fence and
inclose this ground, I was so anxious to see it kept entire, lest the goats
should break through, that I never left oH till, with infinite labor,l had
stuck the outside of the hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one
another, that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was scarce room
to put a hand through between them; which afterwards, when those stakes
grew, as they all did in the next rainy season, made the inclosure strong
like a wallrindeed, stronger than any wall. .

This will testify for me that l was not idle, and that I spared no pains
to bring to pass whatever appeared necessary for my comfortable support;
for I considered the keeping up a breed of lame creatures thus at my hand
would be a living magazine of flesh, milk, butter, and cheese for me as long
as I lived in the place. it it were to be forty years; and that keeping them
in my reach depended entirely upon my pcrlecting my inclosurcs to such a
degree that I might be sure of keeping them together, which, by this
method, indeed, I so effectually secured,thatwhen these little stakes began
to grow, I had planted them so very thick I was forced to pull some of
them up again.

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which Iprincipally depended
on for my winter store of raisins, and which I never failed to preserve very
carefully, as the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and,"I sroon mm: on. muxnmsmucx." (p. 133).'l'l-lli l-'OD'I'PRIN'I' ON THE BEACH. I33

indeed, they were not agreeable only, but physical, wholesome, nourishing.
and refreshing to the last degree.

As this was also about half-way between my other habitation and the
place whcrc I had 133d up my boat, I generally stayed and lay here in my
way thither, {or I used frequently to visit my boat; and I lrept all things
about, or belonging to her. in very good order. Sometimes I went out in
her to divert myself, but no more hazardous voyages would I go, scarcely
ever above a stone's cast. or two from \he shore, I was so apprehensive of
heing hurried out of my knowledge again by the currents or winds, or any
other accident. But now I came to a new scene of my life.

It happened one day. about noon, going towards my boat, I was exceed--
ingly surprised with the print of a man's naked foot on the shore, which
was very plain to be seen on the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck,
or as if I had seen an apparition I listened, I looked round me, but I could
hear nothing nor see anything; I went up to a rising ground, to look farther;
I went up the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one. I could see
no other impression but that one. I went to it again to see if there were
any more, and to observe it' it might not be my fancy; but there was no
room for that, for there was exactly the print of a loot--toes, heel, and
every part of a foot. How it came thither I knew not, nor could in'thc
least imagine. But after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man
perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to my fortification,
not feeling, as we say, the ground I went on, but terrified to the last
degree, looking behind me at every two or three steps. mistaking every
bush and tree. and fancying every stump at a distance to be a man. Nor
is it. possible to describe how many various shapes my affrighted imagi--
nation represented things to me in; how many wild ideas were formed
every moment in my fancy, and what strange, unaccountable whimseys
came into my thoughts by the way.

Whenl came to my castle (for so I think I called it ever after this) I
fled into it like one pursued, Whether I went over by the ladder, as first
contrived, or went in at the hole in the rock,which I called a door, I cannot
remember; for never frighred hare fled to cover. or fox to earth. with more
terror of mind than I to this retreat.

I had no sleep that night; the farther I was from the occasion of my
fright, the greater my apprehensions were. which is something contrary to
the nature of such things, and especially to the usual practice of all crea-
tures in fear; but I was so embarrassed with my own frightful ideas of the
thing, that I formed nothing but dismal imaginations to myself, even though
I was now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it must be the devil;
and reason joined in with me upon this supposition; for how should any
other thing in human shape come into the place? Where was the vessel
that brought them? \-Vhat marks were there of any other footsteps? And
how was it possible a man should come there? But then to think that
Satan should take human shape upon him in such a place, where there
could be no manner of occasion for it, but to leave the print of his foot
behind him. and that even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure I
should see it--this was an amazement the other way. I considered that the
devil might have found out abundance of other ways to have terrified me
than this of the single print of a foot; that as I lived quite on the otherside
of the island, he would never have been so simple as to leave a mark in a
place where it was ten thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not,
and in the sand too, which the first surge of the sea, upon a high wind.
would have defaced entirely. All this seemed inconsistent with the thing
itself, and with all the notions We usually entertain of the subtlety of the
devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue me out of all appre-
hensions of its being the devil; and I presently concluded then that it must
be some more dangerous creature; viz., that it must be some of the savages
oi the mainland over against. me, who had wandered out to sea in their
canoes, and either driven by the currents or by contrary winds, had made
the island, and had been on shore, but were gone away again to sea; being
as luth, perhaps, to have stayed in this desolate island as I would have been
to have had them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind, I was very thankful
in my thought that I was so happy as not to be thereabouts at that time. or
that they did not see my boat, by which they would have concluded that
some inhabitants had been in the place, and perhaps have searched farther
for me. Then terrible thoughts racked my imagination about their having
found my boat, and that there were people here; and that, if so, I should
certainly have them come again in greater numbers, and devour me; that if
it should happen that they should not find me, yet they would find my
inclosure, destroy all my corn, and carry away all my flock of tame goats,
and I should perish at last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hOpe; all that former confidence
in God, which was founded upon such wonderful experience as I had had
of His goodness, now vanished; as if He that had fed me by miracle hith-
erto, could not preserve by His power the provision which He had made for
me by His goodness. I reproached myself with my laziness, that would
not 50w any more corn one year than would just serve me till the next sea-
son, as if no accident could intervene to prevent my enjoying the crop that
was upon the ground; and this I thought so just a reproot, that I resolved
for the future to have two or three years' corn beforehand, so that, whatever
might come, I might not perish [or want of bread.

How strange a checker-work of Providence is the life of man! and by
what secret differing springs are the affections hurried about, as (littering
circumstances present! Today we love what to-morrow we hate: today we
seek what to-morrow we shun; to-day we desire what to-morrow we fear,
nay, even tremble at the apprehensions oi. This was exemplified in me at
this time in the most lively manner imaginable; for 1. whose only affliction
was, that I seemed banished [rum human society, that I was alone, cireum-
scribed by the boundless ocean, cut off from
mankind, and condemned to what I call silent
iiie; that I was as one whom IIeavcn thought
not worthy to be numbered among,r the living,
or to appear'amongst the
rest of His creatures; that
to have seen one oi my
own species would have
seemed to me 3. raising me
from death
to life, and
the greatest
blessing that
H e ave n it-
self. next to
the supreme
blessing o f
s a l v a t io n.
c o u l d b e -
stow; I say,
that I should
now tremble
at th e very
a p p r e h c n-
sions of see-
ing a in a n,
a n d w a 5
ready to sink "I HAD ,\r\' COUNTRY SEAT" (fi- 131).
i n t o t h e
ground at but
the shadow or silent appearance of a man having set his foot on the island.
Such is the uneven state oi human life, and it afforded me a great many
curious speculations afterwards, when I had a little recovered my first sur-
prise. I considered that this was the station oi life the infinitely wise and
good providence of God had determined for me; that as I could not foresee
what the end of Divine wisdom might be in all this. so I was not to dispute
His sovereignty, who, as I was His creature. had an undoubted right by
creation to govern and dispose of me absolutely as He thought fit; and who,
as I was a creature who had offended Him, had likewise a judicial right to
condemn me to what punishment He thought fit; and that it was my part
to submit to bear I-Iis indignation, because I had sinned against Him. I
then reflected that God, who was not only righteous, but omnipotent, as He
had thought fit thus to punish and afflict me, so He was able to deliver me;
that if He did not think fit to do it, it was my unquestioned duty to resign
myself absolutely and entirely to His will; and, on the other hand, it was
my duty also to hope in Him, pray to Him, and quietly to attend the dic-
tates and directions of His daily providence.

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay, I may say weeks and
months; and one particular effect of my cogitations on this occasion I can-
not omit; viz., One morning early, lying in my bed, and filled with thoughts
about my danger from the appearance of savages, I found it discomposed
me very much; upon which those words of the Scripture came into my
thoughts: " Call upon Me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou
shalt glorify Me." Upon this, rising cheerfully out of bed, my heart was
not only comforted, but I was guided and encouraged to pray earnestly to
God for deliverance. \thn I had done praying, I took up my Bible, and
opening it to read, the first words that presented to me were, " Wait on the
Lord: be of good courage, and He shall strengthen thy heart: wait, Isay,
on the Lord." It is impossible to express the comfort this gave me, and in
return I thankfully laid down the book, and was no more sad, at least. not
on that occasion. _

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions and reflections, it
came into my thoughts one day that all this might be a mere chimera of
my own, and that this foot might be the print ot my own foot when I came
on shore from my boat. This cheered me up a little, too, and I began to
persuade myself it was all a delusion, that it was nothing else but my own
foot, and why might I not come that way from the boat. as well as I was
going that way to the boat? Again I considered also that I could by no
means tell for certain where I had trod, and where I had not, and that if
at last this was only the print of my own foot I had played the part of
those fools who try to make stories of spectres and apparitions, and then
are themselves frighted at them more than anybody else.

Now Ibegan to take courage and to peep abroad again, for I had not
stirred out oimy castle for three days and nights, so that I began to starve
for provision, for I had little or nothing within doors but some barley-
cakes and water. Then I knew that my goats wanted to be milked too,
which usually was my evening diversion, and the poor creatures were in
great pain and inconvenience for want of it; and indeed it almost spoiled
some of them, and almost dried up their milk.

Heartening myself, therefore, with the belief that this was nothing but
the print of one of my own feet, and so I might be truly said to start at my
own Shadow, I began to go abroad again, and went to my country-house to
milk my flock; but to see with what [car I went forward, how often I looked
behind me, how I was ready, every now and then, to lay down my basket
and run for my life, it would have made any one have thought I was hauntedA CONFUSION OF THOUGHTS. 131

with an evil conscience, or that I had been lately most terribly frighted;
and so, indeed, I had. However, as I went down thus two or three days,
and having seen nothing, I began to be a littler bolder, and to think there
was really nothing in it but my own imagination; but I could not persuade
myself fully of this till I should go down to the shore again, and see this
print of a foot and measure it by my own, and see if there was any simili-
tudc or fitness, that I might be assured it was my own foot. But when I
came to the place--first, it appeared evidently to me that when I laid up
my boat, I could not possibly be on shore anywhere thereabouts; secondly.
when I came to measure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot not
so large by a great deal. Both these things filled my head with new
imaginations, and gave me the vapors again to the highest degree, so that
I shook with cold like one in an ague; and I went home again, filled with
the belief that some man or men had been on shore there; or, in short, that
the island was inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was aware; and
what course to take for my security I knew not.

Oh, what ridiculous resolutions men take when possessed with fear! It
deprives them of the use of those means which reason offers for their relief.
The first thing I proposed to myself was, to throw down my inclosures, and
turn all my tame cattle wild into the woods, that the enemy might not find
them, and then frequent the island in prospect of the same or the like booty;
then the simple thing of digging up my two corn-fields that they might not
find such a grain there, and still be prompted to frequent the island; then
to demolish my bower and tent, that they might not see any vestiges of
habitation, and be prompted to look farther, in order to find out the persons
inhabiting. '

These were the subjects of the first night's cogitations, after I was come
home again, while the apprehensions which had so overrun my mind were
fresh upon me, and my head was full of vapors as above. Thus, fear of
danger is ten thousand times more terrifying than danger itself. when
apparent to the cyes; and we find the burden of anxiety greater, by much,
than the evil which we are anxious about, but which was worse than all this,
I had not that relief in this trouble, from the resignation I used to practice,
that I hoped to have. I looked, I thought, like Saul, who complained not
only that the Philistines were upon him, but that God had forsaken him;
for Idid not now take due ways to compose my mind, by crying to God in
my distress, and resting- upon His providence. as I had done before, for my
defense and deliverenee; which if I had done, I had at least been more
cheerfully supported under this new surprise, and perhaps carried through
it with more resolution.

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all night; but in the
morning I fell asleep; and having by the amusement of my mind been, as it
were, tired, and my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and awaited
much better composed than I had ever been before. And now I began to
think sedately: ano, upon the utmost debate with myself, I concluded that
this island (which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and no farther from
the mainland than as I had seen) was not so entirely abandoned as I might
imagine: that although there were no stated inhabitants who lived on the
spot, yet that there might sometimes come boats off from the shore, who,
either with design, or perhaps never but when they were driven by cross-
winds, might come to this place; that I had lived here fifteen years now,
and had not met with the least shadow or figure of any people yet; and that.
if at any time they should be driven here, it was probable they went away
again as soon as ever they could. seeing they had never thought fit to fix
here upon any occasion to this time; that the most I could suggest any
danger from was, from any casual accidental landing of straggling people
from the main, who, as it was likely, if they were driven hither, were here
against their wills; so they made no stay here, but went off again with all
possible speed. seldom staying one night on shore, lest they should not
have the help of the tides and daylight back again; and that, therefore, I
had nothing to do but to consider 01" some sate retreat in case I should see
any savages land upon the spot.

Now I began surely to repent that I had dug my cave so large as to
bring a door through again, which door, as I said, came out beyond where
my fortification joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering this, there-
fore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification, in the same manner of a
semicircle, at a distance from my wall, just where I had planted a double
row of trees about twelve years before, of which I made mention; these
trees having been planted so thick before, there wanted but few piles to be
driven between them, that they should be thicker and stronger, and my wall
would be soon finished. So that I had iiuwa double wall; and my outer
wall was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and eveiything Icould
think of to make it strong, havingr in it seven little holes, about as big as I
might put my arm out at. In the inside of this.l thickened my wall to
about ten feet thick, continually bringing earth out of my cave, and laying
it at the foot of the wall. and walking upon it; and through the seven holes
I contrived to plant themuslrets, of which I took notice that I got seven on
shore out of the. ship; these, I say, I planted like my cannon, and fitted
them into frames that held them like a carriage, that so I could fire all the
seven guns in two minutes' time. This wall I was many a weary month in
finishing, and yet never thought myself safe till it was done.

""11ch this was done, I stuck all the ground without my wall, for a great
way every way, as full with stakes or sticks of the osier-Iiku wood, which I
found so apt to grow. as they could well stand; insomuch that I believe I
might set in near twenty thousand of them, leaving a pretty large. space
between them and my wall, that I might have room to see an enemy, and
they might have no shelter from the young trees, it they attempted to
approach my outer wall.DEFENSIVE PREPARATIONS. I39

Thus, in two years' time, I had a thick grove; and in five or six years'
time I had a wood betore my dwelling grown so monstrous thick and
strong that it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no man. of what kind
socver, would ever imagine that there was anything beyond it, much less a
habitation. As for the way which I proposed to myself to go in and out
(for I left no avenue). it was by setting two ladders. one to a part of the
rock which was low, and then broke in, and left room to place another lad-
der upon that; so when the two ladders were taken down. no man living
could come down to me without misehieling himself; and if they had come
down, they were still on the outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could suggest for my own
preservation; and it will be seen, at length, that they were not altogether
without just reason; though I foresaw nothing at that time more than my
more fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of my other afi'airs;
for I had a great concern upon me for my little herd of goats; they were
not only a present supply to me upon every occasion. and began to be suf-
ficient for me without the expense of powder and shot. but also abated the
fatigue of my hunting after the wild ones; and I was loth to lose the
advantage of them, and to have them all to nurse up over again.

For this purpose. after long consideration,l could think of but two ways
to preserve them: one was to find another convenient place to dig a cave
under ground. and to drive them into it every night; and the other was to
inclose two or three little bits of land,'remote from one another, and as
much concealed as I could, where I might keep about half a dozen young
goats in each place; so that if any disaster happened to the flock in general,
I might be able to raise them again with little trouble and time; and this,
though it would require a good deal of time and labor, I thought was the
most rational design

Accordingly, I spent some time to find out the most retired parts of the
island; and I pitched upon one which was as private indeed as my heart
could wish: it was a little damp piece of ground, in the middle of the hol-
low and thick woods. where, as is observed, I almost lost myself once
before. endeavorng to come back that way from the eastern part of the
iSIand. Here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres. so surrounded
with woods that it was almost an enclosure by Nature; at least it did not
want near so much labor to make it so. as the other pieces of ground I had
worked so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground; and, in less than
a month's time,l had so fenced it round that my flock, or herd, call it
which you please. which were not so wild now as at first they might be
supposed to be, were well enough secured in it. So, without any further
delay. I removed ten she-goats. and two lie-goats, to this piece; and, when
they were there, I continued to p'crfect the fence, till I had made it as secure
as the other; which, however, I did at more leisure, and it took me up more
time by a great deal.

All this labor I was at the expense of, purely from my apprehensions
on the account of the print of a man's foot which I had seen; for, as yet,
I had never seen any human creature come near the island; and I had now
lived two years under this uneasiness, which, indeed. made my life much
less comfortable than it was beiore, as may well be imagined by any who
know what it is to live in the constant snare oi the fear of man. And this
I must observe, with grief, too, that the discomposure of my mind had too

     

   

  
 
  

  
 
     

PS~

     

       
    
  

WM $113M Vii)"

' 2' .' "hwy-9H \"v.

"mg". ,1 I 'l ,:' l- _ 'l'||\ \~ \' 'Lh .1 .,'.
'l'fi',,fl,[,fi~,,,fil.gififll\*i. 'gus'3:;'xh\hriii-Ii{'i'l"\ J'Al

"xv EVENING mvuitSiON" (1). 136).

great impressions also upon the religious part of my thoughts,- for the
dread and terror of falling into the hands of savages and Cannibals lay
so upon my spirits, that I seldom found myself in a due temper [or appli-
cation to my Maker; at least, not with the sedate calmness and resignation
of soul which I was wont to do. I rather prayed to God as under great
affliction and pressure of mind, surrounded with danger, and in expectation
every night of being murdered and devoured before morning; and I must
testify, from my experience, that a temper of peace, thankiulness, love, and
affection, is much the more proper frame for prayer than that of terror and
discomposure; .and that under the drcad of mischief impending, a man is
no more fit for a comforting performance of the duty of praying to God
than he is for repentance on a sick-bed; for these discomposurcs affect the
mind. as the others do the body; and the discomposure of the mind mustA HORRIBLE DISCOVERY. l4]

necessarily be as great a disability as that of the body. and much greater;
praying to God being properly an act of the mind, not of the body.

But to go on: after I had thus secured one part of mylittle living stock,
I went about the whole island, searching for another private place to make
such another deposit; when, wandering more to the west point of the island
than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea, I thought I saw a boat
upon the sea, at a great distance. I had found a perspective glass or two
in one of the scamen's chests, which I saved out of our ship, but I had it
not about me; and this was so remote that I could not tell what to make oi
it, though I looked at it till my eyes were not able to hold to look any
longer: whether it was a boat or not, I do not know; but as I descended
from the hill I could see no more of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to
go no more out without a perspective glass in my pocket,

\Vhen I was come down the hill to the end of the island, where, indeed,
I had never been before, I was presently convinced that the seeing the print
of a man's foot was not such a. strange thing in the island as I imagined;
and but that it was a special providence that I was cast upon the side of the
island where the savages never came, I should easily have known that
nothing was more frequent than for the canoes from the main, when they
happened to be a little too far out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the
island for harbor; likewise, as they often met and fought in their canoes,
the victors, having taken any prisoners, would bring them over to this
shore, where, according to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they
would kill and eat them; of which hereafter. _

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I said above, being the
S.\V. point of the island, I was perfectly confounded and amazed; nor is it
possible for me to express the horror of my mind, at seeing the shore spread
with skulls, hands, feet, and other bones of human bodies; and particularly,
I observed a place where there had been a fire made, and a circle dug in
the earth like a cockpit, where I supposed the savage wretches had sat
down to their inhuman {castings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things. that I entertained no
notions of any danger to myself from it for a long while; all my apprehen--
sions were buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman, hellish
brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of human nature, which, though
I had heard of often, yet I never had so near a view of before; in short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle; my stomach grew sick,and
Iwas just at the point of fainting, when Nature discharged the disorder
from my stomach; and having vomited with uncommon violence, I was a
little relieved, but could not bear to stay in the place a moment; so I got
up the hill again with all the speed I could, and walked on towards my own
habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I stood still awhile,
as amazed, and then, recovering myself. I looked up with the utmost affec-
tion of my soul, and, with a flood of tears in my eyes,gave God thanks. that
had cast my first lot in a part of the world where I was distinguished from
such dreadful creatures as these; and that though I had esteemed my pres-
ent condition very miserable, had yet given me so many comforts in it that
I had still more to give thanks for than to complain of; and this, above all,
that I had. even in this miserable condition, been comforted with the
knowledge of Himself, and the hope of His blessing, which was a felicity
more than sufficiently equivalent to all the misery which 1 had suffered, or
could suffer.

In this frame ol thankfulness, I went home to my castle and began to be
much easier now as to the safety of my circumstances than ever I was
before, for l observed that these wretches never came to this island in
search of what they could get, perhaps not seeking, not wanting, or not
expecting anything here, and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered
woody part of it. without finding anything to their purpose. I knewl had been
here now almost eighteen years and never saw the least footsteps of human
creature there before, and I might be eighteen years more as entirely
concealed as I was now, if I did not discover myself to them, which I had
no manner- of occasion to do, it being my only business to keep myself
entirely concealed where I was, unless I found a better sort of creatures than
cannibals to make myself known to. ' Yet I entertained such an abhorrencc
of the savage wretches that I have been speaking of, and of the wretched
inhuman custom of their devouring and eating one another up, that I
continued pensive and sad, and kept close within my own circle for almost
two years after this; when I say my own circle,I mean by it my three
plantations, viz., my castle, my countryseat (which I called my bower),and
my inclosure in the woods; nor did I look after this for any other use than
as an inclosure for my goats; for the aversion which Nature gave me to
these hellish wretehes was such that l was as fearful of seeing them as of
seeing the devil himself, nor did I so much as go to look after my boat in
all this time, but began rather to think of making me another, for I could
not think of ever making any more attempts to bring the other boat round
the island to me, lest I should meet with some ofthose creatures at sea. in
which case, if I had happened to have fallen into their hands I knew what
would have been my lot.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was in no danger of
being discovered by these people, began to wear off my uneasiness about
them, and I began to live just in the same composed manner as before,
only with this difference that I used more caution and kept my eyes more
about me than I did before, lest I should happen to be seen by any of them;
and particularly I was more cautious in firing my gun lest any of them
being on the island should happen to hear it, and it was, therefore, a very
good providence to me that 1' had furnished myself with a tame breed of
goats, and thatl had no need to hunt any more about the woods or shootMY I-'ORMIDABLE APPEARANCE. 143

 

 

 

 

"A rLAc'}: \vmmlz THERE HAL) Bee's A Fmi: Mime" (p.141).

at them, and if I did catch any of them after this, it was bytreps and snares
as I had done before; so that for two years 'alter thisl believe I never fired
my gun onee off, though l never Went out without it, and, which was more,
as I had sa'ved three pistols out of the ship. 1 always carried them outwith
me, or at least two of them, sticking them in my goat-skin belt. I likewise
furnished up one of the great cutlasses that I had out of the ship, 'and made
me a belt to put it on 3156. so that l was new a most formidable fellow to
look at when 1 went abroad, if you add to the former dcscriptihn of myself
the particular of two pistols and a great broadsword hanging at my side in
a belt, but without a seabburd,

Things going on thus, as l have said. {or some time, I seemed, except-
ing these cautions. to be reduced to my iormer calm, sedate way of living.
All these things tended to show me, more and more, how far my condition
was from being miserable. compared to some others; nay, to many other
particulars of life, which it might have pleased God to have made my lot.
It put me upon reflecting how little repining there would be among mas
kind at any condition of 1ife,if people would rather compare their condition
with those that are worse, in order to be thankful. than be always compur- -
ing them with those which are better, to assist their murmurlh'gs and corn-
plainings.
As in my present condition there were not really many things which I
wanted, so, indeed. I thought that the [rights I had been in about these
savage wretches, and the concern I had been in for my own preservation,
had taken off the edge of my invention for my own conveniences, and I
had dropped a good design, which I had once bent my thoughts upon. and
that was to try it I could not make some of my barley into malt, and then
try to brew myself some beer. This was really a whimsical thought, and I
reproved myself often for the simplicity of it, for I presently saw there
would he the want of several things necessary to the making my beer, that
it would be impossible for me to supply; as, first, casks to preserve it in,
which was a thing that, as I have observed already, I could never compass,
no, though I spent not many days, but weeks, nay, months, in attempting it,
but to no purpose. In the next place. I had no hops to make it keep, no
yeast to make it work, no copper or kettle to make it boil, and yet had not
all these things intervened--I mean the flights and terrors I was in about
the savages--I had undertaken it, and perhaps brought it to pass, too, for I
seldom gave anything over without accomplishing it, when I once had it in
my head enough to begin it. But my invention now ran quite another way,
for, night and day, I could think of nothing but how I might destroy some
of these monsters, in their cruel, bloody entertainment, and. if possible, save
the victim they should bring hither to destroy. It would take up a larger
volume than this whole work is intended to be, to set down all the contriv-
ances I hatched, or rather brooded upon, in my thoughts, for the destroying
these creatures, or at least frightening them so as to prevent their coming
hither any more, but all was abortive, nothing could be possible to take
eflect, unless I was to be there to do it myself; and what could one man do
among them, when perhaps there might be twenty or thirty of them together
with their darts. or their bows and arrows, with which they could shoot as
true to a mark as I could with my gun?

Sometimes I thought of digging a hole underthe place where they made
their fire and putting in five or six pounds of gunpowder, which,when they kin-
dled their fire, would consequently take fire and blow up all that was near it;
but as, in the first place, I should he unwilling to waste so much powder upon
them, my store being now within the quantity of one barrel, so neither could
I be sure of its going off at any certain time, when it might surprise them;
and, at best. that it would do little more than just blow the fire about their
ears and {right them, but not sufficient to make them forsake the place, so I
laid it aside; and then proposed that I would place myself in ambush in some
convenient place, with my three guns all double loaded and in the middle
of their bloody ceremony let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or
wound perhaps two or three at every shot, and then falling in upon them
with my three pistols and my sword, I made no doubt but that, if there were
twenty, I should kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for some
weeks, and I was so full of it that I often dreamed of it. and sometimes that
I was just going to let fly at them in my sleep. I went so far with it in my
imagination that. I employed myself several days to find out proper places
to put mysell in ambuscade, as I said, to watch [or them, and I went fre-
quently to the place itself, which was now grown more familiar to me; but
while my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge and of a bloody
putting twenty or thirty ol' them to the sword, as I may call it, the horror I
had at the place, and at the signals of the barbarous w retches devour-
ing one another, abetted my malice. Well. at length I found a place in the
side of the hill, where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw any of
their boats coming; and might then, even before they would be ready to
come on shore, convey myself unseen into some thickets of trees, in one of
which there was a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely; and there I
might sit and observe all their bloody doings, and take my full aim at their
heads when they were so close together as that it would be next to impos-
sible that I should miss my shot, or thatl could [ail wounding three or four
of them at the first shot In this place then I resolved to fix my design,
' and accordingly I prepared two muskets and my ordinary towling piece.
The two muskeis I loaded \\ 1th a brace of slugs each and four or five smaller
bullets, about the size of pistol bullets, and the fouling-piece I loaded with
neara handful of swan-shot of the largest size. I also loaded my pistols
with about four bullets each. and in this posture, well provided with ammu-
nition for a second and third charge, I prepared myself {or my expedition.

Atterl had thus laid the scheme of my design, and in my imagination
put it in practice, I continually made my tour every morning to the top of
the hill, which was from my castle, as I called it, about three miles or more,
to see if I could observe any boats upon the sea, coming near the island or
standing over towards it. But I began to tire of this hard duty after I
had for two or three months constantly kept my watch, but always came
back without any discovery, there having;r not, in all that time. been the
least appearance, not only on or near the shore, but on the whole ocean,
as far as my eye or glass could reach every way.

As long as I kept my daily tour to the hill to look out, so long also .I
kept up the vigor of my design. and my spirits seemed to be all the while
in a suitable Iranie {or so outrageous an execution as the killing twenty or
thirty naked savages, for an offense which I had not at all entered into a
discussion of in my thoughts. any farther than my passions were at first
fired by the horror] conceived at the unnatural custom of the people of
that country; who, it seems, had been suffered by Providence, in His wise
disposition of the world, to have no other guide than that of their own
abominable and vitiated passions; and, consequently, were left, and perhaps
had been so for some ages, to act such horrid things, and receive such
dreadful customs, as nothing but nature, entirely abandoned by Heaven_
and actuated by some hellish degeneracy, could have run them into. But

now, when, as I have said,I began to be weary of the fruitless excursion
in
which I had made '50 hing and So far every morning" iii vain; 56 my (Spihion
"of the m'c'tioi) itself bc'gafi 'fi) fiiter; and I began, With cooler and calix'iL-r
thoughts, to cunshlc'r what I was going to ciigngfh in; What authority Or can
I had to prct'chd {6 be judge mid executionci 'lip'n'n these iiieil as criminals,
whum Heaven hafi thought fit, for so iim'ny ages. to suffer, unpunished, to
go on, ma t6 be. 'as it wefe, the excmtimiers 'ol" His judg'inehts, one h'pon
unothtir; how fig? these pebpli': \'vc'n: Offenders Against inc, :iiid what i-ighi I
had to 'e'rigage in the qua'ii'cl 6f that blo'o'd which th-y shed promisehm'xsly
upm'i 'om: anothb'r. I debited this very Often with myself 'thus: "Ho"? 66 I
kho'w what God Hiihsclf juagcs in ibis 'panicum- use.>> It is mmm 'thcee
people do no't cummit 'this as '21 firinhe; it is 110% Eigz'iii'ist their o'\'vii catiseien'ces
rcp'm'viag'. or their' light i-epk'oachln'g them; they 'do "not know it to he an
UHchSE, imd thin! commit it in defiance of Dix'rii'ue justice, as we 'do in almost
'All the 'si'ns we Commit. This}? thihk it 'im mbx'e a crime in kill a 'c'aptivc
liken iii \vai, than we 'do to kill 5m ox; 01"(0 can hhx'h'a'ii flesh, than We do to
eat human."

When 1 eohsidcl'cd this 'a little, it iolluwe'd fi'etessarily that I Was ce'ru
taihly in the wrong in it; that these people were hot iimrd'cibi-s in We sense
that I had before condemned (hem iii my thohgliis, a'ny mo're than thbs'c
Chfistians we're murdcrcrs who often put to d'ealh flit: px'is'ohe'rs takcfi in
battle: 'o'r more frequently, llpbn many occasions, put whole troops of 'men
'w the s\vord, without gi'vi'rig t1u'a'rier,thmigh they threw doh'n tlxei? aims
and shbihittcfi. In the "next place, it o'c'currcd it) me, that albeit the Usage
they gil'ire 'o'ne :h'mther~ was Ihus hiutish 'ahd inhuman, yet it was really hoth-
in'g to me. These people had fiche me no injury; that if they attempted
me. "or I saw it necessary, foi' my immedi'a'te preser'vatinn, to {all upon Hiem,
soinclhi'ng 'mighf be said for it'; but that l was yet out 'of their 'po'Wei'; and
they rc'all'y had no khbwledge of me, zirl'd c'onsEQuth'y n6 design upk'm hie;
and,the'reioi"e. if toultl hot bi: jiist for nib. to Ialliipoh them. Tha't this
Would justify the conduct bf the Spaniards in 'ull thbii' bafb'ai'itifi pmctihed
in America, when: they desimyed millions of thefse people; who. hoW'chr
they were idold'ters a'nd bai'ba'r'ians, and hhcl several brood)? "and barbarous
rites in their Customs, such as "sacrificing hum'ah b'odics t'n thei'i idols, Mere
'yet, as to the Spaniards. Very innocenl pimple} and that the robti'ng' them
'01"; bf lhe cimrh'iy is spoken of with the utmost 'abhbrreiit'e find detesliz'tion
by ciich th'e S'p'zlhiards themsclws, at this time; aii'd by all other Chiistian
nati'ohs in Fiui'opt, as a m'cr'e hutchery, a bloody 'and hnna'th'i'al piece bl cru-
'elty. unjustifiable cither to God bi man; and such as For which the vmy
name of a Shaman] is reckoii'cd to be frightful a'nd l'cirible' to all people of
humahity or of Christian 'cbmpassion; as if the kingdom of Spain were par-
'tibulafly eminent for the pm'd'uct of a mm: of 'meh who We'rt': witho'ul princi-
pies 'oi tcndc'mess, of the common bowels of "pity h) the miserable, Whieh is
ruckpntz'd to he a mark of a generous te'n'lpei ih Hit: "mind.

These considcm'tions 'reellly 'put me to a padse, ahd 'to 'a. kind of a fullSECOND THOUGHT THE BEST. M?

stop, and I begun, by little and little, to be off my design. and to conclude
I had taken\v1'911g1ncas1qfe5lin my resolution to attack the savages, find
"let it was not my busu 55 to meddle with them, unless they first attacked
1111: and this it was my busincss. if posnblc, m pie\-enl._. but that if I were
discuwred and attacked by the n lhen I knew n'.)'(ll y 011 the other
hand. I argued with my self that this rczili }-' "as the wa) not lo dclive1 my-
self but cntixely' to min and destroy 111yself,for, unless I was sure to kill

 

 

 

 

"TO SH! 11' 1 COULD onsEm-'n ANY BOATS" (p.145).

every one that not only should be on shore at that time, but that should
ever come on shore altemards. it' but one of them escaped to tell then
country people "hat had happened they-1.1011111 come over again b) thou:
sands to 1':e\ 13;: the death of their [ellows, and I s: 'wuld onlv fining upon
lnyselfa certain destination which. at p1 went I had 110 mnnncx of occasion
for Upon the \_1_'hole,I concluded that I ought neithei in minciple n01 in
palicy, one way or other, to concern myself in this affair, that my business
was, by all possible means to conceal myself from them, and nut to leave
the least Sign for them to guess by that there were any living creatures upon
the island--I mean of human shape. Religion joined in with this pru
dential resolution, and I was convinced now, many ways. that I was per-
fectly out oi my duty when I was laying all my bloody schemes for the
destruction of innocent creatures--I mean innocent as to me. As to the
crimes they were guilty of towards one another, I had nothing to do with
them. These were national punishments, to make a just retribution for
national offenses, and to bring public judgment upon those who offend in a
public manner, by such ways as best please God. This appeared so clear to
me now, that nothing was a greater satisfaction to me than that I had not
been suffered to do a thing which I now saw so much reason to believe
would have been no less a sin than that of willful murder, if I had com
mitted it, and I gave most humble thanks, on my knees, to God, that He
had thus delivered me from blood-guiltincss, beseeching Him to grant me
the protection of His providence, that I might not fall into the hands of the
barbarians, or that I might not lay my hands upon them, unless I had amore
clear call from Heaven to do it, in defense of my own life.

In this disposition I continued for near a year after this, and so far was
I from desiring an occasion for falling upon these wretches that in all that
time I never once went up the hill to see whether there were any of them
in sight, or to know whether any of them had been on shore there or not,
that I might not be tempted to renew any of my contrivances against them,
or be provoked by any advantage that might present itself to fall upon
them. Only this I did, I went and removed my boat, which I had on the
other side of the island. and carried it down to the east end of the whole
island, where I ran it into a little cove, which I found under some high
rocks. and where I knew, by reason of the currents, the savages durst not,
at least would not, come with their boats upon any account whatever.
VVlth my boat I carried away everything that I had left there belonging to
her, though not necessary for the bare going thither. viz., a mast and sail
which I had made for her, and a thing like an anchor, but which indeed
could not be called either anchor or grapnel; however, it was the bestI
could make of its kind. All these I removed, that there might not be the least
shadow for discovery. or any appearance of any boat, or of any habitation
upon the island. Besides this, I kept myself. as I said, more retired than
ever, and seldom went from my cell, except upon my constant employ-
ment, viz,,'to milk my she--goats and manage my little flock in the wood,
which, as it was quite on the other part of the island, was out of danger.
for certain it is that these savage people who sometimes haunted this island
never came with any thoughts of finding anything here, and consequently
never wandered off from the coast, andI doubt not but they might have
been several times on shore after my apprehensions of them had made me
cautious, as well as before. Indeed I looked back with some horror upon
the thoughts of what my condition would have been if I had dropped upon
them and been discovered before that, when, naked and unarmed, except
with one gun, and that loaded often only with small shot, I walked every-REFLECTIONS. Mil

where, peeping and peering about the island to see what I could get. What
a surprise should I have been in if when I discovered the print of a man's
foot I had instead of that seen fifteen or twenty savages, and found them
pursuing me, and by the swiftness of their running, no possibility of
my escaping them! The thoughts of this sometimes sank my very soul
within me, and distressed my mind so much that I could not soon recover
it, to think what I should have done, and how I should not only have been
unable to resist them, but even should not have had presence of mind
enough to do what I might have done, much less what now, after so much
consideration and preparation,I might be able to do. Indeed, alter serious
thinking of these things I would be very melancholy, and sometimes it would
last a great while, but I resolved it all at last into thankfulness to that Provi--
deuce which had delivered me from so many unseen dangers, and had kept
me from those mischiefs which I could have no way been the agent in
deliveringmysclf from,-because I had not the least notion of any such thing
depending, or the least supposition of its being possible.

This renewed a contemplation which oitcn had come into my thoughts
in former limes, when first I began to see the merciful dispositions of
Heaven, in the dangers we run through in this life; how wonderfully we are
delivered when we know nothing of it; how, when we are in a quandary (as
we call it), a doubt or hesitation whether to go this way or that way, a
secret hint shall direct us this way, "hen we intended to go that way: nay,
when sense, our own inclination, and perhaps business, has called us to go
the other way, yet a strange impression upon the mind. from we know not
what springs, and by we know not what power, shall overrule us to go this
way; and it shall afterwards appear that had we gone that way which we
should have gone, and even to our imagination ought to have gone we
should have been ruined and lost. Upon these, and many like rcflections,l
afterwards made it a certain rule with me, that whenever I found those secret
hints or pressings of mind, to doing or not doing anything that presented, or
going this way or that way. I never failed to obey the secret dictate; though
I knew no other reason for it than that such a pressure,or such a hint,hung
upon my mind. I could give many examples of the success of this conduct
in the course of my life, but more especially in the latter part of my inhab-
iting this unhappy island; besides many occasions which it is very likely I
might have taken notice of, if I had seen with the same eyes then that I
see with now. But it is never too late to be wise; and I cannot but advise
all considering men, whose lives are attended with such extraordinary inci'
dents as mine, or even though not so extraordinary, not to slight such secret
intimations of Providence, let them come from what invisible intelligence
they will. That I shall not discuss, and perhaps cannot account for; but
certainly they are a proof of the converse of spirits, and a secret communi-
cation between those embodied and those unembodied, and such a proof
as can never be withstood; of which I shall have occasion to give some
very rcnlnrkahl'e instances in the relnaindet of my sulitary reuidcncc in this
dismal place. _

I believe the reader of this will ll'ot think it Sti'uilg'c if I tenfess that these
anxieties, these constant dangers I lived in, and the concern that was il'dlv
upon me, put an end to all invention, and :6 all the contrivahb'es that I he?!
laid for my future accbmmodatinns anrl 'ceuvenien'ces. "at! the; we oi
my safety more new uphn my hands than that of my food. I cared nut to
drive a nail, or ch'op a Stick of "'bull now, for {but the noise I should mzlkc
should be heard; much less would I fire a gun for the seine reason; and.
allow all, I was ihtolembly uneasy at nlakih'g in)" fire, l'est the smoke,
which is visible at a great distance in the (lay; shunld bettay iiie. For this
reason, I removed that pal-t of my busiiic'ss i'rhitzh feqLiirbd fire,- such as
burning 'oi pols and pip'c's, "cm, into my new apartment in the Woods; where.
after I had Beth some time, I found; to nly unspeaknhle 'cdnsnlation. xi. lllere
natural cave in the earth, which l're'nt in A vast Way, and where, I dare say.
no savage, had he been at the Iiibulh of it; \l'buld ba- 30 hardy us to Vtilt'u'rc
in; not; indeed; Would any man tlesc, but one wllbi lilti': me, minted nothing
so much as a safe ten-eat.

The mouth of this hollnw was at the bottom hf 1'1 great rdclc, where, by
mere a'cclrlent (i would say; ii I "did not see almndant l-eas'on m sserlhe all
such things now to Providence), I was culling down some thitk braineliii's of
trees to make charcoal; and hate": I go on I [mist 'ob'scrv'c the rca'soh far
my making this charcoal, which was thus: I was afraid of making a smoke
about my habitatlnm as I said before, and yet i could not live there without
baking my bread, cooking my meal, etc; so Ico'n'trlve'd to' burn semen-nod
here. as Iliad seen done in England, under turf. till it bccurile churk or dly
coal; and then putting the hr'e out; 1 preserved the coal to tam-y hhm'e, and
perform the. other services for which fire was wanting, without danger oi
smoke. But (his is by the bye. While I has cutting dowilsbme would here,
I perceived that, behind :1 very thick bmh'cll bf ldw bruslvu'obd, or under:
mind, there was a kind of lmllmv place; I Was curious tb l'ohk in it; and
getting with dimculty into the mouth of it. I found it was pretty large. that
is to say. sufficient for me to stand upright in ii, and perhaps another with me;
but I must confess to you that I 'nmdc more haste but than I did in, when,
looking farther into the place; and which was perfectlydnrk, l sa'w two
broad shining eyes of some creature--whether devil or man I knew not--
which twinkletl like two stars, the dim light from the cave's mouth shining
directly hu and making the reflection. Ilowhvcn after some pause, l
recovere'd myself; and begun to mill myself a thdusnnd fools; and to think
that he that was afraid to see the devil was not fit to live twenty years in an
island all alone; and thntl might well think their? wits nolhin'g in this cum:
that was mere. frightful than myself; Upon this; plucking up my 'c'ehtage,
I took up a flrebrand; and in I rushed again; 'with the stick flaming in
my hand; I had not gone three steps in before I was almost as muchA DELIGH'I'FUL QROTTO. 151

frightened as before, for I heard a very loud sigh, like that of a man in some
pain, and it was iollowod by a broken noise, as of words half expressed, and
then a deep sigh again, I stepped back, and was indeed struck with sucha
surprise that it put me into a cold sweat, and if I had had a hat on my head
I will not answer for it that my hair might not have lifted it off. But still
plucking up my spirits as well as I could. and encouraging myself a little
With considering that the power and presence of God was everywhere, and
was able to protect me, I stepped forward again, and by the light of the
firebrand, holding it up a little over my head, 1 saw lying on the ground a
monstrous, frightful old lie-goat, just making his will. as we say, and gasp-
ing for life. and dying indeed. of mere old age, I stirred him a little to see
if I could get him out, and he assayed to get up, but was not able to, raise
himself; and I thought with myself he might Liven lie there, [or if he had
frightened me. so, he would certainly fright any of the savages, if any
of them should be so hardy as to come in there while he had any life
in him. *

I'vas now recovered from my surprise and began to look round me.
whcn I found the cave was but Very small, that is to say, it_ might I"? about
twelve feet over, but in no manner; of shape, neither round nor square. no
hands having ever been employed in making it but those of more nature.
I observed also that there was a place at the farther side of it that went in
farther, but was so low that it required me to, creep upon my hands and knees
to go into it, and whither it went I knew not; so" having no candle, I gave
it over for that time, but resolved to come again the next day provided with
candles and a tinder-box, which I had made of the lock of orie of the mus-
kets, with some wildfire in the pan.

Agcordingly. the next day I came provided with six large candles of my
own making (for I made very good candles now of goat's tallpw, but was
hard sct tor Candlewick. using sometimes rags or rope-yam, and sometimes
the dried rind of a weed like ,nettles); and going into this low place I was
obliged to creep on all-fours. as I have said, almost ten yards--which, by
the way, I thought was adventure hold enough, consideringthat I knew not
how far it might go, nor what was beyond it. When I h; _ got through the

' strait, I found the roof rose higher up--~l helievencar twenty feet: butnever
was: such a glorious sight seen in the island, I dare say, as it was to look
round the sides and roof of this vault or cave; the wall reflected a hundred
thousand light-s to me from my two candles. What it was in the rock--
whether diamondfi. or any other precious stones, or gold--which I rather
supposed it to bC--'_I knew not, The place I was in was a, most delight-
ful cavity, or grotto, though perfectly dark; the floor was dry and level.
and had a sort of a small loose gravel upon it, so that thorn was no nause-
ous or venomous creature to he seen. neither was there any damp or wet
on the sides or roof; the only difficulty in it was the entrance--which, how-
ever. as it was a place of security. and such a retreat as I wanted, I thought
was a convenience--so that l was really rejoiced at

the discovery, and resolved, without any delay, to

' $5) bring some of those things which I was most

X P ' , anxious about to this place; particularly. I

resolved to bring hither my magazine of

powder, and all my spare arms--via, two

Iowling--pieees, [or I had three in all; and

' \ three muskets, for of them I had eight

\ in all; so I kept in my castle only five,

which stood ready mounted like

pieces of cannon on my outmost

defense. and were ready also to

take out upon any expedition.

Upon this occasion of remov--

ing my ammunition, I hap-

pened to open the barrel

of powder which I tool:

up out of the sea, and

which had been wet,

and I found that the

water had penetrated

about three or four

inches into the powder

on every side. which,

(taking and growing

hard, had preserved

the inside like akerncl -

in a shell, so that Ihad

near sixty pounds of

very good powder in

the center of the cask;

and this was a very

agreeable discovery to

me at that time; so

I carried all away

"IS'HRRED Hm .\ mun" (p. 151). thither, never keeping

above two or three

pounds of powder with

me in my castle, for fear of a surprise of any kind. I also carried thither
all the leadI had left for bullets.

l fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants who were said to live
in caves and holes in the rocks, where none could come at them; for I per-
suaded myself, while I was here. that it five hundred savages were to hunt
me, they could never find me out--or if they did, they would not venture toTHE T\\'ENTY~THIRI) YEAR. 153

attack me here. The old goat whom I found expiring died in the mouth
of the cave the next day after I made this discovery; and I found it much
easier to dig a great hole there, and throw him in and cover him with earth,
than to drag him out; sol interred him there, to prevent offense to my
nose.

I was now in the twenty--third year of residence in this island. and was
so naturalized to the place and the manner of living that, could I but have
enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come to the place to disturb
me, I could have been content to have capitulated for spending the rest of
my time there, even to the last moment, till I had laid me down and died,
like the old goat in the cave. I had also arrived to some little dirt rsions
and amusements, which made the time pass more pleasantly with me a great
deal than it did before; first,I had taught my Poll, as I noted before, to
speak; and he did it so familiarly, and talked so urticulately and plain, that
it was very pleasant to me, and he lived with me no less than six'andvtwcnty
years. How long he might have lived afterwards I know not, though I
know they have a notion in tho Brazils that they live a hundred years. Per-
haps some of my Polls may be alive there still. calling after poor Robinson
Crusoe to this d' ' I wish no Englishman the ill--luck to come there and
hear them; but if he did he would certainly believe it was the devil. My
dog was a pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than sixteen
years of my time, and then died of mere old age. As {or my cats, they
multiplied, as I have observed, to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot
several of them at first, to keep them from devouring me and all I had; but
at lenuth, when the old ones I brought with me were none and alter some
time continually driving them from me, and letting them lime no prm ision
with me, they all ran wild into the noods, except two or three favorites,
which I kept tame, and u hose young v. hen they had any, Ialuavs drowned;
and these were part of my family. Besides these I always kept two or
three household kids about me, whom I taught to feed out of my hand: and
I had two more parrots, which talked pretty well, and would all call " Robin
Crusoe," but none like my first; nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any
ofthem that I had done with him. I had also several lame sea-fowls,whose
name I knew not, that I caught upon the shore, and out their wings; and
the little stakes which I had planth before my castle-wall being now grown
up to a good thick grove, these fowls all lived among these low trees, and
bred there, which was very agreeable to me; so that, as I said above. I
began to be very well contented with the IiIeI led, if Icould have been
secured from the dread of the savages. But it was otherwise directed;
and it may not be amiss for all people who shall meet with my story to
make this just obse tiun from it, \=iz., how frequently, in the course of our

' lives, the evil which in itself we seek most to shun, and which, when we are
fallen into, is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very means or door
of our deliverance. by which alone we can be raised again from the afflic--
tion we are fallen into. I could give many examples of this in the course
of my unaccountable life, but in nothing was it more particularly remark-
able than in the circumstances of my last years of solitary residence in this
island.' '
It was now the month of December, as I said above, in my twenty-third
year, and this, being the southern solstice ([or winter I cannot call it), was
the particular time of my harvest, and required me to be pretty much
abroad in the fields, when, going out pretty early in the morning, even
before it was thorough daylight, l was surprised with seeing,K a light of some
fire upon the shore at a distance from me of about two miles towards the
end of the island where I had observed some savages had been, as
before, and not on the other side, but, to my great afiiiction, it was on my
side of the island. I
l was indeed terribly surprised at the sight. and stopped short within
my grove, not daring to go out, lest I might be surprised, and yet I had no
more peace within, from the apprehensions 1 had that if these savages, in
rambling over the island. should find my corn standing or cut, or any of my
works and improvements. they would immediately conclude that there were
people in the place, and would then never rest till they had found me out
In this extremity l went back directly to my castle, and pulled up the
ladder after me, having made all things without look as wild and nat-
ural as I could. _ -
Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a posture of defense;
I loaded all my cannon, as I called them, that is to say, my muskets, which
were mounted upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and resolved
to defend myself to the last gasp, ndt forgetting seriously to commend my-
self to the Divine protection, and earnesly to pray to God to deliver me out
of the hands of the barbarians. And in this posture l continued about two
hours and began to be impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies
to send out. After sitting awhile longer and musing what I should do in
this case, I was not able to bear sitting in ignorance any longer; so setting
up my ladder to the side ol the hill, where there was a flat place. as
Iobscrved before, and then pulling the ladder after me, I set it up again,
and mounted to the top of the hill, and pulling out my perspective glass,
which I had taken on purpose. I laid me down Hat on my belly on the
ground, and began to look for the place. I presently found there were no
less than nine naked savages sitting round a small fire, they had made, not
to warm them, for they had no need of that, the weather being extremely
hot, but as I supposed, to dress some of their barbarous diet of human flesh
which they had brought with them, whether alive or dead] could not know.
They had two canoes with them, which they had hauled up on the shore;
and as it was then ebb of tide, they seemed to me to wait the return of the
flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what confusion this sight
put me into, especially seeing them come on my side of the island, and soA VISIT FROM THE. SAVAGES. 155

near me. too; but when I considered their coming must be always with the
current of the ebb, I began afterwards to be more sedate in my mind, being
satisfied that I might go abroad with safety all the time of the flood of tid'e,
if they were not on shore beiore; and hiiving made this observation, I went
abroad about my hnrvest work with the more composure.

As I expected, so it proved; for, as soon as the tide made to the west-
ward, I saw them all take boat and row (or paddle, as we call it) away. I
should have observed, that for an hour or more before they weht off they
were dancing, and I could easily discern their postures and gestures by my
glass. I could not perceive, by my nicest observation, but that they were
stark naked. and had not the least covering upon them; but whether they
were men or women, I could not distinguish.

As soon asI saw them shipped and gonad took two guns upon my
shonlders, and two pistols in my girdle, and my great sword by my side,
without a Scabbard, and with all the speed I was able to make went away to
the hill where I had discovered the first appearance of all; and as soon as]
got thither; which was not in less than two hours (for I could not go apace,
being so loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had been three
canoes more 'of savages at that 'pluce; and; looking;r out iarthei"; I saw they
were: all in; sea together. making Over for the maiii. This was a dreadful
sight to me, especially when, going _ clown to the shore, I eo'uld see the
maria; of horror which the dismal work they had been about had left behind
it,'viz., the blood; the hone and part or the flesh of human bodies eaten
and devoured by those \i'rctehes with i'n'etriment and sport. I was so filled
with indignation at the sight. tiizit I now begun to premeditate the destruc-
tion of the next that I saw there, let them be whom or how many soever.
It seemed dent to iile that the visits which they made. thus to this island
were not very freduc'nt. lot it was above fifteen months before any more of
them came on shore there Again--that is to say. I neither sun-them nor any
footsteps orsignals of them in all that time; for us to the rainy seasons. then
they are sure not to come abroad, at least not so far. Yet all this while I
lived uncuml'orttibly, by reason of the Constant apprehensions of their
coming upon me by surprise, from whence 1 Observe that the expectation
of evil is more bitter than the suffering, especially ii there is no room to
shake off tlldt expectation or those apprehensions.

During all this time I was in the murdering humor, and spent most of
my limits, wllitli shohld have been better employed, in contriving how to
circumvent 'and fall upon them the Very next time I should see them---
especially if they should be divided, as they were the last time, into two
patties; nor" did Iconsidtir an all that if I killed one party--suppose ten or
u dozeh+I wAs still the next day, or week, 'or month, to kill anothermnd so
another, 'e 'e'n rlriihfierihlm, till I should he, at length. no less a murderer
than they were in being indiveamt's-und pterhaps 'much 'more so, I spcnt
my days now in great 'ptirplexily and attkicty of mind, expecting that I
should one day or other fall into the hands of these merciless creatures;
and if I did at any time venture abroad, it was not without looking around
me with the greatest care and caution imaginable. And now I found, to my
great comfort, how happy it was that I had provided a tame flock or herd
ofgouts; for I tlurst not upon any account the my gun, especially neurthat
side of the island where they usually came, lest I should alarm the savages;
and if they had fled from me now, I was sure to have them come again with
perhaps two or three hundred canoes with them in a few clays, and then I
knew what to expect. However, I wore out a year and three months more
hetore I ever saw any more ot these savages, and then I found them again,

 

"A me' or some r-'nu; iii-ox- THE snmm" (10.154).

as] shall soon observe. It is true they might have been there once or
twice, but either they made no stay, or at least I did not hear them; but in
the month of May. as near as I could calculate, and in my Iour--and~
twentieth year, I had a very strange encounter with them; of which in its
place.

The perturbation of my mind during this fifteen or sixteen months'
interval was very great; I slept unquietly. dreamed always frightful dreams,
and often started out of my sleep in the night. In the day. great troubles
overwhelmed my mind: and in the night I dreamed often of killing the sav-
ages and of the reasons why I might justify the doing of it. But to waiveSOUNDS OF A SHIP IN DISTRESS. 157

all this for awhile. It was in the middle of May, on the sixteenth day, I
think, as well as my poor wooden calendar would reckon, fur l marked all
upon the post still~<<l say it was on the sixteenth of May that it blew a
very great storm of wind all day, with a great deal of lightning and thunder,
and a very Ioul night it was after it. I knew not what was the particular
occasion of it; but as I was reading in the Bible, and taken up with very
serious thoughts about my present condition, I was surprised with the noise
of a gun, as I thought, fired at sea. This was, to be sure, a surprise of a
quite different nature from any I had met with before, (or the notions this
put into my thoughts were quite of another kind. I started up in the
greatest haste imaginable, and, in a (rice, clapped my ladder to the middle
place of the rock, and pulled it after me; and, mounting it the second time,
got to the top of the hill the very moment that a flash of lire bade me listen
for a second gun, which, accordingly. in about hall a minute, I heard, and
by the sound, knew that it was from that part of the sea where I was driven
out with the current in my boat. I immediately considered that this must
be some ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or some other
ship in company, and fired these for signals of distress, and to obtain help.
I had the presence of mind, at that minute to think that though I could not
help them, it might be they might help me, so I brought together all the
dry wood I could get at hand, and, making a good handsome pile, I set it
on fire upon the hill. The wood was dry, and blazed freely, and though the
wind blew very hard, yet it burned iairIy out, so that I was certain, ii there
was any such thing as a ship, they must needs see it, and no doubt they
did. for as soon as ever my fire blazed up. I heard another gun, and after
that several others, all from the same quarter. I plied my fire all night
long, till daybreak, and when it was broad day, and the air cleared up,I saw
something at a great distance at sea, full east of the island, whether a sail
or a hull I could not distinguish--no. not with my glass; the distance was
so great, and the weather still something hazy also--at least, it was so out
at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon perceived that it did not
move, so I presently concluded that it was a ship at anchor, and being
eager, you may be sure. to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand, and ran
towards the south side of the island, to the rocks where I had formerly
been carried away with the current; and getting up there. the weather by
this time being perfectly clear, I could plainly sec, to my great sorrow, the
wreck of a ship, cast away in the night upon those concealed rocks which I
found when I was out in my boat; and which rocks, as they checked the
violence of the stream, and made a kind of counter-stream or eddy, were
the occasion of my recovering from the most desperate, hopeless condition
that ever I had been in in all my life. Thus, what is one man's safety is
another man's destruction; [or it seems these men, whoever they were.
being out of their knowledge, and the rocks being wholly under water, had
been driven upon them in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and ENE.
Ilad they seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose they did not, they
must, as I thought, have endeavored to have saved themselves on shore by
the help of their boat; but their firing off their guns for help, especially
when they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many thoughts. First.
I imagined that upon seeing my light they might have put themselves into
their boat, and endeavored to make the shore; but that the sea, running
very high, they might have been cast away. Other times, I imagined that
they might have lost their boat before, as might be the case many ways, as
particularly by the breaking of the sea upon their ship. which many times
obliged men to stave, or take in pieces, their boat, and sometimes to throw
it overboard with their own hands. Other times, Iimagined they had some
other ship or ships in company, who, upon the signals of distress they made,
had taken them up and carried them off, Other times. I fancied they were
all gone off to sea in their boat. and being hurried away by the current that
I had been formerly in, were carried out into the great ocean, where there
was nothing but misery and perishiug; and that, perhaps, they might by
this time think of starving, and of being in a condition to eat one another.

As all these were but conjectures at best. so, in the condition I was in, I
could do no more than look on. upon the misery of the poor men, and pity
them; which had still this good eflect upon my side, that it gave me more
and more cause to give thanks to God, who had so happily-and goxiifort--
ably provided for me in my desolate condition; and that of two ships' com-
panies, who were now east away upon this part of the world. not one life
should be spared but mine. I learned here again to observe that it is very
rare that the providence of God casts us into any condition of life so low.or
any misery so great, but we may see something or other to be thankful for,
and may see others in worse circumstances than our own. Such certainly
was the case of these men, of whom I could not so much as see room to
suppose any of them were saved; nothing could make it rational so much
as to wish or expect that they did not ail perish there, except the possibility
only of their being taken up by another ship in company; and this was but
mere possibility indeed. [or I saw not the least signal. or appearance of any
such thing. I cannot explain. by any possible energy of words, what a
strange longing I felt in my soul upon this sight, breaking out sometimes
thus: " Oh, that there had been but one or two, nay, or- but one soul, saved
out of this ship. to have escaped to me, that I might but have had one com-
panion; one fellow-creature, to have spoken to me and to have conversed
with! " In all the time of my solitary life. I never felt so earnest, so strong.
a desire after the society of my Icllmv-creatures. or so deep a regret at the
want of it. I

There are some secret moving springs in the affections, which, when they
are set ageing by some object in view, or, though not in view, yet rendered
present to the mind by the power of imagination, that motion carries out1 VISIT THE SPANISH WRECK. 159

the soul, by its lmpetho'sity, to such violent, eager cmbracings nf the object
that the absence hf it is ihsuppol'tnble. Such were these earnest wishings that
but 'o'ne than had been Saved. I believe I repeated the words, " Oh, that it
had been but UllL"! " 'el thousand tirhes'; and 'my desires were Sb moved by it,
that when I sbbl'ce the Words iny hands \'vould clench together, and 'my
finger; would 'pi'e'ss [he palrni bf my MIKE, so that if I had had "any solt
thing in my hn'nth I \l'b'uld have crushed it iiivoluntarily; and my teeth in
my head Would strike together. and set against om: another so strong, that
for sbm'e time I 'eo'uld not part them again. Let the naturalists explain
them: thingy, 'and the reason and manner of them. All I can say of them is.
to describe the fact, which was even surprising it) me, when I iouncl it,
tl'l'enigh I knew not. from what it should proceed; it was, 'cl'o'ubtl'ess. the
cfl'e'et of ardent wishes, and of s'trong ideas formed in my mind. realizing
the dothl'drt \'vlll'ch lhe (abn'vcrs'ntion of one of m):- fcllow<<('3llrisl.iahs would
have been to me. But it Was not to he; cilhcr their fate, or 'mine, 'or both,
forb'ade in for till the last year 0( my being on this island, I never knew
whether "any were saved out of that ship or- no; and had only the affliction,
some day's alter, to s'e'e the corpse of a dmwncd boy come on shore at lhc
and 'of theisland which was next the shipwreck. He had no clothes on but
a seamnn's waistcoat, 'a pair of open-knead linen drawers, and a blue li'ncn
shirl'c but 'nnthing to direct me so much as Io guess what. nation ht: was of.
He had nothing in his pockets but fix-o pieces of eight and a tobacco-pipe
Lthe last was 1'0 me 'oI ten times more value than the first

It '\v'a'SS non" calm. 'a'nil I had a great mind to venture out in my boat to
this \vr'eem 'nfit tloub'tihgz but I might find something on board that might
be useful to me. nut that did not altogether press 'me so much as the
possibilfly' that lhere might be yet some living creature on board, whose
liie I might riot only saw, but might. by saving that life, comfort my own
to the last degree; and this thought clung so lu my heart that I could hot
be quiet night or day; but I must 'ven'tu're out in my boat on board this
wreck; 'and coi'nihiuing lhc rest to Gud's providence, I thought lh'e impres-
sion was ska strong "pill! my mind that it cn'nlrl not be resisted. that it innst
come from Some invisible direction, and that I 'shonld be wanting to myself
if I did nut go.

I B'nde'r the po'h'rer 'ol [his impression, I hastened back to my castle,
prepamtl everything for my voyage, took a quantity of bread, a great
pm; for fresh water, 31 cbm'pass to Steer by. a bottle of rum ([or I had still
a great deal or that left). 'and a basket of raisins; and thus loading myself
with everything necessary, I went down '10 my boat, got the water out
of her, gdt her afloat, loaded all my cargo in her, and then went home
again for more. My second cargo was .1 great bag full of rice, the umbrella
to set up over my head fur a shade. another large pot full 'of fresh water,
and about two dozen of small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than before,
with a bottle at goat's-milk, and a cheese; all which with great labor And
sweat I brought to my boat; and praying to .God to direct my voyage,
I put out, and rowing or paddling the canoe along the shore, came at
last to the utmost point of the island on the northeast side. And now
I was to launch out into the ocean, and either to venture or not to venture.
Ilooked on the rapid currents which ran constantly on both sides OI the
island at a distance, and which were very terrible to me, from the remem-
brance of the hazard I had been in before, and my heart began to fail me;
[or I foresaw that if I was driven into either of those currents, I should be
carried a great way out to sea, and perhaps out of my reach or sight of the
island again; and that then, as my boat was but small, if any little gale
of wind should rise, I should be inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind that I began to give over my
enterprise, and having hauled my boat into a little creek on the shore, I
stepped out, and sat down upon a rising bit of ground, very pensive and
anxious. between fear and desire, about my voyage; when, as I was musing,
Icould perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood came on; upon
which, my going was impracticable for so many hours. Upon this, presently
it occurred to me that I should go up to the highest piece of ground I could
find, and observe, if I could, how the sets of the tide or currents lay. when the
flood came in. that I might judge whether, it I was driven one way out. I might
not expect to be driven another way home, with the same rapidity of the
currents. This thought was no sooner in my head than I cast my eye upon
a little hill, which sufficiently overlooked the sea both ways, and from
whence I had a clear view of the currents, or sets of the tide, and which
way I was to guide myself in my return. Here I found that as the current
of ebb set out close by the south point of the island, so the cnrrentof the flood
set in close by the shore of the north side; and that I had nothing to do
but to keep to the north of the island in my return, and I should do well
enough.

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the next morning, to set out
with the first of the tide; and reposing myself for the night in my canoe,
under the great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out. I first made a
little out to sea, full north, till I began to feel the benefit of the current,
which set eastward, and which carried me at a great rate, and yet did not
so hurry me as the current on the south side had done before, so as to take
'from me all goyernment of the boat; but having a strong steerage with my
paddle, I went, at a great rate. directly for the wreck, and in less than two
hours I came up to it. It was a dismal sight to look at; the ship, which by
its building was Spanish, stuck fast. jammed in between two rocks; all the
stern and quarter of her were beaten to pieces by the sea; and as her {orc-
castle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great violence, her main-
mast and foremast were brought by the board. that is to say, broken short
off; but her bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared firm.

When I came close to her. a. dog appeared upon her, who, seeing me com.SALVAGE FROM _'l'HI-'. WRECK. 161

ing, yelpcd and cried; and, as soon as I called him, jumped into the sea tn
come to me; I took him into the boat, but found him almost dead with
hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my bread, and he devoured it like
a ravenous wolf that had been starvinga fortnight in the snow; I then gave
the poor creature some fresh water. With which, if I would have let him, he
would have burst himself. After this I went on board; but the first sight I
met with was two men drowned in the cook--room, or Iorecastle of the ship,
with their arms fast about one another. I concluded, as is indeed probable.

 

 

 

 

 

 

"THF. comma or: .-\ mzowxnn my" [fi. 159).

that when the ship struck. it being in a storm, the sea broke so high, and
so continually over her. that the men were not able to bear it. and were
strangled with the constant rushing in of the water, as much as if they had
been under water. Besides the dim". there was nothing left in the ship that
had life; nor any goods that I could see, but what we e spoiled by the water.
There were some (tasks of liquor, whether wine or brandy I knew not, which
lay lower in the hold, and which, the water being ebbed out I could see;
but they were too big to meddle with. I saw several chests which I believed
belonged to some of the seamen; and Igot' two of them into the boat, with
out examining what was in them. find the stern of [he ship been fixed, and
the fore-part broken off, I am persuaded Imight have znadea good voyage;
for, by what I found in these two Chests. I had room to suppose the Ship
had a great deal of wealth on board; and, it I may guess from the course

she steered, she must have been bound from Bucnos Ayres, or the Rio de
11
la I'lata, in the south part of America. beyond the Brazlls, to the I'Iavanilai.
in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She had, no doubt, agreat
treasure in her, but of no use, at that time, to anybody; but what became of
the crew I then knew not.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of liquor, of about twenty
gallons, which I got into' my boat with much difiicully. There were several
musluzls in the cabin, and a great powder-horn, with about four pounds of
powder in it. As for the muskets, I had no occasion for them, so I left
them, but tool: the powder--horn. I took a fire-shovel and tong-5, which I
wanted extremely, as also two little brass kettles, a copper pot to make
chocolate, and a gridiron; and with (his cargo, and the dog, I came away,
the tide beginning to make home again; and the same evening, about an
hour within night, I reached the island again, weary and fatigued to thelast
degree. I rcposed that night in the boat; and in the morning I resolved to
harbor what I had got in my new cave, and not Carry it home to my castle.
After refreshing myself. I got all my cargo on shore, and began to examine-
the particulars. The cask of liquor I found to he a kind of rum, but not
such as we had at the Brazils; and, in a word, not at all good; but when I
came to open the chests, I found several things of great use tome: for
example, I found in one a fine ease of bottles, of an extraordinary kindand
filled with cordial waters. fine and very good. The bottles held about three
pints each, and weretipped with silver. I found two pots of very good suc-
cades, or sweetmeats, so fastened also on the top that the salt water had not
hurt them; and two more of the same, which the water had spoiled. I found
some very good shirts, which were very welcome to me; and about a dozen
and a half of white Iincn hamlkerchiefsand colored neckcioths; the former
were also \-'Cl'y Welcome, being exceedingly refreshing to wipe my face in a
hot day. Besides this, when I came to the till in the Chest, I found there
three great bags of pieces of eight, which held about eleven hundred pieces
in all; and in one of them, wrapped up in a paper, six douhluons of gold,
and some small bars or wedges of gold; Isuppo'se they might all weigh
near a pound. In the other chest were some clothes, but of little value;
but, by the circumstances. ll. must have belonged to the gunner's mate;
though there was no powder in it, except two pounds of fine glazed powder,
in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for charging their fowliugpiecus on
occasion. Upon the whole, I gut very little by this voyage that was of any
use to me, for as to the money, I had no manner of occasion for it; it was
to me as the dirt under my feet. and I would have given it all for three or
four pair of English shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly
wanted, but had none on my feet for many years. I had, indeed, got two
pair of shoes now, which I took off the feet of the two drowned men whoin
I saw in the wreck, and! found two pair more in one of the chests, which
were very welcome to me: but they were not like our English Simes, either
for case or service, being rather what we call pumps; than shoes. I found inI FORM NEIV PROJECTS. 163i

this seamnn's chest about fifty pieces of eight, in rials. but no gold; I sup-
pose this bel raged to n poorer man than the other, which seemed to belong
to some officer. \Vcli, however, I logged this money home to myca\-'e,and
laid it up, as 1 had done that before which I had broughtiromonr own ship;
but it was a great pity, as l said, that the other part of this ship had not.
come to my share, for I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe several
times over with money, which, i[ Ihad ever escaped to England, would
have lain here 5 ' enough till I might have come a ain and [etched it.
Having now brought all my things on shore and secured them, I went
back to my boat and rowed or paddled her along the shore to her old har-
bor, when? I laid her up, andmade the best of my way to my old habitation,
where I found everything sale and quiet. I began now to repose myself,
live after my old fashion and take care of my family afl'ai ; and for awhile
I lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than I used to be, looked
out oituner, and (lid not go abroad so much; and if. at any time Idid stir
with any freedom, it, was always to the east part of the i nd, where I was
pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where I could go without
so many precautions and such a load oi arms and ammunition as I always
carried with me if I went the other way. I lived in this condition near two
years more; but my unlucky head, that was always to lot me know it was
born to make my body miserable, was all these two years filled with projects
and (.IL' 'gns, how, if it were possible, I might get away from this island; for
sometimes I was for multing another voyage to the wreck, though my
reason told me that there was nothing left their. worth the. hazard of my
voyage; sometimes for a ramble one way, s'ometin'. . another, and I believe
verily if I had had the boatthat I went Iron) SHIZL in, I should have vena
tured to sea, hound unywlzui'c, I knew not whither. l have been, in all my
circumstances, a rut/21mm to those u ho are touched with the general plague
of mankind, whence, for aughtl lcnou', one-half-oi their miseries flow; I
mean that of not being satisfied with the station wherein God and Nature
hath placed them; for, not to look back upon my primitive condition and
the excellent advice of my father, the opposition to which was, as I may call
it, my original sin, in, subsequent mistakes of the same kind had been the
means of my coming into this miserable condition. For had that Provi-
dence, which so happily scared me at the Brnz s as a planter, blessed me
with confined desires, undI could have been contented to have gone on
gradually, I might have been by this time, I mean in the time of my lacing
in this island, one of the most conside'ible planters in the Brazils; nuy, I
am persuaded that by the improvements I had made in that little time I
lived there, and the. increase I should probabiy have made if IIlild remained
I might have been worth a hundred thousand moidores. And whathnsind
had I to leave a settled fortune. n \\'cll-sto:'.l(i':rl plantation, improving and
increasing, to turn supercargo to Guinea to fetch negrocs, when patience
and time would have so increased our stock at home that we could have
bought them at our own door from those whose business it was to fetch
them? And though it had cost us something more, yet the difference of
that price was by no means worth saving at so great a hazard. But as this is
ordinarily the {ntu of young' heads, so TCHLK'JIOH upon the folly of it is as
commonly the axe it: of more )eurs, or of the dear--bought experience of
time. So it war, nith me. now, and yet so deep hail the mistake taken root
in my temper, that I could not sntisly myself in my station, but was com
tinually pnringupon [he means and possibility of my escape from this place:
and that I may, with the greater pleasure to the render, bring on the remain--
ing pm 01' my story. it may not he improper to give some account of in),

 

 

"luau." Tn nxnmxu 'rm-z PARTICULARS." (#162)

first conceptions on the subject of this foolish schema for my escape. and
how and upon what foundation I acted.

I am now to be supp <ed retired into my castle, after my late voyage to
the W: ck, my frigate laid up and secured under water. as usual. and my
condition restored to what it was before. I had more wealth, indeed, than I
had before, but was not at all the richer, for I had no more use for it than
the Indians of Peru had before the Spaniards came there.

It was one of the nights in the rainy mason in March. the {our--and-
twentieth year ol my first setting foot in this island of solitude. I was lying
in my bed or-hammock, awake. very well in health, had no pain, no dis-1 RE

 

"l' SERlL'JIPSI,V 145:1

temper, no uneasmess or' body, nor any uneasiness of wind more than ordi-
nary, but could by no mean lose my eyes, that is, so as to sleep: no, not
a wink all night long, otherwise than as follow ; It is impossible and nced~
less to set down the innumerable crowd of thoughts that \ iirled through

 

 

 

that great thoroughfare of the brain--the memory--in this night's time; I
ran over the whole history of my life in miniature, or by abridgment.
as I may call it. to my coming to this island, and also of that part of my life
since I came to this island. In my reflections upon the state of my case
since I came on shore on this island, I was comparing the happy posture of

 

my affairs in the t years of mv habitation here. uith the life of anxiety,
fe r, and care, which I had liv in ever since I had seen the print of a foot
in the sand; not that I did not he ieve that wages had frequented the island
even all the while, and might have becn . erai hundreds of them at times
on short: there. but I had never known it. and was incapable of any app
[tensions about it; my satisfaction was perfect, though my danger was the
same. and I was as happy in not knowing,r my danger as if i had never
re ily been exposed to it. This furnished my thoughts with many very
profitable reflections, and pm'i-"ularly this on How infinitely good that
l'rmr Tt: is which has provided. in its government of mankind, such
narrow bounds to his si-Tht and knowledge of thinns; and though he walks
in the :1 ' oi so many thousand dangers. the 3 hr. of which. if discovered
to him. wouId distract his mind'and sin ' Its. he is kept serene and
calm. by having the events of things hid {mm his eyes, and knowing
nothing of the dangers u'hieh surround him. .

After these thoughts had for some time entertained me. lcame to reliect
Iously upon the real dangerI had been in for so many years in this very
island, and howl walked about in the greatest seca ' 3-, and with all possible
tranquility, even when perhaps nothing but the brow of a hill. a SS at tree,
or the casual approach of night, had been between me and the worst kind
of destruction, viz that oi [al . into the hands of cannibals and savages.
who would have seized on me with the same View as I would on a goat or a
turtle, and have thought it no more crime to kill and devour me than I did
of a pigeon or a curlew. I would unjustly slander myself if i should say]:
was not sincere ' thankful to my great I'rescrver, to "how singular protec-
tionI aekuox dged with great humility, all these unknown deliverances
were due and without which 1 must inevitably have fallen into their merciless
hands.

When these thoughts were over. my head was for some time taken up in
eonsideringthe nature of these wretched creatures. I mean the: savages, and
how it came to pass in the world that the 'ernor of all things should
give up any of His creatures to such inhumanity, nay, 'to somethingf so
much below even bri: 'llli)' itself. (is to devour its own kind; but as this
Ended in some (at that time) t'ruitl "peculations, it occurred to me to
inquire what part of the world these wretches lived in?how far off the

 

  

 

 

   

 

   

..(

    

 

SC

 

   

 

 

   

 

   

 

.c: (it
coustwas from whence they came? what they ventured over so far from
home for? what kind of boats they had? and why I might not order myself
and my business so that I might be as able to go over thither as they were
to come to me?

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what I should do with
myself when I went thither; what would become of me if I fell into the
hands of these savages, or how I should escape them ifthey attacked me,
no, nor so much as how it was possible for me to reach the coast and not he
attacked by some or other of them without any possibility of delivering
myself, and if I should not fall into their hands what I should do for
provision, or whither I should bend my course; none or these thoughts, I
suy,so much as came in my way, but my mind was wholly bent upon the
notion of my passing over in my boat to the mainland. I looked upon my
present condition as the most miserable that could possibly be; that I was
notable to throw myseliinto anything but death.that could be calied worse,
and if I reached the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet with relief, or
I might coast along as i did on the African shore till [came to some
inhabited country, and where i might find some reiiel'; and. after all,
perhaps I might {all in with some Christian ship that might take me in, and
if the worst came to the worst, I could but die, which would put an end to
all these miseries at once. l'ray note all this was the fruit of a disturbed
mind, an impatient temper, made. as it were, desperate by the long
continuance of my troubles and the disappointments I had met with in the
wreck I had been on board of, and where I had been so near the obtaining
what I so earnestly longed for, namely, somebody to speak to, and to learn
some knowledge of the place where I was and of the probable means of my'
deliverance. 1 say 1 was agitated wholly by those thoughts; all my calm
of mind in my resignation to Providence, and waiting the issue of the
dispositions of Heaven, seemed to be suspended, and I had, as it were, no
power to turn my thoughts to anything but the project of a voyage to the
main, which came upon me with such force and such an impetuosity of
desire that it was not to be resisted.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours or more, with s'uch
violence that it set my very blood into a ferment, and my puisc beat as it I
had been in a fever merely with the extraordinary fervor of my mind about
it, Nature, as it I had been fatigued and exhausted with the very thoughts
of it. threw me into a sound sleep. One would have thought I should have
dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of anything relatinf'7 to it; but l dreamed
that as I was going out in the morning as usual, from my castle. I saw upon
the shore two canoes and eleven savages. coming to land, and that they
brought with them another savage, whom they were going to kili, in order
to eat him; when, on a sudden, the savage that they were gomg to kill
iumped away, and ran for his life: then I thought, in my sleep, that he came
'unning into my little thick grove beiore my fortification, to hide himself;on THE - WATCH. ' 1m

and that I seeing: him alone, and not I)e1'eei1ingz that the others sought him
1111-11 tray, showed myself to him and smiling upon 111111 encouraged him;
that 110 kllccl. (l Llu1111 to me. seeming to pray me In assist him; upon which
I 511011' ed 111111 I11y1zIdLle1, made him go up it, and ear: 'ied him into my cave,
and he became my servant; and that 71550011 as I had got this man. I said
to 111 c.1311, "Now I may CCl'tfllI'Iy venture to the mainland, for this felluw
will er1-L * LI11e as :1. 111101, and 11 . tell me uhat to do and whither to go for
provisions, and wnithei not 1.1) 1,311 101 tear of bring devoured; what places
to venture 111111 and what to escape." I "raked with this thought, and was
under such 11 pressihle 'mpressions of joy at the plospect of my escape in
my clrean1,tl1g1t the disappointments which I felt upon coming to 1111159.".
and 1111L1i11<r that. it 11a~ no more than a. dream 11cm equally extravagant the
otlIeI 11'a3',and thiew me 111:0 11 good dejection of spirits.

Upon this, howevm'J made this conclus1on: that my only way tLI go
about an attempt for an escape 11:15." possible. II) get a savage into my pos-
sessiqn; and if possible, it should be one 01 their prisoners. 111110111 they had
condemned to heentL-II,III1Llsho'.111'l 1'11' 11 h IIIer to kill. But these thoughts
still we 1'. attended with 1111s difiiculu'. that it was iIIIpossible to effect this
without attacking :1 11'1101e car van 111' them. and killing them all; and this
was not only a very I e attemut. and 111111le miscat'ry, but, on the
other hand I had grua 1:1'111;l- .Ll the Ian't'ulacss (If it to me; and my heart
hemmed at. the. r1101: ghts LII shedding! su much blood though it "as {or .my
dLlanIII'e I IILL11110tIe,3e21tt11r: arqu: nen rhithI'II.<'.III'I':L'110111L' ' '
this, they being,' the same 111enzioneo before: 11.11 though I 111111 othei reasons
to offer new, \"izl. that those [11:111t1't'31't'1 I= it's to 3111'111e,auLl would devour
me if they could; that it was sclirl' es'LrI'aIiozi. in the highest degree, to
cieiiver myseII [rem (his death DE :1 life. and was acting in my 011111 defense
as much as it' they were actualiy PS1 .11 ' me. and the like; 1 say, though
these things argued for it, yet 1. .'Jolinhts 01 shedding human blood (or
my deliverance were very terrible to me, and such as I could by no means
reconcilt self to for a great whim. I-lovgevet', at last. alter many secret
dispute 1_\-It.11 1111-'self,ai1tl after grunt perplexities about it (for all these
argmnen one way and anothe , struggled in my head a. long time). the
eager pret Zing L_ sire of deliverance at length mastered all the rest, and I
resolved, if 110 ble, to get 0111: 01 these saw '5 into my hands, cost what
it would My next thing,Y was to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was
very (linicult to resolve on; but as 1 could pitch upon no probable means
for it, su I resolved to put'my. 11' 11311111 the watch, In see then) when they
came on shore, and leave the ILst It; the. Lrent. taking such measures as the
opportunity should pr ent, let he what would be.

""1111 these resolutlnns in my thoughts, I set myself upon the scout as
often as possible, and indeed so ofsen that I was hearth-y Lircd of it, for it
was above :1 year and a half that I waited; and for great 113.11; Of that time
went out to the west end and to the southwest corner of the islaml almost

 

 

 

     

 

   

spur.
every day, to look for canoes. but none appeared. This was very discom-
aging, and began to trouble me much. though I cannot say that it (lid in
this case (as it had done some time before) wear off the edge oI my desire
to the thing; but the longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was
for it; in a word, I was not at first so careful to shun the sight of these sav.
ages, and avoid being seen by them, as I was now cager to be upon them.
Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay, two or three savages, if
Iliad them, so as to make them entirely slaves to me, to do whateverl
should direct them, and to prevent their being able at any LIIIIC to do me
any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased myself with this affair, but
nothing still presented: all my fancies and schemes came to nothing. {or no
savages came near me for agreat while.

About a year and a half after I entertained these notions (and by long
musing had, as it were. resolved them all into nothing, for want of an occa-
sion to put them in execution), I was surprised one morning early by seeing
no less than five canoes all on shore together on my sirle the island, and
the people who belonged to them all landed and ou', ofmysight. The
number of them broke all' my measures; for seeing so many, and knowing
that they always came four or six, or sometimes more, in a boat, I could
not tell what to think of it, or hoiv to take my measures. to attack twenty
or thirty men single--handed, so lay still in my castle, perplexed and dis-
comforterl. However, I put myself into all the same postures for an attack
that I had formerly provided, and was just ready for action, if anything had
presented. IIaving waited a good while listening to hear if they made any
noise, at length, being very inipaticnt,l set my guns at the foot of my
ladder, and clambered up to the top of the hill, by my two stages, as usual;
standing so, however, that my head did not appear above the hill, so that
they could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed, by the help
of my perspective glass. that they were no less than thirty in number; that
they had a fire kindled, and that they had meat dressed. How they had
cooked it. I knew not. or what it was: but they were all dancing, in I
know not how many barbarous gestures and figures, their own way, round
the fire.

\Vhile I was thus looking on lhian, I perceived, by my perspective, two
miserable wretches dragged from the boats, where, it seems, they were laid
by. and were now brought out for the slaughter. I perceived one of them
immediately (all, being knocked down, I suppose, with a club, or wooden
sword, {or that was their way; and two or three others were at work imme--
diately, cuttingr him open [or their cookery, whiie the other victim was left
standing by himself. till they should be ready for him. In that very
moment, this poor_\vre' 'h, seeing himself a little at liberty, and unbound,
Nature inspired him w h hopes of life, and he started away from them,
and ran with incredible 5\'.'ifh)t'tss along: the sands, directly towards me; I

mean. t- bards that part of the coast where my habitation was. I was"1 \\'.\s THEN OBLZGT-il') TO snom'" [/b.17l':',.
169
dreadfully frightened, that I must acknowledge, when I perceived him run
my way, and especially when, as I thought,l saw him pursued by the whole
body, and now I expected that part of my dream was coming to pass, and
that he would certainly take shelter in my grove; but I could not depend,
by any means, upon my dream. that the-other savages would not pursue
him (hither, and find him there. Hmvevch kept my stalion,and my spirits
began to recover when I found that there was not above three men that
ioliowed himz'and still more was I encouraged when I found that he out-
stripped them exceedingly in running, and gained ground on them, so that,
if he could but hold it for half an hour, I saw easily he would fairly get
away from them all. .

There was between them and my castle, the creek, which I mentioned
often in the first part of my story, where I landed my cargoes out of the
ship, and this I saw plainly he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch would be taken there; but when the savage escaping came thither,
he made nothing of it, though the tide was then up; but, plunging in, swam
through in about thirty strokes,or thcrcahonts,laudedmnd ran with exceed-
ing strength and swiitness. When the three persons came to the creek, I
found that two ofhthcm could swim, but the third conld not, and that,stand-
inf: on the other side, he looked at the others, but went no tanher,and soon
after went softly back again; which, as it happened, was very well for him
in the end. I observed that rhctwo who swam were yet more than twice as
long swimming over the creek than the fellow was that [led from them. It
came very warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly, that now was
the time to get me a servant, and perhaps a Companion of assistant, and
that I was plainly called by Providence to save this poor creature's life. I
immediately ran down the ladder with all possible expedition, fetched my
two guns, for thcywere both at the foot of the ladder, as I observed before,
and getting up again with the same haste to the top of the hill, I crossed
towards the sea, and having a very short cut, and all down hill. clapped
myself in the way between the pursucrs and the pursued, hallooing aloud to
him that fled. who, looking back, was at first perhaps as much frightened at
me as at them; but I beckoned with myhund to him to come back. and, in the
meantime, I slowly advanced towards the two that followed; then rushing
at once upon the foremost. I knocked him down with the stool: of my piece.
I was loth to fire, because I would not have the rest hear; though. at that
distance, it would not have been easily heard. and being out of sight of the
smoke, too, they would not have known what to make of it. Having
knocked this fellow down, the other who pursued him stopped, as it he had
been frightened, and I advanced towards him; but. as I came nearer, I per-
ceived presently he had a how and arrow, and was fitting: it to shoot at me;
so I was then obling to shoot at him first, which I did, and killed him at
the first shot. The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though he saw
both his enemies fallen and killed, as he thought, yet was so frightened withA MARK 0F SUBMISSION. 111

the fire and noise of my piece that he stood stock--still, and neither came
forward nor went backward. though he seemed rather inclined still to fly
than") cuinc on. I hallooed again to him, and made signs to come forward,
which he easily understaod, and came a little way, then stopped again, and
then a. little farther, and stopped :1 din; and I could [hen perceive that he
steed trembling, as if lac had been taken prisnncr, and had just been to he

 

 

"nAXClNU uovxn THE FIRM "(145.1893),

killed, as his two enemies were. I beckoned to him again ,to come to me.
and gave him all the signs of encouragement that I could think of; and he
came nearer and nearer, kneeling clown every ten or twelve steps, in telcen
of newton-laminar" for saving; his life. I smiled at him, and looked
pleasantly, and beckoned to him to come stili ncurc At length. he
came blast: to me, and then he knLL ed down a in, in bird the ground,
and laid his head upon the ground, and. taking me by the font, 5 .1: my {out
upon his head; this, It t m. "'L n token of swearing to be my slave fur-
e\'cr. I tool: him up, and made much of him. and encouraged him all I.
could. fiBUt there was more work to do yet, for l perceived the savage
whom I had knocked down was not killed. but stunned with the blow, and
began to ecnm: to himself; so I pointed to him, and showed him the savage,
that he was not dead. Upon this he spoke some words to me, and though I
could not understand them, yet I thought they were pleasant to hear, [or
they were the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my own
excepted, for above twenty-five years. Iiut there was no time for such reflec-
tions now; the savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far as
to sit up on the ground, and I perceived that my savage began to be afraid:
but when I saw that, I presented my other piece at the man, as if I would
shoot him. Upon this my savage, for so I Called him now, mzide a motion to
me to lend him my sword, which hung naked in a belt by my side, which I
did. He no soonerhad it. but he runs to his enemy, and atvonehlow cut. off-
his head as cleverly, no executioner in Germany could have-done it sooner
or better; which I thought very strange for one who, I had ' 'ason to believe,
never sawasword in his life before-,excepl their own wooden swords. How-
ever, it seems. as I learned afterwards, they make their wooden swords so
sharp, so heavy. and the wood is so hard, that they will even cut off heads with
them, ay, and arms, and 'that at one blow too. \\-'her'. he had done this, he
comes laughing,r to me in sign of triumph. and brought. me thetsword again,
avul with abundance of gestures which I did not understand, laid it down,
w';-'l the head of: the savage that he had killed, just before me, But that
whieh astonished him most was to know how I killed the other Indian so Iar
off; so. pointing to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him, and I
bade him go, as well. as I could. \\-'hen he came to him, he stood like one
amazeu, looking at him, turning him first on one side, then on the other;
looked at the wound the bullet had made, which it seems was just in his
breast, where it had made a hole, and no great quantity 0t blood 2] lol-
Iowed; but he had bled inwardly, for he was quite dead. Hi: to up- his
bow and arrows, and came back; so I turned to go away, and beelt'bncd him
to follow me, making,Y signs to him that more might come after them.

Upon this he made signs to me that he should bury them with sand,
that they might not be seen by the rest, if they followed, and so I made
signs to him again to do so. He fell to "urk, and in an instant he had
scraped a. hole in the sand with his hands, bag enough to bury the first in,
and then dragged him into it, and covered him, and did so by the other
also, I believe he had buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then
calling him away, I carried him, not to my Castle, but quite away to my
cave, on the farther part of the island, so I did not let my dream come to pass
in {lint part, that he came into my grove {or shelter. Here I gave him bread
arm a bunch ot' raisi s to eat, and a draught of \\-'. 1'; which I found he was
indCed in great distress for from his running, and having refreshed him. I
tirade signs for him to go and lie down to sleep, showing him a place where
I had laid some rice-straw, and a hlanlret upon it, which I used to sleep upon
mySeIt' sometimes; so the poor creature lay down, and went to sleep.MY MAN, FRIDAY. [73

He was a comely, handsome fellow. perfectly well made, with straight,
strong; limbs, not too large, ml? and well shaped, 'and, as I reckon, about
twenty-six years of age. He had a VL ' good countenance, not a fierce and
surly aspect. but seemed to have something very manly in his face, and
yet he had 31'. the sweetness and softness of a F. mpean in his countenance,
too, especially when he smiled. His hair was long and black, not curled
like ""001, his forehead very high and large, and a g t \-':'vaeilyand spark-
-'ling sharpness in his eyes. The. color of his skin was not quite black. but
very tawny, and; yet not an ugly, yellow, nauseous tawny, as the Brazilians
and Virginian. , iynd orher natives of America are, but of a bright kind of a
dun olive-(2010 hat had in it something very agreeable, though not very
easy to dese )u . His face was round and plump, his nose small, not flat
like the Negroes', a very good month, thin lips, and his line teeth well set,
and as white as ivory.

A her he ha: umbered, rather than sle . ., about half an hour, he awoke
ag , and came'but oi the cave to me, [or I had been miiking my goats.
which I had in the i Closure just by. \V'acn he spied me. he came running
to me. laying himself down again upon the t ound. with all the possible
signs of an humble. thankful disposition, :. akin;1r a great many antic ges-
tures to show it. At East he lays his head flat upon the. ground, close to my
t'oot.and sets my other foot upon his h ad. as he had done hefore,u21d alter
this. made all (he s) is to mt: oi subjection. s 'itude, and submission
imaginable1 to let me know how he would serve me so long as he lived. I

rstood him in many things. and let him know I was very well pleased
him. In a link: Emir: l began to speak to him,and teach him to speak
to m " nd, first. I let him know his name should be. mer. which was the
vcd his life. I called him so for the memoryoi the time. I likewise
taught him to so ' Master. and then let him know that was to be my name;
I likewise taught aim to say Yes and No, and to know the meaningY of
them. I gave him some milk in an earthern pot. and let him see me drink
it before him, and sop n:\-' bread in it, and gave him a cake of bread to do
the like, which he 'quickly complied with, and made signs that it ' 5 very
good for him. I kept there v, him all that night. but. as soon as :t was
day, I beckoned to him to come with me. 'and let him know I would give
him some clothes. at which he seemed very glad, for he was stark naked.
As we went by the place where he had buried the two men, he pointed
exactly to the place, and showed me the mark' that he had made to lIlILl
them again, making sign ' to me. that we should dig ti em up again and eat
them. At this I appeared very angry. \'pr<'.ssed my abhorrence of it. made.
as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it. a .r'. beckoned with my hand to
him to come away. which he did immctlizitcl with great submission. I
then led him up to the top of the hill, to see if his enemies w e gone. and,
pulling out my glass, I looked, and saw plainly the place where they had
been, but no appearance oi them or their canoes, so that it was plain they
were gone. and had left their two comrades behind them, without anyscarch
ailer them.

But I was not content with this discovery, but having now more cour'
age, and consequently more cnriosity,I tool: my man Friday with me,
giving him the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his back,
which I found he could use very dexterousl)'. making him carry one gun
for me, and I two for myself, and away we marched to the phase where
these creatures had been--for I had a mind now to get some fuller intelli--

    

;i.0\\' an 017:1 ms HEAL)" (p.172).

game of them. When I came to the place in): very blnml ran chill in my
veins and my heart sank within me, at the horror of the spectacle; indeed
it wasa dreadful sight--at least it was' so to me. though Friday made
nothing of it. The place was covered with human bones, the ground dyed
with the blond, and great pieces of flesh left here and there, half eaten,
mangled and scorched; and, in short, all the tokens of the ti'llliil{1hflnt least
they had been making there aftcra victory Dver their enemies. I saw three
skulls, five hands, and the bones oi three or four legs and feet. and abun-I CLO'I'HE FRIDAY 175

dance of other parts of the bodies; and Friday, by his signs, made me
understand that they brought over four prisouc.s to least upon, that three
of them were eaten up, and that he. pointing to himself, was the fourth:
that there had been a great battie between them and their hex: king, oi
whose Subjects, it seems, he had been one. and that they had taken a great
number of piaohers, all which were carried to several places by those u'ho'
had taken them in the fight, in order to {cast upon them, as was done here
by these wretches upon those they brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh and whatm-'er
remained, and lay them together on a heap and make a great fire upon it,
and burn them all to ashes. I found Friday had still a hankering stomach
after some of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his nature. but I disrov-
erred so much ahhorrence at the very thoughts of it, and at the least appear-
ance of it, that he durst not discover it--ior I had, by some means let him
ltnow that I would lcill him if he offered it.

When he had done this we came back to our castle, and there I fell to
work for my man Friday; and. first of all, I gave him a pair of linen draw
ets whith I had out of the pool' gunner's chest I mentioned, which I found
in the wreck, and which, with a little alteration, fitted him very well. and
then I made him a jerhin of goat's skin as well as my skill would allow t_ for
l was now grown a toleruhly good tailor), and I gave him a cap which I
made of hare's shin, v convenient and fashionable enough, and thus he
was clothed, fur tlte present, tolerahly well, and was mighty well pleased to
see himself almost as well clothed as his master. '1': is true he went awk-
wardly in these Clothes at first, Wearing the drawers was very awlx mm] to
him, and the sleeves of the waistcoat gelled his shoulders and the inside of
his arms, but a little easing,r them where he compiained they hurt him, and
using himself to them. at length he took to them very well.

The next day. after I came home to my hutch niih him, I began to con-
sider where I shouid lodge him, and, that I might do well for him, and yet
be perfectly easy myself. I marlc a little tent for him in the vacant place
between my two fortifications, in the inside. of the last and in the outside
of the first. As there Was a door or entrance there into my care, I made a
formal framed door-case and a door to it of boar s, and set it up in the
passage, a little within the entrance. and, causing the door to open in the
inside, I barred it tip in the night. raking in my ladders, too, so that Friday
could no way come at me in the inside of my innermost wall without making
so much noise In getting over that it must needs awaken me, [or my first
wall had now a complete roof over i'. of long: poles, covering allmy tent
and leaning up to the side of the hill, whiclrwzis again laid across with
smaller sticks, instead of laths. and then thatched over a great thickness
with the rice straw, which was strong, like reeds, and at the hole or place
which Was lelt to go in or out by the ladder I had placed a kind of trap-
(loot, which, if it had been attempted on the outside, would not ham:
opened at all, but would have fallen down and made a great noise; as to
weapons, I took them all into my side every night. But I needed none of
all this precaution, for never man had a more l'aithlul, loving, sincere serv
ant than Friday was to me, without passions, sullezmcss, or d'signs, per-
fectly obliged and engaged; his very affections were tied to me, like those
of a child to a father, and I dare say he would have sacri"ced his lite for
the saving mine upon any occasion whatsoever. The many :stimonies he
gave me of this put it out of doubt and soon convincet. me that I needed
no prenautions for my safety on his account

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that with wonder,
that however it had pleased God in His providencc,and in the government
of the works of llis hands, to take from so great a part of the world of His
creatures the best uses to which their faculties and the powers of their souls
are adapted, yet that. He has bestowed upon them the same powers, the same
reason, the same affections; the same sentiments of kindness and obligation;
the same passions and resentmcnts of wrongs; the same sense of gratitude,
sincerity, fidelity. and all the capacities of doing good and receiving good,
that He has given to us; and that when He pleases to offer them occasions
of exerting these, they are as ready, nay. more ready, to apply them to the
right uses for which they were bestowed than we are. This made me very
melancholy sometimes, in reflecting, as the several occasions presented, how
mean a use we make of all these, even though we have these powers
enlightened by the great lamp of instruction, the spirit of Gottand by the
knowledge of His word added to our understanding; and why it has pleased
God to hide the like saving knowledge from so many millions of souls, who,
ill might judge by this poor savage, would make a much better use of it
than we did. From hence, I sometimes was led too far, to invade the
sovereignty of Providence, and, as it were. arraign the justice of so arbitrary
a disposition of things, that should hide that sight from some, and reveal it
to others, and yet expect a like duty from both; but I shut it up, and
checked my thoughts with this conclusion: first, That we did not know by
what light and law these should be condemned; but that as God was neces-
sarily, and, by the nature of His being, infinitely holy and just, so it could
not be but if these creatures were all sentenced to absence from Himself, it
was on account of sinning' against that light, which, as the Scripture says.
was a law to themselves, and by such rules as their consciences would
acknowledge to be just, though the foundation was not discovered to us;
and, secondly. That still, as we are all the clay in the hand of the Potter, no
vessel could say to Him, "Why hast 'l'hou'formcd me thus?"

But to return to my new companion: I was greatly delighted with him.
and made it.my business to teach him everything that was proper to make
him useful. handy and helpful; but especially to make him speak and llIlLlCl"
stand me when l spoke; and he was the aptest scholar that ever was; and
particularly was so merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased whenFRIDAY TAUGH'I' AND TRAINED. 1'77

he could but understand me, or make me understand him, that it was very
pleasant to me to talk to him. And now my life began to be so easy that
I began to say to myseII. that could I but have been safe from more sav-
ages, I cared not if I was never to remove from the place while I lived.

. After I had been two or three days returned to my castle, I thought that,
in order to bring Friday off from his horrid way of feeding. and from the
relish of a cannibal's stomach,I ought to let him taste other flesh; sol
took him out with me one morning to the woods. I went, indeed. intend-
ing to kill a kid out of my own fiock,and bring it home and dress it; but as
I was going. I saw a she-goat lying down in the shade, and two young kids
sitting by her. Icatched hold of Friday: "Hold," said I,"siand still;"
and made signs to him not to stir; immediately I presented my piece, shot,
and killed one of the kids. The poor creature, who had,at a distance, indeed,
seen me kill the savage, his enemy. but did not know nor could imagine
how it was done, was sensibly surprised; trembled, and shook, and looked
so amazed that I thought he would have sunk down. He did not see the
kid I shot at, or perceived I had killed it. but ripped up his waistcoat. to
feel whether he was not wounded; and.as I found presently, thought I was
resolved to kill him, for he came and kneelcd down to me. and embracing
my knees,said a great many things I did not understand; but I could easily
see the meaning was to pray me not to kill him.

I soon iound a way to convince him that I would do him no harm; and
taking him by the hand, laughed at him, and pointing' to the kid which I
had killed, beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did; and while
he was wondering, and looking to see how the creature was killed, I loaded
my gun again. By and by I saw a great (owl, like a hawk, sitting upon a
tree within shot; so, to let Friday understand a little what I would do, I
called him to me again, pointed at the fowl, which was indeed a parrot,
thoughI thought it had been a hawk; I say, pointing to the parrot. and
to my gun,and to the ground under the parrot,to let him see I would make
it (311,1 made him understand that I would shoot and kill that bird; accord--
ingly, I fired. and bade him look. and immediately he saw the parrot fall.
He stood like one frightened again, notwithstanding all I had said to him;
and I found he was the more amazed because he did not see me put any--
thing into the gun, but thought that there must be some wonderful fund of
death and destruction in that thing, able to kill man,beast, bird. or anything
near or far off; and the astonishment this created in him was such as could

.not wear off fora long time; and,I believe. if I would have let him, he
would have worshiped me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he would not
so much as touch it forseveral days after; but he would speak to it and talk
to it, as if it had answered him. when he was by himself; which, as I after
wards learned of him. was to desire it not to kill him. Well, after his
astonishment was a little over at this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the
Bird I had lashot, which he did, but stayed some time; for the parrot, not
being quite dead. had fluttered away a good distance from the place where
she fell. However. he found her, took her up. and brought her to me; and
as I had perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took this advant-
age to charge the gun again.and not to let him see me do it, that I might
be ready for any other mark that might present; but nothing more offered
at that time; so I brought home the kid, and the same evening I took the
skin off. and cut it out as well as I could; and having a pot fit for that pur-
pose. Iboilcd or stewed some of the flesh,and made some very good hrnth.
After I had begun to eat some. I gave some to my man. who seemed very
glad of it, and liked it very well: but that which was strangest to him was
to see me cat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt was not good
to eat; and. putting a little into his own mouth, he seemed to nauseate it,
and would spit and sputter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water after
it; on the other hand. I took some meat into my month without salt, and I
pretended to spit and sputter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the
salt; but it would not do: he would never care for salt with his meat, or in
his broth; at least. not [or a great while. and then but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat. and broth, I was resolved to feast
him the next day with roasting a piece of the kid. This I did by hanging it
before the fire on a string. as I had seen many people do in England. setting
two poles up. one on each side of the fire, and one across on the top. and
tying the string to the cross--stick, letting the meat turn continually. This
Friday admired very much; but when he came to taste the flesh, he took so
many ways to tell me how well he liked it. that I could not but understand
him; and at last he told me, as well as he could, he would never eat man's
flesh any more. which I was very glad to hear.

The next day I 'set him to work to heating some corn out, and sitting it
in the manner I used to do. as I observed before, and he soon understood
how to do it as well as I. especially after he had seen what the meaning of
it was. and that it was to make bread of; for after thatI let himsee me make
my bread and bake it. too; and in a little time Friday was able to do all the
work for me as well as Icould do it myselI.

I began now to consider that. having two mouths to feed instead of one.
I must provide more ground for my harvest. and plant a larger quantity of
corn than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece of land and began
' the fence in the same manner as before, in which Friday worked not only
very willingly and very hard. but did it very cheerfully; and I told him
what it was (or; that it was for corn to make more bread, because he was
now with me, and that I might have enough for him and myself, too. He
appeared very sensible of that part, and let me know that he thought I had
much more labor upon me on his account than I had for myself; and
that he would work the harder for me. if I would tell him what to do.

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in this place. Friday
began to talk pretty well and understand the names of almost everything ICONVERSATION \Vl'l'H FRIDAY. 179

had occasion to call for, and of every placel had to send him to. and talk a
great deal to me, so that, in short, I began now to have some use for my
tongue again, which, indeed, I had verylirtle
occasion for before, that is to say, about
speech. Besides the pleasure of talking" to
him, I had a singular satisfaction in the {el--
low himself. His simple, uziicigned honesty
appeared to me more and more every day,
and I began really to love the creature, and
on his side I believe he loved me more than
i: was possible for him ever to love any-
thing before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any
hankering inclination to his own country
again; and having taught him English so
well that he could answer me almost any

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

question, I asked him
whether the nation
that he belonged to
never conquered in
battle. AI; which he
smiled, and said,
"Yes, yes, we always
fight the better ;"
that is, he meant,
always get the better
in light; and so we
began the following
discourse:

. illtlslrrr--You al--
ways fight the better; how came you to be taken prisoner then. Friday?

' Fridays--My nation heat much, for all that.

Airmen--How beat? If your nation beat them, how came you to be
taken?

"2 PRESENTED my PIECE" (/1. 1'17).
Friday--The) more many than my nation, in the place where me was;
they take one, two, three, and me; my nation overheat them in the yonder
place, where me no was; here my nation take one, two, great thousand.

Marten--But why did not your side recover you from the hands of your
enemies then? .

Friday--They run, one, two, three, and me, and make me go in the canoe;
my nation have no canoe that time. _

Mas/pr --Well, Friday, and what does your nation do with the men they
take? 00 they carry them away and eat them, as these did?

Friday--Yes, my nation eat mans too: eat all up.

Mafia--Where do they carry them?

Frrdrly.--Go to other place where they think.

Mas/en--Do they come hither?

Ffida].----'YeSS, yes, they come hither; come other else ,place.

JWaster.--Have you been here with them?

Daddy--Yes, I been here (points to the N.W. side of the island,
which, it seems, was their side).

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly been among the
savages who used to come on shore on the farther part of the island, on the
said man-eating occasions that he was now brought for; and, some time
after, when I took the courage to carry him to that side, being the same I
formerly mentioned, he presently knew the place, and told me he was there
once, when they ate up twenty men, two women, and one child; he could
not tell twenty in English, but he numbered them, by laying so many stones
in a row, and pointing to me to tell them over.

Ihave told this passage because it introduces what follows; that after
this discourse I had with him, I asked him how far it was from our island to
the shore, and whether the canoes were not often lost. He told me there
was no danger; no canoes ever lost; but that after a little way out to sea,
there was a current and wind, always one way in the morning, the other in
the afternoon. This I understood to be no more than the sets of the tide,
as going out or coming in; but I afterwards understood it was occasioned
by the great draft and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko. in the mouth of
which river, as I thought afterwards, our island lay; and that this land
which I perceived to the W. and NW. was the great island Trinidad, on
the north point of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a thousand
questions about the country, the inhabitants, the sea, the coast, and what
nations were near; he told me all he knew, with the greatest openness
imaginable. I asked him the names of the several nations of his sort of
people, but could get no other name than Caribs; from whence I easily
understood that these were the Caribbees, which our maps place on the
part of America which reaches from the mouth of the river Oroonoko to
Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. He told me that up a great way beyond
the moon (that was, beyond the setting of the moon, which must be westRUDlME-X'I'S OF RELIGION. 18i

from their country) there dwelt white bearded men. like me. and pointed to
my great whiskers, which I mentioned before: and that they had killed
much mans--that was his word; by all which I understood he meant the
Spaniards, whose eruelties in America had been spread over the whole
country. and were remembered by all the nations, from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from this isiand. and
get among those while men; he told me, "Yes.yes, I might goin two canoe."
lcould not understand what he meant by " two canoe," till at last. with
great difiiculty,I found he meant it must he in a large, great boat, as big as
two canoes. This part of Friday's discourse began to relish with me very
well; and from this time I entertained some hopes that, one time or other,
I might find an opportunity to make my escape from this place, and that
this poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.

During the long time that Friday had now been with me, and that he
began to speak to me, and understand me, I was not wanting to lay a loun-
dation of religious knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him one
time who made him. The poor creature did not understand me at all.
but thought I had asked him who was his father; but I took it by another
handle. and asked him who made the sea, the ground we walked on, and
the hills and woods. He told me, " It was one.Benamuckee, that lived
beyond all;" he could describe nothing of this great person. but that he
was very old. " much older." he said, "than the sea or the land. than the
moon or the stars." I asked him, then, it this old person had made all
things, why did not all things worship him? He looked very grave, and,
with a perfect look of innocence, said. " All things said '0!' to him."
I asked him if the peeple who die in his country went away anywhere.
He said. "Yes; they all went to Benamuckee." Then I asked him whether
those they ate up went thither too. He said. " Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the knowledge of the true
God. I told him that the great Maker of all things lived there, pointing up
towards Heaven; that He governed the world by the same power and provi-
dence by which He made it; that He was omnipotcnt, and could do every-
thing for us, give everything to us, take everything from us; and thus,
by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great attention, and
received with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us,
and of the manner of making our prayers to God, anclI-Iis being able to
hear us, even into Heaven. He told me one day, that if our God could hear
us. up beyond the sun. He must needs be a greater God than theirVBena-
muekce, who lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till they
went up to the great mountain where he dwelt to speak to him. I asked
him if ever he went thither to speak to him. He said, "No; they never
went that were young men; none went thither but the old men." whom he
called their Oowokakee: that is, as I made him explain it to me, their
religious, or clergy; and that they went to say "Ol " (so he called saying
prayers), and then came back and told them what Benamuckce said. By
this I observed, that there is pricstcrait even among the most blinded.
ignorant pagans in the world; and the policy of making a. secret of religion.
in order to preserve the \reneration of the people to the clergy. is not only
to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among all religions in the world.
even among the most brutish and barbarous savages.

I endeavored to clear up this fraud to my man Friday, and told him
that the pretense of their old men going up to the mountains to say " O! "
to their god Bcnamuckee was a cheat; and their bringing word from thence
what he said was much more so; that if they met with any answer, or spoke
with any one there, it must be with an evil spirit; and then I entered into
a long discourse with him about the devil, the original o[ him. his rebellion
against God, his enmity to man, the reason of it, his setting himself up in
the dark parts of the world to be worshiped instead of God, and as God.
and the many stratagems he made use of to dclude mankind to their ruin:
how he had a secret access to our passions and to our affections, and to
adapt his snares to our inclinations, so as to cause us even to be our own
tempters. and run upon our own destruction by our own choice.

I found it was not so easy to imprint right notions in his mind about the
devil as it was about the being of a God. Nature assisted all my argu-
ments to evidence to him even the necessity of a great First Cause--an over--
ruling. governing Power, a secret directing Providence; and of the equity
and justice of paying homage to Him that made us, and the like: but there
appeared nothing of this kind in the notion of an evil spirit; of his original.
his being. his nature. and, above all, of his inclination to do evil. and to
draw us in to do so too; and the poor creature puzzled me once in such a
manner, by a question merely naturaland innocent, that I scarce knew what
to say to him. I had been talking a great deal to him of the power of God,
His omnipotence, I-Iis aversion to sin, His heinga consuming fire to the work-
ers of iniquity; how, as He had made us all. He could destroy us and all the
world in a moment; and he listened with great seriousness to me all the
while. After this, I had been telling him how the devil was God's enemy in
the hearts of men, and used all his malice and skill to defeat the good
designs of Providence, and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, and
the like. "Well," says Friday, " but you say God is so strong, so great; is
He not much strong. much might as the devil?" "Yes. yes," says 1. ".Fri-
day, God is stronger than the devil; God is above the devil. and therefore
we pray to God to tread him down under our feet. and to enable us to resist
his temptations and quench his fiery darts." "But." says he again, " it God
much strong. much might as the devil, why God no kill the devil, so make
him no more do wicked? " I was strangely surprised at this question; and,
aftcr all, though I was now an old man. yet I was but a young doctor, and
ill qualified for a casuist or a solver of difficulties, and at first I could not
tell what to say; so I pretended not to hear him and asked him what heRELIGIOUS TEACH INGS. 183

said. But he was too earnest for an answer to forget his question. so that
he repeated it in the very same broken words as above. By this time I had
recovered myself a little and I said, "God will at last punish him severely;
he is reserved for the judgment. and he is to be cast into the bottomless pit,
to dwell with everlasting fire." This did not satisty Friday; but he returns
upon me, repeating my own words, " 'errw a! last." me no understand;
but why not kill the devil now; not kill great ago ?" "You may as well ask
me," says 1, "why God does not kill you or me when we do wicked things
here that attend Him; we are preserved to repent and he pardoned." He

 

 

 

"x nx'rnmm ix'l'o .\ LOXG msuouxse" (15.182).

muses awhile on this. "Well, well," says he, mightily affectionately, "that '
wcll; so you, I, devil, all wicked. all preserve, repent, God pardon all."
Here I was run down by him to the last degree; and it was a testimony to
me. how the mere notions of Nature, though they will guide reasonable
creatures to the knowledge of a God and of a worship or homage due to the
supreme being of God, as the consequence of our nature, yet nothing but
Divine revelation can form the knowledge of Jesus Christ, and of redemption
purchased for us; of :1 Mediator of the new covenant, and of an Intercessor
at the footstuol of God's throne. I say, nothing but a revelation from Heaven
can form these in the soul; and that. therefore, the gospel of our Lord and
Saviour Jesus Christ, I mean the Word of God and the Spirit of God, prom-
ised for the guide and sanctifier of His people, are the absolutely necessary
instructors of the souls of men in the saving knowledge of God, and the
means of salvation.

I therefore diverted the present discourse between me and my man, ris-

' ing up hastily as upon some sudden occasion of going out; then sending
him for something a good way off, I seriously prayed to God that He would
enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage; assisting by His Spirit the
heart of the poor ignorant creature to receive the light of the knowledge of
God in Christ, reconciling him to Himself, and would guide me to speak so
.0 him from the Word of God, that his conscience might be convinced, his
ayes opened, and his soul saved. When he came again to me. I entered
Into a long discourse with him upon the subject of the redemption of man
by the Saviour of the world, and of the doctrine of the gospel preached
from heaven, \'I7.., of repentance towards God, and faith in our blessed Lord
Jesus. I then explained to him as well as 1 could why our blessed
Redeemer took not on Him the nature of angels. but the seed of Abraham;
and how, for that reason, the fallen angels had no share in the redemption;
that He came only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the like.

1 had, God knows, more sincerity than knowledge in all the methods I
took for this poor creature's instruction, and must acknowledge, what I
believe all that act upon the same principle will find, that, in laying things
open to him, I really informed and instructed myself in many things that I
either did not know, or had not fully considered before, but which occurred
naturally to my mind upon searching into them, for the information of this
poor savage. And I had more affection in my inquiry after things upon this
occasion than ever I felt before; so that, whether this poor wild wretch was
the better for me or no, I had reason to be thankful that ever he came to
me; my grief sat lighter upon me; my habitation grew comfortable to me
beyond measure; and when I reflected that in this solitary life which I had
been confined to, I had not only been moved to look up to Heaven myself,
and to seek the Hand that had brought me here. but was now to he made
an instrument, under Providence. to save the life, and, for aught I know, the
soul of a poor savage, and bring him_ to the true knowledge of religion, and
of the Christian doctrine, that he might know Christ Jesus, to know Whom
is life eternal; I say, when I reflected upon all these things, a secret joy ran
through every part of my soul, and I frequently rejoiced that ever I was
brought to this place, which I had so often thought the most dreadful of all
afflictions that could possibly have befallen me.

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder of my time; and-
the conversation which employed the hours between Friday and me was
such as made the three years which we lived there together perfectly and
completely happy, if any such thing as complete happiness can be found in
a sublunary state. This savage was now a good Christian. a much better
than I, though I have reason to hope, and bless God for it, that we were
equally penitent, and comforted, restored penitents. We had here the WordI TELL MY STORY. 185

.,f God to read, and no farther off from His Spirit to instruct than if we had
been in England. I always applied myself, in reading the Scriptures. to let
him know, as well as I could, the meaning of what I read; and he again, by
his serious inquiries and questionings, made me, as I said before, a much
better scholar in the Scripture knowledge than I should ever have been by
my own mere private reading. Another thing I cannot refrain from observ-
ing here also, from experience in this retired part of my life, viz., how infi-
nite and inexpressible a blessing it is that the knowledge of God, and of the
doctrine of salvation by Christ Jesus. is so plainly laid down in the "'ord of
God, so easy to be received and understood, that, as the bare reading the
Scripture made me capable of understanding enough of my duty to carry
me directly on to the great work of sincere repentance for my sins, and of
laying hold ota Saviour for life and salvation, to a stated reformation in
practice, and obedience to all God's commands, and this without any teacher
or instructor, I mean human, so the same plain instruction sufi'iciently
served to the enlightening this savage creature. and bringing him to be such
a Christian as l have known few equal to him in my life.

As to the disputes, wrangling, strife and contention which have happened
in the world about religion, whether nieeties in doctrines or schemes of
church government, they were all perfectly useless to us, and, for aught' I
can yet see, they have been to the rest of the world. We had the sure guide
to Heaven, viz., the Word of God; and we had, blessed be God, comfortable
views of the Spirit of God teaching and instructing us by His Word, lead-
ing us into all truth, and making us both willing and obedient to the instruc-
tion of His Word. And I cannot see the least use that the greatest knowl-
edge of the disputed points of religion, which have made such confusions in
the world, would have been to us, if.we could have obtained it; but I must
go on with the historical part of things, and take every part in its order.

"After Friday and I became more intimately acquainted, and that he
could understand almost all I said to him and speak fluently, though in
broken English, to me, I acquainted him with my own story, or at least so -
much of it as related to my coming into this place; how I had lived there,
and how long. I let him into the mystery, for such it was to him. of gun-
powder and bullet, and-taught him how to shoot. I gave him a knife, with
which he was wonderfuliy delighted, and I made him a belt with a frog
hanging to it, such as in England we wear hangers in; and in the frog,
instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which was not only as good a
weapon in some cases, but much more useful upon many occasions.

I described to him the countries of Europe, particularly England, which
I came Irom; how we lived, how we worshiped God, how we behaved to one
another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the world. I gave him
an account of the wreck which I had been on board of, and showed him as
near as I could the place where she lay; but she was all beaten in pieces
long before, and quite gone. I shower] him the ruins of our boat, which we
lost when we escaped. and which I ,could not stir with my whole strength
then, but was now fallen almost all to pieces. Upon seeing this boat
Friday stood musing a great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it
was he studied upon. At last says he, " Me see such boat like come to place
at my nation," 1 did not understand him a good while, but at last. when I
had examined further into it. I understood by him that a boat such as that
had been came on shore upon the country where he lived; that is, as he
explained it. was driven thither by stress of weather. I presentlyimagined
that some European ship must have been cast away upon their coast, and
the boat might get loose and drive ashore, but was so dull that I never once
thought of men making their escape from a wreck thither, much less
whence they might come, so I only inquired after the description of the
boat. .

Friday described the boat to me well enough, but brought me better to
understand him when he added with some warmth, "We save the white
mans from drown." Then I presently asked if there were any white mans,
as he called them, in the boat. "Yes." he said; "the boat full of white
mans." I asked him how many. He told upon his fingers seventeen. I
asked him then what became of them. He told me, "They live. they dwell
at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head, for I presently imagined that these
might be the men belonging,Y to the ship that was cast away in the sight at
my island, as I now called it, and who, after the ship was struck on the rock
and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved themselves in their boat. and
were landed upon that wild shore among the savages. Upon this I inquired
of him more critically what had become of them. He assured me they lived
still there. that they had been there about four years, that the savages left
them alone and gave them victuals to live. I asked how it came to pass that
thcydid not kill them and eat them. He said, "No, they make brother with
them;" that is, as I understood him, a truce; and then he added, "They
no eat mans but when make the warfightf' that is to say, they never eat
any men but such as come to light with them and are taken in battle.

It was after this some considerable time, that being upon the top of the
hill, at the east side of the island. from whence, as I have said, I had, in a
clear day, discovered the main or continent oi America. Friday, the weather
being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the mainland, and, in a
kind of surprise, falls a-jumping and dancing, and calls out to.nie,for I was
at some distance from him. I asked him what was the matter. "Oh. joyl"
says he; "oh, glad! there see my country, there my nation!" Iobserved an
extraordinary sense of pleasure appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled,
and his countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he had a mind to
be in his own country again. This observation of mine put a great many
thoughts into me. which made me, at first, not so easy about my new man
Friday as I was before; and I made no doubt but that, if Friday could getPANGS OF JEALOIISV. 1%?

bad: to his own nation again, he would not only forget all his religion. but
all his obligation to me, and would be forward enough to give his country-
men an account of me, and come back, perhaps. with a hundred or two of
them, and make a feast upon me, at which he might be as merry as he used
to be with those of his enemies when they were taken in war. But I wronged
the poor, honest creature very much, for which I was very sorry afterwards.
However, as my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks. I was a little
more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind to him as before; in which

I was certainly in the wrong too; the honest, grateful

creature having no thought about it but what consisted
with the best principles both as a religious Christian and
us a grateful friend; as appeared afterwards to my full
satisfaction

      
 
 
 

lasted, you may be sure I was
every day pumping him. to see
if he would discover any of the
new thoughts which I suspected
were in him; but I found every-
thing he said was so honest and u . . _ .

. UPON SEEING THIS BOAT, FRIDAY STOOD MUSING
so innocent, that I could find A GRI-ZA'I'WHlLl-Z" H.186).
nothing to nourish my sus-
picion; and, in spite of all my
uneasiness, he made me at last entirely his own again; nor did he in the
least perceive that I was uneasy. and therefore I could not suspect him of'
deceit.

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather being hazy at sea,
so that we could not see the continent, I called to him, and said, " Friday,
do not you wish yourself in your own country. your own nation?" " Yes."
he said, " I be much 0 glad to be at my own nation." "What would you
do there?" said I. "Would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh again. and be
a savage, as you were before?" He looked full of concern, and shaking his
head, said, " No, no; Friday tell them to live good; tell them to pray God:
tell them to eat corn--bread. cuttloflc-sh. milk: no eat man again." "Why
then," said I to him, " they will kill you." He looked grave at that, and
then said, " No, no; they no kill me, they willing love learn.' IIc meant
by this, they would be willing to learn. He added, they learned much of
the "bearded mans " that came in the boat. Then I asked him if he would
go back to them. He smiled at that, and told me he could not swim so far.
I told him I would make a canoe (or him. He told me he would go, if I
would go with him. "I go!" says I; "why, they will eat me i[I come
there," "No, no," says he, " me make them no eat you; me make them
much love you." He meant. he would tell them howI had killed his enemies,
and saved his life, and so he would make them love me. Then he told me,
as well as he could, how kind they were to seventeen white men, or bearded
men, as he called them, who came-on shore in distress.

From this time, I confess, I had a mind to venture over, and see iiI
could possibly join with those bearded men, who, I made no doubt, were
Spaniards or Portuguese; not doubting but, if I could, we might find some
method to escape from thence, being upon the continent, and a. good com-
pany together, better than I could from an island forty miles off the shore,
alone, and without help. So, after some days, I took Friday to work again,
by way of discourse, and told him I would give him a boat to go back to his
own nation; and I, accordingly, carried him to my frigate, which lay on the
other side of the island, and having cleared it of water (for I always kept it
sunk in the water), I brought it out, showed it him, and we both. went into
it. I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing it, and would make
it go almost as swift and fast again as] could. So when he was in, I said to
him, " Well, now, Friday, shall we go to your nation?" He looked very
dull at my saying so, which it seems was because he thought the boat too
small to go so far. I then told him I had a bigger; so the next day I went
to the place where the first boat lay which I had made, but which I could
not get into the water. He said that was big enough, but then. as I had
taken no care of it, and it had lain two or three and twenty years there, the
sun had split and dried it, that it was rotten. Friday told me that such a
boat would do very well, and would carry "much enough vittle, drink.
bread,"~--that was his way of talking.

Upon the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon my design of going
over with him to the continent, that I told him we would go and make one
as big as that, and he should go home in it, He answered not one word, but
looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was the matter with him. He
asked me again, " Why you angry mad with FridayF--what me done?" I
asked him what he meant. Itold him I was not angry with him at all.
" No angry! " says he, repeating the words several times; " why send Fri-
day home away to my nation? " " Why," says I, " Friday, did not you say
you wished you were there?" " Yes, yes," says he, "wish we both there;
no wish Friday there, no master there." In a word, he would not think of
going there without me. " I go there, Friday? " says I; " what shall I do
there?" He turned very quick upon me at this. " You do great deal much
good," says he; " you teach wild mans be good, sober, tame mans; you tellA NEW CANOE MADE. 189

' them know God. pray God. and live new life." "Alas. Friday! " says I,
"thou knowest not what thou sayesl; .I am but an ignorant man myself.'
"Yes, yes," says he, " you teachee me good,you teachee them good." " No,
no, Friday," says I, "you shall go without me; leave me here to live by
myself. as I did before." He looked confused again at that word, and run
ning to one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it up hastily, and
gives it to me. " What must I do with this? " says I to him. " You take
kill Friday," says he. "What must I kill you for? " said I again. He
returns very quick--" What you send Friday away for? Take kill Friday,
no send Friday away." This he spoke so earnestly that I saw tears stand
in his eyes. In a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost affection in him
to me, and a firm resolution in him, that I told him then, and often after,
that I would never send him away from me if he was willing to stay with
me.

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discoursea settled affection to me,
and that nothing could part him from me, so I found all the foundation of
his desire to go to his own country was laid in his ardent affection to the
people and his hopes of my doing them good; a thing which, as I had no
notion of myself, soI had not the least thought or intention or desire of
undertaking it. But still I found a strong: inclination to my attempting an
escape, founded on the supposition gathered from the former discourse, that
there were seventeen bearded men there; and therefore, without any more
delay, I went to work with Friday to find out a great tree proper to fell, and
make a large periagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There were trees
enough in the island to have built a little fleet, not of periaguas or canoes,
but even of good large vessels; but the main thing I looked at was to get
one so near the water that we might launch it when it was made, to avoid
the mistake I committed at first. At last Friday pitched upon a tree, for I
found he knew much better than I what kind of wood was fittest for it; nor
can I tell to this day what wood to call the tree we cut down, except thatit
was very like the tree we call fustic, or between that and the Nicaragua
wood, for it was much of the same color and smell. Friday'was for burning
the hollow or cavity of this tree out, to make it into a boat, but I showed
him how rather to cut it with tools; which, after I had showed him how to
use, he did very handily; and in about a month's hard labor. we finished it
and made it very handsome; especially when, with our axes,whieh I showed
him how to handle, we cut and hewed the outside into the true shape of a
boat. After this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get her along,
as it were, inch by inch, upon great rollers into the water; but when she was
in, she would have carried twenty men with great case.

When she was in the water. though she was so big, it amazed me to see
with what dexterity and how swift my man Friday could manage her. turn
her, and paddle her along. So I asked him if he would and if we might
venture over in her. "Yes," he said; "we venture over in her very well.
though great blow wind." However. I had '

a farther design that he knew nothing of,
\ and that was to make a mast and a. sail and
' ' ' to fit her with an anchor and cable. As to
a must, that was easy enough to get, so I
pitched upon a straight young cedar tree,
whichl found near the place and which
there was great plenty of in the island. and
I set Friday to work to cut it down. and
gave him directions how to shape and order
it. But as to the sail, that was my par-
ticular cure. I knew I had old sails, or
rather pieces of old sails, enough; but
as I had had them now six--and-twenty
years by me. and had not been very

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

careful to preserve
them, not imagining
that I should ever have this
kind of use (or them. I did not
doubt but they were all rotten;
and. indeed, most of them were
so. However, I foundtwo pieces
which appeared pretty good.
and with these I went to work;
and with a. great deal of pains,
and awkward, tedious stitching, you
may be sure, for want of needles. I at
length made .1 three-cornered, ugly
thing, like what we call in England a
shouldervoI--inutton sail. to go with a
boom at bottom, and a little short sprit
at the top, such as usually our ships'
long-boats sail with, and such as I best knew how to manage. because it
was such a one as I used in the boat in which I made my escape from
Barbary, as related in the first part of my story.

" INCH BY INC" UPON GREAT ROLLERS"

(p. 139).INSTRUCTIONS IN NAVIGATION. 191

I was near two months performing this last work,viz., rigging and fitting
my mast and sails, for I finished them very complete, making a small stay
and a. sail or foresail to it, to assist if we should turn to windward; and, which
was more than all; I fixed a rudder to the stern of her to steer with. And
though I was but a bungling shipwright. yet as I knew the usefulness, and
even the necessity of such .1 thing, I applied myself with so much pains to
do it, that at last I brought. it to pass; though, considering the many dull
Contrivanccs I had for it that failed, I think it cost me almost as muehlahor
as making the boat.

After all this was done, I had my man Friday to teach as to what
belonged to the navigation of my boat; for, though he knew very weli how
to paddle the canoe, he knew nothing of what belonged to a sail and a
rudder; and was the most amazed when he saw me work the boat to and
again in the sea by the rudder, and how the sail jibbcd, and filled thisiwny
or that way, as the course we sailed changed; I say, when he saw this. he
stood like one astonished and amazed. However, with a little use, I made
all these things familiar to him, and he became an expert sailor, except
that as to the compass I could make him understand very little of that. On
the other hand,as there was very little cloudy weather, and seldom or never
any fogs in those parts, there was the less occasion for the compass. seeing
the stars were always to be seen by night, and the share by day, except in
the rainy seasons, and then nobody cared to stir abroad either by land
or sea.

I WM now entered on the seven-and-twcnticth year of my captivity in
this place; though the three last years that I had this creature with me
ought rather to be left out of the account, my habitation being quite of
another kind than in all the restof my time. I kept the anniversary of my
landing here with the same thanklulness to God for His mercies as at first:
and ifI had sueh cause of acknowledgment at first, I had much more so
now, having such additional testimonies of the care of Providence over me,
and the great hopesl had of being effectually and speedily delivered; fotI
had an invincible impression upon my thoughts that my deliverance was at
hand. and that I should not be another year in this place. However. I went
on with my husbandry; digging, planting. and fencing, as usual. I gathered
and cured my grapes and did every necessary thing as before.

The rainy season was in the meantime upon me. when I kept more
within doors than at other times. I had stowed our new vessel as secure as
we could, bringing her up into the creek, where, 3.51 said in the beginningJ
landed my rafts from the ship, and hauiing her up to the shore at high-
waler mark, I made my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to hold
her and just deep enough to give her water enough to float in: and then,
when the tide was out, we made a strong dam across the end ol it, to keep
the water out; and so she lay dry as to the tide from the sea, and to keep
the rain off we laid a great many boughs of trees so thick that she was
as well thatched as a house, and thus we waited for the months of
November and December, in which I designed to make my adventure.
\-Vhen the settled season began to come in, as the thought of my
design returned with the [air weather. I was preparing daily for the voyage.
And the first thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of provisions,
being the stores for our voyage, and intended, in a week or a fortnight's
time, to open the dock and launch out our boat. I was busy one morning
upon something of this kind, when I called to Friday and bid him go to the
sea-shore and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise. a thing which we gen-
erally got once a week, for the sake of the eggs, as well as the flesh. Friday
had not been gone long when he came running back and flew over my outer
wall, or fence, like one that felt not the ground or the steps he set his feet
on, and beforeI had time to speak to him he cries out to me, "0 master! 0
master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad!" "What's the matter. Friday?" said 1. "Oh!
yonder. there," says he, " one, two. three canoes; one. two. three!" By
this way of speakingl concluded there were six. but on inquiryl found
there were but three. " Well, Friday," says I, " do not be frightened." So
I heartened him up as well as I could. However, Isaw the poor fellow
was most terribly scared, (or nothing ran in his head but that they were
come back to look for him and would cut him in pieces and eat him, and
the poor fellow tremblcd so that I scarcely knew what to do with him. I
comforted him as well as I could and told him [was in as much danger
as he. and that they would eat me as well as him. " But," said I, " Friday,
we must resolve to fight them. Can you fight. Friday?" " Me shoot," says
he. "but there come many great number," " No matter for that." said I,
again; " our guns will fright them that we do not kill." So I asked him
whether, ifI resolved to defend him, he would defend me and stand by me,
and do just as I bid him. He said, "Me die, when you bid dic, mas.
ter." So I went and fetched a good dram of rum and gave him. for I had
been so good a husband of my rum that I had a great deal left. When he
had drunk it I made him take the two fowlingpieces, which we. always
carried. and load them with large swan-shot, as big as small pistol-bul-
lets. Then I took four muskets and loaded them with two slugs and
five small bullets each, and my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets
each. I hung my great sword, as usual. naked by my side, and gave Friday
his hatchet. When I had thus prepared myself. I took my perspective
glass and went up to the side of the hill to see what I could discover, and I
found quickly by my glass that there were one--and-twenty savages, three
prisoners. and three canoes, and that their whole business seemed to be the
triumphant banquet upon these three human bodies; a barbarous feast
indeed, but nothing more than, as I had observed, was usual with them. I
observed also that they landed not where they had done when Friday made
his escape, but nearer to my creek. where the shore was low, and where
a thick wood came close almost down to the sea. This, with the abhorrcnceA GOOD RESOLUTION. 193

of the inhuman errand these wretchcs came about, filled me with such
indignation that I came down again to Friday and told him I was resolved
to go down to them and kill them all, and asked him if he would stand
by me. He had now got over his (right and his spirits being a little raised
with the dram I had given him, he was very cheerful and told me, as before,
he would die when I bid die.

In this bit of furyI took first and divided the arms which I had charged,
as before, between us; I gave Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and
three guns upon his shoulder, and I took one pistol and the other three
myself, and in this posture we marched out. I took a small bottle of rum
in my pocket, and gave Friday a large bag with more powder and bullets,
and as to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me, and not to stir, or
shoot, or do anything till I bid him, and in the meantime not to Speak a
word. In this posture I fetched acompass to my right hand of near a mile,
as well to get over the creek as to get into the wood, so that I might come
within shot ofthem before I should be discovered, which I had seen by my
glass it was easy to do.

VVhileI was making this march, my Iormer thoughts returning, I began to
abate my resolution-- I do not mean that I entertained any {car of their num-
ber, for, as they were naked, unarmed wretches, it is certain I was superior
to them--nay, though I had been alone. But it occurred to my thoughts.
what call. what occasion, much less what necessity, I was in to go and dip
my hands in blood, to attack people who had neither done nor intended me
any wrongP--who, as to me. were innocent, and whose barbarous customs
were their own disaster, being in them a token, indeed, of God's having left
them, with the other nations of that part of the world, to such stupidity,
and to such inhuman courses, but did not call me to take upon me to be a
judge of their actions, much less an executioner of His justice--that when-
ever He thought fit He would take the cause into His own hands, and by
national vengeance punish them for national crimes; but that, in the mean-
time, it was none oi my business--that it was true Friday might justify it.
because he was a declared enemy, and in a state of war with those very
particular people, and it was lawful for him to attack them, but I could not
say the same with regard to myself. These things were so warmly pressed
upon my thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved I would only go
and place myself near them that I might observe their barbarous feast, and
that I would act then as God should direct. and that unless something
offered that was more a call to me than yet I knew of, I would not meddle
with them.

With this resolution I entered the wood, and with all possible wariness
and silence, Friday following close at my heels. I marched till I came to
the skirt of the wood on the side which was next to them, only that one
corner of the wood lay between me and them. Here I called softly to Fri-

day. and showing him a great tree which was just at the corner of the wood.
Ill
I bade him go to the tree, and bring me word if he could see there plainly
what they were doing. He did so, and came immediately back to me, and
told me they might be plainly viewed there--that they were all about their
fire eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and that another lay hound
upon the sand a little from them, whom he said they would kill next, and
this fired the very soul within me. He told me it was not one of their
nation, but one of the bearded men whom he had told me of, that came to
their country in the boat. I was filled with horror at the very naming of the
white bearded man, and going to the tree, I saw plainly by my glass 3 white
man, who lay upon the beach of the sea with his hands and his feet tied
with flags, or things like rushes, and that he was a European, and had
clothes on. '

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond it, about fifty yards
nearer to the place where l was, which, by going;r a little way about, I saw I
might come at undiscovered. and that then I should be within half a shot of
them; so I withheld my passion, though I was indeed enraged to the highest
degree; and going back about twenty paces, 1 got behind some bushes,
which held all the way till I came to the other tree, and then came to a
little rising ground, which gave me a full view of them at the distance of
about eighty yards.

1 had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the dreadful wretches
sat on the ground, all close huddled together, and had just sent the other
two to butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps limb by limb, to
their fire, and they were stooping down to untie the bands at his feet. I
turned to Friday: " Now, Friday," said I, "do as I bid thee." Friday said
he would " Then, Friday," said I, "do exactly as you see me do; tail in
nothing." So I set down one of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon
the ground, and Friday did the like by his, and with the other musket I
took my aim at the savages, bidding him do the like; then asking him if he
was ready, he said, "Yes." "Then fire at them," said I; and at the same
moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on the side he shot he
killed two of them, and wounded three more; and on my side I killed one,
and wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in a dreadful consterna-
tion; and all of them that were not hurt jumped upon their feet, but did not
immediately know which way to run, or which way to look, for they knew
not from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his eyes close upon
me, that, as I had bid him, he might observe what I did; so, as soon as the
first shot was made, I threw down the piece, and took up the fowling-piece,
and Friday did the like; he saw me cock and present; he did the same
again. "Are you ready, Friday? " said I. " Yes," says he. " Let fly, then,"
said I, " in the name of God! " and with that I fired again among the
amazed \vretches, and so did Friday; and as our pieces were now loaded with
what I call swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets. we found only two drop; but"I MADE DIRECTLY TOWARDS THE won \rxc'rw" (15.196).

[Ni
so many were wounded, that they ran about yelling and screaming like mad
creatures, all bloody, and most of them miserably wounded; whereof three
more fell quickly after, though not quite dead.

" New, Friday," said I, laying down the discharged pieces, and taking up
the musket that was yet loaded, " follow me," which he did with a great
deal of courage; upon which I rushed out of the wood and showed myself,
and Fridayclose at my foot. As soon as I perceived they sawme, Ishouted
as loud as I could. and bade Friday
do so too, and running as fast as I
could, which by the way was not very
fast, being loaded with arms as I was.
I made directly towards the poor
victim, who was, as I said, lying upon
the beach or shore. between the place
where they sat and the sea. The
two butchers who were just going to
work with him had left him at the
surprise of our first fire, and fled in a
terrible fright to the sea--side, and had
jumped intoa canoe, and three more
of the rest made the same way. I
turned to Friday, and bade him step
forwards and fire at them; he under-
stood me immediately, and running
about fmty yards nearer them, he
shot at them; and I thought he killed
them all, for I saw them all fall of a
heap into the boat, though I saw two
of them up again quickly; however,
he killed two of them, and wounded
the third so that he lay down in the
bottom of the boat as if he had been

" lN THIS rosrmzr: we Martens>> ou'r" dead.

(7" 1%" While my man Friday fired at

them. I pulled out my knife and cut

the flags that bound the poor victim; and loosing his hands and feet, I lifted
him up, and asked him, in the Portuguese tongue, what he was. He
answered, in Latin, Christianus; but was so weak and faint that he could
scarce stand or speak. I took my bottle out of my pocket, and gave it
him, making signs that he should drink, which he did; and I gave him a
piece of bread, which he ate. Then l asked him what countryman he was,
and he said Espagnole; and being a little recovered, let me know,by all the
signs he could possibly make, how much he was in my debt for his deliver~
ancc. " Seignior," said 1, with as much Spanish as I could make up. " weA Sl'ANlARD RESCLFEI). 197

will talk afterwards, but we must fight new; if you have any strength left,
take this pistol and sword, and lay about you." lle look them very thank-
fully; and no sooner had he the arms in his hands, but, as if they had put
new vigor into him, he flew upon his murderers like a fury, and had cut mo
of them in pieces in an instant; for the truth is. as the whole was :1 surprise
to them, so the poor creatures were so much frightened with the noise of
our pieces that they fell down for mere amazement and fear, and had no
more power to attempt their own escape, than their flesh had to resist our

 

"I FIRED AGAIN AMONG THE .umzm) \\'nr:'rcm:s"[p.194).

shot; and that was the case of those five that Friday shot at m we boat;
for as three of them fell with the hurt they received. so the other two (all
with the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being willing to keep
my charge ready; because I had given the Spaniard my pistol and sword;
so I called to Friday, and bade him run up to the. tree from whence we first
fired, and fetch the arms which lay there that had been discharged, which
he did with great swiftncss; and than giving him my musket, I sat down
myself to load all the rest again. and bade them come to me when they
wanted. While I was loading these pieces. there happened a fierce engage>>
ment between the Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at him' with
one of their great wooden swords. the same weapon that was to have killed
him before, if I had not prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and
brave as could be imagined, though weak, had fought this Indian 3. good
while, and had cut two great wounds on his head; but the savage being a
stout, lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down, being faint,
and was wringing my sword out of his hand; when the Spaniard, though
undermost, wisely quitted the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle, shot
the savage through the body, and killed him upon the spot, before I, who
was running to help him, could come near him.

Friday, being now left to his liberty, pursued the flying wretches, with
no weapon in his hand but his hatchet; and with that he dispatched those
three who, as I said before, were wounded at first, and fallen, and all the
rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard coming to me [or a gun, I
gave him one of the fowling-pieces, with which he pursued two of the sav-
ages, and wounded them both; but, as he was not able to run. they both
got from him into the wood, where Friday pursued them, and killed one oi
them, but the other was too nimble for him; and though he was wounded,
yet had plunged himself into the sea, and. swam with all his might off to
those two who were left in the canoe; which three in the canoe, with one
wounded, that we knew not whether he died or no, were all that escaped
our hands, of one-and-twenty. The account of the whole is as follows:
Three killed at our first shot from the tree; two killed at the next shot; two
killed by Friday in the boat; two killed by Friday, of those at first wounded;
one killed by Friday in the wood; three killed by the Spaniard; four killed,
being found dropped here and there, of the wounds, or killed by Friday in
his chase of them; four escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if not
dead--twenty--one in all.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out of gunshot, and
though Friday made two or three shots at them. I did not find that he hit

'any of them. Friday would fain have had me take one of their canoes, and
pursue them; and, indeed, I was very anxious about their escape, lest, carry-
ing the news home to their people, they should come back perhaps with
two or three hundred of the canoes, and devour us by mere multitude. So
I consented to pursue them by sea, and running to one of their canoes. I
jumped in, and bade Friday follow me; but when I was in the canoe, I was
surprised to find another poor creature lie there, bound hand and foot, as
the Spaniard was, for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear. not know-
ing what was the matter; for he had not been able to look up over the side
of the boat, he was tied so hard neck and heels, and had been tied so long,
that he had really little life in him.

I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which they had bound
him with, and would have helped him up, but he could not stand or speak,'FRIDAY AND HIS FATHER. 199

but groancd most pitcously, believing, it seems, still, that he was only
unbound in order to he lcilicd. When Friday came to him, I bade him
speak to him, and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my bottle,
made him give the poor wretch a dram; which, with the news of his being
delivered, revived him, and he sat up in the boat. But when Friday came
to hear him speak, and look in his face, it would have moved any one to
tears to have seen how Friday kissed him, embraced him, hugged him,
cried, laughed, hallooed, jumped about, danced, sung; then cried again,
wrung his hands, beat his own face and head; and then sung and. jumped
about again like a distracted creature. It was a good while before I could
make him speak to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he came
a little to himself, he told me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to see what ecstacy
and filial affection had worked in this poor savage at the sight of his father,
and of his being delivered from death; nor, indeed, can I describe half the
.cxtravagances of his affection after this, for he went into the boat and out
of the boat a great many times; when he went in to him he would sit down
by him, open his breast and hold his father's head close to his bowm half
an hour together. to nourish it; then he took his arms and ankles, which
were numbed and stiff with the binding, and chafed and ruhbed them with
his hands; and I, perceiving what the case was, gave him some rum out of
my bottle to rub them with, which did them a great deal of good.

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe with the other sav-
ages, who were now gotten almost out of sight; and it was happy for us
that we did not, for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before they
could be got a quarter of their way, and continued blowing so hard all
night, and that from the northwest, which was against them, that 1 could
not suppose their boat could live or that they ever reached theirown coast.

But to return to Friday: he was so busy about his father that I could not
find in my heart to take him off for some time, but after I thought he could
leave him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping and laughing
and pleased to the highest extreme; then I asked him it he had given his
father any bread. He shook his head and said, " None; ugly dog eat all up
self." I then gave hima cake of bread out of a little pouch I carried on pur-
pose; I also gave him a dram for himself, but he would not taste it but car-

- ried it to this father. I had in my pocket also two orthree bunches of raisins,
so I gave him a handful of them for his father. He had no sooner given his
father these raisins but I saw him come out of the boat and run away as if
he had been bewitched, for he was the swiftcst fellow on his feet that ever I
saw; I say, he ran at such a. rate that he was out of sight. as it were, in an
instant. and though I called and halloocd out, too, after him, it was all one
--away he went; and in a quarter of an hour I saw him come back again.
though not so fast as he went; and, as he came nearer,I found his pace
slacker, because he had something in his hand. When he came up to me I
found he had been quite home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes or loaves of bread;
the bread he gave to me, but the water he carried to his father; however. as
l was very thirsty too. ltooka little sup ofit. This water revived his father
more than all the rum or spirits I had given him, for he was just fainting
with thirst.

When his father had drunk, I called to him to knowif there was any
water left. llc said "Yes," and I bade him give it to the poor Spaniard.
who \vasin as much want of it as his father; and I sent one of the cakes. ,
that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who was indeed very weak, and
was reposing himself upon a green place under the shade ofa tree; and
whose limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled with the rude band~
age he had been tied with. When I saw that upon Friday's coming to him
with the water he sat up and drank, and took the bread and began to eat.
I went to him and gave him a handful of raisins. He looked up in my face
with all the tokens of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in any
countenance; but was So weak, notwithstanding he had so exerted himself
in the fight, that he could not stand up on his feet. He tried to do it two or
three limes, but was really notable, his ankles were so swelled and so pain-
ful to him; so I bade him sit still, and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and
bathe them with rum, as he had done his father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two minutes, or perhaps
less, all the while he was here, turned his head about, to see if his father
was in the same place-and posture as he left him sitting; and at last he
found he was not to be seen; at which he started up. and, without speaking
a word, flew with that swiftness to him, that one could scarce perceive his
feet to touch the ground as he went; but when he came, he only found he
laid himself down to case his limbs, so Friday came back to me presently;
and I then spoke to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could, and
lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him to our dwelling, where
I would take care of him. But Friday, a lusty young fellow. took the Span-
iard quite up on his back, and carried him away to the boat. and set him
down softly upon the side or gunwale of the canoe. with his feet in the
inside of it; and then lifted him quite in, and set him close to his father;
and presently stepping out again. launched the boat off, and paddled it
along the shore faster than I could walk, though the wind blew pretty hard
too; so he brought them both safe into our creek. and leaving them in the
boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. Ashe passed me I spoke to him.
and asked him whither he went, He told me, "Go fetch more bean" so
away he went like the wind, for sure never man or horse ran like him; and
he had the other canoe in the creek almost as soon as I got to it by land;
so he wafted me over, and then went to help our new guests out of the boat,
which he did; but they were neither of them able to walk, so that poor
Friday knew not what to do.AFTER THE FIGHT. 901

To remedy this I went to work in my thought, and calling to Friday to
bid them sit down on the bank while he came to me. I soon made a kind of
hand-barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them up both together
upon it between us.

But when we got them lo the outside of our wall,
or fortification, we were at a worse loss than before,
for it was impossible to get them over, and I was
resolved not to break it down; so I set to work again,
and Friday and I. in about two hours' time, made a
very handsome tent, covered with old sails, and above H
that with boughs of trees,
being in the space without
our outward fence, and be-
tween that and the grove
of young wood which I had
9 l a n t e d ;
and here we
made them
two beds of
such things
as I h a. d ,
viz., of good
lice-s t r a w,
with blank~
cts l a i d
upon it, to
lie on and
another to _
cover them,
on each bed.
M y island
w a s n o w
p e 0 pl e d ,
a n d I
t h o u g h t
myself very rich in subjects, and it was a merry reflection which I fre-
quently made, how like a king I looked. First of all, the whole country
was my own mere property, so that I had an undoubted right of dominion.
Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected; I was absolutely lord and
lawgiver; they all owed their lives to me and were ready to lay down their
lives if there had been occasion for it. for me. It was remarkable, too, I
had but three subjects, and they were of three different religions; my man
Friday wasa Protestant, his father was a Pagan and a cannibal. and the
Spanard was a Papist. However, I allowed liberty of conscience throughout
my dominions --hut this is by the way.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 

"\vxmoiso m swmm our or ms "AND" (1}. 198).
As soon as Ihad secured my two weak rescued prisoners and given
them shelter and a place to rest them upon, Ibegan to think of making
some provision for them, and the first thing 1 did, I ordered Friday to
take a. yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out of my particular flock
to he killed; when I cut' off the hinder quarter and chopping it into small
pieces, I set Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them a very
good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth, having put some barley and
ric ' also into the broth; and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no
file within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new tent, and having set
a table there for them,I sat down and ate. my own dinner also with them,
and, as well as I could, cheered them and encouraged them. Friday was
my interpreter, especially to his father, and, indeed, to the Spaniard too,
for the Spaniard spoke the language of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered Friday to take one of
the canoes and go and (arch our muskets and other firearms, which, for
want oI time, we had left upon the place of battle; and, the next day,I
ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the savages, which lay open
to the sun, and would presently be offensive. I also ordered him to bury,
the horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I could not think of doing
myself; nay, I could not hear to see them, if I went that way; all which he
punctually perforated, and defaced the very appearance of the savages
being there; so that when I went again, I could scarce know where it was,
otherwise than by the corner of the wood pointing to the place.

Ithen began to enter into a little conversation with my two new sub-
iects; and, first, I set Friday to inquire of his father what he thought of the
escape (it the savages in that canoe, and whether we might expect a return
of them, with a power too great for us to resist. Ills first opinion was, that
lhe savages in the boat never could live out the storm which blew that
night they went off, but must, oi necessity, be drowned, or driven south to
those other shores, where they were as sure to he devoured as they were to
be drowned if they were cast away; but, as to what they would do if they
came sale on shore. he said he knew not; but. it was his opinion that they
were so dreadfully frightened wirh the manner of their being attacked, the
noise, and the fire, that he believed they would tell the people they were all
killed by thunder and lightning, not by the hand of man; and that the two
which appeared, viz., Friday and I. were two heavenly Spirits, or furies,
COIIIC down to destroy them, and not men with weapons. This he. said he
ltncw, because he heard them all cry out so, in their language, one to
another; for it was impossible for them to conceive that a man could dart
fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance, without lifting up the hand,
as was done now. And this old savage was in the right; for, as I under-
stood since, by other hands, the savages never attempted to go oucr to the
island afterwards; they were so terrified with the accounts given by those
four men (for it seems they did escape the sea), that they believed whoeverA TALK VVITII THE SPANIARI). 20?

went to that enchanted island would be destroyed with fire from the gods.
This, however, I knew not; and thcrciore was under continual apprehen-
sions for a good while. and kept always upon my guard. I and all my army:
for, as we were now four of us, I would have ventured upon a hundred of
them, fairly in the open field, at any time.

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing, the {ear of their
conning;r wore off; and I began to take my former thoughts of a voyage to
the main into consideration; being likewise assured, by Friday's fathcl'.ti\nt
Iniight depend upon good usage from their nation. on his account. if I
would go. But my thoughts were a little suspended when I had a serious
discourse with the Spaniard, and when I understood that there. were sixteen
more of his countrymen and Portuguese. who, having been cast away and
made their escape to that side, lived there at peace. indeed, with the savages.
but were very sore put to it. for necessar .s and, indeed, for 'life. I asked
him all the particulars of their voyage, and Iound they were a Spanish ship
bound from the Rio dc la Plata to the Ilavanna, beingr directed to leave
their loading there, which was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring back
what European goods theycould meet with there; that they had five Portu-
guese seamen on board, whom they took out of another wreck; that five of
their own men were drowned, when first the ship was lost. and that these
escaped through infinite danger and hazardsamd arrived, almost starved,on
the cannibal coast, where they expected to have been devoured every
moment. II: told me they had some arms with them, but they were
perfectly usexess, for that they had neither powder nor ball, the washing of
the sea having spoiled all their powder, but a little.which they used at their
first landing, to provide themselves some food.

I asltcd him what he thought would become of them there, and if they
had formed no (.lCSEth of making any escape. He said they had many con-
sultations about it; but having,r neither vessel, nor tools to build one, nor
provisions of any kind; their councils always ended in tears and despair. I
asked him how he thought they would rcceive'a proposal from me, which
might tend towards an escape; and whether, if they were all here, it might
not be done. I told him with freedom. I feared mostly [llull' treachery and
ill-usage of me, if I put my life in their hands: for that gratitude was no
inherent virtue in the nature of man, nor did men always square their
dealings by the obligations they had received, so much as they did by
the advantages they expected. Itold him it would be very hard that I
should be the instrument of their deliverance, and that they should aitcr~
wards make me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman was cer-
tain to be made a satr. ice, what necessity or what accident soever brought
him thither; and that I had rather he delivered up to the savages, and be
devoured alive, than fall into the merciless claws oi the priests, and be car.

. ried into the Inquisition. Iaddcd that, otherwise, I was persuaded, if they
were all here, we might, with so many hands, build a bark. large enough to
carry us all away, either to the Brazils southward, or to the islands or Spain
ish 'coast northward; but that if, in requital, they should, when I had put
weapons into their hands, carry me by force among their own people, I
might be ill-used for my kindness to them, and make my case worse than it
was before. '

He answered with a great deal of candor and ingenuousncss, that their
condition was so miserable, and that they were so sensible of it. that he
believed they would abhor the thought of using any man unkindly that
should contribute to their deliverance; and that, if I pleased, he would go
to them, with the old man, and discourse with them about it and return
again, and bring. me their answer; that he would make conditions with them
upon their solemn oath, that they should be absolutely under my direction,
as their commander and captain; and they should swear upon the Holy
Sacrament and Gospel to be true to me, and go to such Christian country
as I should agree to, and no other; and to be directed whollyand absolutely
by my orders, till they were landed safely in such country as I intended:
and that he would bring a contract from them, under their hands, for that
purpose. Then he told me he would first swear to me himself, that he would
never stir from me as long as he lived, till I gave him orders; and that he
would take my side to the last drop of his blood, if there should happen the
least breach of faith among his countrymen. He told me they were all oi
them very civil, honest men, and they were under the greatest distress
imaginable, having neither weapons nor clothes, nor any food, but at the
mercy and discretion of the savages; out of all hopes of ever returning to
their own country; and that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief,
they would live and die by me.

Upon these assurances. I resolved to venture to relieve them, it possible,
and to send the old savage and this Spaniard over to them to treat. Ilut
when we had got all things in readiness to go, the Spaniard himself started
an objection which had so much prudence in it on one hand, and so much
sincerity on the other hand, that I could not but he very well satisfied in it;
and, by his advice, put off the deliverance of his comrades for at least half
a year. The case was thus: Ile had been with us now about a month,
during which time I had let him see in what manner I had provided, with
the assistance of Providence, [or my support, and he saw evidently what
stock of corn and rice I had laid up; which. though it was more than sufii-
cient for myself, yet it was not sufficient. without good husbandry, [or my
family, now it was increased to four; but much less would it be sufficient if
his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen, still alive should come over,
and least of all would if he sufiicient to victual our vessel, if we should build
one, {or a. voyage to any of the Christian colonies of America; so he told me
he thought it would be more advisable to let him and the other two dig and
cultivate some more land, as much as I could spare seed to sow. and that
we should wait another harvest, that we might have a supply of corn forA LARGE CROP. 20::

his countrymen, when they should come; for want might be a lemptationto
them to disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, otherwise than out of
one difficulty into another. "You know," says he, "the children of Israel,
though they rejoiced at first {or their being delivered out of Egypt, yet
rebelled even against God Himself, that delivered them, when they came to
want bread in the wilderness."

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so good, that I could not
but be very well pleased with his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with

 

"MY EVE I'LAINIA' DISCOVERED A smr LYING .rr AN ANCHOR " (/2. 20?).

his fidelity; so we fell to digging. all four of us, as well as the wooden tools
we were furnished with permitted, and in about a month's time, by the end
of which it was seed time, we had got as much land cured and trimmed up as
we sowed two-and--twcnty bushels of barley on. and sixteen jars of rice,
which was, in short. all the seed we had to spare: indeed. we left ourselves
barely sufficient for our own food for the six months that we had to expect
our crop; that is to say, reckoning from the time we set our seed aside for
sowing, for it is not to be supposed it is six months in the ground in that
country.

Having now society enough, and our number being sufiicient to put us
out of fear of the savages, if they had come, unless their number had been very
great, we went freely all over the island, whenever we found occasion;and as
we had our escape or deliverance upon our thoughts. it was impossible, at
least for me, to have the means of it out of mine. For this purpose I
marked out several trees which I thought fit [or our work, and I set Friday
and his father to cut them down, and then Icaused the Spaniard, to whom I
imparted my thoughts on that affair, to oversee and direct their work. I
showed them with what indefatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into
single planks. and I caused them to do the like, till they had made about.
a dozen large planks of good oak. near two feet broad, thirty~five long, and
from two inches to four inches thick; what prodigiouslabor it took up, any one
may imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little stock of tame goats
as much as I could; and for this purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard
go out one day, and myself with Friday the next. day (for we took our
turns), and by this means we got about twenty young kids to breed up with
the rest; for whenever we shot the dam,we saved the kids, and added them
to our flock. But above all, the season for curing the grapes Corningr on, I
caused such a prodigious quantity to be hung up in the sun, that I believe,
had we been at Alicant, when: the raisins of the sun are cured, we could
have filled sixty or eighty barrels; and these, with our bread, formed a great
part of our food--very good living, too, I assure you.ior theyare exceeding
nourishing.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order; it was not the most
plentiful increase I had seen in the island, but, however, it was enough to
answer our end; for, from Lwcntyiwo bushels of barley, we brought in and
thrashed out above two hundred and twenty bushels; and the like in pro-
portion of the rice; which was store enough [or our food to the next harvest,
though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore with me; or, it we had
been ready fora voyage, it would very plcntifully have victualed our ship
to have carried us to any part of the world, that is to say, of America,
When we had thus housed and secured our magazine of corn, we fell to work
to make more wicker-work, viz., great baskets, in which we kept it; and the
Spaniard was very handy and dexterous at this part, and often blamed me
that i did not make some things for defense of this kind of work, but Isaw
no need of in

And now, having a lull suppiy of food for all the guests expected, I gave
the Spaniard leave to go over the main. to see what he could do with those
he had left behind him there: I gave him a strict charge not to bring any
man with him who would not first swear, in the presence of himself and the
old savage, that he would no way injure, fight with, or attack the person he
should find in the island who was so kind as to send for them in order to
their deliverance; but that they would stand by him and defend him against
all such attempts, and wherever they went, would be entirely under andA Sl-IIP IN SIGHT. 20']

subjecteo to his command; and that this should be put in writing, and
signed with their hands. How they were to'have done this, when I knew
they had neither pen nor ink--that, indeed, was a question which we never
asked. Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old savage, the
father of Friday, went away in one of the canoes which they might be said
to have come in, or father were brought in, when they came as prisoners to-
he devoured by the savages. I gave each of them a musket, with a firelock
on it, and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging them to he very
good husbands of both, and not to use either of them but upon urgent
occasron.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures used by me. in view
of my deliverance, (or now twenty-seven years and some da) 4 I gavethein
provisions of bread, and of dried grapes. suflicient lor thems. yes [or many
days, and sufficient for all the Spaniards for about eight days' time; and
wishing them a good voyage. l saw them go, agreeing;r with them ahout a
signal they should hangr out at their return, by which I should know them
again, when they came back, at a distance, before theycamc on shore. They
went away, with a fair gale, on the day the moon was at hill, by my account
in the month of October; but as for an exact reckoning of d. s after I had
once lost it. I could never recover it again; nor had I kept even the number
of years so punctually as to he sure I was right: though, as it proved,whea
I aiterwards examined my account. I found I had kept a true reckoning oi
years. _ '

It was no less than eight days I had waited for them, when a strange
and unforeseen accident intervened, of which the like has not, perhaps,
been heard of in history. I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning when
my man Friday came running in to me, and called aloud, "Master. master,
they are come. they are coins!"- I jumped up and, regardless of danger. I
went out as soon as [could get my clothes on, through my littie grove.
which. by the way, was by this time grown to he a very thick wood; I say
regardless of danger. I went without my arms. which was not my custom to
do, but I was surprised when, turning: my eyes to the sea. I presently saw .1
boat at about a league and a hall' distance standing in {or the shore, with a
shouldersof-mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty fair to
bring them in; also I observed presently that they did not come from that
side which the shore lay on, but from the southernmost end of the island.
Upon this I called Friday in and bade him lie elosc, for these were not the
people we looked for, and that we might not know yet whether they were
friends or enemies. In the next place, I went in to {etch my perspective
glass to see what I could make of them, and, having taken the ladder out,
I climbed up to the top of the hill, as I used to do when I was apprehensive
of anything. and to take my View plainer without being,7 discovered. I had
Scarce set my foot upon the hill when my eve plainly discovered 'hip
lying at ananchor at about two leagues and a liizll distance from me, . ii"
but not above a league and a half from the shore. By my observation it
appeared plainly to be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an
English long~boat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in. though the joy of seeing a ship.
and one that 1 had reason to believe was manned by my own countrymen.
and consequently friends, was such asI cannot describe; but yet I had some
secret doubts hung about me--I cannot tell from whence they came--bid--
ding me keep upon my guard. In the first place. it occurred to me to con-
sider what business an English ship could have in that part of the world,
since it was not the way to or from any part of the world where the English
had any trafl'ic; and I knew there had been no storms to drive them in
there in distress. and that if they were really English it was most probable
that they were here upon no good design. and that I had better continue as
I was than [all into the hands of thieves and murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of danger which some-
times are given him when he may think there is no possibility of its being
real. That such hints and notices are given us. I believe few that have
made any observations at things can deny; that they are certain discov-
eries of an invisible world, and a converse of spirits. we cannot doubt; and
ii the tendency of them seems to be to warn us of danger, why should we
not suppose they are from some friendly agent (whether supreme or infe-
rior and subordinate is not the question). and that they are not given for
our good? _

The present question abundantly confirms me in the justice of this rea-
soning. for had I not been made cautious by this secret admonition. come
it from whence it will.I had been undone inevitably, and in a far worse
condition than before, as you will see presently. I had not kept myself
long in this posture till I saw the boat draw nearthe shore. as it they looked
for a creek to thrust in at [or the convenience oi landing. However. as
they did not come quite far enough they did not see the little inlet where I
formerly landed my raits. but ran their boat on shore upon the beach, at
about halt a mile from me, which was very happy for me. {or otherwise
they would have landed just at my door, as I may say. and would soon
have beaten me out of my castle. and perhaps have plundered me of all I
had. When they were on shore l was fully satisfied they were Englishmen.
at least most of them; one or two I thought were Dutch, but it did not
prove so. There were in all eleven mcn. whereof three of them I found
were unarmed. and. as I thought, bound; and when the first four or five of
them were jumped on shore they took those three out of the boat as pris-
oners. One of the three I could perceive using the most passionate ges.
tures of entreaty. amiction and despair even to a kind of extravagance; the
other ton could perceive lifted up their hand sometimes and appeared
concerned, indeed. but not to such a degree as the first. I was perfectly
confounded at the sight, and knew not what the meaning of it should be.A STRANGE COMPANY. 90.

Friday called out to me in English. as well as he could, "0, master! you
see English mans eat prisoner as well as savage mans." "Why, Friday."
says I, "do you think they are going to eat them, then?" "Yes,"says
Friday, "they will eat them." "No, no," says I, "Friday, I'm afraid they
will murder them, indeed, but you may be sure they will not eat them."
All this while I had no thought of what the matter really was, but
stood trembling with the horror of the sight, expecting every moment

 

"WHAT ARE YE, GENTLEMRNP'" (/I. 211.)

when the three prisoners should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the
villains lift up his arm with a great cutlass. as the seamen call it, or sword.
to strike one of the poor men; and I expected to see him {all every
moment: at which all the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my
veins. I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the savage that was
gone with him, or that I had any way to have come undiscovered within
shot of them, that I might have secured the three men. for I saw no fire~
arms they had among them: but it fell out to my mind another way. After
I had observed the outrageous usage of the three men by the insolent sea-

men, I observed the fellows run scattering about the land, as if they wanted
v.
to see the country. Iohserved also that the three other men had liberty
to go where they pleased; but they sat down all three upon the ground,
very pensive, and looked like men in despair. This put me in mind of the
first time when i came on shore, and began to look about me; how I gave
myself over for lost; how wildly I looked round me; what dreadful appre
hensions I had; and howl lodged in the tree all night, for fcarof being
devoured by wild beasts. As I knew nothing. that night, of the supply
I was to receive by the providential driving of the ship nearer the land
by the storms and tide, by which I have since been so long nourished
and supported; so these three poor desolate men knew nothing how
certain oi deliverance and supply they were, how near it was to them,
and how effectually and really they were in a condition of safety. at the
same time they thought themselves lost, and their case desperate. 50 little
do we see before us in the world, and so much reason have 'we to depend
cheerfully upon the great Maker of the world, that He does not leave lIis
creatures so absolutely destitute, but that, in the worst circumstances, they
have always something to be thankful for, and sometimes are nearer their
deliverance than they imagine; nay, are even brought to their deliverance
by the means by which they seem to he brought to their destruction.

It was just at the top at high water when these people came on shore.
and while they rambled about to see what kind of a place they were in,
they had carelessly stayed till the tide was spent, and the water was ebbed
considerably away. leaving their boat aground. They had left two men
in the boat, who, as I found afterwards, having drunk a little too much
brandy, fell asleep; however, one of them waking a little sooner than the
other, and finding the boat too fast aground for him to stir it, hallooed
()Ul', for the rest, who were straggling about; upon which they all soon
came to the boat; but it was past all their strength to launch her. the boat
being very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft cozy sand, almost
like a quicksand. ln this condition, like true seamen, who are, perhaps,
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave it over, and away
they strolled about the country again; and I heard one of them say aloud
to another, calling them off from the boat, "\Vhy, let her alone, Jack,
can't you? she'll float next tide;" by which I was fully confirmed in the
main inquiry of what countrymen they were. All this while I kept myself
close, not once daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my
place of observation, near the top of the hill; and very glad I was to think
how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less than ten hours before
the boat could float again, and by that time it would be dark, and I might
be at more liberty to see their motions, and to hear their discourse, if they
had any. In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as before.
though with more caution, knowing that I had to 'do with another kind
of enemy than ,I had at first. I ordered Friday also, whom I had made
an excellent marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms. I tookAN ANGEL IN DISGUISE. 211

myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three muskets. My figure,
indeed, was very fierce; I had my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the
great cap I have mentioned. a naked sword, two pistols in my belt, and
a gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design, as 1 said above. not to have made any attempt till it
was dark; but about two o'clock, being; the heal. of the day,I found, in
short, they were ali gone straggling into the woods, and, as I thought, were
all laid down to sleep. The three poor distressed men, too anxious. for their
condition to get any sleep, had, however. sat down under the sheiter of a
great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me. and, as l thonghl, out of
sight of any ol the rest. Upon r. I resolved to discover myself to them.
and learn something of their condition; immediately I marched as above,
my man Friday at a good distance behind me, as formidable for his arms as
I, but not making quite so slari .g a specter-like figure as Idid, I came as
near them undiscovered as I could, and then, before any of them saw me, I
called aloud to them in Spanish, "What are ye, gentlemen?" They started
up at the noise, but were ten times more confounded when they saw me.
and the uncouth figure that I made. They made no answer at all, butl
thought I perceived them just going to fly from me, when I spoke to them
in English: " Gentlemen " said I, "do not be surprised at me, perhaps you
may have a friend near, when you did not expect it." "lle must be sent
directly from Heaven. then," said one of them very gravely to me, and
pulling OPE his hat at the same time. "fox'our condition is past the help 0'.
man." "All help is from Ileaven, sir,"said l; "but can you put a stranger in
the way to help you? for you seem to be in some great distress. Isaw
you when you landed, and when you seemed to make application to (he
hrutcs that came with you,'l saw one of them lift up his s .ord to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and trembling, looked
like one astonished, and returned, "Am I talking to God or man? Is it a
real man, oran angel?" "Be in no fear about that, sir," said I: "if God had
sent an angel to relieve you, he would have come better clothed, and
armed alter another manner than you see me in' pray lay aside your fears;
I am .. man, an Englishman, and disposed to assist you; you see I have one
servant only; we have arms and ammunition; tell us freely, can we serve
you? What is your case?" "Ourcase, sir,"said he, "is too long to tell
you, while our murderers are so near us. but in short, sir. I was commander
of that ship; my men have mutinied against me; they have been hardly
prevailed on not to murder me, and, at last, have set me on shore in this
desolate place, with these two men withme--one my mate. the other a
passenger--where we expected to perish, believing the place to be unin~
habited, and know not yet what to think of it." "Where are these brutes
your enemies?"said I; "do you know where they are gone P" "There they
lie, sir," said he pointing to a thicket of trees: "my-heart trembles for fear
they have seen us, and heard you speak; if they have. they will certainly
murder us all." "Have they any firearms P" said 1. He answered, "They
had only two pieces, one of which they left in the boat." "Well, then,"
said I, "leave the rest to me; Isce they are all asleep; it is an easy thing to
kill them all; but shall we rather take them prisoners ?" He told me there
were two desperate villains among them that it was scarce safe to show any
mercy to, but if they were secured, he believed all the rest would return to
their duty. Iasked him which they were. He told me he could not at
that distance distinguish them, but he would obey my orders in anything I
would direct. "Well." says I, "let us retreat out of their view or hearing,

    

lest they awake. and we
willresolvefurther." So
lheywillingly went back
with me, till the woods
covered us from them.

"Look you. sir," said I, "r
I venture upon your deliver-
ance, are you willing to make
two conditions with me? " lIe
anticipated my proposals by telling me that both he and the ship, if recov-
ered, should be wholly directed and commanded by me in everything, and
if the ship was not recovered, he would live and die with me in what part
of the world soever I would send him. and the two other men said the same.
"Well," said I, "my conditions are but two: first. that while you stay on
this island with me. you will not pretend to any authority here, and if I put
arms in your hands, you will. upon all occasions, give them up to me, and
do no prejudice to me or mine upon this island, and in the meantime be
governed by my orders; secondly. that if the ship is or may be recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England passage free."

He gave me all the assurance that the invention and faith of a man
could devise that he would comply with these most reasonable demands,
and besides would owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all occasions.

"ricer moose FOR maker." (11218.)QUICK \'PS_\'GENCE. 213

as long as he lived. " Well, then." said I, " here are three muskets for you.
with powder and ball; tell me next what you think is proper to he done."
He showed all the testimony of his gratitude that he was able, but offered
to be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it was hard venturing
anything. but the best method 1 could think of was to fire on them at once
as they lay, and if any were not killed at the first volley, and offered to sub-
mit, we might save them, and so put it wholly upon God's providence to
direct the shot. IIe said,very modestly, that he was loth to kill them, if he
could help it, but that those two were incorrigible villains, and had been the
authors of all the mutiny in the ship, and if they escaped, we should be
undone still. for they would go on board and bring the whole ship's com-
pany, and destroy us all. "Well, then," says I, "necessity legitimates my
advice, for it is the only way to save our lives." However, seeing him still
cautious of shedding blood.I told him they should go themselves, and man-
age as they found convenient.

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of them awake, and soon
after we saw two of them on their feet. I asked him if either of them were
the men who he had said were the heads of the mutiny' He said. "No."
" Well, then." said I, "you may let them escape; and Providence seems to
have awakened them on purpose to save themselves. New," says I, "if the
rest escape you. it is your fault." Animated with this, he took the musket
I had given him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two comrades
with him, with each man a piece in his hand; the two men who were with
him going first made some noise, at which one of the seamen, who was
awake, turned about, and seeing them coming. cried out to the rest, but it
was too late then, for the moment he cried out they fired I mean the two
men, the captain wisely reserving his own piece. They had so well aimed
their shot at the men they knew. that one of them was killed on the spot,
and the other very much wounded, but not being dead, he started up on his
feet, and called eagerly for help to the other; but the captain, stepping to
him, told him it was too late to cry for help, he should call upon God to
forgive his villainy, and with that word knocked him down with the stock of
his musket, so that he never spoke more; there were three more in the
company, and one of them was slightly wounded. By this time I was come.
and when they saw their danger, and that it was in vain to resist, they begged
for mercy. The captain told them he would spare their lives if they would
give him an assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had been
guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in recovering the ship, and
afterwards in carrying her back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They
gave him all the protestations of their sincerity that could be desired, and
he was willing to believe them. and spare their lives, which I was not
against, only I obliged him to keep them bound hand and foot while they
were upon the island.

While this was doing. I sent Friday with the captain's mate to the boat,
with orders to secure her, and bring,' away the oars and sails, which they did;
and by and by three straggling men, that were (happily for them) parted
from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns fired; and seeing)r the cap-
tain, who before was their prisoner, now their conqueror. they submitted to
be bound also; and so our victory was complete.

t now remained that the captain and I should inquire into onc'another's
circumstances. I began first, and told him my whole history, which he heard
with an attention even to amazement ---and particularly at the wonderful
manner of my being furnished with provisions and ammunition; and, indeed,
as my story is a whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply. But
when he reflected from thence upon himself, and howl seemed to have
been preserved there on purpose to save his life. the tears ran down his face,
and he'could not speak a word more. After this communication was at an
end, I carried him and his two men into my apartments, leading them in
just where I came out, via, at the top of the house. where I refreshed him
with such provision as I had, and showed them all the confrivances I had
' made during my long, long inhabiting that place.

All I showed them. all I said to them, was perfectly amazingfbut above
all, the captain admired my fortification. and how perfectlyl had concealed
my retreat with a grove of trees, which, having been now planted near
twenty years, and the trees growing much faster than in England, was
become a little wood, so thick that it was impassable in any part of it but
at that one side where I had reserved my little winding passage into it. I
told him this was my castle and my residence, but that I had a seat in the
country, as most princes have, whither I could retreat upon occasion, and I
would show him that too another time; but at present our business was to
consider how to recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that, but told
me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to take, for that there were still
six-and-twenty hands on board, who, having entered into a cursed compir-
acy, by which they had all forfeited theirlivcs to the law, would be hardened
in it now by desperation, and would curry it on, knowing that if they were
subdued they should be brought to the gallows as soon as they came to
England, or to any of the English colonies, and that, therefore, there would
be no attacking them with so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had said, and found it was a very
rational conclusion, and that therefore something was to be resolved on very
speedily, as well to draw the men on board into some snare for their
surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us. and destroying ,us. Upon
PSI'IIS, it presently occurred to me that in a little while the ship's crew,
wondering what was become of their comrades and of the boat. would
certainly come on shore in their other heat, to look for them, and that
then. perhaps. they might come armed, and be too strong for us; this
he allowed to be rational. Upon this. I told him the first thing we had to do
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so that they might notA NEW DANGER. 215

carry her off, and taking everything out of her. leave her so far useless as
not to be fit to swim. Accordingly we went on board, took the arms which
were left on board out of her, and whatever else we found there--which was
a bottle of brandy, and another of rum, a few biscuit~cakes, a horn of
powder. and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas (the sugar was five
or six pounds); all which was very welcome to me, especially the brandy
and sugar, of which I had had nonc left for many years.

\\' hen we had carried all these things on shore (the 02115, mast, sail and
rudder of the boat were carried away before), we knocked it great hole in
her bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master us, yet they could
not carry off the boat. Indeed. it was not much in my thoughts that. we
could be able to recover the ship, but my view was, that if they went away
without the boat, 1 did not much question to maltc her again fit to carry us
to the Leeward islands, and call upon our friends the Spaniards in my way,
for I had them still in my thoughts.

While we were thus preparing our designs, and had first, by main strength,
heaved the boat upon the beach, so high that the tide would not float her off
at high-water mark, and besides, had broken a hole in herhottom too big to
be quickly stopped,and Were sat down musing what we should do, we heard
the ship fire a gun. and make a waft with her ensign as a signal for the boat
to come on hoard; but no boat stirred, and they fired several times, making;
other signals for the boat. At last. when all their signals and firing proved
fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw them, by the help of
my glasses, hoist another boat out and row towards the shore: and we found.
as they approached, that there were no less than ten men in her and that
they had fire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore. we had a full view of
them as they came, and a plain sight even of their faces, because, the tide
having set them a little to the cast of the other boat, they rowed up under
shore to come to the same place where the other had landed and where the
boat lay; by this means, I say, we had a full view of them, and the captain
knew the persons and characters of all the men in the boat, of whom, he
said, there were three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led into
this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered and frightened; but that as
for the boatswain, who it seems was the chief officer among them. and all
the rest. they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew, and were no
doubt made desperate in their new enterprise; and terribly apprehensive he
was that they would be too powerful for us. I smiled at him and told him
that men in our circumstances were past the operation of fear; that seeing
almost every condition that could he was better than that which we were
supposed to be in, we ought to expect that the consequence, whether death
or life, would be sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought of
the circumstances of my life and whether a deliverance were not worth ven--
turing for. "And where, sir," said I. " is your belief in my being preserved
here on purpose to save your life, which elevated you a little while ago?
For my part," said 1, " there seems to be but one thing amiss in all the pros-
pect of it." " What is that? " says he. " Why," said I. " it is, that as you
say there are three or four honest fellows among them, which should be
spared, had they been all of the wicked part of the crew, I should have
thought God's providence had signaled them out to deliver them into your
hands: for depend upon it. every man that comes ashore is our own. and
shall die or live, as they behave to us." As Ispoke this with a raised voice
and cheerful countenance. I found it greatly encouraged him; so we set vig-
orously to our business.

We had upon the first appearance of the boats coming from the ship,
considered of separating our prisoners; and had, indeed, secured them
effectually. Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured than ordi-
nary, I sent with Friday and one of the three delivered men to my cave,
where they Were remote enough, and out of danger of being heard or dis-
covered. or of finding their way out of the woods, if they could have deliv-
ered themselves, Here they left them bound, but gave them provisions.
and promised them, if they continued there quietly, to give them their lib-
erty in aday or two; but that if they attempted their escape, they should
be put to death without mercy. They promised faithfully to bear their
confinement with patience. and were very thankful that they had such good
usage as to have provisions and alight left them; for Friday gave them
candles (such as we made ourselves) for their comfort; and they did not
know but that he stood sentinel over them at the entrance. -

The other prisoners had better usage; two of them were kept pinioned.
indeed, because the captain was not free to trust them; but the other two
were taken into my service, upon the captain's recommendation, and upon
their solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so with them and the three
honest men we were seven men, well armed; and I made no doubt we
should be able to deal well enough with the ten that were coming. consid~
ering that the captain had said there were three or four honest men among
them also. As soon as they got to the place where their other boat lay,
they ran their boat into the beach and came all on shore, hauling the boat
up after them, which I was glad to see. for I was afraid they would rather
have left the boat at an anchor some distance from the shore, with some

,hands in her, to guard her. and so we should not be able to seize the boat.
Being on shore, the first thing they did, they ran all to their other boat, and
it was easy to see they were under a great surprise to find her stripped. as
above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in her bottom. After they
had mused awhile upon this. they set up two or three great shouts. hallooing
with all their might, to try if' they could make their companions hear; but
all was to no purpose. Then they came all close in a ring. and fired avolley
of their sma'lharms, which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made the
woods ring; but it was all one; those in the cave, we were sure, could notMORE VISITORS. 217

hear; and those in our keeping, though they heard it well enough, yet durst
give no answer to them. They were so astonished at the surprise ot this.
that, as they told us afterwards. they resolved to go all'on board again to
their ship, and let them know that the men were all murdered. and the long-
boat stayed; accordingly, they immediately launched their boat again, and
got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even confounded, at this. believ-
ing they would go on board the ship again, and set sail, giving their com-
rades over for lost, and so he should still lose the ship, which he was in
hopes we should have recovered; but he was qu'ckly as much frightened
the other way.

Thcy,had not been long;' put off with the boat, when we perceived them
all coming on shore again; but with this new measure in their conduct,
which it seems they consulted together upon, v .., to leave three men in
the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into the country to look
for their fellows. This was a. great disappointment to us, for now we were at
a loss what to do, as our seizing those seven men on shore would he no advan-
tage to us if we let the boat escape. because they would row away to the
ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to weigh and set. sail, and so
our recovering the ship would he lost. However, we had no remedy but to
wail. and see what the issue of things might present. The seven men came
on shore, and the three who remained in the boat put her off to a good dis-
tance from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them; so that it
was impossible for us to come at them in the boat. Those that cauuc on
shore kept close together, marching towards the top of the little hill under
which my habitation lay, and we could see them plainly, though they could
not perceive us. We should have been very glad it they would have come
nearer to us, so that we might have fired at them. or that they would have
gone farther off, that we might come abroad. But when they were come
to the brow ol the hill where they could sce a great way into the valleys
and woods, which lay towards the northeast part, and where the island lay
lowest, they shouted and halloocd till they were weary, and not caring, it
seems, to venture far from the shore, nor far from one another, they sat
down together, under a tree, to consider of it. Had they thought fit to
have gone to sleep there, as the other party of them had done, they hao'
done the job for us; but they were too full of apprehensions of danger to
venture to go to sleep, though they could not tell what the danger was they
had to fear.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this consultation of
theirs, viz.. that perhaps they would all fire a volley again, to endeavor to
make their fellows hear. and that we should all sally upon them just at the
iuncture when their pieces were all discharged, and they would Certainly
yield, and we should have them without bloodshed. I liked this proposal,
provided it. was done while we were near enough to come up to them before
they could load their pieces again. But this event did not; happen, and we
lay still a long time, very irresolute what course to take. At length, I told
them there would be nothing done, in my opinion, till night, and then if
they did not return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get between
them and the shore, and so might use some stratagem with them in the boat
to get them on shore. We waited a great while, though very impatient for
their removing, and were very uneasy, when, after long consultation, we
saw them all start up, and march down towards the sea; it seems they had
such dreadful apprehensions oI the danger of the place, that they resolved
to go on board the ship again, give their companions over for lost, and so
go on with their intended voyage with the Ship.

As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore, I imagined it to be
as it 'tally was, that they had given over their search, and were for going
back again; and the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was ready
to sink at the apprehensions of it; but I presently thought of a stratagem
to fetch them back again, and which answered my end to a tittle. I ordered
Friday and the captain's mate to go over the little creek westward, towards
the place where the 5; ages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and
so soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about half a mile distance,
I bade them halloo out, as loud as thcy could, and wait till. they found the
seamen heard them; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen answer
them. they should return it again; and, than keeping out of sight, take a
round, always answering when the others halloocd, to (lrttw them as far into
the island, and among the woods, as possible, and then wheel about again
to me by such ways as l directed.

They were just going into the boar when Friday and the mate hallooed;
and they presently heard them, and, answering, ran along the shore west.-
ward, towards the voice they heard, when they were presently stopped by
the creek, where, the water being up, they could not get over, and called
for the boat to come up and set them over; as, indeed, l expected. When
they had set themselves over,I observed that the. boat being gone up a
good way into the creek, and, as it were, in a harbor within the land, they
took one of the three men out of her, to go along with them, and left only
two in the boat, having fastened her to the stump of a little tree on the
shore. This was what I wished for; and immediately leaving Friday and
the captain's mate to their business, I took the rest with me, and crossing
the creel: out oi their sight. we surprised the two men before they were
aware, one of them lying on the shore, and the other being in the boat.
The fellow on shore was between sleeping and waking, and going to start
up; the captain, who was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him
down; and then called out to him in the boat to yield, orhn was a dead
man. There ncedcd very few arguments to persuade a single man to yield,
when he saw five men upon him, and his comrade knocked down; besides,
this was. it seems, one oI the three who were not so hearty in the'mutinyasA SUCCESSFUL STRATACEM. 219

the rest of the crew, and, therefore. was easily persuaded not only to yield.
but afterwards to join very sincerely with us. In the meantime. Friday and
the captain's mate so well managed their business with the rest that they
drew them, by hallooing and answering. from one hill to another, and from
one. wood to another, till they not only heartily tired them, but left them
where they could not reach back to the boat before it was dark; and, indeed,
they were heartily tired themselves also by the time they came back to us,

"'8 had nothing new to do but to watch for them in the dark, and to fall
upon them, so as to make sure work with them. It was several hours after
Friday came back to me hefnre they came hack to their boat; and we could
hear the forCIIIOSt of them. long before they came quite up. calling to those
behind to come along; and could also hear them answer. and complain how
lame and tired they were. and not able. to L'UIIJC any faster; which was very
welcome news tr. us. At length they came up to the boat; but it was impos-
sible to express their confusion when they found their boat fast aground in
the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their two men gone. "'e could hear
them call to one another in the most lamentable mam telling one another
they were got into an enchanted island; that eithc t: ~re were inhabitants
in it, and they should all be murdered. or else there were devils and spirits
in it. and they should all be carried away and devoured. They hallooed
again, and called their two comrades by their names a great many times;
but no answer. After some time. we couid see them, by the little ligh
there was, running about, wringing their hands like men in despair. and
sometimes they would go and sit down in the boat to rest themselves; then
come ashore again, and walk about again. and so the same thing over again.
My men would fain have had me give tern leave to fall upon them at once
in the dark; but I was willing to take them at some advantage, so to spare
them. and kill as few of them as I could; anrl especially 1 was unwilling to
hazard the killing of any of our men. lmouiug the others were very well
armed. I resolved to wait. to see if they did not separate; and therefore,
to make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and ordered Friday and
the captain to creep upon their hands and feet. as close to the ground as
they could, that they might not be discovered, and get as near them as they
could possibly before they offered to fire.

They had not been long in that posture, when the boatswain. who was
the principal ringleader of the mutiny and had now shown himself the most
dejected and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards them, with
two more of the crew; the captain was so eager at having the principal
rogue so much in his power, that he could hardly have patience to let him
come so near as to be sure of him, for they only heard his tongue before;
but when they came nearer, the captaiuand Friday. starting up on their feet
let fly at them. The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next man was
shot in the body, and fell just by him, though he did not (lie till an hour or
two after; and the third ran for it. At the noise of the fire, l immediately
advanced with my whole army. which was now eight men: viz., myself.
generalissimo; Friday. my licutcnanbgcneral; the captain and his two men,
and the three prisoners of war whom we had trusted with arms. We came
upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that they could not see our number; and
I made the man they had left in the boat, and who was now one of us, call
them by name, to try if I could bring them to a parley, and so perhaps
reduce them to terms; which fell out just as we desired; for. indeed,
it was easy to think, as their condition then was. they would be very willing
to capitulatc. So he calls out as loud as he could to one of them. " Tom
Smithl Tom Smith! " Tom Smith answered immediately, "Who's that?
Robinson ? " for it seems he knew the voice. The other answered, "Ay, ay;
for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw down your arms and yield, or you are all
dead men this moment." " Who must we yield to? Where are they? " says
Smith again. " Here they are," says he; " here's our captain and fifty men
with him, have been hunting you these two hours; the boalswain is killed,
\Vill Frye is wounded, and I am a prisoner, and if you do not yield,you are
all lost." " Will they give us quarter then?" says Tom Smith, " and we will
yield." " I'll go and ask, if you promise to yield," said Robinson. So he
asked the captain, and the captain himself then calls out, "You, Smith, you
know my voice; if you lay down you arms immediately and submit, you
shall have your lives, all but Will Atkins."

Upon this, Will Atkins cried out, " For God's sake, captain. give me
quarter; what have I done? They have been all as bad as 1;" which, by
the way, was not true, for, it seems, this Will Atkins was the first man that
laid hold of the captain when they first mutinied and used him barbarously,
in tying his hands and giving him injurious language. However. the cap-
tain told him he must lay down his arms at discretion and trust to the gov--
ernor's mercy-- by which he meant me, for they all called me governor. In
a word, they all laid down their arms and begged their lives; and I sent the
man that had parleyed with them and two more, who bound them all; and
then my great army of fifty men, which, with those three, were in all but
eight, came up and seized upon them and upon their boat; only that I kept
myself and one more out of sight, for reasons of state.

Our next work was to repair the boat and think of seizing the ship, and
as for the captain, now he had leisure to parley with them, he expostulated
with them upon the villainy of their practices with him, and upon the
further wickedness of their design, and how certainly it must bring them to
misery and distress in the end and perhaps to the gallows. They all
appeared very pcnitent. and begged iiard for their lives. As for that. he
told them they were none of his prisoners, but the commander's of the
island; that theythought they had set him on shorein a barren, uninhabited
island. but it had pleased God so to direct them, that it was inhabited, and
that the governor was an Englishman; that he might hang them all there,
if he pleased, but as he had given them all quarter he supposed he would"SHUT THE NEW CAPTAIN THROUGH THIS mm)" (p 224).
21
send them to England, to be dealt with there as justice required, except
Atkins, whom he was commanded by the governor to advise to prepare for
death, for that he would be hanged in the morning.

Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had its desired effect;
Atkins fell upon his knees to beg the captain to interccde with the governor
for his life, and all the rest begged of him, for God's sake, that they might
not be sent to England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance was come, and
that it would be a most easy thing to bring these fellows in to be hearty in
getting possession) of the ship; sol retired in the dark from them, that they
might not see what kind of a governor they had, and called the captain to
me; when I called, as at a good distance, one of the men was ordered to
speak again, and say to the captain, "Captain, the commander calls for
you;" and presently the captain replied, "Tell his Excellency, I am just
coming." This more perfectly amazed them, and they all believed that the
commander was just by with his fifty men. Upon the captain coming to
me, I told him my project for seizing the ship, which he liked wonderfully
well, and resolved to put it into execution next morning. But, in order to
execute it with more art, and to be secure of success, I told him we
must divide the prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins, and two
more of the worst of them. and send them pinioned to the cave where the
others lay. This was committed to Friday and the two men who came on
shore with the captain. They conveyed them to the caveas to a prison; and
it was, indeed, a dismal place, eSpecially to men in their condition. The
others I ordered to my bower, as I called it, of which I have given a full
description; and as it was fenced in,and they pinioned, the place was secure
enough considering they were upon their behavior.

to these in the morning,r I sent the captain, who was to enter into a par-
ley with them; in a word,to try them, and tell me whether hethought they
might be trusted or not to go on hoard and surprise the ship. He talked
to them of the injury done him, of the condition they were brought to, and
that though the governor had given them quarter for their lives as to the
present action, yet that if they were sent to England. they would be all
hanged in chains; but that if they would join in such an attempt as to
recover the ship, he would have the governor's engagement for their
pardon. I

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal would be accepted by
men in their position; they fell down on their knees to the captain, and
promised, with the deepest imprccations, that they would be faithful to him
to the last drop, and that they should owe their lives to him, and Would go
with him all over the world; that they would own him for a father to them '
as long as they lived. "Well." says the captain, "I must go and tell the
governor what'you say, and see what I can do to bring him to consent to
it." So he brought me an account of the temper he found them in, and thatTHE ATTACK ON '1'le SHIP. 223

e verily believed they would be faithful. However, that we might be
very seems, I told him that he should go back again and choose out five of
them, and tell them that they might see that he did not want men, that he
would take out those five to be his ass' tants, and that the governor would
keep the other two and the three that were sent prisoners to the castle (my
cave), as hostages for the fidelity of those five; and that if they proved
unfaitliiulin the execution,thc five hostages should be hanged in chains
alive on the shore. This looked severe, and convinced them that the gov-
ernor was in earnest; however, they had no way left them but to accept it;
and it was now the business of the prisoners, as much'as of the captain, to
persuade the other five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition; first, the captain,
his mate, and pas get; sccond,the:1 the two prisoners of the first. gang,
to whom, having their character from the captain, I had given their liberty
and trusted them with arms; third, the othertwo whom 1 had kept till now in
my bower pinioned, but, upon the captain's motion, had now released;
fourth, these five released at last; so that they were twelve in all, besides
five we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.

Iasked the captain if he was willing to venture with these hands on
board the ship; for as for me and my man l-'riday, I did not think it.was
proper for us to stir, having seven then left behind; and it was employment
enough for us to keep them asunder,and supply them with victuals. As to the
five in the cave. I resolved to keep them fast. but Friday went in twice a
day to them, to supply them with necessaries; and I made the other two
carry provisions to a certain distaa ', where Friday was to take it,

"'hen I showed myself to the two-hostages, if. was with the captain, who
told them l was the person the governor had ordered to look after then):
and that it was the governor's pleasure that they should not stir anywhere
but by my direction; that if they did, they would be fetched into the castle,
and be laid in irons; so that as we never suiiered them to see me as gover-
nor, I now appeared as another person. and spoke of the governor, the
garrison, the castle, and the like, upon all occasions.

I The captain now had no difficulty before him, but to furnish his two
i-oats, stop the breach of one. and man them. lie made his passenger cap-
tain of one, with four other men; and himself, his mate, and live more, went
in the other; and they contrived their business very well, for they came up
to the ship about midnight As soon as they came within call of the ship.
he made Robinson hail them, and tell them they had brought off the. men
and the boat, but that it was a long; time before they had found them, and
the like; holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's side; when the
captain and the mate entering first with their arms, immediately knocked
down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end of their mnskets.
being very faithfully seconded by their men; they secured all the rest that
were upon the main and quarter-decks, and began to fasten the hatches, to
keep them down that were below; when the other boat and their men, enter-
ing at the tore-chains, secured the forecastle of the ship, and the scuttle
which went down into the cook-room, making three men they found there
prisoners. When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the captain ordered
the mate, with three men, to break into the round--house. where the new
rebel captain lay, who, having taken the alarm, had got up, and with two
men and a boy had got fire-arms in their hands; and when the mate, with
a crow, split open the door, the new captain and his men fired boldly among
them, and wounded the mate with a musket-ball, which broke his arm, and
wounded two more of the men, but killed nobody. The mate, calling for
help, rushed, however, into the round-house, wounded as he was, and, with
his pistol, shot the new captain through the head, the bullet entering at his
mouth, coming out again behind one of his cars, so that he never spoke a
word more; upon which the rest yielded, and the ship was taken effectually,
without any more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain ordered seven guns to
be fired, which was the signal agreed upon with me to give me notice of his
success, which, you may be sure, I was very glad to hear, having sat watching
upon the shore [or it till near two o'clock in the morning. Having thus
heard the signal plainly, I laid me down, and it having been a day of great
fatigue to me, I slept very sound till I was something surprised with the
noise of a gun, and presently starting up, I heard a man calling me by the
name of "Governor! Governor!" and presently I knew the captain's voice.
When climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and, pointing to the
ship, he embraced me in his arms. "My 'dear friend and deliverer," says he,
"there's your ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that belongs
to her." I cast my eyes to the ship and there she rode within little more ,
than half a mile of the shore, for they had weighed her anchor as soon as
they were masters of her, and, the weather being fair, had brought her to an
anchorjust against the mouth of the little creek, and, the tide being up, the
captain had brought the pinnace in near the place where I first landed my
rafts, so landed just at my door. I was at first ready to sink down with the
surprise, for I saw my deliverance indeed, visibly put into my hands, all
things easy, and a large ship just ready to carry me away whither I pleased
to go. At first, for some time, I was not able to answer one word, but as he

'had taken me in his arms I held fast by him, or I should have fallen to the
ground. He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulled a bottle out of
his pocket, and gave me a dram oI cordial, which he had brought on pur-
pose for me. After I had drunk it, I sat down upon the ground, and though
it brought me to myself. yet it was a good while before I could speak aword
to him. All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstacy as I, only
not under any surprise as I was, and he said a thousand kind and tender
things to me to compose and bring me to myself; but such was the flood of
joy in my breast that it put all my spirits into confusion; at last it broke intoTHE CAPTAIN'S GRATITUDE. 235

tears, and, in a little while after. I'recovered my speech. Then I took my
turn. and embraced him as my deliverer, and we rejoiced together. I told
him I looked upon him as a man sent from heaven to deliver me. and that
the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders; that such thingsas
these were the testimonies we had of a secret hand of Providence governing
the world. and an evidence that the eye of an Infinite Power could search
into the rcmotest corner of the world, and send help to the miserable when-
ever He pleased. I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to
Heaven. and what heart could forbear to bless Him. who had not only in
a miraculous manner provided for one in such a wilderness, and in such a
desolate condition. but from whom every deliverance must always be
acknowledged to proceed.

When we had talked awhile, the captain told me he had brought me
some little refreshments, such as the ship afforded, and such as the wretches
that had been so long his masters had not plundered him of. Upon this, he
called aloud to the boat, and bade his men bring the things ashore that
were for the governor; and, indeed. it was a present as if I had been one
that was not to be carried away along with them. but as if I had been to
dwell upon the island still, and they were to go without me. First, he had
brought me a case of bottles full of excellent cordial waters, six large bot-
tles of Madeira wine (the bottles held two quarts each) two pounds of
excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the ship's beef. and six pieces
of pork, with a bag of peas. and about a hundred weight of biscuit; he also
brought me a box of sugar, a box of flour, a bag full of lemons. and two
bottles of lime-juice, and abundance of other things. But besides these, and
what was a thousand times more useful. he brought me sift new clean shirts.
six very good neckcloths. two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes. a hat. and
one pair of stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of his own. which had
been worn but very little. In a word. he clothed me from head to foot. It
was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one may imagine. to one in
my circumstances; but never was anything in the world of that kind so
unpleasant, awkward. and uneasy as it was to me to wear such clothes at
their first putting on.

After these ceremonies were past. and after all his good things were
brought into my little apartment. we began to consult what was to be done
with the prisoners we had. [or it was worth considering whether we might
venture to take them away with us or no. especially two of them, whom he
knew to be incorrigible and refractory to the last degree; and the captain
said he knew they were such rogues that there was no obliging them. and if
he did carry them away. it must be in irons. as malcfactors. to be delivered
over to justice at the first English colony he could come at, and I found the
captain himself was very anxious about it. Upon this, I told him that. if he
desired it. I would undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it
their own request that he should leave them upon the island. "I should br

I5
very glad of that," says the captain, " with all my heart." " Well," says I,
"I will send for them up, and talk with them for you." So I caused Friday '
and the two hostages, for they were now discharged, their comrades having
performed their promise; I say, I caused them to go to the cave, and bring
up the five men, pinioned as they were, to the bower. and keep them there
till I came. After some time, I came thither, dressed in my new habit, and
now I was called governor again. Being all met, and the captain with me,
I caused the men to be brought before me, and I told them I had got a full
account of their villainous behavior to the captain, and how they had run
away with the ship, and \verc preparing to commit further robberies. but
that Providence had ensnared them in their own ways. and that they were
fallen into the pit which they had dug [or others. I let them know that by
my direction the ship had been seized, that she lay now in the road, and
they might see by and by that their new captain had received the reward of
his villainy, for that they might see him hanging at the yard arm; that, as
to them, I wanted to know what they had to say why I should not execute
them as pirates, taken in the fact, as by my commission they could not
doubt but I had authority to do. _

One of them answered in the name of the rest, that they had nothing to
say but this, that when they were taken, the captain promised them their
lives, and they humbly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew not
what mercy to show them; for as for myself I had resolved to quit the
island with all my men, and had taken passage with the captain to go to
England; and as for the captain, he could not carry them to England other
than as prisoners in irons, to be tried for mutiny, and running away with
the ship; the consequence of which, they must needs know, would be the
gallows; so that I could not tell what was the best {or them, unless they
had a mind to take their fate in the island. If they desired that, I did not
care; as I had liberty to leave it, I had some inclination to give them their
lives, it they thought they could shift on shore. They seemed very thank-
ful for it, and' said they would much rather venture to stay there than be
carried to England to be hanged. So I left it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty of it. as if he
durst not leave them there. Upon this I seemed a little angry with the
captain, and told him that they were my prisoners, not his; and, that seeing
I had offered them so much favor, I would be as good as my word; and
that it he did not think fit to consent to it. I would set them at liberty, as I
found them; and if he did not like it, he might take them again if he could
catch them. Upon this they appeared very thankful,and I accordingly set
them at liberty, and bade them retire into the woods, to the place whence
they came, and I would leave them some fire-arms, some ammunition, and
some directions how they should live very well, if they thought fit. Upon
this I prepared to go on board the ship. but told the captain I would stay
that night to prepare my things, and desired him to go on board in theTHE FATE 0} THE NEW CREW. 4 227

meantime. and keep all right in the ship, and send the boat on shore next
day [or me; ordering him. in the meantime, to cause the new captain, who
was killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men might see him.
When the captain was gone. I sent for
the men up to me in my apartment and
entered seriously into discourse with them
of their circumstances. I told them I
thought they had made a right choice;
but if the captain had carried them away,
they would certainly be hanged. lshowcd

 
 
 
 
  

" I SHOW)!" THEM THE NB\\' CAPTAIN HANGING AT THE YARD-AR)! OF THE SHIP.N

them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm oi the ship. and told them
they had nothing less to expect.

When they had all declared their willingness to stay. I told them I
would let them into the story of my living there,and put them into the way
of making it easy to them. Accordingly, I gave them the whole history of
the place, and of my coming to it; showed them my fortifications, the way
1 made my bread, planted my com. cured my grapes; and. in a word. all
that was necessary to make them easy, I told them the story also or the
sixteen Spaniards, that were to' be expected; for whom I left a letter, and
made them promise to treat them in common with themselves.

I left them my fire-arms. viz., five muskets. three fowlingpieccs. and three
swords. I had above a barrel and a half of powder left; for after the first
year or two I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a description
of the way I managed the goats, and directions to milk and fatten them, and
to make both butter and cheese. In a word, I gave them every part of my
story; and told them I should prevail with the captain to leave them two
barrels of gunpowder more, and some garden-seeds, which I told them I
would have been very glad of. Also, I gave them the bag of peas which
the captain had brought me to eat. and bade them be sure to sow and
increase them.

Having done all this, I left the next day, and went on board the ship.
We prepared immediately to sail, but (lid not weigh that night. The next
morning early. two of the five men came swimming to the ship's side. and
made the most lamentable complaint of the other three. begged to be taken
into the ship for God's sake. for they should be murdered, and begged the
captain to take them on board, though he hanged them immediately. Upon
this. the captain pretended to have no power without me; but after some
difficulty, and after theirsolemn promises ofamendment, they were taken on
board, and were, some time after, soundly whipped and pickled; after which
they proved very honest and quiet fellows. '

Some time after this. I went with the boat on shore. the tide being up.
with the things promised to the men; to which the captain. at my interces-
sion, caused their chests and clothes to be added, which they took, and
were very thankful for. I also encouraged them. by telling them, that if it
lay in my way to send any vessel to take them in. I would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board, for relics. the great
goabskin cap I had made, my umbrella, and one of my parrots; also I for-
got not to take the money I formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so
long useless that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and could hardly pass
for silver till it had been a little rubde and handled, and also the money I
found in the wreck of the Spanish ship. And thus Ilcft the island,the 19th
of December, as I found by the ship's account. in the year 1686. after I had
been upon it eight>>and-twenty years, two months, and nineteen days; being
delivered from the second captivity the same day of the month that I first
made my escape in the Barco longo from among the Moors of Sallce. In
this vessel, aftera long voyage, I arrived in England the 11th of June. in
the year I687, having been thirty-five years absent.

When I came to England, I was a. perfect stranger to all the world, as it
I had never been known there. My benefactor and faithful steward, whom
I had left my money in trust with. was alive, but had had great misfortunes
in the world; was become a widow the second time, and very low in theIN ENGLAND AGAIN. 229

world. 1 made her easy as to what she owed rnc. assuring her I would give
her no trouble; but, on the contrary, in gratitude for her former care and
faithfulness to me, I relieved her as my little stock would afford; which at
that time would, indeed, allow me to do but little for her; but I assured her
1 would never forget her former kindness to me: nor did I forget her when
I had sufficient to help her, as shall be observed in its place. I went down
afterwards into Yorkshire; but my father was dead, and my mother and all
the family extinct. except that I found two sisters, and two of the children
of one of my brothers; and as I had been long ago given over for dead.
there had been no provision made for me; so that in a word, I found noth-
ing to relieve or assist me; and that little money I had would not do much
for me as to settling in the world.

I met with one piece of gratitude, indeed, which I did not expect, and
this was. that the master of the ship, whom I had so happily delivered, and
by the same mcans saved the ship and cargo, having given a very handsome
account to the owners, of the manner how I had saved the lives of the men,
and the ship, they invited me to meet them and some other merchants con-
cerned. and altogether made me a very handsome compliment upon the
subject and a present of almost PS200 sterling.

But after making several reflections upon the circumstances of my life,
and how little way this would go towards settling me in the world, I resolved
to go to Lisbon and see if I might not come by some information of the
state of my plantation in the Brazils and of what was become of my part~
ner, who, 1 had reason to suppose, had some years now given me over for
dead. \Nith this View I took shipping for Lisbon. where I arrived in April
following, my man Friday accompanying,r me very honestly in all these ram-
blings and proving a most faithl'ul servant upon all occasions. When I
came to Lisbon I found out. by inquiry, and to my particular satisfaction.
my old friend. the captain of the ship, who first took me up at sea off the
shore of Africa. He was now grown old and had left the sea. having put his
son, who was far from a young man, into his ship, and who still used the
Brazil trade. The old man did not know me. and indeed, I hardly knew
him. But I soon brought myself to his remembrance, when I told him
who I was.

After some passionate expressions of the old acquaintance between us. I
inquired. you may be sure, after my plantation and my partner. The old
man told me he had not been in the Brazils for about nine years, but that he
could assure mc that when he came away my partner was living; but the
trustees, whom I had joined with him to take cognizance of my part, were
both dead: that. however. he believed that I would have a very good account
of the improvement of the plantation; for that, upon the general belief of
my being cast away and drowned, my trustees had given in the account of
the produce of my part of the plantation to the procurator-fiscal, who had
appropriated it, in case I never came to claim it, one--third to the king. and
two thirds to the monastery of St. Augustine, to be expended for the benefit
of the poor, and for the conversion of the Indians to the Catholic faith; but
that if I appeared, or any one for me, to claim the inheritance, it would be
restorcd, only that the improvement, or annual production, being distributed
to charitable uses, could not be restored; but he assured me that the steward
of the king's revenue from lands, and the providore, or steward of the mon-
astery, had taken great care all along that the incumbent, that is to say, my
partner, gave every year a faithful account of the produce, of which they
had received duly my moiety. I asked him if he knew to what height of
improvement he had brought the plantation and whether he thought it
might be worth looking after, or whether, on my going thither, I should
meet with any obstruction to my possessing my just right in the moiety.
He told me he could not tell exactly to what degree the plantation was
improved, but this he knew, that my partner was grown exceeding rich
upon the enjoying but one-half of it. and that to the best of his remem'
hrance, he had heard that the king's third of my part, which was. it_ seems,
granted away to some other monastery or religious house, amounted to
above two hundred moidores a year; that as to my being restored to a quiet
possession of it, there was no question to be made of that, my partner being
alive to witness my title, and my name being also enrolled in the register of
the country; also he told me that the survivors of my two trustees were very
fair, honest people, and very wealthy; and he believed I would not only
have their assistance .for putting me in possession, but would find a very
considerable sum of money in their hands for my account,_bcingthe produce
of the {arm while their father held the trust, and before it was given up, as
above, which, as he remembered, was [or about twelve years.

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this account, and
inquired of the old captain how it came to pass that the trustees should thus
dispose of my effects, when he knew that I had made my will, and had made
him, the Portuguese captain, my universal heir, etc.

He told me that was true; but that as there was no proof of my being
dead he could not act as executor, until some certain account should come
of my death; and that besides, he was not willing to intermcddle with a
thing so remote; that it was true he had registered my will. and put in his
claim; and could he have given any account of my being dead or alive, he
would have acted by procuration, and taken possession of the ingenio (so
they call the sugar-house), and have given his son, who was now at the
Brazils, orders to do it. "But," says the old man, "I have one piece of
news to tell you, which perhaps may not be so acceptable to you-as the rest;
and that is, believing you were lost, and all the world believing so also,your
partner and trustees did offer to account with me, in your name, for the
first six or eight years' profits, which 1 received. There being at that time
great disbursements for increasing the works. building an ingenio, and buy-
ing slaves, it did not amount to near so much as afterwards it produced ;THE OLD CAPTAIN'S ACCOUNTS. 231

however." says the old man, " I shall give you a true account of what Ihavc
received in all, and how I have disposed 6: it.'

After a few days' further conference with this ancicnl. friend, he brought
me an account of the first six years' income of my plantation. signed by my
partner and the merchant-trustees, being always delivered in goods, vim.
tobacco in roll. and sugar in chests, besides rum, molasses, cm, which is
the consequence of a sugar-work; and I found by this account that every

 

"uron THIS HE runs our AN (1L1) mucu."

year the income considerably increased; but. as above. the disbursements
being iargc. the sum at first was small: l10\VC\'cl',ll)e old man let me see
that he was debtor to me four hundred and seventy moidores of gold.
besides sixty chests of sugar. and fifteen double rolls oitobacco. "hiuh were
lost in his ship; he having been shipwrecked coming home to Lisbon, about
eleven years after my leaving the place. The good man (hcn began to con)-
plain of his misfortunes, and how he had been obliged to make use of my
money to recover his losses, and buy him a share in a new ship. " However,
my old friend," says he, " you shall not want a supply in your necessity;
and as soon as my sonreturns, you shall be fully satisfied." Upon this he
pulls out an old pouch, and gives me one hundred and sixty Portugal moi-
dores in gold; and giving me the writings of his title to the ship. which his
son was gone to the Brazils in, of which he was quartervpart owner, and his
son another, he puts them both in my hands for security of the rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness of the poor man to
be able to bear this; and remembering what he had done for me, how he
had taken me up at sea, and how generously he had used me on all occasions.
and particularly how sincere a friend he was now to me, I could hardly
refrain weeping at what he had said to me; therefore, first. I asked him if
his circumstances admitted him to spare so much money at that time, and
if it would not straiten him? He told me he could not say but it might
straiten him a little; but, however, it was my money, and I might want it
more than he.

Everything the good man said was full of affection, and I could hardly
refrain from tears while he spoke; in short, I took one hundred of the
moidores. and called for a pen and ink to give him a receipt for them; then
I returned him the rcst,and told him if ever I had possession of the planta-
tion I would return the other to him also (as, indeed, I afterwards did), and
that as to the bill of sale of his part in his son' 5 ship, I would not take it by
any means; but that if I wanted the money, I found he was honest enough
to pay me, and if I did not, but came to receive what he gave me reason to
expect, I would never have a penny more from him

When this was past. the old man began to ask me if he should put me
into a method to make my claim to my plantation. I told him I thought to
go over to it myself. He said I might do so if I pleased, but that, if I did
not, there were ways enough to secure my right, and immediately to appro-
priate the profits to myuse; and as there were ships in the river of Lisbon
just ready to go away to Brazil, he made me enter my name in a public
register. with his affidavit, affirming, upon oath, that I was alive, and that I
was the same person who took up the land for the planting the said planta-
tion at first. This being regularly attested by a notary, and a procuration
affixed, he directed me to send it, with a letter of his writing, to a merchant
of his acquaintance at the place, and then proposed my slaying with him till
an account came of the return.

Never was anything more honorable than the proceedings upon this pro-
curation, for in less than seven months I received a large packet from the
survivors of my trustees. the merchants, for whose account I went to sea. in
which were the following particular letters and papers inclosed.

First, there was the account-current of the produce of my farm or plan-
tation, from the year when their father had balanced with my old Portugal
captain, being for six years; the balance appeared to be one thousand one
hundred and seventy'four moidorcs in my favor.

Secondly. there was the account of four years more, while they kept the
effects in their hands, before the government claimed the administration as
.keing the effects of a person not to be found. which thcv called civil death.WEALTH. 233

and the balance of this. the value of the plantation increasing, amounted to
nineteen thousand four hundred and forty-six crusadoes. being about three
thousand two hundred and forty moidores.

Thirdiy. there was the Prior of the Augustines' account, who had received
the profits for above fourteen years, but not being able to account for what
was disposed of by the hospital. very honestly declared he had eight hun-
dred and seventy-two moidores not distributed, which he acknowledged to
my account; as to the king's part. that refunded nothing.

There was also a letter of my partner's. congratulating me very affection-
ately upon my being alive. giving me an account how the estate was
improved, and what it produced a year, with the particulars of the number
of squares or acres that it contained, how planted. how many slaves there
were upon it, and making two-and-twenty crosses (or blessings, told me he
had said so many Ave Jlinn'zlx to thank the Blessed Virgin that l was alive,
inviting me very passionately to come over and take possession of my own,
and, in the meantime, to give him orders to whom he should deliver my
effects, if I did not come myself; concluding with a hearty tender of his
friendship,and that of his family, and sent me as a present, seven fine leop-
ards' skins. which he had. it seems, received from Africa, by some other
ship that he had sent thither, and which, it seems, had made a better voyage
than 1. He sent me also live chests of excellent sweetmeals. and a hundred
pieces of gold uncoined. not quite so large as moidores. By the same fleet,
my two merchant-trustees shipped me one thousand two hundred chests of
sugar, eight hundred rolls of tobacco, and the rest of the whole account in
gold.

I might well say now. indeed. that the latter end of job was better
than the beginning. It is impossible to express the fintterings of my
very heart when I looked over these letters, and especially when I found
all my wealth about me; for as the Brazil ships come all in fleets, the
same ships which brought my letters brought my goods; and the effects
were safe in the river before the letters came to my hand. In a. word.
l turned pale. and grew sick; and, had not the old man run and [etched
me a cordial, I believe the sudden surprise of joy had overset nature,
and I had died upon the spot; nay. after that. 1 continued very ill, and
was so some hours, till a physician being sent for. and something of the
real cause of my illness being known, he ordered me to let blood; after
which I had relief, and grew well: but I verily believe, if I had not been
cased by the vent given in-that manner' to the spirits. I should have died.

I was now master, all on a sudden. of above fifty thousand pounds
,terling in money, and had an estate. as I might well call it, in the Brazils,
of above a thousand pounds a year. as sure as an estate of lands in England:
and, in a word. I was in a condition which I scarce knew how to understand.
91' how to compose myself for the enjoyment of. The first thing I did was
to recompense my original benefactor. my good old captain, who had been
first charitable to me in my distress, kind to me in the beginning, and
honest to me at the end. I showed him all that was sent to me; I told
him that, next to the providence of Heaven, which disposes all things,
it was owing to him; and that it now lay on me to reward him, which I
would do a hundred-fold; so I first returned to him the hundred moidores
Iliad received of him; then I sent fora notary,'and caused him to draw
up a general release or discharge from the four hundred and seventy
moidorcs, which he had acknowledged he owed me, in the [ullcst and
firmest manner possible. After which. I caused a procuration to be drawn,
empowering him to be the receiver of the annual profits of my plantation;
and appointing my partner to account him, and make the returns, by the
usual fleets, to him in my name; and by a clause in the end, made a grant
of one hundred moidorcs a year to him during his life, out of the effects,
and fifty moidores a year to his son alter him, for his life; and thus I
requited my old man.

I had now to consider which way to steer my course next, and what to
do with the estate that Providence had thus put- into myhands; and indeed,
I had more care upon my head now than I had in my silent state of life
in the island, where I wanted nothing but what I had, and had nothing but
what I wanted; whereas I had now a great charge upon me, and my business
was how to secure it. I had not a cave now to hide my money in, or a place
where it might lie without lock or key, till it grew moldy and tarnished
before anybody would meddle with it; on the contrary, I knew not where
to put it, or whom to trust with it. My old patron, the captain. indeed,
was honest, and that was the only refuge I had. In the next place, my
interest in the Brazils seemed to summon mc thither; but now I could not
tell how to think of going thither till I had settled my affairs, and left my
effects in some safe hands behind me. At first I thought of my old friend
the widow, who I knew was honest, and would be just to me; but then she
was in years, and but poor. and, for aught I knew. might be in debt;
so that, in a word, I had no way but to go back to England myself,
and take my effects with me.

It was some months, however. before I resolved upon this, and therefore,
as I had rewarded the old captain fully, and to his satisfaction, who had
been my former benefactor, so I began to think of my poor widow, whose
- husband had been my first benefactor, and she. while it was in her power,
my faithful steward and instructor. So the first thingI did, I got a
merchant in Lisbon to write to his correspondent in London, not only to
pay a bill, but to go find her out, and carry her in money, ahundrcd pounds
from me.and to talk with her, and comfort her in her poverty. by telling
her she should, if I lived, have a further supply; at the same time I sent my
two sisters in the country a hundred pounds each, they being. though not in
want, yet not in very good circumstances, one having been married and left
a widow, and the other having a husband not so kind to her as he should bePREPARATIONS FOR DEPARTURE. 235

But among all my relations or acquaintances I could not yet pitch upon
one to whom I duxst commit the gross of my stock, that I might go away
to the Brazils, and leave things safe behind me, and this greatly per-
plexed me.

I had once a mind to have gone to the Brazils, and have settled myself
there. for I was. as it were, naturalized to the place; but I had some little
scruple in my mind about religion, which insensibly drew me back, of which.

 

"TWO on THE wowns new uyox me acme" (@239).

I shall say more presently. However. it was not religion that kept me from
going there [or the present, and as I had made no scruplc of being openly of
the religion of thc country all the while I was among them. so neither did
I yet. only that. now and then. having of late thought more of it than
formerly. when I began to think of living and dying among them. I began
to regret my having professed myself a Papist, and thought it might not be
the best religion to die with.

But. as I have said, this was not the main thing that kept me from going
to the Brazils, but that really I did not know with whom to leave my efiects
behind me. so I resolved at last to go to England with them. where. if I
arrived, I c'oncluded I should make some acquaintance, or find some rela-
tions that would be faithful to me, and, accordingly,I prepared to go to
England with all my wealth.

In order to prepare things for my going home, I first (the Brazil fleet
being just going away) resolved to give answers suitable to the just and
faithful account of things I had from thence; and, first. to the Prior of St.
Augustine, I wrote a letter full of thanks for his just dealings and the offer
of the eight hundred and seventy-two moidores which were undisposed of,
which I desired might be given, five hundred to the monastery, and three
hundred and seventy-two to the poor, as the prior should direct; desiring
the good padre's prayers for me, and the like. I wrote nexta letter of
thanks to my two trustees, with all the acknowledgment that so much justice
and honesty called for, as for sending them any present, they were far
above having any occasion of it. Lastly, I wrote to my partner. acknowl-
edging his industry in the improving the plantation, and his integrity in
increasing the stock of the works; giving him instructions for his future
government of my part, according to the powers I had left with my old
patron, to whom I desired him to send whatever became due to me, till he
should hear from me more particularly; assuring him that it was my inten-
tion not only to come to him. but to settle myself there for the remainder
of my life. To this I added a very handsome present of some Italian silks
for his wife and two daughters, for such the captain's son informed me he
had; with two pieces of fine English broadcloth, the best I could get in
Lisbon, five pieces of black baize, and some Flanders lace of a good value.

Having thus settled my affairs. sold my cargo and turned all my effects
into good bills of exchange, my next difficulty was which way to go to Eng-
land. I had been accustomed enough to the sea, and yet I had a strange
aversion to go to England by sea at that time; and though I could give no
reason for it, yet the difi'iculty increased upon me so much that, though I
had once shipped my baggage in order to go, yet I altered my mind, and
that not once, but two or three times.

It is tr e I had been very unfortunate by sea, and that might be one of
the reasons; but let no man slight the strong impulses of his own thoughts
in cases of such moment. Two of the ships which I had signaled out to go
in--l mean more particularly signaled out than any other--having put my
things on board one of them, and in the other having agreed with the captain;
I say two of these ships miscarried. via, one was taken by the Algerines. and
the other was cast away on the Start, near Torbay, and all the people
drowned, except three; so that in either of those vessels I had been made
miserable, in which most, it was hard to say. _

Having been thus harassed in my thoughts. my old pilot. to whom I
communicated everything, pressed me earnestly not to go by sea, but eitherIN SPAIN. 231

to go by land to the Groyne and cross over the Bay of Biscay to Rochelle,
from whence it was but an easy and safe journey by land to Paris and so to
Calais and Dover; or to go up to Madrid and so all the way by land through
France. In a word, I was so prepossessed against my going by sea at all.
except from Calais to Dover, that I resolved to travel all the way by land:
which, as I was not in haste and did not value the charge, was by much the
pleasanter way; and to make it more so, my old captain brought an English
gentleman, the son of a merchant in Lisbon. who was willing to travel with
me; after which we picked up two more English merchants also, and two
young Portuguese gentlemen, the last going to Paris only; so that in all
there were six of us, and live servants, the two merchants and the two Por-
tuguese contenting themselves with one servant between two to save the
charge; and as for me. I got an English sailor to travel with me as a servant.
besides my man Friday, who was too much a stranger to be capable of sup-
plying the place of a servant upon the road.

In this manner I set out from Lisbon, and our company being very well
mounted and armed. we made a little troop, whereof they did me the honor
to call me captain, as well because I was the oldest man, as because I had
two servants, and, indeed, was the origin of the whole journey.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea journals, so I shall trouble
you now with none of my land journals; but some adventures that happened
to us in this tedious and difficult journey I must not omit.

When we came to Madrid. we being all of us strangers to Spain. were
willing to stay some time to see the court of Spain. and what was worth
observing. but, it being the latter part of the summer, we hastened away,
and set out from Madrid about the middle of October, but when we came
to the edge of Navarre, we were alarmed. at several towns on the way, with
an account that so much snow was fallen on the French side of the mount-
ains that several travelers Were obliged to come back to Pampeluna, after
having attempted at an extreme hazard to pass on.

When we came to Pampeluna itself, we found it so indeed; and to me.
that had been always used to a hot climate, and to countries where I could
scarce bear any clothes on, the cold was insufferable; nor, indeed, was it
more painful than it was surprising, to come but ten days before out of Old
Castile, where the weather was not only warm. but very hotI and immedi-
ately to feel a wind from the Pyrenean Mountains so very keen. so severely
cold, as to be intolerable, and to endanger benumbing and perishing of our
fingers and toes. I '

Poor Friday was really frightened when he saw the mountains all covered
with snow, and felt cold weather, which he had never seen or felt before in
his life. To mend the matter, after we came to Pampeluna, it continued
snowing with so much violence, and 50'long, that the people said winter was
come before its time; and the roads, which were difficult before. were now
quite impassable; in a word. the snow lay in some places too thick for us
to travel. and being not hard frozen, as is the case in the northern countries,
there was no going without being in danger of being buried alive every step.
We stayed no less than twenty days at Pampelunarwhen (seeing the winter
coming on, and no likelihood of its being better, for it was the severest win-
ter all over Europe that had been known in many years) I proposed that
we should go away to Fontarabia, and there take shipping for Bordeaux,
which was a very little voyage. But, while 1 was considering this, there
came in four French gentlemen, who. having been stopped on the French
side of the passes, as we were on the Spanish, had found out a guide. who,
traversing the country near the head of Languedoc. had brought them over
the mountains by such ways that they were not much ineommoded with the
snow; for where they met with snow in any quantity, they said it was frozen
hard enough to hear them and their horses. We sent for this guide, who
tr 1d us he would undertake to carry us the same way, with no hazard from
the snow, provided we were armed sufficiently to protect ourselves from
wild beasts, for, he said, in these great snows, it was frequent for some wolves
to Show themselves at the foot of the mountains, being made ravenous for
want of food, the ground being covered with snow. We told him we were
well enough prepared for such creatures as they were, if he would insure us
from a kind of two-legged wolves, which, we are told, we were in most dam
gar from, especially on the French side of the mountains. He satisfied us
that there was no danger of that kind in the way that we were 'to go; so we
readily agreed to follow him, as did also twelve other gentlemen, with their
servants, some French, some Spanish, who, as I said, had attempted to go,
and were obliged to come back again.

Accordingly, we set out from Pampeluna with our guide, on the 15th of
November; and. indeed, I was surprised. when, instead of going forward, he
came directly back with us on the same road that we came from Madrid,

- about twenty miles; when, havingpassed two rivers, and come into the plain
country, we found ourselves in awarm climate again, where the country was
pleasant, and no snow to be seen; but, on a sudden, turning to his left, he
approached the mountains another way, and, though it is true the. hills and
precipices looked dreadful. yet he made so many tours, such meanders, and
led us by such winding ways, that we insensibly passed the height of the
mountains without being much encumbered with the snow; and all on a
sudden, he showed us the pleasant and fruitful provinces of Languedoc and
Gascony. all green and flourishing, though, indeed, they were at a great dis--
tance, and we had some rough way to pass still. '

We were a little uneasy, however, when we found it snowed one whole
day and a night so fast that we could not travel, but he bid us be easy; we
should soon be past it all. We found, indeed, that we began to descend
every day, and to come 'rnorc north than before; and so, depending upon
our guide. we went on.

it was about two hours before night when, our guide being somethingA PERILOUS SITUATION. I ' 239

before us, and not just in sight, out rushed three monstrous wolves, and
after them a hear, from a. hollow way adjoining to a thick wood. Two of
the wolves flew upon the guide, and had he been far before us he would
have been devoured before we could have helped him. One of them
fastened upon his horse, and the other attacked the man with such violence

   
 

that he had not time or pres-
ence of mind enough to draw"
his pistol,but halloocdnnd cried
out to us most lustily, My man
Friday being next me, i bade
him ride up and see what was
the matter. As soon as Friday
came in sight of the man he
hallooed out as loud as the
other, "Oh, master! Oh, mas-
ter!" but, like a bold fellow,
rode directly up to the man,
"won. you com]. xo I'ARTHER?" (p.241). and with his pistol shot the wolf
that attacked him in the head.
It was happy for the poor
man that it was my man Friday, for, having been used to such creatures in
his country, he had no fear upon him, but went close up to him and shot
him; whereas, any other of us would have fired at a farther distance, and
have perhaps either missed the wolf or endangered shooting the man.

' But it was enough to have terrified a bolder man that 1; and, indeed, it
alarmed all our company when. with the noise of Friday's pistol, we heard
on both sides the most dismal howling of wolves, and the noise, redoubicd
by-the echo of the mountains, that it was to us as if there had been a pro-
digious number of them, and perhaps there was not such a few as that we
had no cause of apprehension. However, as Friday had killed this wolf
the other that had fastened upon the horse left him immediately, and fled
without doing him any damage, having happily fastened upon his head.
where the bosses of the bridle had stuck in his teeth. But the man was
most hurt, for the raging creature had bit him twice, once in the arm, and
the other time a little above his knee. He was just. as it were, tumbling
down by the disorder of his horse when Friday came up and shot the wolf.

It is easy to suppose that at the noise of Friday's pistol we all mended
our pace and rode up as fast as the way, which was very difficult, would
give us leave, to see what was the matter. As soon as we came clear of the
trees. which blinded us before, we saw plainly what had been the case, and
how Friday had disengaged the poor guide, though we did not presently
discern what kind of a creature it was he had killed.

But never was a fight managed so hardily, and in such a surprising man-
ner, as that which followed between Friday and the bear, which gave us all,
though at first we were surprised and afraid for him, the greatest diversion
imaginable. As the bear is a heavy, clumsy creature, and does not gallop
as the wolf does, which is swift and light, so he has two particular qualities,
which generally are the rule of his actions; first, as to men, who are not his
proper prey (he does not usually attempt them, except they first attack
him, unless he be excessively hungry, which it is probable might now be
the case, the ground being covered with snow). if you. do not meddle with
him, he will not meddle with you; but then you must take care to be very
civil to him, and give him the road, for he is a very nice gentleman; he will
not go a step out of his way for a prince; nay, if you are really afraid, your
best way is to look another way and keep going on; for sometimes if you
stop, and stand still, and look steadfastly at him, he takes it for an affront;
but if you throw or toss anything at him, and it hits him, though it were
but a bit of stick as big as your finger, he takes it for an affront, and sets all
other business aside to pursue his revenge, and will have satisfaction in I
point of honor--that is his first quality. The next is, that if he be once
affronted, he will never leave you, night or day. till he has had his revenge,
but follow at a good round rate till he overtakes you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide, and when we came up to him he
was helping him off from his horse, for the man was both hurt and frightened.
and indeed the last more than the first, when on a sudden we espied the
bear come out of the wood, and a vast monstrous one it was, the biggest by
far that ever I saw. We were all a little surprised when we saw him, but
when Friday saw him, it was easy to see joy and courage in the fellow's
countenance. " Oh, oh, oh! " says Friday, three times, pointing to him;
" Oh, master! you give me to leave, me shakee to hand with him; me makec
you good laugh."

I was surprised to see the fellow so pleased. " You fool," said I " he
will eat you up." "Eatee me up! eatce me up!" says Friday, twice over
again, " me eatec him up; me makee you good laugh; you all stay here, me
show you good laugh." So down he sits and gets his boots off in a moment,SPORT WITH A BEAR. 241

and puts on a pair of pumps (as we call the flat shoes they wear, and
which he had in his pocket), gives my other servant his horse and with his
gun away ht: flew. swift like the wind.

The bear was walking softly on. and offered to muddle with nobody. till
Friday coming 'pretty near, calls to him as if the bear could understand
him, " Hark ye, hark ye," says Friday, " me speakee with you." We fol'
lowed at a distance. for now being come down to the Gascony side of the
mountains. we were entered a vast. great forest. where the country was
plain and pretty open, though it had many trees in it scattered here and
there. Friday. who had. as we say. the heels of the bear. came up with him
quickly. and took up a great stone and threw it at him and hit him just on
the head. but did him no more harm than if he had thrown it againsta wall;
but it answered Friday's end. (or the rogue was so void of fear that he did
it purely to make the bear follow him. and show us some laugh. as he called
it. As soon as the bear felt the stone and saw him. he turns about and
comes after him, taking very long strides and shuffling on at a strange rate,
so as would have put a horse to a middling galop; away runs Friday, and
takes his course as if he ran towards us for help; so we all resolved to fire
at once upon the bear and deliver my man, though Iwas angry at him
heartily for bringing the bear back upon us, when he was going about his
own business another way. and especially I was angry that he had turned
the bear upon us, and then run away; and I called out. "You dog! " said I,
"is this your making us laugh? Come away. and take your horse, that we
may shoot the creature." He heard me and cried out " No shoot. no shoot;
stand still, you get much laugli;" and as the nimble creature ran two feet
{or the beast's one. he turned on a sudden on one side of us, and seeing a
great oak tree fit for his purpose. he beckoned us to follow. and doubling
his pace he got nimbly up the tree. laying his gun down upon the ground
at. about five or six yards from the bottom of the tree. The bear soon came
to the tree. and we followed at a distance. The first thing he did, he
stopped at. the gun. smelled at it. but let it lie, and up he scrambles into the
tree. climbing like a cat. though so monstrous heavy. I was amazed at the
folly, as I thought it. of my man. and could not for my life see anything to
laugh at yet, till seeing the bear get up the tree. we all rode near to him.

When we came to the tree. there was Friday got out to the small end of
a large limb of the tree. and the bear got about half way to him. As soon
as the bear got out to that part where the limb of the tree was weaker----
" Ha!" says he to us, "now you see me teachee the bear dance." so he hegan
jumping and shaking the hough. at which the bear began to totter, but '
stood still, and began to look bchind him, to see how he should get back;
then. indeed, we did laugh. heartily. But Friday had not done with him by
a great deal; when seeing him stand still, he called out to him again, as if
he had supposed the bear could speak English. " What. you come no
iarther'r'upray you come farther;" so he left jumping and shaking the bough;
 

THEY mum 0N 1:5 mm A cxowuxs Km!) 0? A NOISE" (p. 245).

and the bear, just as if he had understood what he said. did come a little
farther; then he began jumping again. and the bear stopped again. We
thought now was a good time to knock him on the head, and called to
Friday to stand still, and we would shoot the bear; but he cried out ear-
nestly, " Oh, pray! oh, pray! no shoot. me shoot by and thcnz" he would
have said by and by. However. to shorten the story. Friday danced soFRIDAV KILLS THE BEAR. - 243

much, and the bear stood so ticklish, that we had laughing enough indeed,
but still could not imagine what the fellow would do; for first we thought
he depended upon shaking the bear off; and we found the hear was
too cunning for that too; {or he would not go out far enough to be thrown
down, but clung fast with his great hroad claws and feet, so that we could
not imagine what. would be the end of it, and what the jest would be at last.
But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; iorseeing the bear cling fast to the
bongh, and that he would not he pers adcd to come any farther, " \Vell,
well," says Friday, "you come no farther, me go: you no come to me, me
come to you;" and upon this he went on: to the smaller end of the bough
where it would bend with his weight, and gently 1e: himself down by it,
sliding down the bough till he came near enough to jump down on his feet,
and away he ran to his gun, took it up, and stood still. " Veil," said I to
him, " Friday, what will you do now ? Why don't you shoot him '3" " \'o
shoot," says Friday, " no yet: me shoot now, me no kill; me stay, give you
one more laugh:" and, indeed, so he did,as you will see presently; for when
the bear saw his enemy gone. he came back from the hough where he stood,
but did it very cautiously, looking,r behind him every step. and coming
backward till he got into the body of the true; then, with the same hinder
end foremost, he came down the tree, grasping it with his claws, and mov-
ing one foot at a time, veiy leisurely. At this juncture, and just before he
could set his hind leet upon the ground l-'riday stepped up close to him,
clapped the muzzle of his piece into his ear, and shot him dead as a stone.
Then the rogue turned about to see if we did not laugh; and when he saw
we were pleased. by our looks, he began to laugh very loud. " So we kill
bear in my country," says Friday. " So you kill them?" says I; " why, you
have no guns." " No," says he, "' no gun, but shoot great much long arrow."
This was a good diversion to us, but we were still'in a. wild place, and our
guide very much hurt, and what to do we hardly knew; the howling of
wolves ran much in my head; and. indeed, except the noise I once heard
on the shore of Africa, of which I have said something already, I never
heard anything that filled me with so much horror.

These things, and the approach of nighr,cai1c(l us off, or else, as Friday
would have had us, we should certainly have taken the skin of this mon-
strous creature off, which was worth saying, but we had near three leagues
to go, and our guide hastened us, so we ieft him and went forward on cur
journey.

The ground was still covered with snow, though not so deep and danger-
ous as on the mountains, and the ravenous creatures,as we heard afterwards,
were come down into the forest and plain country ressed by hunger to
seek for food, and had done a great deal of inisehie n the villages, where
they surprised the country people, killing a great many of their sheep and
horses, and some people too. We had one dangerous place to pass, and
our guide told us if there more wolves in the country we should find them
there. And this was a small plain surrounded with woods on every side,
and a long, narrow defile. or lane, which we were to pass to get through the
wood, and then we should come to the village where we were to lodge. It
was within half an hour of sunset when we entered the wood, and a little
after sunset when we came into the plain. "'6 met with nothing in the first
wood. except that in a little plain within the wood, which was not above
two furlongs over, we saw five great wolves cross the road, full speed. one
after another, as if they had been in chase of some prey and had it in view.
They took no notice of us. and were gone out of sight in a few moments.
Upon this, our guide, who, by the way, was but a faint-hearted fellow. bid
us keep in a ready posture. for he believed there were more wolves atom-
ing. We kept our arms ready and our eyes about us, but we saw no more
wolves till we Came through that wood; which was near half a league, and
entered the plain. As soon as we came into the plain, we had occasion
enough to look about us. The first object we met with was a dead horse;
that is to say, a poor horse which the wolves had killed, and at least a dozen
of them at work, we could not say eating;r him, but picking his bones rather,
for they had eaten up all the flesh before. V\-'e did not think fit to disturb
them at their feast, neither did they take much notice of us. Friday would
have let fly at them. but I would not suffer him by any means, for I found
we were like to have more business upon our hands than we were aware of.
We had not gone half over the plain, when we began to hear the wolves
howl in the wood on our left in a frightful manner. and presently after we
saw about a hundred coming on directly towards us, all in a body. and most
of them in a line, as regularly as an army drawn up by experienced oFficers.
I scarce knew in what. manner to receive them, but found to draw ourselves
in a close line was the only way; so we formed in a moment. But that we
might not have too much interval, I ordered that only every other man
should fire, and that the others. who had not fired, should stand ready to
give them a second volley immediately, if they continued to advance upon
us, and then that those who had fired at first, should not pretend to load
their fusees again, but stand ready, every one with a pistol. for we were all
armed with a fusee and a pair of pistols each man; so we were, by this
method, able to fire six volleys; half of us at a time. However, at present.
we had no necessity; for upon firing the first volley, the enemy made a full
stop. being terrified as well with the noise as with the fire. Four oi them
being shot in the head, dropped; several others were wounded, and went
bleeding off, as we could see by the snow. I found they stopped. but did
not immediately retreat. Whereupon, remembering that I had been told
that the fiercest creatures were terrified at the voice of a man, I caused all
the company to halloo as loud as we could,and I found the notion not alto-
gether mistaken; for upon our shout they began to retire and turn about. I
then ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear, which put them to
the gallop, and away they went to the woods. This gave us leisure toA'l'TACKED BY WOLVES. 'M

charge cur pieces again. and that we might lose no time. we kept going
But we had but little more than loaded our lusees, and put ourselves in read-
iness, when we heard a terrible noise in the same wood on our left, only that
it was farther onward the same way we were to go.

The night was coming on, and the light began to be dusky; which made
it the worse on our side; but the noise increasing, we could easdy perceive
that it was the howling and yelling of those hellish creatures; and. on a
sudden, we perceived two or three troops of wolves, one on our left, one
behind us, and one in our front, so that we seemed to be surrounded with
them; however, as they did not fall upon us, we kept our way forward, as last
as we could make our horses go, which, the way being very rough. was only a
good hard trot. In this manner. we came in view of the entrance of a
wood, through which we were to pass. at the farther side of the plain; but
we were greatly surprised when coming nearer the lane or pass, we saw a
confused number of wolves standing just at the entrance. On a sudden, at
another opening ol the wood. we heard the noise of a gun. and looking that
way, out rushed a horse. with a saddle and a bridle on him. flying like the
wind, and sixteen or seventeen wolves after him full speed. Indeed, the
horse had the advantage of them; but as we supposed that he could not
hold it at that rate, we doubted not but they would get up with him at last;
and no question but they did.

But here we had a most horrible sight: for, riding,r up to the entrance
where the horse came out, we lound the carcasesoi another horse and of tuo
men, devoured by the ravenous creatures; and one of the men was no doubt
the same whom we heard fire the gun, [or there lay a gun just by him fired
off; but as to the man, his head and the upper part of his body were eaten
up. This filled us with horror, and we knew not what course to take; but
the creatures resolved us soon, for they gathered about us presently, in
hopes of prey; and I verily bel' e there were three hundred of them. lt
happened. very much to our advantage, that at the entrance into the wood,
but a little way from it, there lay some large tinibcrvtrees. which had been
cut down the summer before, and I suppose lay there [or carriage. I drew
my little troop in among those trees, and placing ourselves in a line behind
one long tree. I advised them all to alight. and keepin;,r that tree before us
for a breastwork, to stand in a triangle, or three fronts, inclosing our horses
in the center. Vl'e (lid so, and it was well we did; for never was a more
furious charge than the creatures made upon us in this place. They came
on us with a growling kind of a noise, and mounted the piece of timber,
which, as I said, was our breastwork,as if they were onlyrushing upon their
prey; and this fury of theirs. it seems, was principally occasioned by their
seeing our horses behind us, which was the prey they aimed at. I ordered
our men to fire as before, every other man, and they took their aim so sure
that indeed they killed several of the wolves at the first volley; but their
was a necessity to keep a continual firing. for they came on like devils, those
behind pushing on those before.
When we had fired a second volley of our tusils, vc thought they
stopped a little, and I hoped they would have gone oil", but it was but a
moment, for others came forward again; so we fired two volleys of our
pistols; and I believe in these four firings we had killed seventeen or eight-
een of them, and lamed twice as many, yet they came on again. I was loth
to spend our last shot too hastily; so I called my servant--not my man
Friday, for he was better employed, for, with the greatest dexterity imagin-

' able, he had charged my lusce and his own while we were engaged--but, as
I said, I called my other man, and giving,r him a horn of powder, I bade him
lay a train all along the piece of timber. and let it he a large train. I-le
(lid .so, and had but just time to get away, when the wolves came up
to it, and some got upon it, when I. snapping an uncharged pistol close
to the powder, set it on fire; those that were upon the timber were scorched
with it, and six or seven of them fell, or rather jumped in among us with
the force and fright oi the fire We dispatched these in an instant, and the
rest were so frightened with the light, which the night--for it was now very
near dark--made more terrible, that they drew back a little; upon which I
ordered our last pistols to be fired off in one volley, and after that we gave
a shout; upon this the wolves turned tail, and we sallied immediately upon
near twenty lame ones that we found struggling on the ground, and fell to
cutting them with our swords, which answered our expectation, for the cry-
ing and howling they made was better understood by their fellows; so that
they all fled and left us.

"We had, first and last, killed about threescore of them, and had it been
daylight we had killed many more. The field of battle being thus cleared.
we made forward again, for we had still near a league to go. We heard the
ravenous creatures howl and yell' in the woods as we went several times.
and sometimes we fancied we saw some of them; but the snow dazzling our
eyes, we were not certain. So in about an hour more we came to the town
where we were to lodge, which we found in a terrible fright, and all in arms.
for, it seems, that the-night before, the wolves and some bears had broke
into the village, and put them in such terror. that they were obliged to
keep guard night and day, but especially in the night, to preserve their cat-
tle, and indeed their people.

The next morning our guide was so ill, and his limbs swelled so much
with the rankling of his two wounds, that he could go no farther; so we
were obliged to take a new guide here, and go to Toulouse, where we
found a warm climate. a fruitful, pleasant country, and no snow, no wolves,
nor anything like them; but when we told our story at Toulouse, they told
_is it was nothing but what was ordinary in the great forest at the foot
of the mountains. especially when the show lay on the ground; but they
inquired much'what kind of a guide we had got, who would venture to bring
as that way in such a severe season. and told us it was surprising we were
not all devoured. When we told them how we placed ourselves and theI DISPOSE OF MY PLANTATION. 24'!

horses in the middle. they blamed us exceedingly, and told us it was fifty
to one but we had been all destroyed, for it was the sight of the horses \vhieh
made the wolves so furious, seeing their prey, and that at other times they
are really afraid ofa gun; but being excessively hungry, and raging on that
account. the eagerness to come at the horses had made liiem senseless of
danger; and that if we had not by the continued fire, and at last by the
stratagem of the train of powder, mastered thorn, it had been great odds
but that we had been torn to pieces; whereas, had we been content to have
sat still on horseback, and fired as horsemen, they would not have taken
the horses so much for their own. when men were on their backs. as other-
wise; and, withal, they told us that at last, if we had stood altogether. and
left our horses, they would have been so eager to have devoured them, that
we might have come off safe, especially having our fire--arms in our hands,
and being so many in number. For my part,I was never so sensible of'
danger in my life; for. seeing above three hundred devils come roaring and
open-mouthed to devour us, and having nothing to shelter us or retreat to,
I gave myself over for lost; and. as it was, I believe 1 shall never can: to
cross those mountains again. I think I would much rather go a thousand
leagues by sea. though I was sure to meet with a storm once a week.

I have nothing uncommon to take notice of in my passage through
France, nothing but what other travelers have given an account of with
much more advantage: than I can. I traveled from Toulouse to Paris, and
without any considerable stay came to Calais. and landed safe at Dover the
14th of January, after having a severe cold season to travel in.

I was now come to the center oi my travels. and had in a littletime all my
new discovered estate safe about me, the bills of exchange which I brought
with me having been very currently paid.

My principal guide and privy counselor was my good ancient widow,
who, in gratitude for the money I had sent her. thought no pains too much
nor care too great to employ for me; and] trusted her so entirely with
everything, that I was perfectly easy as to the security of my effects; and,
indeed, I was very happy from the beginning. and now to the end, in the
unspottcd integrity of this good gentle-woman.

And now, having;r resolved to dispose of my plantation in the Brazils, I
wrote to my old friend at Lisbon, who having offered it to the two mer-
chants. the survivors of my trustees. who lived in the Brazils. they accepted
the offer, and remitted thirty-three thousand pieces of eight to a corre-
spondent of theirs at Lisbon to pay for it.

In return. I signed the instrument of sale in the form which they sent
from Lisbon, and sent it to my old man, who sent me the bills of exchange
for thirty-two thousand eight hundred pieces of eight for the estate. reserv.
ing the payment of one hundred moidores a year to him (the old man) dur-
ing his life, and fifty inoidores afterwards to his son for his lir'envhieh I had
promised them, and which the plantation was to make good as a rent-charge
And thus I have given the first part of a life of fortune and adventure--a
life of Providencc's checker--work, and of a variety which the world will
seldom be able to show the like of--beginning foolishly, but closing much
more happily than any part of it ever gave me leave so much as to hope for

Any one would think that in this state of complicated good fortune '
was past running any more hazards; and so, indeed, I have been. if other
circumstances had concurred; but I was inurcd to a wandering life, had no
iamily, nor many relations; nor however rich, had I contracted much
acquaintance; and though -I had sold my estate in the Brazils, yet I could
not keep that country out of my head. and had a great mind to be upon the
wing again; especially I could not resist the strong inclination I had to see
my island, and to know if the poor Spaniards were in being there. My true
friend, the widow, earnestly dissuaded tne from it, and so far prevailed with
me, that for almost seven years she prevented my running abroad, during
which time I took my two nephews, the children of one ofmy brothers, into
my care; the eldest, having something of his own, Lbred up as a gentleman,
and gave him a settlement of some addition to his estate after my decease.
The other I placed with the captain of a ship, and after five years, finding
him a sensible, bold enterprising young fellow, I put him into a good Ship,
and sent him to sea; and this young fellow afterwards drew me in, as old as
I was, to farther adventures myself.

In the meantime, I in part settled myself here; for. first of all, I married,
and that not either to my disadvantage or dissatisfaction, and had three
children. two sons and one daughter; but my wife dying, and my nephew
coming home with good success from a voyage to Spain, my inclination to
go abroad, and his im'portunity, prevailed, and engaged me to go in his ship
as a private trader to the East Indies; this was in the year 1694.

In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island; saw mysuccessors
the Spaniards; had the whole story of their lives, and of the villains I left
there; how at first they insulted the poor Spaniards; how they afterwards
agreed, disagreed, united. separated, and how at last the Spaniards were
obliged to use violence with them; how they were subjected to the Span-
iards; how honestly the Spaniards used them; a history, if it were entered
into, as full of variety and wonderful accidents as my own part--particu-
larly, also, as to their battles with the Caribbeans, who landed several times
upon the island, and as to the improvement they made upon the island
itself---and how five of them made an attempt upon the mainland. and
brought away eleven men and five women prisoners, by which, at my com- _
iug, I found about twenty young children on the island.

Ilere I stayed about twenty days; left them supplies of all necessary
things, and particularly of arms, powder. shot, clothes, tools, and two work--
men, which I brought from England with me, viz., a carpenter and a smith.

Besides this, I shared the lands into parts with them, reserved to myself
the property of the whoie, but gave them such parts respectively as theyCONCLUSION OF THE FIRST PART. 249

agreed on; and having settled all things with them, and engaged them not
to leave the place, I left them there.

From thence I touched at the Brazils, from whence I sent a bark, which
I bought there, with more people to the island; and in it, besides other sup-
plies, I sent seven women, being such as I found proper for service. or for
wives to such as would take them. As to the Englishmen, I promised them
to send them some women from England, with a good cargo of necessaries,
if they would apply themselves to planting--which I afterwards could not
perform. The fellows proved very honest and diligent alter they were mas-
tered, and had their properties set apart for them. I sent them. also, from
the Brazils, five cow's, three of them being big with calf, some sheep, and
some hogs, which when I came again were considerably increased.

But all these things. with an account of how three hundred Caribbecs
came and invaded them, and ruined their plantations, and how they fought
with that whole number twice and were at first defeated, and one ot them
killed; but, at last. a storm destroying their cnemies' canoes, they tarnished
or destroyed almost all the rest, and renewed and recovered the possession
of their plantation, and still lived upon the island. All these things, with
some very surprising incidents in some new adventures of my own. for ten
years more. I shall give a further account of it in the Second Part of my
history.

 

TIIE M01131 0? T2"; ANALON."I FARMED wax in mm LAND " (p. 258). '

PART '1].

THAT homely proverb, used on so many occasions in England, \riz.,

"That what is bred in the bone will not go out of the flesh," was never
more verified than in the story of my life. Any one would think that after
tlxirtyufive years' affliction, and a variety of unhappy circumstances. which
few men, if any. ever went through before. and after near seven years of
peace and enjoyment in the fullness 0' all things, grown old, and when, if
ever, it might be allowed me to have had experience of every slate of mid--
dle life. and to know which was most adapted to make a man completely
happy; I say, after all this' any one would have thought that the native.
propensity to rambling, whieh I gave an account, of in my first setting out
in the world to have been so predominant in my thoughts, should be worn
out. the volatile part be fully evacuated or at least condensed, and I might
at sixty-one years of age, have been a liulc inclined to stay at home, and
have done venturing life and famine any more.

Nay, Iarthcx'. the common motive of foreign adventures was taken away
in me. for I had no fortune lo make: I had nothing to seek. If 1 had
gained ten thousand pounds, I had been no richer; [or I had already suffi-
cient {or me, and for those I had to leave it to; and what I had was visibly
increasing; for having no great family I could not spend the income of what
I had, unless I would set up for an expensive way of living, such 21$ agreat

x50A VISION. 251

family, servants, equipage, gayety, and the like, which were things I had
no notion of, or inclination to; so that I had nothing, indeed, to do but
to sit still, and fully enjoy what I had got. and see it increase daily upon
my hands. Yet all these things had no effect upon me, or at least not
enough to resist the strong,r inclination I had to go abroad again, which hung
about me like a Chronical distemper. In particular the desire of seeing my
new plantation in the island, and the colony I left there, ran in my head
continually. I dreamed of it all night, and my imagination ran upon it
all day; it was uppermost in all my thoughts, and my fancy worked so
steadily and strongly upon it that I talked of it in my sleep; in short, noth-
ing could remove it out of my mind; it even broke so violently into all my
discourses that it made my conversation tiresome, for I could talk of nothing
else; all my discourse ran into it, even to impcrtinence, and l saw it myself.

I have often heard persons of good judgment say, that all thestirpeople
make in the world about ghosts and apparitions is owing to the strength of
imagination, and the powerful operation of fancy in their minds; that there
is no such thing as a spirit appearing, or a ghost walking; that people's
poring aflectionately upon the past conversation of their deceased friends.
so realizes it to them, that they are capable of fancying, upon seine extra-
ordinary eircumstanees, that they see them, talk to them, and are answered
by them, when in truth, there is nothing but shadow and vapor in the thing,
and they really know nothing of the matter.

For my part,1 know not to this hour whether there are any such things
as real apparitions, spectcrs, or walking of people after they are dead; or
whether there is anything in the stories they tell us of that kind more than
the product of vapors. sick minds, and wandering fancies; but this I know,
that my imagination worked up to such a height, and brought me into such
excess of vapors, or what else I may call it, that I actually supposed myself
often upon the spot, at my old castle, behind thetrees; saw my old Spaniard,
Friday's father, and the reprobate sailors l leit upon the island; nay,I
fancied I talked with them, and looked atthem steadily, though Iwasbroad
awake, as at persons just before me: and this I did till I often frightened
myself with the images my fancy represented to me. One time, in mysleep,
I had the villainy of the three pirate sailors so lively related to me by the
first Spaniard and Friday's father, that it was surprising; they told me how
they barbarously attempted to murder all the Spaniards, and that they set
fire to the provisions they had laid up, on purpose to distress and starve
them; things that I had never heard of, and that, indeed, were never all of
them true in fact; but it was so warm in my imagination, and so realized to
me, that, to the hour I saw them, I could not be persuaded but that it was,
. orwould be, true; also howl resented it,\vhen the Spaniard complained tome;
and howl brought them to justice, tried them. and ordered them all three to
be hanged. \lliliat there was really in this shall be seen in its place; for
however I came to form such things in my dream, and what secret converse
ofspirits injected it. yet. there was. I say. much of it. true. I own that this
dream had nothingr in it literally and specifically true: but the general part
was so true--- the base, villainous behavior oi these three hardened rogues
was such, and had been so much worse than all I can describe, that the dream
had too much similitudc of the fact; and as I would afterwards have puns
ished them severely, so, if I had hanged them all, I had been much in the,
izgiit, and even should have been justified both by thelaws of God and man.
Inn to return to my story. In this kind of temper, I lived some years; I
had no enjoyment of my life, no pleasant hours, no agreeable diversion. but
what had something or other of this in it; so that my wife, who saw my
mind wholly bent upon it, told me very seriouslyone night, that she believed
there was some secret. powerful impulse of Providence upon me, which had
determined me to go thither again; and that she found nothing hindered
my going. but my being engaged to a wife and children. She told me that
it was true she. could not think of parting with me; but as she was assured
that if she was dead it would be the first thing I would do. so. as it seemed
to her that the thing was determined above. she would not be the only
obstruction; for. if! thought fit and resolved to {10-- [Here she found
me very intent upon her words, and that I looked very earnestly at her. so
that it a little disordered her. and she stopped. I asked her whyshe did not
go on. and say out what she was going to say. But I perceived that her
heart was too full. and some tears stood in her eyes] "Speak out, my
dear,"said I; "are you willing Ishould go?" "No." says she. very affection-
ately, "lam far from willing; but if you are resolved to go," says she,
rather than I would be the only hindrance, I will go with you; for though I
think it a most preposterous thing for one of your years. and in your condi-
tion. yet, if it must be," said she again weeping. "I would not leave you; for
if it be of Heaven. you must do it; there is no resisting it; and if Heaven
make it your duty to go. He will also make it mine to go withyou, orother--
wise dispose of me, that I may not obstruct it."

This affectionate behavior of my wife's brought me a little out of the
vapors. and i began to consider what I was doing; I corrected my wander-
ing fancy. and began to argue with myself scdately what business I had,
after threescore years, and after such a life of tedious sufferings and disas-
ters, and closed in so happy and easy a manner--I say. what business hadl
to rush into new hazards, and put myself upon adventures fit only for youth
and poverty to run into?

With those thoughts I considered my new engagement; that I had awife.
one child born. and my wife then great with child of another; that I had all

- the world could give me, and had no need to seek hazard (or gain; that I
was declining in years. and ought to think rather of leaving,r what I had
gained than of seeking to increase it; that as to what my wife had said of
its being an' impulse from Heaven, and that it should be my duty to go. I
had no notion of that; so. after many of these cogitations, I struggled withA BLOW }'I\O.\'l UNSEEN PROVIDENCE 258

the power of my imagination. reasoned myself out of it, as I believe people
may always do in like cases if they will, and, in a word, I conquered it;
composed myself with such arguments as occurred to my thoughts, and
which my present condition furnished me plentifully with; and particularly,
as the most effectual method, I resolved to divert myself with other things,
and to engage in some business that might effectually tic me up irom any
more excursions of this Kind. (or I found that thing return upon me chiefly
when Iwas idle. and had nothing to do, nor anything of moment imme-
diately before me. To this purpose, I bought a little {arm in the county of
Bedford, and resolved to remove myself thither. I had a little convenient
house upon it, and the land about it,I found, was capable of great improve'
ment. and it was many ways suited to my inclination, which delighted in
cultivatinn'. managing, planting, and improving of land; and particularly,
being an inland county, I was removed from conversing among sailors, and
things relating to the remote parts of the world.

In a word, I went down to my farm, settled my family, bought ploughs,
harrows. a cart, wagon, horses, cows. and sheep, and, setting seriously to
work, became in one-half yeara mere country gentleman; my thoughts were
entirely taken up in managing my servants, cultivating the ground, inclos-
ing, planting, etc.; and Ilived. asI thought, the most agreeable life that
nature was capable of directing, or that a man always bred to misfortunes
was capable of retreating to.

I farmed upon my own land; Ihad no rent to pay, was limited by no
articles; I could pull up or CI)': down as I pleased; what I planted was [or
myself, and what I improved was for my family; and having thus left off
the thoughts of wandering, I had not the least discomfort in any part of life
as to this world Now I thought indeed that I enjoyed the middle state of
life, which my lather so earnestly recommended to me, and lived a kind of
heavenly liie, something like what is described by the poet, upon the sub-
ject of a country life:

" Free from vices, tree from care,
Age has no pain, and youth on snare."

But in the middle of all this felicity one blow from unseen Providence
unhinged me at once, and not only made a breach upon me inevitable and
incurable. but drove me by its consequences into a deep relapse of the \van-
dering disposition. which, as I may say, being born in my very blood, soon
recovered its hold of me, and like the returns of a violent distemper, came on
with an irresistible force upon me. This blow was the loss of my wife. It is
not my business here to write an elegy upon my wife, give a character other
particular virtues, and make my court to the sex by the Battery of a funera>>
sermon. She was, in a few words, the stay of all my affairs, the center 0
all my enterprises, the engine that, by her prudence, reduced me to that
happy compass] was in, from the most extravagant and ruinous project
that filled my head, and did more to guide my rambling genius than a
mother's tears, a father's instructions, a friend's counsel, or all my own rea-
soning powers could do I was happy in listening to her, and in being
moved by her entrc'aties. and to the last degree desolate and dislocated
in the world by the loss of her. When she was gone the world looked
awkwardly round me. I was as much a stranger in it. in my thoughts. as I
was in the Iirazils when I first went on shore there, and as much alone,
except for the assistance of servants, as l was in my island. I knew neither
what to think nor what to do. . I saw the world busy around me; one part
laboring7 for bread, another part squandoring in vile excesses or empty
pleasures. equally miserable, because the end they proposed still fled from
them, for the men of pleasure every day surfeitcd of their vice. and heaped
up work for sorrow and repentance, and the men of labor spent their
strength in daily struggling for bread to maintain the vital strength they
labored with. so living in a daily circulation of sorrow, living but to work,
and working but to live, as if daily bread were the only end of wearisomc
life, and a we 'ismnc life the only occasion of daily bread.

This put me in mind of thelife I lived in my kingdom, the island, where
I suffered no more corn to grow because I did not want it, and bred no more
goats because I had no more use for them, where the money lay in the
drawer tili it grew moldy. and had scarce the favor to be looked upon in
twenty years. '

All these things, had I improved them as I ought to have done, and as
reason and religion had dictated to me, would have taught me to search
(arthcr than human enjoyments for a full felicity. and that there was some
thing which certainly was the reason and end of life superior to all these
things, and which was either to be possessed, or at least hoped for, on this
side the grave.

But my sage counselor was gone; I was like a ship without a pilot. that
could only run More the wind. My thoughts ran all away again into the
old affair; my head was quite turned with the whimseys of foreign adven-
tures. and all the pleasant, innocent amusements of my farm. my garden,
my cattle. and my family, which before entirely possessed me, were nothing
to me, had no relish, and were like music to one that has no car, or food to
one that has no taste; in a word, I resolved to leave all housekeeping, let
my farm and return to London, and in a few months after I did so.

When I came to London, I was still as uneasy as I was before; I had no
relish for the place. no employment in it. nothing to do but to saunter about
like an idle person. of whom it may be said he is perfectly useless in God's
creation, and it is not one fax-thing's matter to the rest of his kind whether
he be dead or alive. This also was the thing which. of all circumstances of
life, was the most my aversion, who had been all my days used to an active
life, and .I would often say to myself, "A state of idleness is the very dregs
of life;" and, indeed, Ithought I was much more suitably employed when I
was twenty-six (laws making a deal board.A NEW SCHEME PROPOSED. 2'06

It was now the beginning of the year 1693. when my nephew, whom, asI
have observed before, I had brought up to the sea and had made him com--
munder of a ship, was come home from a short voyage to Bilboa, being the
first he had made. He came to me and told me that some merchants of his
acquaintance had been proposing to him to go a voyage for them to the
East Indies and to China as private traders. "And now, uncle," says he,"if
you will go to sea with me, I will engage to land you upon your old habita~
tion in the island, for we are to touch at. the llrazils."

Nothing can be a greater demonstration of a future state and of the exist-
ence of an invisible world than the concurrence of second causes with the
ideas of things which we form in our minds, perfectly reserved, and not

' communicated to any in the world.

My nephew knew nothing how far my distemper of wandering was
returned upon me, and I knew nothing of what he had in his thoughts to
say, when that very morning before he came to me, I had, in a great deal of
confusion of thought, and revolving every part of my circumstances inniy
mind, come to this resolution, that I would go to Lisbon and consult with
my old sea--captain. and it it was rational and practicable Iwould go and see
the island again, and what was become of my people there. I had pleased
myself with the thoughts of peopling the place and carrying inhabitants
from hence, getting a patent [or the possession, and I know not what: when,
in the middle of all this, in comes my nephew, as I have said, with his proj-
ect of carrying me thither in his way to the East Indies.

I paused awhile at his words, and looking steadily at him, "What devil,"
said 1. " sent you on this unlucky errand? " My nephew stared as if
he had been Irightened, at first, but, perceiving that I was not much rlis-.
pleased with the proposal, he recovered himself. "I hope it may not he
an unlucky proposal, sir," says he; "'I dare say you would be pleased to see
your new colony there, where you once reigned with more felicity than most
of your brother monarchs in the world."

In a word. the scheme hit so exactly with my temper, that is to say, the
prcpossession I was under, and of which I have said so much, that I told
him, in a few words, if he agreed with the merchants. I would go with him,
but I told him I would not promise to go any farther than my own island.
" Why sir." says he, "you don't want to be left there again, I hope? "
"Why," said I, "can you not take me up again on your return?" He told
me it would not be possible to do so, that the merchants would never allow
him to come that way with a laden ship of such value. it being a month's
sail out of his way, and might be three or four. " Besides, sir, if I should
miscarry," said he,"and not return at all, then you Would be just reduced to
the condition you were in before."

This was very rational, but we both found out. a remedy for it, which was,
to carry a framed sloop on board the ship, which being taken in pieces,
and shipped on board the ship. might. by the help of some carpenters,
  

nun-lunw'" -~

   

"IT was ALL TU NO PUIU'U H"

whom we agreed to carry with us, be set up again in the island, and finished
fit to go to sea in a few days.

I was not long resolving, (or, indeed, the importunities of my nephew
joined so efleetually with my inclination, that nothing could oppose me.
On the other hand. my wife being dead. nobody concerned themselves so
much for me as to persuade me to one way or the other, except my ancient
good friend the widow, who earnestly struggled with me to consider my
years. any easy circumstances. and the needless hazards of a long voyage. .
and ahove all, my young children. liut it was all to no purpose, I had an
irresistible desire for the voyage, and I told her I thought there was some-
thing so uncommon in the impressions I had upon my mind, that it would
be a kind of resisting Providence if I should attempt to stay at home; after
which she ceased her expostulations. and joined with me, not only in mak-
ing provision for my voyage, but also in settling my family affairs for my
absence, and providing for the education of my children.

In order to do this, I made my will, and settled the estate I had in such
a manner {or my children. and placed in such hands, that I was perfectly
easy and satisfied they would have justice done them. whatever might befall
me; and for their education, I left it wholly to the widow, with a sufi'icient
maintenance to herself for her care, all which she richly deserved. for no
mother could have taken more care in their education, or understood it
better: and as she lived till I came home, I also lived to thank her for it.
My nephew was ready to sail about the beginning of January, 1694--93,
and I, with my man Friday, went on board, in the Downs, on the 8th, hav-
ing, besides that sloop, which I mentioned above, a very considerable cargo
of all kinds of necessary things for my colony, which, it' I did not find in
good condition, I resolved to leave so.

First, I carried with me some servants. whom I purposed to place there
as inhabitants. or at least to set on work there. upon my account, while I
stayed. and either to leave them there or carry them forward, as they should
appear willing; particularly I carried two carpenters. a smith, and a very
handy, ingenious fellow, who was 3 Cooper by trade, and was also a general
mechanic, for he was dexterous at making,r wheels, and hand-mills to grind
corn,\vas a good turner, and a good pot-maker; he also made anything that
was proper to make of earth or of wood; in aword, we called him our jack-
of--alI-tradcs. With these I carried a tailor, who had offered himself to go
a passenger to the East Indies with my nephew, but afterwards consented
to stay on our new plantation, and who proved a most necessary, handy
fellow, as could be desired, in many other businesses besides that of his
trade, for, as I observed formerly, necessity arms us for all employments.

My cargo, as near as I can recollect, [or I have not kept account of the
particulars, consisted of a sufficient quantity of linen, and some English
thin stuffs, for clothing the Spaniards that I expected to find there. and
enough of them as, by my calculation, might comfortably supply them {or
seven years. If I remember right, the materials I carried for clothing them,
with gloves, hats, shoes. stockings, and all such things as they could want
{or wearing, amounted to above two hundred pounds. including some beds,
bedding, and household stuff, particularly kitchen utensils, with pots. kct~
ties, pewter, brass. etc., and near a hundred pounds more in iron'work,
nails, tools of every kind, staples, hooks, hinges, and every necessary thing
I could think of. .

I carried also a hundred spare arms, muskets, and fusees; besides some
pistols, a considerable quantity of shot of all sizes, (hl'CC or [our tons of
lead, and two pieces of brass cannon; and, because I knew not what time
and what extremitiesl was providing for, I carried a hundred barrels of
powder, besides swords, cutlasses, and the iron part of some pikes and hal-
berts; so that. in short, we had a large magazine of all sorts of stores, and
I made my nephew carry two small quarter-deck guns more than he wanted
for his ship, to leave behind if there was occasion; that when we came
there, we might build a fort, and man it against all sorts of enemies: and,
indeed, I at first thought there would be need enough for all, and much
more, if we hoped to maintain our possession of the island, as shall be seen
in the course of the story. '

I had not such bad Incl: in this voyage as I had been used to meet with.
and, therefore, shall have the less occasion to interrupt the reader, wro,
perhaps, may be impatient to hear how matters went with my colony. Yet

.
some odd accidents, cross winds, and bad weather, happened on this first
setting out, which made the voyage longer than I expected it at first, and I,
who had never made but one voyage. my first voyage to Guinea. in which I
might be said to come back again, as the voyage was at first designed,
began to think'the same ill (are attended me, and that l was born to he
never contented with being on shore. and yet to be always unfortunate at
sea. '

Contrary winds first put us to the northward, and we were obliged to
put in at Galway, in Ireland, where we lay wind-bound two-and--twenty
days, but we had this satisfaction with the disaster, that provisions were here
exceeding,r cheap; and in the utmost plenty, so that while we lay here, we
never touched the ship's stores, but rather added to them. Here, also, I
took in several live hogs, and two cows with their calves, which I resolved,
it I had a good passage, to put on shore in my island; but we found occa-
sion to dispose otherwise of them.

We set out on the 5th of February from Ireland, and had avery fair gale
'of wind for some days. As I remember, it might be about the 20th of Feb-
ruary. in the evening late. when the mate, having the watch, came into the
round-house, and told us he saw a flash of fire. and heard a gun fired; and
while he was tellingus of it, a boy came in, and told us the boatswain
heard another, This made us all run out upon the quarter--deck, where, for
awhile, we heard nothing, but in a few minutes we saw a very great light,
and found that there was some very terrible fire at a distance. Immediately
we had recourse to our reckonings. in which we all agreed that there could
be no land that way in which the fire showed itself, no. not for five hundred
leagues, for it appeared at W.I\',W. Upon this, we concluded it must be
some ship on fire at sea, and as. by our hearing the noise of guns just before,
we concluded that it could not be far off, we stood directly towards it, and
were presently satisfied we should discover it, because the farther we sailed.
the greater the light appeared; though. the weather being hazy, we could
not perceive anything but the light for awhile. In about half an hour's
sailing, the wind being fair for us, though not much of it, and the weather
clearing up a little, we could plainly discern that it was a great ship on fire
in the middle of the sea. '

I was most sensibly touched with this disaster, though not all acquainted
with the persons engaged in it. I presently rccollected my former circum-
stances, and what condition I was in when taken up by the Portuguese
captain; and how much more deplorable the circumstances of the poor
creatures belonging to that ship must be, if they had no other ship in com~
pany with them. Upon this, 1 immediately ordered that five guns should
be fired, one soon after another. that. if possible, we might give notice to
them that there was help for them at hand, and that they might endeavor
to save themselves in their boat; for though we could see the flames of the
ship. yet they, it being night, could see nothing of us.A FIRE AT SEA. 259

Vv'e lay by some time upon this, only driving as the burning ship drove,
waiting for daylight; when. on a sudden. to our great terror, though we had
reason to expect it, the ship blew up in the air: and immediately. that is to
say, in a few minutes, all the fire was out, that s to say. the rest of the ship
sunk. This was a terrible. and. indeed. an afflicting sight, for the sake of
the poor men. who, I concluded. must be either all destroyed in the ship.
or be in the utmost distress in their boat. in the middle of the ocean; which.
at present, as it was dark. I could not see. However, to direct them as well
as l could, I caused lig. ts to be hung out in all parts of the ship where we
could, and which we had lanterns for. and kept firing guns all the night
long; letting them know by this that there was a ship not far off.

About eight o'clock in the morning,r we discovered the ship's boats by
the help of our perspective glasses, and found there were two of them, both
thronged with people, and deep in the. water. We perceived they rowed,
the wind being against them; that they saw our ship, and did theirutmost
to make us see them.

We immediately spread our ancient, to let them know we saw them, and
hung a wait out, as a signal for them to come on board; and then made
more sail, standing directly to them. In little more than half an hour we
came up with them. and in a word. took them all in, being no less than
sixty~iour men. women and children. {or there Were a great many passengers.

Upon inquiry. we found it was a French merchant ship oi three hundred
tons. honien-ard bound from Quebec. in the river of Canada. The master
gave us a long account. of the dis' 'ess of his ship; how the fire began in the
steerage. by the negligence of the . .cersman; but,on his crying,r out for help,
was, as everybody thought, entirely put out; but they soon found that some
spailts of the first fire had got into somepart of the ship so difficult to come
at that they could not effectually quench it; and aiterwards getting in
between the timbers. and within the ceiling of the ship. it proceeded into
the hold and mastered all the skill and all the application they were able to
exert.

They had no more to do then but to get into their boats. which. to thei.
great comfort. were pretty large; being their long-boat and a great shallop,
besides a small skiff. which was of no great service to them. other tha . to
get some fresh water and provisions into her after they had secured their
lives from the fire. They had, indeed, small hope of their lives by getting
into these boats at that distance from land; only. as they said. that they thus
escaped from the fire and there was a possibility that some ship might hap--
pen to be at sea and might take them in. They had sails. oars and a com-
pass, and were preparing to make the best of their way back to Newfound--
land. the wind blowing pretty fair, for it blew an easy gale at. 5.13. by E.
They had as much provision and watci'as. with sparing it so as tube next door
to starving, might support them about twelve days, in which. if they had no
bad weather and no contrary winds, the captain said he hoped he might get
to the banks of Newfoundland. and might perhaps take some fish to sustain
them till they might go on shore. But there were so many chances against
them in all these cases. such as storms. to overset and founder them; rains
and cold. to benumh and perish their limbs; contrary winds. to keep them
out and starve them; that it must have been next to miraculous if the had
escaped. '

In the midst of their consternation. every one being hopeless and ready
to despair. the captain. with tears in his eyes, told me they were on asndden
surprised with the joy of hearing a gun fire. and after that [our more; these
were the five guns which I caused tn be fired at first seeing the light. This
revived their hearts and gave them the notice. which, as above. I desired it
should. that there was a ship at hand for their help. It was upon the hear-
ing of these guns that they took down their masts and sails; the sound com-
ing from the windward. they resolved to lie by till morning. Some time
after this, hearing no more guns. they fired three muskets. one a considera
hle while after another; but these. the wind being contrary, we never heard.

Some time after that again, they were still more agreeably surprised with
seeing our lights and hearing the guns. which. as I have said. I caused to be
tired all the rest of the night. This set them to work with their oars. to
keep their boats ahead. at least. that we might the sooner come up with
them; and, at last. to their inexpressiblc joy. they found we saw them.

It is impossible for me to express the several gestures, the strange ecsta-
sies. the variety of postures which these poor delivered people ran into to
express the joy of their souls at so unexpected a deliverancei Grief and
fear are easily described; sighs. tears, groans, and a very few motions of the
head and hands make up the sum of its variety; but an excess of joy. at sni-
prise of joy, has a thousand extravagances in it. There were some in tears:
some raging and tearing themselves as it they had been in the greatest
agonics of sorrow; some stark raving and downright lunatic; some ran about
the ship stamping with their feet, others wringing their hands; some were
. dancing, some singing. some laughing, more crying, many quite dumb, not
able to speak a \vord;others sick and vomiting; several swooning and ready
to taint; and a few were crossing: themselves and giving God thanks.

I would not wrong them either; there might be many that were thank-
ful afterwards; but the passion was too strong [or them at first, and they
were not able to master it; they were thrown into ecstasics. and a kind
of frenzy. and it was but a very few that were composed and serious in
their joy.

Perhaps, also, the case may have some addition to it from the particular
circumstance of the nation they belonged to; I mean the French, whose
temper is allowed to be more volatilc.more passionate,and more sprightly,
and their spirits more fluid than of other nations 1 am not philosopher
enough to determine the cause ; but nothing I had ever seen before
came up to it. The ccstasies poor Friday. my trusty savage, was in. whenTHE SHIP BLEW UP. . 261

he found his father in the boat, came the nearest to it; and the surprise at
the master and his two companions, whom I delivered from the villains
that set them on shore in the island. came a little way towards it; but
nothing was to compare to this, either that I saw in Friday, or anywhere else
in my life.

It is fuither observable, that these extravagances did not show themselves
lvl that different manner I have mentioned, in difierent persons only; but
all the variety would appear, in a short succession of moments, in one and

 

"THE smi- new tr" (,0. 259).

the same person. A man that we saw this minute dumb, and. as it. were,
stupid and confounded. would the next minute be dancing and hallooing
like an antic; and the next moment be tearing his hair, or pulling his
clothes to pieces, and stamping them under his feet like a madman; in a
Re"! moments after we would have him all in tears, then sick, swoon-lug, and
had not immediate help been had, he would in a few minutes have been
(land; and thus it was not with one or two, or ten or twenty, but with the
greatest part of them; and. if I remember right, our surgeon was obliged to
let blood of about thirty of them.

There were two priests among them; one an old man. and the other av
262 ROBINSON CRUSOE.

yotmg man, and that which was strangest was,the oldest man was the worst.
As soon as he set his foot on board our ship, and saw himself safe. he
dropped clown stone dead to all appearance; not the least sign of life could
be perceived in him; our surgeon immediately applied proper remedies to
recover him, and was the only man in the ship that believed he was not
dead. At length he opened a vein in his arm. having first chafed and
rubbed the part,so as to warm it as much as possible. Upon this,thc blood,
which only dropped at first. flowing freely, in three minutes after the man
opened his eyes; and a quarter of an hour after that he spoke, grew better,
and in a little time quite'well. After the blood was stopped, he walked
about, told us he was perfectly well, took a dram oI' cordial which the
'urgeon gave him, and had come to himself. About a quarter of an
hour after this, they came running into the cabin to the surgeon, who was
bleeding a French woman that had fainted, and told 'him the priest was
gone stark mad. It seems he had begun to revolve the change of his cir-
cum 'ances in his mind, and again this put him into an ecstaey of joy. His
spirits whirled about faster than the vessels could convey them, the blood
grew hot and feverish; and the man was as fit for Bedlam as any creature
that ever was in it. The surgeon would not bleed him again in that condi-
tion, but gave him something to doze and put him to sleep; which, after
some time, operated upon him, and he awoke next morning perfectly com-
posed and well. '

The younger priest behaved with great command of his passions. and
was really an example of a serious, well-governed mind. At his first com-
ing on board the ship, he threw himself flat on his face, prostrating him-
self in thanklulness for his deliverance, in which I unllappiiy and
unseasonahly disturbed him, really thinking he had been in aswoon; but he
spoke calmly, thande me, told me he was giving God thanks for his
deliverance, begged me to leave him a few moments, and that. next to his
Maker, he would give me thanks also.

I was heartily sorry that I disturbed him, and not only left him, but kept
others from interrupting him also. He continued in that posture about
three minutes, or little more, after I left him. then came to. me, as he had
said he would. and, with a great deal of seriousness and chction, but with
tears in his eyes, thanked me. that had, under God. given him and so many
miserable creatures their lives. I told him I had no need to tell him to
thank God for it. rather than me, for I had seen that he had done that
already; but I added that it was nothing but what reason and humanity dic-
tated to all men, and that we had as much reason as he to give thanks to
God, who had blessed us so Iar as to make us the instruments of His mercy
to so many of His creatures.

After this the young priest applied himself to his countrymen; labored
to compose them. persuaded, entreated, argued. reasoned with them. and
did his utmost to keep them within the exercise of their reason, and withGRATITL'DE OF THE SAVED. 263

some he had success. though others were for a time out of all government
of themselves. I

I cannot help committing this to writing. as perhaps it may be useful to
those into whose hands it may fall. for guiding themselves in the extrava-
gances of their passions' for if an excess of joy can carry men out to such
a length beyond the reach of their reason, what will not the extravagances of
anger, rage. and a provoked mind, carry us to? And, indeed, here I saw
reason for keeping an exceeding watch over our passions of every kind, as
well those of joy and satisfaction, as those of sorrow and anger.

we were somewhat disordered by these extravagances among;r our new
guests, for the first day. but after they had retired to lodgings provided for
them as well as our ship would allow. and they had slept heartily--as must
of them did, being fatigued and frightened--they were quite another sort
of people the next day.

Nothing of good manners, or civil acknowledgments for the kindness
shown them, was wanting; the French. it is known, are naturally apt enough
to cxcecd that way The captain and one of the priests came to me the
next day, and desired to speak with me and my nephew. The commander
began to consult with us what should he done with them; and. first, they
told us we had saved their lives, so all they had was little enough fora
return to us for that kindness received The captain said they had saved
some money and some things of value in their boats, caught hastily out of
the flames. and if we would accept it. they were ordered to make an otter
of it all to us; they only desired to be set on shore somewhere in our way,
where, if possible they might get a passage to France. My nephew wished
to accept their money at first word, and to consider what to do with them
afterwards; but l overruled him in that part. for] knew what it was to be
set on shore in a strange country, and if the Portuguese captain that took
me up at sea had served me so, and taken all I had for my deliverance. I
must have starved, or have been as much a slave at the Brazils as I had
been at Barbary, the more being sold to a Mahomelan excepted, and per-
haps a. Portuguese is not a much better master than a Turk, if not, in some
cases, much worse. \ _

I therefore told the French captain that we had taken them up in their
distress, it was true, but that it was our duty to do so, as we were fellow-
Creatures; and we would desire 'to be so delivered, if we were in the like or
any other extremity; that we had done nothing for them but what we
believed they would have done for us, il we had been in their case. and they
in ours; but that we tool: them up to save them; not to plunder them; and
it would be a most barbarous thing to take that little from them which they
had saved out of the fire. and then set them on shore and leave them; that
this would be first to save them from death. and then kill them ourselves;
save them from drowning. and abandon them to starving; and, therefore, I
would not let the least thing be taken from them. .-'\5 to setting them on
shore, I told them. indeed, that' was an
exceeding difficulty to us, for that. the
ship was bound to the East Indies; and
though we were driven out of our course
to the westward a very great way, and per-
haps were directed by Heaven
on purpose [or their deliver-
anee, yet it was impossible for
us willfully to change our voy-
age on their particular account;
nor could my nephew, the cap-
tain, answer it to the firefighters,
with whom he
was under char-
ter to pursue his
voyage by way
of Brazil; and
all i knew we

"THE MATE naoucwr 51x um wrrn um" (16. 966).

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

could (lo for them
was, to put our-
selves in the way
of meeting with
other ships home~
ward bound from
the "fest Indies,
and get them a
passage. if pos<<
sible, to England
or France.

The first part of
the proposal was
so generous and
kind they could
not but be very
thankful for it; but
they were in very
great consterna-
tion, especially the
passengers, at the
notion of being
carried away to the

East Indies. They then entreated me, that as I was driven so far to the
westward before I met with them,I would. at least, keep on the same course
to the Banks of Newfoundland, where it was probable I might meet with
some ship or sloop that they might hire to carry them back to Canada.

from whence they cameMAKING FOR THE \\-'EST INDIES. 265

I thought this was but a reasonable request on their part, and therefore
I inclined to agree to it; for, indeed. I considered that to carry this whole
company to the East Indies would not only be an intolerable severity upon
the poor people, but would be ruining our whole voyage. by devouring all
our provisions; so I thought it no breach of charter-party. but what an
unforeseen accident made absolutely necessary to us, and in which no one
could say we were to blame; for the laws of God and nature would have
forbid that we should refuse to take up two boats full of people in such a
distressed condition; and the nature of the thing. as well respecting our-
selves as the poor people, obliged us to set them on shore somewhere or
other for their deliverance. So I consented that we would carry them to
Newfoundland. if wind and weather would permit; and if not, that I would
carry thorn to Martinico, in the West lndies.

The wind continued fresh easterly, but the weather pretty good; and as
the winds had continued in the points between NE. and S.F. a long time,
we missed several opportunities of sending them to France; for we met
several ships bound to Europe. whereof two were French, from St. Chris-
topher's; but they had been so long heating up against'the wind that they
durst not take in passengers. for fear of wanting pi'm-'ismns for the voyage.
as well for themselves as for those they should take in; so we were obliged
to go on. It was about a week after this that we made the Banks of New-
foundland: where, to shorten my story, we put all our French people on
board a bark, which they hired at sea there, to put them on shore, and after-
wards to carry them to France, if they could get provisions to Victual them~
selves with. \Vlien I say all the French went on shore,] should remember.
that the young priest I spoke of. hearing we were bound to the East Indies.
desired to go the voyage with us, and to he set on shore on the coast of
Coromandel; \vliiehI readily agreed to. for I wonderfully liked the man,
and had very good reason, as will appear afterwards; also four of the sea-
men entered themsclvcs on our ship, and proved very useful fellows

From hence we directed our course for the West Indies. steering away
S. and S. by l-'.. for about twenty days together, sometimes little or no wind
at all. when we mct with another subject for our humanity to work upon,
almost as deplorable as that before.

It was in the latitude of 27 degrees 5 minutes north, or>> the rgth day of
March, [694--5. when we spied a sail. our course 5.1;. and by S. we soon
perceived it was a large vessel, and that she bore up to us. but could not at
first know what to make or' her, till, after coming a little nearer, we found
she had lost her 'main-topmast. foremost and bowsprit; and presently she
fired a gun as a signal of distress. The weather was pretty good. wind at
N31 WK, :1 fresh gale. and we soon came to speak with her.

We found her a ship of Bristol. hound home from Barbadoos, but had
been blown out of the road at. Barbadoes aiew days before she was ready to
sail by a. terrible hurricane. while the captain and chief mate were both gone
on shore, so that, besides the terror of the storm, they were in an indifferent
case for good artists to bring the ship home. They had been already nine
weeks at sea. and had met with another terrible storm. after the hurricane
was over. which had blown them quite out of their knowledge to the west--
ward, and in which they harl lost their masts. They told us they expected
to have era the Bahama Islands, but were then driven away again to the
southeast by a strong gale of wind at N.N,W., the same. that blew now; and
having no sails to work the ship with but a main course and a kind of
square sail upon a jury--foremast, which they had set up, they could not lie
near the wind, but were endeavoring to stand away for the Canaries,

llut that which was worst of all was that they were almost starved for
want. of provisions, besides the iatigucs they had undergone; their bread
ant. flesh were quite gone; they had not one ounce left in the ship, and had
had none for eleven days. The only relief they had was, their water was
not all spent and they had about half a barrel of flour left; they had sugar
enough. some snccades, or sweetmeats, they had at first. but they were all
devoured. and they had seven (tasks of rum.

There was a youth and his mother and a maid-servant on board, who
were passengers, and thinking the ship was ready to sail, unhappily came
on board the ex ening belore the hurricane began, and having no provisions
of their own left. they were in a more deplorable condition than the rest;
for the seamen, being reduced to such an extreme necessity themselves. had
no compassion, we may he sure, for the poor passengers, and they were,
indeed, in such a condition that: their misery is very hard to describe.

1 had perhaps not known this part if my curiosity had not led me (the
weather being fair and the wind abated) to go on board the ship. The
second mate, who upon this occasion commanded the ship, had been on
board our ship and he told the they had three passengers in the. great cabin
that were in a deplorable condition; "Nay," says he, "I believe they are
dead, for I have heard nothing of them for-above two days. and I was
afraid to inquire after them," said he, " for I had nothing to relieve then
with."

We immediately applied ourselves to- give them what relief. we could
spare: and, indeed, I had so far overruled things with my nephew' that I
would have victualed them, though we had gone away to Virginia or any
other part of the coastuf America to have supplied ourselves, but there was
no necessity for that.

Ilut now they were in a new danger, for they were afraid of eating too
much, even of that little we gave them. The mate. or commander. hronghr.
six men with him in his boat: but these poor wretches looked like skele-
tons and were so weak that they could hardly sit to their oars. The mate
himself was very ill and half-starved. for he declared he had reserved
nothing from the men, and went share and share alike with them in every
bit they ate.THE S'I'ARV'ING CRE\V. 26"!

1 cautioned him to eat sparingly. but set meat before him immediately;
and he had not eaten three mouthfuls before he began to be sick and out of
order. so he stopped awhile, and our surgeon mixed him something with
some broth. which he said would he to him both food and physio. and after
he had taken it he grew better. In the meantime. I forgot not the men; I
ordered victuals to be given them. and the ooor creatures rather devoured
than ate it; they were so exceedingiy hu y that they "'crfl in a manner
ravenous. and had no command of themsel es: and two of them ate with so
much greedincss that they were in darr r of their lives the next morning.

The sight of these people's distress was very moving to me, and brought
to mind what I had a terrible prospect of at my first coming on shore in
my island. where I had never the least mouthful of food, or any prospect
of procuring any, be 5 the hourly apprehensions I had of being made
the food of other creature . But ail the while the mate was thus relating
to me the miserahie condition of the ship's company, I could not put out
of my thought the Story he had told me of the three poor creatures in the
great cabin. via. the mother, her son. and the maidservant, whom he had
heard nothing of for two or three days. and whom. he seemed to confess,
they had wholly neglected. their own extremities being so great; by which
I understood. that they had really given them no food at all and that there-
fore they must be perished, and be all lying dead. perhaps on the floor or
deck or' the cabin.

As I therefore kept the mate. whom we then called captain, on board
with his men. to refresh them. so i also forgot not the starving crew that
were left on board. but ordered my own boat to go on board the ship. and,
with my mate and twelve men. to carry them a sack of bread and four or
five pieces of beef to boil. Our surgeon charged the men to cause the meat
to be boiled while they stayed. and to keep guard in the cook-room. to
prevhnt the men taking it to eat raw. or taking it out of the pot before it
was well boiled, and then to give every man but a very iittle at a time; and
by this caution he preserved the men, who would otherwise have killed
themselves with that very food that was given them on purpose to save
their lives

.-'\t the same time, I ordered the mate to go into the great cabin and see
what condition the poor passengers were in, and if they were alive. to
comfort them, and give them what refreshment was proper. and the surgeon
gave him a large pitcher with some of the prepared broth which he had
given the mate that was on board, and which he did not question wouhl
restore them gradually.

l was not satisfied with this. but. as I said above-,having a great mind tL
see the scene of misery whiehl knew the ship itself \rou'Lrl present me with,
in a more lively manner than I could have. it by report. I took the captain
of the ship. as we now called him, with are and went myself, a little after,
in their boat.
l lound the poor men on board almost in a tumult, to get the vietuals
out of the boiler beiorc it was ready, but the mate observed his orders, and
kept a good guard at the cook-room door; and the men he placed there;
after using all possible persuasion to have patience, kept them off by force;
however, he caused some biscuit cakes to be clipped in the pot, and soft-
ened with the liquor nfthe meat, which they cailcd brcwis and gave them
every one some, to stay their stomachs, and told them it was for their own
safety that he was obliged to give them but little at a time. But it was all
in vain, and had I not come on board, and their own commander and offi--
cers with me, and with good words,and some threats also of giving them no
more, I believe they would have broken into the cook-room by force, and
turn the meat out of the furnace. for words are indeed of very small force
to a hungry belly; however. we pacified them. and fed them gradually and
cautiously for the first, and the next time gave them more, and at last filled

.their bellies, and the men did well enough.

But the misery of the poor passengers in the cabin was of another nature,
and far beyond the rest; {or as. first, the ship's company had so little for
themselves, it was but too true that they had at first kept them very low,
and at last totally neglected them; so that for six or seven days it might be
said they had really no food at all. and for several days before vciy littie.
The poor mother, who, as the men reported, was a woman of sense and
good breeding, had spared all she could so affectionately for her son. that
at last she entirely sank under it; and when the mate of our ship went in.
she sat upon the floor or deck, with her back up against the sides, between
two chairs, which were lashed fast, and her head sunk between her
shoulders, like a corpse, though not quite dead. My mate said all he could
to revive and encourage her, and with aspoon put some broth into her
mouth. She opened her lips, and lifted up one hand, but couid not speak;
yet she understood what he said. and made signs to him, intimating that it
was too late for her, but pointed to her child, as if she would have said they
should take care of him. However, the mate, who was exceedingly moved
at the sight, endeavored to get some of the broth into her mouth. and, as he
said, got two or three spoonfuls down, though I question whether he could
be sure of it or not; but it was too late, and she died the same night.'

The youth, who was preserved at the price of his most affectionate
mother's life, was not so far gone, yet he layin a cabin bed. as one stretched
out with hardly any life left in him. He had a piece of an old glove in his
mouth, having eaten up the rest of it; however, being young, and having
more strength than his mother, the mate got something down his throat,
and he began sensibly to revive; though, by giving him some time after,
but two or three spoonfuls extraordinary, he was very sick, and brought it
up again.

But the next care was the poor maid; she lay all along upon the deck,
hard by her mistress, and just like one that had fallen down with anA BROKEN-HEARTED GIRL. 2'69

apoplexy, and struggled for life. Her limbs were distortedozxe of her
hands was clasped round the frame of the chair and she gripped it so hard
that we could not easily make her let it 34); her other arm lay over her
head, and her feet lay both together. set fast against the frame of the cabin
table; in short, shc layjust like one in the agonies of death, and yet she
was alive. ton.

The poor creature was not only starved with hunger. and terrified with

 

" 1 FOUND rm: roan ME.\' ON "man ALMOST is A TUMITLT " (/r. 268).

the thoughts of death, but, as the men tulrl us afterward, wasbroken-hearted
for her mistress, whom she saw dying for two or three days before, and
whom she loved most tenderly,

"'e knew nnt what to do with this poor girl, [or when our surgeon, who
was a. man of very great know and experience, had, with great appli-
cation, 1 mvcrcnl her as to life, Lt had her upon his hands still; for she was
little less than distracted for :1 considerable lime after.

\Vhoever shall read these memorandum must be dcsiredtn consider, that
visits at sea. are not like a journey into the country, where sometimes people
stay a week or a. fortnight at a place; our business was to relieve this dis-
tr ed ship's crew, but not he by for them; and though they were willing
to Slt. .r the same course with us for some day vet we could carry no sail
to keep pace with aship that had no masts; however, as their captain begged
of us to help him to set up a main topmast, and a kind of topmast to his
jury l'orcmast, we rlid,as it were, he by him for three or four days, and then,
having given him five barrels of beef, :1 barrel of pork, two hog ads of
biscuit, and a proportion of peas, flour, and what other things we could
spare, and taking three casks of sugar, some rum, and some pieces of eight
from them for satisfaction, we left them, taking on board with us, at their
own earnest request, the youth and the maid, and all their goods.

The young lad was about seventeen years of age; a pretty, \velhhred,
modest and sensible youth, greatly dejected with the loss of his mother,
and, as it Seems, he had lost his father but a few months before, at Barba--
(loes; he begged of the sugeon to speak tome to take him out of the ship; for
he said the cruel fellows had murdered his mother; and, indeed, so they had,
that is to say, passi for they might have spared a small sustenance to
the poor, helpless wzt w, that might have preserved her lite, though it had
ht vn but just enough to keep her alive; but hunger knows no friend, no
relation, no justice, no right, and therefore is rcmors ess, and capable of no
compassion,

The surgeon told him how far we were going, and that it would carry
him away from all his friends,anrl put him. perhaps, in as bad circumstances
almost as those we found him in, that is to say, starving in the world. He
said it mattered not whither he went if he was but delivered from the terri-
ble crew that he was among; that the captain (by which he meant me, tor
he could know nothing of my nephew] had saVerl his life, and he was sure
wouid not hurt him; and as for the maid, he was sure if she came to herself
she would he very thankful for it, let us carry them where we would The
surgeon represented the case so affectionately! to me that I yielded, anrl we
took them both on board, with all t' 'r goods, except eleven hogsheads of

 

   

 

    
 

 

 

   

A
Sugar, which could not be removed or come at; and as the youth had a bill
of hiding for them I made his commander sign a writing obliging himself
to go as soon as he .me to Bristol to one Mr. Rogers,a merchant there, to
whom the youth said he was related, and to dclivo a letter which I wrote to
him, and all the goodshe hatl belongingto the deceased widow; which I sup-
pose was not (lone, for I could never learn that the ship came to Bristol,
but was, as is most probable, lost at sea; being," in so disabled :1 condition.
and so far from any land, that 1 am of opinion the first storm she met with
afterwards she might founder in the sea, for she was leaky and had damage
in her hohl when we met with her.

I was now in the latitude of 19 degrees 32 minutes, and had hitherto a
tolerable voyage as to weather, though at first the winds had been contrary.EXPLORING TIIE ISLAND. 27]

I shall trouble nobody with the little incidents of wind, weather, currents.
etc. on the rest of our voyage. but to shorten my story shall observe that
1 came to my old habitation, the island, on the loth of April, 1695. It was
no small difiiculty that I found the place. for as I came to it and went from
it before on the south and east side of the island coming from the Brazils,
so now coming in between the main and the island, and having no chart for
the coast, nor any landmark, I did not know it when I saw it, or know
whether I saw it or not.

"it: heat about a. great while, and went on shore on several islands in
the mouth of the great river Oronooque, but none for my purpose; only
this I learned by my coasting the shore that. l was under or ' great mistake
before, \-'i ., that the continent which I though: l saw from the island I lived
in was re. . y no continent, but a long island. or rather a ridge of i lands,
reaching from one to the other side of the extended mouth of that great
river. and that the savages who came to my island were not properly those
which We call Carih'nees, but islanders, and other barbarians oI the same
kind, who inhabited nearer to out do than the rest.

In short, I visited several of these islands to no purpose; some I found
were inhabited. and some were not; on one of them I found some Spaniards,
and thought they had lived there; but speaking with them, found they had
a sloop 1)"ng in a small er ek hard by. and came thither to ake salt,
and to catch some pearl-mu 'els if they could; but that the)- belonged
to the Isle do 'I'riniclad, which lay Ian. .r north, in the latitude of 10
and H degrees.

Thus, coasting from one island to another. sometimes with the ship,

sometimes with the Fz'enehmen's shallop, which we had found a con--
venient boat, and therefore kept her with their very good will, at length
I came fair on the south Side of my island, and presently knew the very
countenance of the place; so I brought the ship safe to an anehor, broad-
side with the little creek where my old habitation was.
s soon as I saw the place, I called for Friday, and asked him if he
knew where he was? He looked about a little, and, presently clapping
his hands, cried, "Oh, ye ' oh, there--oh, yes; oh, there!" pointing
to our old habitation, and fe'.l dancing and capering like a mad fellow;
and I had much ado to keep him from jumping into the sea, to swim
ashore to the place.

"VI-'ell, Friday." says I, " do you think vc shall find anybody here
or no? and do you think we sitail see your father?" The fellow stood
mute as a stock a good while; but, when I named his father, the poor
affectionate creature looked dejected, and I could see the tears run
down his face very plentitully. "What is the matter, Friday?" said
I; "are you troubled because you may see your father?" "No, no,"
says he, shaking his head, " no see him more; no. never more see him
again." "W'hy 50," said I, "Friday? how do you knowr that?" " Oh
no, oil no," says Friday; "he long ago die, long ago; he much old
man." "Well, well." says I, "Friday. you don't know; but shall we
see any one else, then?" The fellow, it seems, had better eyes than
I, and he points to the hill just above my old house; and though we
lay hall a league off, he cries out, " Me see, me see; yes, yes, me see
much man there, and there, and there!" I looked, but I saw nobody--
no, not with a. perspective glass, which was, I suppose. because I could
not hit the place; for the fellow was right, as I found upon inquiry
the next day; and there were five or six men all together, who stood
to look at the ship, not knowing what to think of us. '

 

"I cum: mm on Tim SOUTH sun: on MY 131mm" (p. 2'71).

"As soon as Friday told me he saw people, I caused the English
ancient to be spread, and fired three guns, to give them notice we
were friends; and in about half a'quarter of an hour after me perceived
a smoke arise from the side of the creek; so I immediately ordered
a boat out, taking Friday with me; and, hanging out a white flag, or
a flag of truce. I went directly on shore, taking with me the young
friar I mentioned, to whom I had told the story of my living there,
and the manner of it, and every particular, both of myself and those
I left there, and who was, on that account, extremely desirous to go
with me. We had, besides. about sixteen men well armed, it we had
found any new guests there which we did not know of; but we had no
need of weapons."DO you 301 mum ma?" (p.214).
13 218
As we went on shore upon the tide of flood. ncar high water, we rowed
directly into the creek; and the first man I fixed my eye upon was the
Spaniard whose iiie 1 had saved, and whom I knew by his face perfectly
well: as to his habit, I shall describe it afterwards. I ordered nobody to go
on shore at first but myself; but there was no keeping Friday in the boat,
for the affectionate creature had spied his father at a distance, a good way
off the Spaniards, where. indeed, I saw nothing of him; and if they had not
let him go ashore. he would have jumped into the sea. He was no sooner
on shore. but he flew away to his father, like an arrow out of a bow. It
would have made any man shed tears, in spite of the firmest resolution, to
have seen the first transports of this poor iellow's joy when he came to his
father: how he embraced him, kissed him, stroked his face, took him up in
his arms, set him down upon a tree. and lay down by him; then stood and
looked at him, as any one would look at a strange picture, {or a quarter of an
hour together; then lay down on the ground, and stroked his legs, and kissed
them, and then got up again, and stared at him; one would have thought
the fellow bewitehed. But it would have made a dog laugh the next day to
see how his passion ran out another way: in the morning, he walked along
the shore, and again with his father, several hours, always leading him by
the hand, as if he had been a lady: and every now and then he would come
to the boat to fetch something or other for him, either a lump of sugar. a
dram. a biscuit cake. or something or othcrthat was good. In the afternoon
his frolics ran another way; for then he would set the old man down upon
the ground. and dance about him, and make a thousand antic postures and
gestures; and all the while he did this he would be talking to him.and tell-
ing him one story or another of his travels, and of what happened to him
abroad, to divert him. In short, it the same filial affection was to be found
in Christians to their parents, in our part of the world, one would be tempted
to say there would hardly have been any need of the fifth commandment.

But this is a digression: I return to my landing. it would be endless to
take notice of all the ceremonies and civilities that the Spaniards received
me with. The first Spaniard, whom as I said, I knew 'very well. was he whose
life I had saved. He came towards the boat. attended by one more, carry-
ing a flag of truce also. and he not only did not know me at first, but he had
no thoughts, no notion of its being me that was come, till I spoke to him.
"Seignior."said I, in l'ortuguese,"do you notknow me?" at which he spoke not
a word.but, giving his musket to the man that was with him. threw his arms
abroad. and saying something in Spanish that I did not perfectly hear. came
forward and embraced me. telling me he was inexcusable not to know that
face again that he had once seen as if an angel from Heaven, sent to save his
life. He said abundance of very handsome fixings, as a well-bred Spaniard
always knows how, and then beckoning to the person that attended him.
' bade him go and callout his comrades. Ilc then asked me if 1 would walk
to my old habitation, where he would give me possession of my own houseMEETING \VITH OLD FRIENDS. W5

'again, and where Ishould see they had made but mean improvements; so I

walked along with him; but,alas! I could no more find the place again than
it' I had never been there; for they had planted so many trees, and placed
them in such a position. so thick and close to one another, and in ten years'
time they were grown so big that. in short. the place was inaccessible.
except by such windings and blind ways as they themselves only, who made
them. could find.

[asked them what put them upon all these fortifications. He told me I
would say there was need enough of it when they had given me an account
how they had passed their time since their arriving in the island, especially
after they had the misfortune to find that I was gone. He told me he could
not but have some satisfaction in my good fortune, when he heard that I
was gone in a good ship, and to my satisfaction; and that he had oftentimes
a strong persuasion that one time or other he should see me again; but noth-
ing that ever befall him in his life, he said, was so surprising and afflicting
to him at first, as the disappointment he was under when he came back to
the island and found I was not there.

.-'\s to the three barbarians (so he called them) that were left behind,and
of whom. he said, he had a long story to tell me. the Spaniards all thought
themselves much better among the savages, only that their number was so
small, "and," says he. "had they been strong enough, we had been all long
ago in purgatory." and with that he crossed himself on the breast. "But,
sir," says he, "I hope you will not be displeased when I Shall tell you how,
forced by necessity, we were obliged, for our own preservation. to disarm
them and make them our subjects. as they would not be content with being
moderately our masters but would be our murderers." l'answered I was afraid
of it when I left them there. and nothing troubled me at my parting from
the island but that they were not come back. that I mighthave put them in
possession of everything first, and left the others in a state of subjection, as
they deserved; but if they had reduced them to it. I was very glad and
should be very far from finding any fault with it; for I knew they were a
parcel of refractory, ungovernahle villains, and were fit for any manner
of mischief.

While I was saying this. the man came whom he had sent back, and with
him eleven more. In the dress they were in, it was impossible to guess
what nation they were of, but he made all clear both to them and to me. First
he turned to me, and pointing to them, said, "These, sir, are some of the
gentlemen who owe their lives to you;" and then turning to them, and point-
ing to me. he let them know who I was; upon which they all came up. one
by one, not as if they had been sailors, and ordinary fellows, and the like.
but really as if they had been ambassadors or nobleman, and I a monarch
or great conqueror; their behavior was. to the last degree, ohliging and
courteous. and yet mixed with a manly, majestic gravity, which very well
became them; and, in short, they had so much more manners than I, that!
scarce knew how to receive their civilitics. much less how to return them in
kind,

The history of their coming to, and conduct in, the island, after my going
away, is so very remarkable, and has so many incidents, which the former
part of my relation will help to understand, and which will, in most of the
particulars, refer to the account I have already given, that I cannot but
commit them, with great delight, to the reading of those that come afterlne.

I shall no longer trouble the story with a relation in the first person,
which will put me to the expense of ten thousand " said 1's," and " said he's,"
and " he told me's," and " I told him's," and the like; but Ishall collect the
[acts historically, as near as I can gather them out of my memory, from
what they related to me. and from what I met with in my conversing with
them, and with the place.

In order to do this succinctly, and as intelligibly as I can, I must go
back to the circumstances in which I left the island, and in which the persons
were of whom I am to speak. And first it is necessary to repeat that I had
sent away Friday's father and the Spaniard (the two whose lives I had
rescued from the savages) in a large canoe to the main, as I then thought
it, to fetch over the Spaniard's companions that he left behind him, in order
to save them from the like calamity that he had been in, and in order to
suecor them for the present; and that, if possible, we might together find
some way for our deliverance afterwards.

When I sent them away, Iliad no visible appearance of, or the least room
to hope for, my own deliverance, any more than I had twenty years before
--much less had I any foreknowledge of what afterwards happened, I mean,
of an English ship coming on shore there to fetch me off; and it could not
be but a very great'surprisc to them, when they came back, not only to find
that I was gone, but to find three strangers left on the spot, possessed
of all that I had left behind me, which would otherwise have been their
own.

The first thing, however, which I inquired into, that I might begin where
I tett off, was of their own part; and I desired the Spaniard would give me
a particular account of his voyage back to his countrymen with the boat,
when I sent him to fetch them over. He told me there was little variety in
that part, for nothing remarkable happened to them on the way, having had
very calm weather and a smooth sca. As for his countrymen, it could not
be doubted, he said, but that they were overjoyed to see him (it seems he
was the principal man among them. the captain of the vessel they had been
shipwrecked in having been dead some time), they were, he said, the more
surprised to see him because they knew he was fallen into the hands of the
savages, who, they were satisfied, would devour him, as they did all the rest
of their prisoners; that when he told them the story of his deliverance, and
in what manner he was furnished for carrying them away. it was like a
dream to them. and their astonishment, he said, was somewhat like that ofTRIVIAL DIFFERENCES. 271

Joseph's brethren, when he told them who he was. and the story of his exal-
tation in Pharaoh's court: but when he showed them the arms, the powder.
the ball, and provisions, that he brought them for their journey or voyage,
they were restored to themselves, took a just share of the joy of their deliv-
erance. and immediately prepared to come away with him.

Their first business was to get canoes, and in this they were obliged not
to stick so much upon the honesty of it, but to trespass upon their friendly
savages, and to borrow two large canoes, or pcriaguas, on pretense of going
out a-fishing, or for pleasure, In these they came away the next morning.
It seems they wanted no time to get themselves ready, for they had no
baggage. neither clothes nor provisions. nor anything in the world but what
they had on them, and a few roots to eat. of which they used to make their
bread.

They were in all three weeks absent, and in that time. unluckily for
them, i had the occasion offered (or my escape, as I mentioned in the other
part, and to get off from the island, leaving three of the most impudent,
hardened, ungovcrnable, disagreeable villains behind me, that any man
could desire to meet with, to the poor Spaniard's great grief and disappoint-
ment, you may be sure.

The only just thing the rogues did was that when the Spaniards came
ashore, they gave my letter to them, and gave them provisions, and other
relief. as I had ordered them to do; also they gave them the long paper of
directions which I had left with them. containing the particular methods
which I took for managing;' every part of my life there; the way I baked my
bread, bred up tame goats, and planted my corn; how I cured my grapes,
made my pots. and, in a word, everything I did; ullthis being written down,
they gave to the Spaniards (two of whom understood English well enough)
nor did they refuse to accommodate the Spaniards with anything else, for
they agreed very well for some time. They gave them an equal admission
into the house. or cave, and they began to live very sociably; and the head
Spaniard, who had seen pretty much of my methods, and Friday's father
together, managed all their affairs; but as for the Englishmen, they did
nothing but ramble about the island, shoot parrots and catch tortoises; and
when when they came home at night. the Spaniards provided their suppers
for them.

The Spaniards would have been satisfied with this, had the others but
let them alone, which, however, they could not find in their hearts to do
long; but, like the dog in the manger, they would not eat themselves.
neither would they let the others eat. The differences. nevertheless, were
at first but trivial and such as are not worth relating, but at last it broke
out into open war, and it began with all the rudeness and inselence that
can be imagined--without reason, without provocation, contrary to
nature, and, indeed, to common sense; and though, it is true, the first
relation of it came from the Spaniards themselves, whom I may call the
accusers, yet when I came to examine the fellows, they could not deny a.
word of it. '

But before I come to the particulars of this part. I must supply a defect
in my [ormer relation, and this was, I lorgot to set down, among the rest,
that just as we were weighing the anchor, to set sail. there happened a little
quarrel on board of our ship, which I was once afraid would have turned to
a second mutiny; nor was it appeased till the captain, rousing up his cour-
age, and taking us all to his assistance. parted them by force, and, making
two of the most refractory fellows prisoners, he laid them in irons, and as
they had been active in the former disorders, and let fall some ugly, dan-
gerous words, the second time he threatened to carry them in irons to F g-
land. and have them hanged there for mutiny, and running away with the ship.
This. it seems, though the captain did not intend to do it, frightened some
other men in the ship, and some of them had put it into the heads of the
rest, that the captain only gave them good words for the present, till they
should come to some English port, and that then they should be all put into
gaol. and tried for their lives. The mate got intelligence or' this, and
acquainted us with it, upon which it was desired that I, who still passed
for a great man among them, should go down with the mate. and satisfy
the men,and tell them that they might be assured, if they behaved well the
rest of the voyage. all they had done for the time past should be pardoned.
So I went, and after passing my honor's word to them. they appeared easy,
and the more so when I caused the two men that were in irons to he released
and forgiven.

But this mutiny had brought us to an anchor for that night; the wind
also falling calm next morning. we found that our two men who had been
laid in irons had stolen each of them a musket. and some other weapons
(what powder or shot they had we knew not), and had taken the ship's
pinnace, which was not yet hauled up, and run away with her to their com-
panions in roguery on shore. As soon as we found this, I ordered the long-
boat on shore with twelve men and the mate. and away they went to seek
the rogues; but they Could neither find them nor any of the rest. for they
all [led into the woods when they saw the boat coming on shore. The mate
was at once resolved, in justice to their roguery, to have destroyed their
plantations, burned all their household stuff and furniture, and left them to
shift without it; but'having no orders he let it all alone, left everything as
he found it. and. bringing the pinnace away, came on board without them.
These two men made their number live; but the other three villains were so
much more wicked than they, that after they had been two or three days
together, they turned the two new-comers out of doors to shift for them-
selves, and would have nothing to do with them; nor could they. for :1 good
while, be persuaded to give them any food; as for the Spaniards, they were
not yet come.

When the Spaniards came first on share. the business began to go for-
OTHEY BUILD TWO HUTS. m

ward; the Spaniards Would have persuaded the three English brutes to have
taken in their countrymen again, that.as they said, they might be all one
family, but they would not hear of it; so the two poor fellows lived-by them--
selves; and finding nothing but industry and application would make. them
live comfortably, they pitched their tents on the north shore of the island,
but a little more to the west, to be out of danger of the savages, who
always landed on the east parts of the island.

Here they built them two huts, one to lodge in. and the other to lay up

 

' nAmt 1'an smnn on " (p. 280).

their magaznnes and stores in; and the Spaniards having given them some
corn for seed. and some of the peas which [had left them, they dug, planted,
and incloscd, after the pattern I had set for them all. and began to live
pretty well. .Their first crop of corn was on the ground; and though it
was but a little bit of land which they had dug up at first. having had but
a little time, yet it was enough to relieve them, and find them with bread
and other eatablcs; and one of the fellows being the cook's mate of the
ship. was very ready at making soup, puddings, and such other prepara-
tions as the rice and the milk, and such little flesh as they got, furnished
him to do.

They were going on in this little thriving position when the three
unnatural rogues, their own countrymen too, in mere humor. and to insult
them. came and bullied them. and told them the island was theirs; that the
governor. meaning me. had given them the possession of it, and nobody
else had any right to it; and that they should build no houses upon their
ground, unless they would pay rent for them.

The two men. thinking they were jesting at first. asked them to come in
and sit down, and see what fine houses they were that they had built, and
to tell them what rent they demanded; and one of them merrily said, it
they were the ground-landlords, he hoped, il they built tenements upon
their land, and made improvements, they would, according to the custom of
landlords, grant a long lease, and desired they would get a scrivener to
draw the writings. One of the three, cursing and raging. told them they
should see they were not in jest; and going to a little place at a distance.
where the honest men had made a fire to dress their victuals, he takes a
fircbrand. and claps it to the outside of their hut. and very fairly set it on
fire; and it would have been all burned down in a few minutes, if one of the
two had not run to the fellow,'thrust him away. and trod the fire out with
his feet. and that not without some difi'iculty too.

The fellow was in such a rage at the honest man's thrusting him away,
that he returned upon him, with a pole he had in his hand. and had not the
man avoided the blow very nimbly. and run into the hut, he had ended his
days at once. His comrade, seeing the danger they were both in, ran in
after him, and immediately they came both out with their muskets. and the
man that was first struck at with the pole knocked the fellow down that
began the quarrel, with the stock of his musket. and that before the other
two could come to help him; and then. seeing the rest come at them, they
stood together, and presenting the other ends of their pieces to them, bade
them stand off.

The others had fire-arms with them too; but one of the two honest men.
bolder than his comrade, and made desperate by his danger, told them, if
they oEfered to move hand or foot, they were dead men, and boldly com-
manded them to lay down their arms. They did not. indeed, lay down their
arms, but seeing him so resolute, it brought them to a parley, and they con--
seated to take their wounded man with them and be gone; and, indeed, it
seems the fellow was wounded sufficiently with the blow. However. they
were much in the wrong, since they had the advantage. that they did not
disarm them effectually, as they might have done, and have gone immedi-
ately to the Spaniards, and given them an account how the rogues had
treated them; for the three villains studied nothing but revenge, and every
day gave them some intimation that they did so,

But not to crowd this part with an account of the lesser part of theirQUARRELS. 281

rogueties. such as treading down their corn, shooting three young kids and a
she-goat,\vhich the poor men had got to breed up tame for their store,and,
in a word, plaguing them night and day in this manner; it forced the two
men to such a desperation that they resolved to fight them all three the first
time they had a [air opportunity. In order to do this. they resolved to go
to the castle, as they called it (that was my old dwelling), where the three
rogues and the Spaniards all lived together at that time, intending to have
a fair battle, and the Spaniards should stand by to see fair play; so they got
up in the morning before day and came to the place and called the English-
men by their names, telling a Spaniard that answered that they wanted to
speak with them.

It happened that the day before two of the Spaniards, having been in
the woods, had seen one of the two Englishmen, whom, for distinction, I
called the honest men. and he had made a sad complaint to the Spaniards of
the barbarous usage they had met with from their three countrymen, and
how they had ruined their plantationand destroyed their corn that they had
labored so hard to bring forward, and killed the milCh-goat and their three
kids, which was all they had provided for their sustenance; and that if he
and his friends, meaning the Spaniards, did not assist them again. they
should be starved. When the Spaniards came home at night. and they were
all at supper, one oi them took the freedom to reprove the three English--
men, though in very gentle and mannerly terms, and asked them how they
could be so cruel, they being harmless, inoffensive fellows: that they were
putting themselves in a way to subsist by their labor, and that it had cost
them a great deal of pains to bring things to such perfection as they were
then in.

One of the Englishmen returned very briskly, " What had they to do
there? that they came on shore without leave, and that they should not
plant or build upon the island; it was none of their ground." " Why," says
the Spaniard, very calmly, " Seignior Inglese, they must not starve." The
Englishman replied, like a rough-hcwn tarpauling, " They might starve; they
should not plant nor build in that place." " But what must they do then,
seignior?" said the Spaniard. Another of the brutes returned, " Do? they
should be servants and work for them." " But how can you expect that of
them?" says the Spaniard; " they are not bought with your money; you
have no right to make them servants." The Englishmen answered, " The
island was theirs; the governor had given it to them, and no man had any-
thing to do there but themselves;" and with that, swore by his Maker that
they would go and burn all their new huts: they should build none upon
their land. " \Vhy. seignior," says the Spaniard, " by the same rule we
must be your servants too." "Ay," says the bold dog. " and so you shall.
too, before we have done with you," mixing two or three oaths in the
proper intervals in his speech. The Spaniard only smiled at that and made
him no answer. However. this little discourse had heated them. and startr
mg up. one says to the other (I think it was he they called Will Atkins).
"Come,]aek, let's go and have t'nthcr brush with them; we'll demolish
their castle, I'll warrant you; they shall plant no colony in our dominions."

Upon this they went all trooping away, with every man a gun. a. pistol,
and a. sword. and muttered some insolent things among themselves, of
what they would do to the Spaniards too,when opportunityol'fered; but the
Spaniards, it seems, did not so perfectly understand them as to know all

 

'"wnm om. BLOW 017 ms ms-r KNOCKED um Down" (p.283).

the particulars, only that, in general, they threatened them hard for taking
the two Englishmen's part.

Whither they went, at how they bestowed their time that evening, the
Spaniards said they (lid not know. but it seems they wandered about the
country part of the night, and then, lying down in the place which I used to
call my bower, they were weary and overslept themselves. The case was
this: they had resolved to stay till midnight, and so to take the two poor men
when they were asleep. and as they acknowledged afterwards, intended to
set fire to their huts while they were in them, and cither burn them there or
murder them as they came out. As malice seldom sleeps very sound, it
was very strange they should not have been kept awake.A KNOCK-DOWN BLOW. 288

However, as the two men had also a'design upon them, as I have said,
though amuch fairer one than that of burning and murdering, it happened,
and very luckily for them all, that they were up and gone abroad before the
bloody--minded rogues came to their huts.

When they came there and found the men gone, Atkins, who it seems,
was the forwardest man, called out to his comrade, "Ila, Juek,here's the
nest, but the birds are flown." They mused awhile to think what .should be
the occasion of their being gone abroad so soon, and sug vested presently
that the Spaniards had given them notice of it; and with that they shook
hands and swore to one another that they would he revenged of the
Spaniards As soon as they had made this bloody bargain, they fell to
work with the poor men's habitation; they did not set fire, indeed, to any-
thing. but they pulled down both theirhouscs, and pulled them so limb from
limb that they left not the least stick standing, or scarce any sign on the
ground where they stood; they tore all their little Collected householdstuff
in pieces, and threw everything about in such a manner that the poor men
afterwards found some of their things a mile off their habitation. "'hen
they had done this. they pulled up all the young trees which the poor men
had planted; pulied up an inelosure they had made to secure their cattle
and their corn; and,in a word, sacked and plundered everything as com-
pletely as a horde of Tartars would have done. .

The two men were, at this juncture, gone to find them out, and had
resolved to fight them wherever they had been, though they were but two
to three; so that, had they met, there certainly would have been bloodshed
among them, for they were all very stout, resolute fellows, to give them
their due.

But Providence took more care to keep them asunder than they them-
selves could do to meet; for, as if they had dogged one another, when the
three were gone thither, the two were here; and afterwards, when the two
went back to find them, the three were come to the old habitation again; we
shall see their different conduct presently. When the three came back like
[urious creatures, flushed with the rage which the work they had been about
had put them into, they came up to the Spaniardsand told them what they
had done. by way of scoff and bravado; and one of them stepping up to one
of the Spaniards, as if they had been a couple of boys at play, takes hold oi
his hat as it was upon his head, and giving it a twirl about, iieering in his
face. says to him, "And you, Seignior Jack Spaniard, shall have the same
sauce, if you do not mend your manners." The Spaniard, who, though a
quiet, civil man. was as brave a man as could be, and, withal, a strong well-
made man, looked at him for a good while. and then, having no weapon in
his hand, stepped gravely up to him, and. nith one blow of his fist, knocked
him down, as an ox is felled with a pole-axe; at which one of the rogues,
as insolent as the first, fired his pistol at the Spaniard immediately; he
missed his body, indeed, for the bullets went through his hair, but one of
them touched the tip of his ear, and he bled pretty-'much, The blood made
the Spaniard believe he was more hurt than he really was. and that put him
into some heat, for before he acted all in a perfect calm; but now, resolving
to go through with his work, he stooped, and took the iellow's musket whom
he had knocked down, and was just going to shoot. the man who had fired
at him, when the rest of the Spaniards, being in the cave, came out. and
calling on him not to shoot, they stepped in. secured the other two, and took
their arms from them.

When they were thus disarmed, and lound they had made all the Span~
iards their enemies, as well as their- own countrymen, they began to cool,
and, giving the Spaniards better words, would have had their arms again;
but the Spaniards considering the feud that was between them and the
other two Englishmen. and that it would be the best method that they could
take to keep them from killing one another, told them they would do them
no harm; and it they would live peaceably, they would be very willing to
assist and associate with them, as they did before; but that they could not
think of giving them their arms again. while they appeared so resolved to
do mischief with them to their own countrymen, and had even threatened
them all to make them their servants,

The rogues were now no more capable to hear reason than to act with
reason. but being-refused their arms, they went raving away, and raging like
madmen, threatening what they would do, though they had no fire-arms.
But the Spaniards, despising their threatening, told them they should take
care how they offered any injury to their plantation or cattle; for if they
did. they would shoot them as they would ravenous beasts, wherever they
found them; and if they fell into their hands alive, they should certainly be
hanged. However, this was far from cooling them, but away they went,
raging and swearing like iuries of hell. As soon as they were gone, the two
men came back. in passion and rage enough also, though of another kind;
for having been at their plantation; and finding it all demolished and
destroyed, as above, it will easily be supposed they had provocation enough.
They could scarce have room to tell their tale, the Spaniards were so eager
to tell them theirs; and it was strange enough to find that three men should
thus bully nineteen, and receive no punishment at all.

The Spaniards, indeed, despised thcm, and especially, having thus dis--
armed them, made light of their threatenings; but the two Englishmen
resolved to have their remedy against them, what pains soever it cost to find
them out. But the Spaniards interposed here too, and told them, that as
they had disarmed them, they could not consent that they (the two) should
pursue them with fire arms. and perhaps kill them. " But," said the grave
Spaniard, who was their governor, " we will endeavor to make them do you
justice, if you will leave it to us; {or there is no doubt but they will come to
us again. when their passion is over, being not able to subsist without our
assistance. We promise you to make no peace with them without having aHUMBLE--PIE. 2&5

full satisfaction for you; and, upon this condition. we hope you will promise
to use no violence with them, other than in your own defense." The two
Englishmen yielded to this very awkwardly, and with great reluctance; but.
the Spaniards protested that they did it only to keep them from bloodshed,
and to make them all easy at last. " For," said they, " we are not so many
of us; here is room enough for us all, and it is a great pity that we should
not be all good friends." At length they did consent. and waited for the
issue of the thing, living for some days with the Spaniards; for their own
habitation was destroyed.

In about five days' time, the three vagrants, tired with wandering, and
almost starved with hunger, having chiefly lived on turtles' eggs all that
while, came back to the grove; and finding my Spaniard, who, as I have said.
was the governor, and two more with him, walking by the side of the creek,
they came up in a very submissive, humble manner. and begged to be received
again into the family. The Spaniards used them civilly,but told them they
had acted so unnaturally to their countrymen, and so very grossly to them
(the Spaniards), that they could not come to any conclusion without con-
sulting the two Englishmen and the rest; but, however, they would go to
them and discourse about it. and they should know in half an hour. It may
be guessed that they were very hard put to it; for, it seems, as they were to
wait this half hour for an answer. they begged they would send them out
some bread in the meantime, which they did, sending at the same time a
large piece of goat's flesh, and a boiled parrot, which they ate very heartily,
for they were hungry enough.

After half an hour's consultation, they were called in, and a long debate
ensued, their two countrymen charging them with the ruin of all their labor,
and a design to murder them; all which they owned before, and therefore
could not deny now. Upon the whole, the Spaniards acted the moderators
between them; and as they had obliged the two Englishmen not to hurt the
three while they were naked and unarmed, so they now obliged the three to
go and rebuild their fellows' two huts, one'to be of the same and the other
of larger dimensions than they were before; to fence their ground again
where they had pulled up their fences, plant trees in the room of those pulled
up, dig up the land again for planting com where they had spoiled it, and,
in a word. to restore everything to the same state as they found it, as near
as they could; for entirely it could not be, the season for the corn, and the
growth of the trees and hedges, not being possible to be recovered.

Well, they submitted to all this; and as they had plenty of provisions
given them all the while, they grew very orderly, and the whole society
began to live pleasantly and agreeably together again; only that these three
fellows could never be persuaded to work--I mean for themselves-~except
now and then a little, just as they pleased; however, the Spaniards told
them plainly, that if they would but live sociably and friendly together, and
study the good of the whole plantation, they would be content to work for
them, and let them walk about and be as idle as they plcasedi and thus,
having lived pretty well together for a month or two, the Spaniards gave
them arms again, and gave them liberty to go abroad with them as
before.

It was not above a week after they had these arms and went abroad,
before the ungrateful creatures began to be as insolent and troublesome as
ever; but, however, an accident happened presently upon this which endan-
gered the safety of them all, and they were obliged to lay by all private
resentinents and look to the preservation of their lives.

It happened one night that the Spanish governor, as I call him--that is
to say, the Spaniard whose life I had saved--who was now the captain, or
leader, or governor of the rest, found himself very uneasy in the night and
could by no means get any sleep; he was perfectly Well in body, as he told
me the story, only' found his thoughts tumultuous; his mind ran upon men
fighting and killing one another; but he was broad awake and could not by
any means get any sleep; in short, he lay a great while, but, growing more
and more uneasy, he resolved to rise. As they lay, being so many of them,
on goat-skins laid thick upon such couches and pads as they made for
themselves, and not in hammocks and ship-beds as I did, who was but one,
so they had little to do when they were willing to rise, but to get upon their
feet and perhaps put on a coat, such as it was, and their pumps and they
were ready for going any way that their thoughts guided them. Being thus
got up, he looked out; but, being'dark, he could see little or nothing, and,
besides, the trees which 1 had planted, as in my former account is described,
and which Were now grown tall, intercepted his sight. so that he could only
look up and see that it was a clear, starlight night, and, hearing no noise. he
returned and laid him down again;but it was all one; he could not sleep nor
could he compose himself to anything like rest, but his thoughts were to the
last degree uneasy, and he knew not for what.

Having made some noise with rising and walking about, going out and
coming in, another of them waked and, calling, asked who it was that. was
up. The governor told him how it had been with him. "'Say you so? "
says the other Spaniard;" such things are not to be slighted, I assure you;
there is certainly some mischief working near us;" and presently he asked
him, "Where are the Englishmen?" "They are all in their huts," says he,
"safe enough." It seems the Spaniards had kept possession of the main
apartment and had made a place for the three Englishmen who, since their
last mutiny, were always quartered by themselves and could not come at
the rest. "Well." says the Spaniard, " there is something in it, I am per-
suaded, from my own experience, I am satisfied our spirits embodied have
a converse with and receive intelligence from the spirits unembodied and
inhabiting the invisible world; and this friendly notice is given for our
advantage, if we knew how to make use of it. Come," says he, "let us go
and look abroad. and ii we find nothing at all in it to justify the trouble, I'llAN ERROR OF JUDGMENT. 28'?

tell you a story to the purpose, that shall convince you of the justice of my
proposing it."

In a word, they went out to go up to the top of the hill where I used to
go, but they being strong and a good company, not alone as I was, used
none of my cautions to go up by the ladder and, pulling it up after them, to
go up a second stage to the top, but were going round through the grove,
unconcerned and unwary, when they were surprised with seeing a light as of

 

"THEY CAME ur IN A vrzmr sunmsswe, nouns MANNl-ZK" (fl. $85).

fire a very little way off from them and hearing the voices of men, not of
one or two, but of a great number.

In all the discoveries I had made of the savages landing on the island. it
was my constant care to prevent them making the least discovery ofthere
being any inhabitant upon the place, and when by any occasion they came
to know it, they felt it so effectually that they that got away were scarce
able to give any account or it, for we disappeared as soon as possible; nor
did ever any that had seen me escape to tell any one else, except it was the
three savages in our last encounter. who jumped into the boat, of whom I
mentioned 1 was afraid they should go home and bring more help.
-Whether it was the consequence of \he escape of those men that so great a
number came now together, or whether they came ignorantly, and by acci-
dent. on their usual bloody errand. the Spaniards could not, it seems, under:
stand: but whatever it was it had been their business either to have con-
ccaled themselves, or not to have seen them at all, much less to have let the
savages have seen that there were any inhabitants in the place, or to have
fallen upon them so effectually as that not a man of them should have
escaped. which could only have been by getting in between them and their
boats; but this presence of mind was \vantingito them, which was the ruin
of their tranquility for a great while.

We need not doubt but that the governor and the man with him, sur-
prised with this sight. ran back immediately and raised their fellows. giving
them an account of the imminent danger they were all in, and they again as
readily took the alarm. but it was impossible to persuade them to stay close
within where they were. but they must all run out to see how things stood.

While it was dark, indeed. they were well enough, and they had oppor-
tunity enough for some hours, to view them by the light of three fires they
had made at a distance from one another; what they were doing they knew
not, and what to do themselves they knew not. For, first, the enemy were
too many, and secondly, they did not keep together, but were divided into
several parties, and were on shore in several places.

The Spaniards were in no small consternation at this sight, and as they
found that the fellows ran straggling all over the shore, they made no doubt
but, first or last, some of them would chop in upon their habitation, or upon
some other place where they would see the token of inhabitants; and they
were in great perplexity also for fear of their flock of goats, which would
have been little less than starving them, if they should have been destroyed;
so the first thing they resolved upon was to dispatch three men away before
it was light, two Spaniards and one Englishman, to drive all the goats away
to the great valley where the cave was, and, if need were, to drive them into
the very cave itself. Could they have seen the savages all together in one
body, and at a distance from their canoes, they resolved if there had been a
hundred of them to have attacked them; but that could not be obtained,
for they were some of them two miles off from the others, and, as it
appeared afterwards, were of two different nations.

After having mused a great while on the course they should take, and
beating their brains in considering their present circumstances, they
resolved at last, while it was still dark. to send the old savage, Friday's
father, out as aspy, to learn, if possible. something concerning them--as
Iwhat they came for, what they intended to do, and the like. The old man
readily undertook it, and stripping himself quite naked, as most of the sav--
ages were, away he went. After he had been gone an hour or two. he brings
word that he had been among them undiscovered; that he found they were
two parties, and of two several nations, who had war with one another and
had had a great battle in their own country, and that both sides having had
several prisoners taken in the fight, they- were, by mere chance, landed all
on the same island, for the devouring their prisoners and making merry; but
their coming so by chance to the same place had spoiled all their mirth--FIGHT BETWEEN THE SAVAGES. 289

that they were in a great rage at one another, and were so near that he
believed they would fight again as soon as daylight began to appear; but he
did not perceive that they had any notion of anybody being on the island
but themselves. He had hardly made an end of telling his story when they
could perceive, by the unusual noise they made, that the two little armies
were engaged in a bloody fight.

Friday's father used all the arguments he could to persuade our people
to lie close, and not be seen. He told them their safety consisted in it', and
that they had nothing to do but lie still, and the savages would kill one
another to their hands, and then the rest would go away, and it was so to a
tittle. But it was impossible to prevail, especially upon the Englishmen,
their curiosity was so importunate upon their prudentials that they must
run Ont and see the battle. However, they used some caution, too; they did
not go openly, just by their own dwelling, but went farther into the woods,
and placed themselves to advantage, where they might securely see them
manage the fight, and as they thought, not be seen by them; but it seems
the savages did see them, as we shall find hereafter.

The battle was very fierce, and, if I might believe the Englishmen, one
of them said he could perceive that some of them were men of great brav-
ery, of invincible spirits, and of great policy in guiding the fight. The
battle, they said, held two hours before they could guess which party would
be beaten; but then that party which was nearest our people's habitation
began to appear weakest, and after some time more, some of them began to
fly, and this put our men again into a great consternation. lest any one of
those that fled should run into the grove before their dwelling for shelter,
and thereby involuntarily discover the place; and that, by consequence, the
pursuers would do the like in search of them. Upon this, they resolved that
they would stand armed within the wall, and whoever came into the grove,
they resolved to sally out over the wall and kill them, so that, if possible.
not one should return to give an account of it. They ordered, also, that it
should be done with their swords, or by knocking them down with the
stocks of their muskets, but not by shooting them, [or fear of raising an
alarm by the noise.

As they expected it fell out; three of the routed army fled for life, and
crossing-the creek, ran directly into the place, not in the least knowing
whither they went, but running as into a thick wood [or shelter. The scout
they kept to look abroad gaye notice of this within, with this addition, to
our men's great satisfaction,viz., that the conquerors had not pursued them,
or seen which way they were gone. Upon this, the Spanish governor, a man
of humanity, would not suffer them to kill the three fugitives, but sending
three men out by the top of the hill, ordered them to go round, come in
behind them, and surprise and take them prisoners, which was done. Ihe
residue of the conquered people fled to their canoes, and got off to sea; the

victors retired, made no pursuit, or very little, but drawing themselves into
in
a body together. gave two great screaming shouts, which they supposed was
by way of triumph , and so the fight ended; and the same day, about three
o'clock in the afternoon they also marched to their canoes. And thus the
Spaniards had the island again free to themselves, their (right was over, and
they saw no savages [or several )eurs alter.

 

"may wmu: sunrmsen wrrn snnrxe A umn'"(f. 287).

After they were all gone the Spaniards came out of their den, and view-
ing the field of battle, they found about twmand-thirty men dead on the
spot; some were killed with great long arrows. some. of which were found
sticking in their bodies; but most of them were killed with great wooden
swords. sixteen or seventeen of which they found in the field of battle, and
as many bows, with a great many arrows. These swords were strange.
great unwieldy things, and they must be very strong men that used them;A HORRIBLE THOUGHT. 291

most of those Mien that were killed with them had their heads mashed to
pieces, as we may say, or, as we call it in English, their brains knocked out,
and several their arms and legs broken; so that it is evident they fight with
incxprcssible rage and fury. W'c found not one man that was not stone
dead; for either they stay by their enemy till they have killed him. or they
carry all the wounded men that are not quite dead away with them.

This deliverance tamed our Englishmen for a great while; the sight had
filled them with hurror, and the consequences appeared terrible to the last

 

" mnmus JUST comm; on SHORE." (9.298.)

degree, especially upon supposing that some time or other they should fall
into the hands of these creatures who would not only kill them as enemies
hut. kill them for food, as we kill our cattle; and they professed to me that
the thoughts of being eaten up like beef and mutton, though it was sup--
posed it was not to be till they were dead, had something in it so horrible
that it nauseatcd their very stomachs, made them sick when they thought
of it, and filled their minds with such unusual terror that they were not
themselves for some weeks after. This. as I said, tamed even the three
English brutes I have been speaking; of; and fora great while after they
were tractable, and went about the common business of the whole society
well enoughAplanted, sowed, reaped, and began to be all naturalized to the
country. But some time after this they fell into such simple measures
again as brought them into a great deal of trouble.

They had taken three prisoners, as I observed; and these three being
lusty, stout young fellows, they made them servants, and taught them to
work for them; and as slaves they did well enough; but they did not take
their measures with them as I did by my man Friday. viz., to begin with
them upon the principle of having saved their lives, and then instruct them
in the rational principles of life, much less of religion--civilizing and reduc-
ing them by kind usage and affectionate arguments; but as they gave them
their food every day. so they gave them their work too, and kept them
fully employed in drudgery enough; but they failed in this by it, that they
never had them to assist them and fight for them as I had my man Friday.
who was as true to me as the very flesh upon my bones.

But to come to the family part. Being all now good friends, for common
danger, as I said above, had effectually reconciled them, they began to
consider their general circumstances; and the first thing that came under
consideration was whether, seeing the savages particularly haunted that side
of the island, and that there were more remote and retired parts of it
equally adapted to their way oI living, and manifestly to their advantage,
they should not rather move their habitation, and plant in some more proper
place for their safety, and especially for the security of their cattle and
corn.

Upon this, after long debate, it was concluded that they would not
remove their habitation; because that, some time or other, they thought
they might hear from their governor again, meaning me; and if Ishould
send any one to seek them, I should be sure to direct them to that side,
where, if they should find the place demolished, they would conclude the
savages had killed us all, and we were gone, and so our supply would go
too. But as to their corn and cattle, they agreed to remove them into the
valley where my cave was. where the land was as proper for both, and
where, indeed, there was land enough; however, upon second thoughts, they
altered one part of their resolution too, and resolved only to remove part
of their cattle thither, and plant part of their corn there; and so if one
part was destroyed, the other might be saved. And one part of prudence
they used. which it was very well they did, that they never trusted those
three savages, which they had taken prisoners, with knowing anything of
the plantation they had made in that valley. or of any cattle they had there,
much less of the cave there, which they kept, in case of necessity, as a safe
retreat; and thither they carried also the two barrels of powder, which I
had sent them at my coming away. But, however, they resolved not to
change their habitation; yet they agreed, that as I had carefully covered it
first with a wall or fortification, and then with a grove of trees, so seeing
their safety consisted eutitxly in their being concealed, of which they were
now fully convinced, they set to work to cover and conceal the place yetANOTIIER BROlL. 293

more effectually than before. For this purpose. as I planted trees,or rather
thrust in stakes, which in time all grew up. to be trees, {or some good dis-
tance before the entrance into my apartments, they went on in the same
manner, and filled up the rest of that whole space of ground from the trees
I had set quite down to the side of the creek, where, as J said. I landed my
floats, and even into the very ooze where the tide flowed, not so much as
leaving any place to land. or any Sign that there had been any landing
thereahouts: these stakes also being of a wood very forward to grow, as I
have noted formerly. they took- care to have them generally much larger
and taller than those which I had planted; and as they grew apace, so they
planted them so very thick and close together that. when they had been
three or four years grown, there was no piercing with the eye any consid-
erable way into the plantation; and as for that part which I had planted, the
trees were grown as thick as a man's thigh. and. among them they placed so
manyother short ones, and so thick that, in a word, it stood like a palisado
a quarter of a mile thick, and it was next to impossible to penetrate it, but
with a little army to cut it all down--fur a little dog could hardly get
between the trees, they stood so close.

But this was not all:_ for they did the same by all the ground to the right
hand and to the left. and round even to the side of the hill, leaving no way,
not so much as for themselves, to come out but by the ladder placed up to
the side of the hill, and then lifted up, and placed again from the first stage
up to the top; and when the ladder was taken down. nothing but what had
wings or witchcraft to assist it could come at them. This was excellently
wellcontrivcd; nor was it less than what they afterwards lound occasion for,
which served to convince me, that as human prudence has the authority of
Providence to justify it, so it has doubtless the direction of Providence to
set it to work; and if we listened carefully to the voice of it. I am persuaded
we might prevent many of the disasters which our lives are now, by our own
negligence, subjected to.

I return to the story. They lived two years after this in perfect retire-
ment. and had no more visits from the savages. They had, indeed, an
alarm given them one morning which put them into a great consternation;
for, some of the Spaniards being out earlyone morningon the west side, or
rather end, of the island (which was that end where I never went for fear of
being discovered), they were surprised with seeing above twenty canoes
of Indians just coming on shore. They made the best of their way home
in hurry enough; and giving the alarm to their comrades, they kept cloSe
all that day and the next, going: out only at night to make their observation;
but they had the good luck to be mistaken. for wherever the savages went
they did not land that time on the island, but pursued some other design.

And now they had another hroil with the three Englishmen; one of
whom, a most trubulent fellow. being in a rage at one of the three slaves.
whom I mentioned they had taken because the fellow had not done some-
thing right which he bid him do, and seemed a little untractable in his
showing him, drew a hatchet out of a frog-belt, in which he wore it by his
side, and fell upon the poor savage, not to correct him, but to kill him, One
of the Spaniards, who was by, seeing him give the fellow a barbarous out
with the hatchet, which he aimed at his head, but struck into his shoulder,
so that he thought he had cut the poor creature's arm off, ran to him, and
entreating him not to murder the poor man, placed himself between him
and the savage to prevent the mischief. The fellow, being enraged the
more at this, struck at the Spaniard with the hatchet, and swore he would
serve him as he intended to serve the savage; which the Spaniard perceiv-
iing, avoided the blow, and with a shovel which he had in his hand (for they
were all working in the field about their corn land) knocked the brute
down. Another of the Englishmen, running at the same time to help his
comrade, knocked the Spaniard down; and then two Spaniards more came
in to help their man. and a third Englishman fell in upon them. They had
none of them any fire-arms or any other weapons but hatchets and other
tools, except this third Englishman; he had one ofiny rusty cutlasses, with
which he made at the two last Spaniards and wounded them both. This
{ray set the whole family in an uproar, more help coming in they took the
three Englishmen prisoners. The next question was, what should be done
with them? They had been so often mutinous, and were so very furious, so
despei'atc.,aiid'so idle witlial, they knew not what course to take with them.
(or they were mischievous to the highest degree, and cared not what hurt
they did to any man, so that, in short, it was not safe to live with them.

The Spaniard who was governor told them, in so many words, that ifthey
had been of his own country, he would have hanged them; for all laws and
all governors were to so preserve society, and those who were dangerous to
the society ought to be expelled out of it; but as they were Englishmen, and
that it was to the generous kindness of an Englishman that they all owed
their preservation and deliverance. he would use them with all possible
lenity, and would leave them to the judgment of the other two Englishmen
who were their countrymen.

One of the two honest Englishmen stood up,and said they desired it might
not be left to them--"For." says he, "I am sure we ought to sentence them
to the gallon-5;" and with that he gives an account how Will Atkins, one of
the three, had proposed to have all the five Englishmen join together and
murder all the Spaniards when they were in theirsleep.

When the Spanish governor heard this he calls to Will Atkins, "How,
Seignior Atkins, would you murder us all? What have you to say to that?"
The hardened villain was so far from denying it, that he said it was true. and
swore they would do it still. before they had done with them. "Well, but
Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, "what have we done to you that you
will kill us? And what would you get by killing us? And what must we
do to prevent your killing us? Must we kill you, or you will kill us? WhyA MERClFUL GOVERNOR. 295

will you put us to the necessity of this. Seignior Atkins?"says the Spaniard.
very calmly. and smiling. Seignior Atkins was in such a rage at the Span-
iard's making a jest of it. that. had he. not been held by three men, and
n-illial had no weapon near him, it was thought that he would-have attempted
to kill the Spanizu d in the middle of all the company. This hair-brain car--
riage obliged them to consider seriously what was to be done. The two
Englishmen, and the Spaniard who saved the poor savage, were at the
opinion that they should hang one of the three, for an example to the rest,
and that particularly it should be he that had twice attempted to commit

    

.i,_=.=--..,

"PLACED HIMSELF uzrwmzx nm AND Tim SAVAGE " (.29. 2134).

murder with his hatchet; and indeed. there was some reason to believe that
he. had done it. for the poor savage was in such a miserable condition with
the Wound he had received. that it was thought he could not live. But the
governor Spaniard stil! said no; it wan an Englishman lhuthud saved all
their lives. and he would never consent to put an Englishman to death.
though he had murdered half of them: nay, he said. if he had been killed
himself by an Englishman, and had time left to speak, it should be that they
should pardon him.

This was so positively insisted on by the governor Spaniard, that there
was no gainsaying it; and as merciful counsels are most apt to prevail,where
they are so earnestly pressed, so they all came into it: but then it was to be
considered what should be done to keep them from doing the mischief they
designed; for all agreed, governor and all, that means were to be used
for preserving the society from danger. After a long debate it was agreed,
first, that they should be disarined. and not permitted to have either gun,
powder, shot, sword, or any weapon,and should be turned out of the society
and left to live where they would, and how they could, by themselves; but
that none of the rest, either Spaniards or English, should converse with
them. speak with them, or have anything to do with them; that they should
be forbid to come within a certain distance of the place where the rest dwell;
and if they oflcred to commit any disorder. so as to spoil, burn. kill, or
destroy any of the corn. plantings, buildings, fences or cattle belonging to
the societg they should die without mercy, and they would shoot them
wherever they could find them.

'Ine governor. a man of great humanity, musing upon the sentence,
.onsidered a. little upon it; and turning to the two honest Englishmen,
said, "Hold; you must reflect that it will be long ere they can raise
corn and cattle of their own. and they must not starve; we must there-
fore allow them provisions." So he caused to be added, that they
should have a proportion of corn given them to last them eight months,
and for seed to sow. by which time they might be supposed to raise
some of their own; that they should have six milch-goats, four lie-goals.
and six kids given them, as well for present subsistence as for a store;
and that they should have tools given them for their work in the fields,
such as six hatchets, an adze. a saw, and the like; but they should have
none of these tools .or provisions unless they would swear solemnly that
they would not hurt or injure any of the Spaniards with them, or of
their fellow Englishmen.

Thus they dismissed them the society, and turned them out to shift
for themselves. They went away sullen and refractory, as neither con-
tent to go away, nor to stay; but. as there was no remedy, they went,
pretending to go and choose a place where they would settle them-
selves; and some provisions were given them, but no weapons.

About four or five days after, they came again for some victuals,
and gave the governor an account where they had pitched their tents.
and marked themselves out a habitation and plantation. and it was
a very convenient place indeed. on the remotest part of the island,
N.E., much about the place where I providentially landed in my first
voyage. when 1 was driven out to sea. the Lord knows whither, in my
foolish attempt to sail round the island.

Here they built themselves two handsome huts, and contrived'them
in a manner like my first habitation. being close under the side of
a hill, having,r some trees growing already on three sides of it, so thatA MAD PROJECT. 25'!

by planting others it would be very easily covered from the sight. unless
narrowly searched for. They desired some dried goat~sl<ins. for beds and
covering. which were given them; and upon giving,r their words that they
would not disturb the rest. or injure any of their plantations, they gave them
hatchets. and what other tools they could spare; some peas, barley, and rice.
for sewing; and, in a word, anything they wanted, except arms and ammu-
nition.

They lived in this separate condition about six months' and had got in
their first harvest. though the quantity was but small, the parcel of land
they had planted being but little; for, indeed. having all their plantation to
form, they had a great deal of work upon their hands, and when they came
to make boards and pots and such things. they were quite out of their ele-
ment and could make nothing of it; and when the rainy season came on,
(or want oi a cave in the earth, they could not keep. their grain dry and it
was in great danger of spoiling. and this humbled them much; so they came
and begged the Spaniards to help them. which they very readily did, and in
four days worked a great hole in the side of the hill for them. big enough to
secure their corn and other things from the rain; but it was a poor place at
best, compared to mine. and especially as mine was then. for the Spaniards
had greatly enlarged it and made several new apartments in it.

About three-quarters of a year alter this separation. a new frolic took
these rogues, which, together with the former villainy they had committed,
brought mischief enough upon them and had very near been the ruin of the
whole colony. The three new associates began. it seems, to be weary of the
laborious life they led. and that without hope of bettering their circum-
stances; and a whim tool; them that they would make a voyage to the con-
tinent, from whence the savages came, and would try if they could seize
upon some prisoners among the natives there and bring them home, so as
to make them do the laborious part of the work for them.

The project was not so preposterous. it' they had gone no farther. But
they did nothing and proposed nothing but had either 'mischief in the
design or mischief in the event. And if 1 may give my opinion. they
seemed to be tinder a blast from Heaven: [or if we will not allow a visible
curse to pursue visible crimes. how shall we reconcile the events of things
with the Divine justice? it was certainly an apparent vengeance on their
Crime of mutiny and piracy that brought them to the state they were in;
and they showed not the least remorse for the crime. but added new vil-
lainies to it. such as the piece of monstrous cruelty of wounding a poor
slave because he did not, or perhaps could not, understand to do what he
was directed, and to wound him in such a manner as made him a cripple
ail his life. and in a place where no surgeon or medicine could be had for
his cure, and what was still worse, the murderous intent. or. to do justice to
the crime, the intentional murder. for such to be sure it was, as was after-
wards the {oriued design they all laid, to murder the Spaniards in cold
Mood and in their slc'cp.
But I leave observing, and return to the story. The three fellows came
down to the Spaniards one morning. and in very humble terms desired to be
admitted to speak with them. The Spaniards very readily heard what they.
had to say, which was this: That they were tired of living in the manner
they did. and that they were not handy enough to make the necessaries they
wanted. and that having no help, they found they should be starved; but. if
the Spaniards would give them leave to take one 'of the canoes which they
came over in, and give them arms and ammunition proportioned to their

 

"THREE STRANGE MEN comm; rowanns RIM" (#299).

defense. they would go over to the main and seek their fortunes. and an
deliver them from the trouble of supplying them with any other provisions.

The Spaniards were glad enough to get rid of them. but very honestly
represented to them the certain destruction they were running into: told
them they had suffered such hardships upon that very spot, that they could.
without any spirit of prophecy, tell them they would be starved or murdered.
and bade them consider of it.

The men replied, audaciously, they should he starved ifthey stayed here.
for they could not work, and would not work. and they could but he starved
abroad; and if they were murdered. there was an end of them; and, in short,
insisted importunatcly upon their demand. declaring they would go, whether
they gave them any arms or no.

T he Spaniards told them, with great kindness, that if they were resolvedKINDNESS OF THE SPANIARDS. 299

to go, they should not go like naked men. and be in no condition to defend
themselves; and that, though they could ill spare their fire-arms.havingnot.
enough for themselves, yet they would let them have two muskets, a pistol,
and a cutlass.and each man a hatchet, which they thought was sufficient for
them. In a word, they accepted the offer; and having baked bread enough
to serve them a month, and given them as much goat's flesh as they could
eat while it was sweet, and a great basket of dried grapes, a pot of fresh
water, and a young kid alive, they boldly set out in a canoe [or a voyage
over the sea, where it was at least forty miles broad.

The boat, indeed was a large one, and would very well have carried fif-
teen or twenty men, and therefore was rather too big for them to manage;
but as they had a fair breeze, and flood-tide with them, they did well enough.
They had made a mast of a long pole, and a sail of {our large goat-skins
dried, which they had sewed or laced together; and away they went merrily
enough. The Spaniards called after them, "Ban myajo!" and no man ever
thought of seeing them any more.

The Spaniards were often saying to one another, and to the two honest
Englishmen who remained behind, how quietly and comfortably they lived,
now these three turbulent fellows were gone. As for their coming again.
that was the rcmotest thing from their thoughts that could be imagined;
when, behold, after two-and-twenty days' absence, one of the Englishmen
being abroad upon his planting work, sees three strange men coming
towards him at a distance, with guns upon their shoulders.

Away runs the Englishman, as it he was bewitched, comes lrightened
and amazed to the governor Spaniard, and tells him they were all undone,
for there were strangers upon the island, but could not tell who they were.
The Spaniard, pausing awhile, says to him, "How do you mean; you cannot
tell who? They are the savages, to be sure." "No, no," says the English-
man, "they are men in clothes, with arms." "Nay, then." says the Spaniard,
"why are you so concerned? If they are not savages, they must be friends,
for there is no Christian nation upon earth but will do us good rather than
harm."

While they were debating thus. came the three Englishmen and, stand-
ing without the wood, which was new planted, hallooed to them. They
presently knew their voices, and so all the wonder ceased. But now the
admiration was turned upon another question: What could be the matter and
what made them come back again?

It was not long before they brought the men in and, inquiring where
they had been and what they had been doing, they gave them a full account
of their voyage in a few words: that they reached the land in two days or
something less, but finding the people alarmed at their coming and prepared
with bows and arrows to fight them, they (lurst not go on shore, but sailed
on to the northward six or seven hours. till they came to a great opening,by
which they perceived that the land they saw from our island was not the
main but an island. Upon entering that opening of the sea, they saw
another island, on the right hand, north, and several more west, and being
resolved to land somewhere, they put over to one of the islands which lay
west, and went boldly on shore; that they found the people very courteous
and friendly to them; and that they gave several roots and some dried fish,
and appeared very sociable; and the women, as well as the men, were very
forward to supply them with anything they could get for them to eat and
brought it to them a great way upon their heads

They continued here four days and inquired, as well as they could of
them by signs, what nations were this way and that way, and were told of
several fierce and terrible people that lived almost every way, who, as they
made known by signs to them, used to eat men; but as for themselves, they
said, they never ate men or women. except only such as they took in the
wars; and then, they owned, they made a great feast and ate their prisoners.

The Englishmen inquired when they had had a feast of that kind and they
told them about two moons ago, pointing to the moon and to two fingers;
and that their great icing had two hundred prisoners now which he had taken
in his war and they were feeding them to make them fat {or the next fcast.
The Englishmen seemed mightily desirous of seeing those prisoners, but
the others, mistaking them. thought they were desirous to have some of
them to carry away for their own eating. So they beckoned to them, point-
ing to the setting of the sun and then to the rising, which was to signify that
the next morning at sun-rising they would bring some for them; and, accord-
ingly, the next morning they brought down five women and eleven men and
gave them to the Englishmen to carry away with them on their voyage,
just as we would bring so many cows and oxen down to a seaport town to
victual a ship. '

As brutish and barbarous as these fellows were at home, their stomachs
turned at this sight and they did not know what to do. To refuse the pris-
oners would have been the highest affront to the savage gentry that could
be offered them, and what to do with them they knew not. However,
after some debate, they resolved to accept of them, and, in return, they gave
the savages that brought them one oi their hatchcts, an old key, a knife and
six or seven of their bullets, which, though they did not understand their
use, they seemed particularly pleased with; and then tying the poor creat--
ures' hands behind them. they dragged the prisoners into the boat for our
men.

The Englishmen were obliged to come away as soon as they had them,
or else they that gave them this noble present would certainly have expected
that they should have gone to work with them, have killed two or three of
them the next morning, and perhaps have invited the donors to dinner.
But having taken their leave, with all the respect and thanks that could well
pass between people. where on either side they understood not one word
they could say. they put off with their boat and came back towards the firstTHE FRIGHTENEI) CAPTIVES. 301

island, where, when they arrived, they set eight of their prisoners at liberty,
there being too many oi them for their occasion.

In their' voyage they endeavored to have some communication with
their prisoners, but it was impossible to make them understand anything.
Nothing they could say to them or give them or do {or them but was looked
upon as going to murder them. They first of all unbound them, but the
poor creatures screamed at that, especially the women, as if they had just
felt the knife at their throats, for they immediately concluded they were
unbound on purpose to be killed. If they gave them anything to eat it was
the same thing; they then concluded it was for fear they should sink in
flesh, and so not be fat enough to kill. If they looked at one of them more
particularly, the party presently concluded it was to see whether he or she
was fattest and fittest to kill first; nay. after they had brought them quite
over, and began to'use them kindly, and treat the'm well, still they expected
every (lay to make a dinner or supper for their new masters.

When the three wanderers had given this unaccountable history or jour-
nal of their voyage, the Spaniard asked them where their new family was,
and being,r told that they had brought them on shore and put them into one
of Lheirhuts, and were come up to beg some victuals for them, they (the
Spaniards) and the other two Englishmen. that is to say, the whole colony,
resolved to go all down to the place and see them, and did so, and Friday's
father with them.

When they came into the but, there they sat, all bound; for when they
had brought them on shore they bound their hands that they might not take
the boat and make their escape. There, I say, they sat, all of them stark
naked. First there were three men, lusty comely fellows, well-shaped,
straight and fair limbs, about thirty to thirty-five years of age; and five
women, whereof two might be from thirty to forty, two more not above
four or live and twenty, and the fifth, a tall, comely maiden, aboutsixtccn
or seventeen. The women were well--favored, agreeable persons, both in
shape and features, only tawny, and two of them, had they been perfectly
white, would have passed for very handsome women, even in London itself,
having pleasant, agreeable countenances, and of a very modest behavior.
especially when they came afterwards to be clothed and dressed, as they
called it, though that dress was very indifferent. it must be confessed.

The sight, you may he sure, was something uncouth to our Spaniards,
who were, to give them a just character, men of the best behavior, of the
most calm, sedate tempers, and perfect good humor, that ever I met with,
and in particular of the most modesty; I say the sight was very uncouth, to see
three naked men and five naked women ali together bound, and in the most
miserable circumstances that human nature could be supposed to bc, viz.,
to be expecting every moment to be dragged out and have their brains
knocked out, and then to be eaten up like a calt that is killed fora dainty.

The first thing- they did was to cause the old Indian, Friday's father. to
go in, and see, first, it he knew any of them, and then if he understood any
of their speech. As soon as the old man came in, he looked s 'iously at
them, but knew none of them; neither could any of them under.- and a word
he said. or a sign he could make, except one of the women. However, this
was enough to answer the end, which w- to satisfy them that the men into
whose hands they were fallen were Christians; that they abhorrod eating
men or women; and that they might be sure they would not be killed. As
soon as they were assured of this. they discovered such a joy, and by such
awkward gesturCS. several ways, as is hard to describe; (or it seems they
were of several nations.

The woman who was their interpreter was bid. in the next place, to ask
them if they were willing to he servants, and to work for the men who had '
brought them away, to save their lives; at which they all tell a-dancing; and
presently one fell to taking up this, and another that, anything that iay next,
to carry on their shoulders, to intimate they were willing to work.

The governor, who found that the having women among them would
presently be attended with some inconvenience, and might occasion some
strife, and perhaps blood, asked the three men what they intended to do
with these women, and how they intended to use them, whether as servants
or as wives? One of the Englishmen answered, vety boldly and readily, that
they would use them as both; to which the governor said, " 1 am not going to
restrain you from it-~- you are your own masters as to that; but this 1 think is
but just, for avoiding disorders and quarrels among you, and I desire it of you
for that reason only, viz.. That you will all engage. that if any of you take
any of these women as a wife, that he shall take but one; and that, having
taken one, none else shall touch her; for though we cannot marry any one of
you, yet it is but reasonable that, while you stay here, the woman any of you
takes shall be maintained by the man that takes lien-,and should be his wife---
I mean," says he, "while he continues here, and that none else shall have
anything t: do with her." All this appeared so just, that every one agreed
to it without any difficulty.

Then the Englishmen asked the Spaniards if they designed to take any
of them. But every one of them answered, " No." Some of them said they
had wives in Spain,and the others did not like women that were not Chris-
tians; and all together declared that they would not touch one of them, which
was an instance of such virtue as I have not met with in all my travels. On
the other hand, to be short, the five Englishmen took thorn every one a
wile--that is to say, a temporary wife; and so they set up a new form of
living; for the Spaniards and Friday's father lived in my old habitation.
which they had enlarged exceedingly within. The three servants which
were taken 'in the last battle of the savages lived with them; and these
carried on the main part of the colony, supplied all the rest with food. and
assisted them in anything as they could. or as they found necessity required.

But the wonder of the story was, how five such refractory, ill~matched. MARRIAGE A LOTTERY. 303

fellows should agree about these women, and that two of them should not
choose the same woman. especially seeing two or three of them were, with-_
out comparison. more agreeable than the others; but they took a good way
enough to prevent quarreling among themselves. {or they set the five
women by themselves in one of their huts, and they went all into the other
hut, and drew lots among them who should choose first.

He that drew to choose first went away by himself to the hut where the
poor naked creatures were and fetched out her he chose; and it was worth
observing. that he that chose first tool: her that was reckoned the homeliest
and oldest of the five, which made mirth enough among the rest; and even
the Spaniards laughed at it; but the fellow considered better than any of
them, that it was application and business they were to expect assistance in,
as much as in anything else; and she proved the best wife of all the parcel.

When the poor women saw themselves set in a row thus, and fetched out
one by one, the terrors of their condition returned upon them again, and
they firmly believed they were now going to be devoured. Accordingly,
when the English sailor came in and fetched out one of them, the rest set
up a most lamentable cry. and hung about her, and took their leave of her
with such agonies and affection as would have grieved the hardest heart in
the world; nor was R possible {or the Englishmen to satisfy them that they
were not to be immediately murdered, till they fetched the old man, Fri-
day's father, who immediately let them know that the five men, who were
to fetch them out one by one, had chosen them for their wives.

When they had done, and the fright ehe women were in was a little over.
the men went to work. and the Spaniards came and helped them; and in a
few hours they had built them every on . a new but or tent for their lodging
apart; for those they had already were crowded with their tools, household
stuffs. and provisions. The three wicked ones had pitched farthest OE, and
the two honest ones nearer. but both on the north shore of the island, so
that they continued separated as before; and thus my island was peopled
in three places, and, as I might say, three towns were begun to be built.

And here it is very well worth observing that, as it often happens in the
world (what the wise ends of (iod's providence are. in such a disposition of
things, I cannot say). the two honest fellows had the two worst waves; and
the three reprobates, that were scarce worth hanging, that were fit for noth-
ing, and neither seemed born to do themselves good nor any one else, had
three clever, diligent, careful, and ingenious wives; not that the first two
were bad wives, as to their temper or humor. for all the five were most will-
ing, quiet, passive, and subjected creatures, rather like slaves than wives;
but my meaning is, they were not alike capable, ingenious or industrious, or
alike'cleanly and neat.

Another observation I must make, to the honor of a diligent application
on one hand, and to the disgrace of a slothful, negligent, idle temper on
the other, that when I came to the place, and viewed the several improve-
ments, plantings, and management of the several little colonies, the two men
had so far outgonc the three, that there was no comparison. They had,
indeed, both of them as much ground laid out for com as they wanted, and
the reason was because, according to my rule, nature dictated that it was to
no purpose to sow more corn than they wanted; but the difference of the
cultivation of the planting of the fences, and, indeed, of everything else,
was easy to be seen at first View.

The two men had innumerable young trees planted about their huts, so
that, when you came to the place, nothing was to be seen but a wood; and

 

"DREW LOTS mono 1mm" (y. 303).

though they had twice had their plantation demolished, once by their own
countrymen,and once by the enemy, as shall be shown in its place, yet they
had restored all again, and everything was thriving and flourishing about
them; they had grapes planted in order, and managed like a. vineyard,
though they had themselves never seen anything of that kind; and, by their
good ordering their vines, their grapes were as good again as any of the
others. They had also found themselves out a retreat in the thickest part
of the woods. where, though there was not a natural cave, as I had found,
yet they made one with incessant labor of their hands, and where, when the
mischief which followed happened, they secured their wives and childrenAN 0L1) PROVERB. 305

so : they could never be found; they having, by sticking innumerable
st- 'es and poles of wood which, as I said, grew 0 readily, made the grove
impassable. except in some places, where they nbed up to get over the
outside part, and then went on by ways of their own leaving.

As to the three reprohatcs, as I justly call them, though they were much
civilized by their settlement compared to what they were before. and were
not so quarrelsome, having not the same opportunity, yet one of the certain
companions of a prufiigate mind never left them, and that was their idle.
ncss. It is true, they planted corn and made fences; but Solomon's words
were never better verified than in them--"l went by the vineyard of the
slothful. and it was all overgrown with thorns;" for when the Span'
iards came to View their crop, they could not see it in some places for
weeds, the. hedge had several gaps in it, where the wild goats had got in and
eaten up the corn; perhaps here and there a dead bush was crammed in, to
stop them out for the present, but it was only shutting the stable door after
the steed was stoien; whereas. when they looked on the colony of the other
two, there was the very face of industry and success upon all they did; there
was not a weed to be seen in all their corn, in- a gap in any of their badges;
and they, on the other hand, verified Solomon's words in another place, that
"the diligent hand maketh rich ; " for everything grew and thrived, and they
had plenty within and without; they had more tame cattle than the others,
more utensils and necessaries within doors, and yet more pleasure and
diversion too. -- ,

It is true, the wives of the three were very handy and cleanly within
doors; and having learned the English ways of dressing and cooking from
one of the other Englishmen, who, as I said, was a cook's mate on board the
ship, they dressed their husbands' victuals very nicely and well; whereas
the others could not be brought to understand it; but then the husband, who,
as I say, had been cook's mate, did it himself. But as for the husbands of
the three wives, they loitcrcd about, fetched turtles' eggs. and caught fish
and birds; in a word, anything but labor; and they fared accordingly. The
diligent lived well and coriil'ortably, and the slothful hard and beggarly;
and so, I believe, generally speaking, it is all over the world.

But I now come to a scene different from all that had happened before,
either to than or to me; and the origin of the story was this: Early one
morning. there came on shore five or six canoes of Indians or savages--call
them which you please--and there is no room to doubt they came upon the
old errand of [ceding upon their slaves; but that part was now so familiar
to the Spaniards, and to our men too, that they did not concern themselves
about it as I did; but having been made sensible. by their experience, that
their only business was to lie concealed, and that it they were not seen by
any of the savages they would go off again quietly. when their business was
done, having, as yet, not the least notion of there being any inhabitants in

the island; I say, having been made sensible of this, they had nothing to do

       

i
but give notice to all the three plantations to keep within doors, and not
show themselves, only placing a scout in a proper place, to give notice when
the boats went to sea again. This was, without doubt, very right; but a
disaster spoiled all these measures, and made it known among the savages
that. there were inhabitants there; which was, in the end, the desolation of
almost the whole colony. After the canoes with the savages were gone off,
the Spaniards pecped abroad again; and some of them had the curiosity to
go to the place where they had been, to see what they had been doing.
Here, to their great. surprise, they found three savages left behind, and lying
fast asleep upon the ground. It was supposed they had either been so
gorged with their inhuman feast, that, like beasts, they were [allen asleep
when the others went, or they had wandered into the woods, and did not
come batik in lime to be taken in.

The Spaniards were greatly surprised at this sight, and perfectly
at a loss what to do. The Spanish governor, as it happened, was with
them, and his advice was asked, but he professed he knew not what to
do. As for slaves, they had enough already, and as to killing them,
there were none of them inclined to do that; the Spaniard governor
told me, they could not think of shedding innocent blood; for as to
them, the poor creatures had done them no wrong, invaded none of
their property, and they thought they had no just quarrel against them
to take away their lives. And here I must, in justice to these Spaniards,
observe, that let the accounts of Spanish cruelly in Mexico and Peru
be what they will, I "fiver met with seventeen men of any nation whal-
soever, in any foreign country, who were so universally modest, temper~
ate, virtuous, so very good--humorcd, and so courteous, as these Spaniards;
and as to cruelty, they had nothing of it in their very nature; no inhu-
manity, no harbarity, no outrageous passions; and yet all of them men
of great courage and spirit. Their temper and calmness had appeared
in their hearing the insufferable usage of the three Englishmen; and
their justice and humanity appeared now in the case of the savages,
as above. After some consultation, they resolved upon this; that: they
would lie still awhile longer, till, it possible, these three men might be
gone. But then the governor Spaniard recollected that the three savages
had no boat; and if they were left to roam about the island. they would
certainly discover that there were inhabitants in it; and so they should
be undone that way. Upon this, they went back again, and there lay
the fellows fast asleep still, so they resolved to awaken them, and take
them prisoners; and they did so. The poor fellows were strangely fright--
ened when they were seized upon and bound; and afraid, like the women,
that they should be murdered and eaten; [or it seems, those people
think all the world do as they do, eating men's flesh; but they were
soon made easy as to that, and away they carried them.

It was very happy for them that they did not carry them home tosavages who came on
shore three or four
weeks afterward, and
who, c a r r y i n g on
their revels as usual,
-went off in two Llays'
time. This thought
terrified them ex-
ceedingly; for they
concluded, and that
not without good
cause indeed. that if
this [e 110 w came
home safe among his

ESCAPE OF A (.ZAP'I'IVE. . saw

their castle--J mean, to my plate under
the hill--hut they carried them first to
the. bower, where was the chief of their
country work, such as keeping the goats,
the planting, the corn, era; and after--
wards they carried them to the habitation
of the two l'iilglishn'en.

Here they were set to work, though it
was not much they had for them to do;
and whether it was; by negligence
in guarding them, or that they
thought the fellows could not
mend themselves, I know not, but
one of them ran away, and. taking,
to the wands, they could never
hear of him any more.

They hail good reason to be--
have hcgot home again soon after
in some other boats or canoes ol

"THREE savnnns LEFT nnnmn, AND LYIXG FAST ASLEEP"
( 12' 306;.

comrades, he would certainly give tlieni_an account that there were people
in the island. and also how few and weak they were; for this savage, as
observed before, had never been told, and it was very happy he had not,
how many there were, or where they lived; nor had he ever seen or heard
the fire uf any of their guns, much less had they shown him any of their
other retired places; such as the cave in the valley, or the new retreat
which the two Englishmen had made. and the like.
The first testimony they had that this fellow had given intelligence of
them was, that about two months after this, six canoes of savages, with
about seven, eight or ten men in a canoe, came rowing along the north side
of the island. where they never used to come before, and landed, about an
hour after sunrise, at a convenient place, about a mile from the habitation oi
the two Englishmen, where this escaped man had been kept, As the
Spaniard governor said, had they been all there the damage would not have
been so much, lor not a man ot'them would have escaped. But the case
differed now, very much, [or two men to fifty was too much odds. The two
men had the happiness to discover them about a league off, so that it was
above an hour before they landed, and as they landed a mile from their huts
it was some time before they could come at them. Now, having great reason
to believe that they were betrayed, the first thing they did was to bind the
two slaves which were left, and cause two of the three man whom they
brought with the women (who, it seems, proved very faithful to them) to
lead them, with their two wives, and whatever they could carry away with
them to their retired places in the woods. which I have spoken of above,
and there to bind the two fellows hand and foot, till they heard further.

In the next place, seeing the savages were all come on shore. and that they
had bent their course directly that way, they opened the fences where the
milch--cows were kept, and drove them all out; leaving their goats to Straggle
in the woods whither they pleased, that the savages might think they
were all bred wild; but the rogue who came with them was too cunning {or
that. and gave them an account of it all, for they went directly to the
place.

When the two poor frightened men had secured their wives and goods,
they sent the other slave they had. of the three who came with the women,
and who was at their place by accident, away to the Spaniards with all
speed, to give them the alarm, and desire speedy help, and, in the mean-
time, they took their arms, and what ammunition they had, and retreated
towards the place in the wood where their wives were sent, keeping at a
distance, yet so that they might see, if possible, which way the savages took

They had not gone far, but that from a rising ground they could see the
little army of their enemies come on directly to their habitation.'and, in a
moment more. could see all their huts and household stuff flaming up
together. to their great grief and mortification; for they had a very great
loss, to them irretrievable, at least for some time. They kept their station
for awhile, till they found the savages, like wild beasts, spread themselves
all over the place. rummaging every way and every place they could think of,
in search of prey. and in particular for the people. of whom now it plainly
appeared they had intelligence.

The two Englishmen, seeing this, thinking themselves not secure where
they stood. because it was likely some of the wild people might come that
way, and they might come too many together, thought it proper to make
another retreat about half a mile farther, believing, as it afterwards hap-
pened. that the farther they strolled. the fewer would be together.

Their next halt was at the entrance into a very thick~grown part of the
woods, and where an old trunk of a tree stood, which was hollow and
vastly large; and in this tree they both took their standing, resolving to
see there what might offer. They had not stood there long before two of
the savages appeared running directly that way, as it they already had
noticed where they stood, and were coming up to attack them; and a little
way farther they espicd three more coming after them, and five more
beyond them, all coming the same way; besides which they saw seven or
eight more ata distance, runninzgr another way; for, in a \vord,they ran every
way, like sportsmen heating for their game.

The poor men were now in great perplexity whether they should stand
and keep their posture, or fly; hnt.after a very short debate with themselves,
they considered, that if the savages ranged the country thus before help
came, they might perhaps find out their retreat in the woods, and then all
would he lost; so they resolved to stand them there, and if they were too
many to deal with, then they would get up to the top of the tree, from
whence they doubted not to defend themselves, fire excepted, as long as
theirammunition lasted, though all the savages that were landed. which
was near fifty, were to attack them.

Having resolved noon this, they next considered whether they should
fire at the first two, or wait for the three, and so take the middle party, by
which the two and the five that followed would be separated; at length they
resolved to let the first two pass by, unless they should spy them in the
tree, and come to attack them, The first two savages confirmed them also
in this resolution, by turning a little from them towards another part of the
wood; but the three, and the five after them, came forward directly to the
tree, as if they had known the Englishmen were there. Seeing them come
so straight towards rhem,they resolved to take them in a line as they came;
and as they resolved to fire but one at a time, perhaps the first shot might
hit them all three; [or which purpose the man who was to fire put three or
four small bullets into his piece; and having a fair loophole, as it were, from
a broken hole in the tree, he took a sure aim, without being seen, waiting
till they were within about thirty yards of the tree, so that he could not
mis '

While they were thus waiting, and the savages came on, they plainly
saw that one of the three was the runaway savage that had escaped [rom
them: and they both knew him distinctly. and resolved that, if possible. he
should not escape. though they should both fire; so the other stood ready
with his piece, thatil he (lid not drop at the first shot, he should be sure to
have a second. But the first was too good a marksman to miss his aim; {or
as the savages kept near one another, a little behind in a line, he fired, and
hit two of them directly; the foremost was killed outright. being shot in the
head; the second, which was the runaway Indian, was shot through the body

and tell, but was not quite dead; and the third had a little scratch in the

shoulder, perhaps by the same ball that went through the body of the

second; and being dreadfully frightened, though not so much hurt, sat
_ down upon the ground, screaming and yelling in a hideous manner.

The fire that were behind, more frightened with the noise than sensible
of the danger, stood still at first; for the woods made the sound a thousand
times bigger than it really was, the echoes rattling from one side to another,
and the (owls rising from all parts, screaming, and every sort makinga differ-
ent noise. according to their kind; just as it was when'I firedthc first gun
that perhaps was ever shot off in the island.

However, all being silent again, and they not knowing what the matter
was, came on unconcerned, till they came to the place where their com-
panions lay in a condition miserable enough, and here the poor ignorant
creatures, not sensible that they were within reach of the same mischief,
stood altogether over the wounded man, talking, and, as may be supposed,
inquiring of him hc w he came to be hurt, and who, it is very rational to
believe, told them, that a flash of fire first, and immediately after that thun-
der from their gods, had killed those two and wounded him; this, I say, is
rational; for nothing is more certain than that, as they saw no man near
them. so they had never hcai'da gun in all their lives, nor so much as heard
of a gun; neither knew they anything of killing and wounding at a distance
with fire and bullets. If they had, one might reasonably believe they would
not have stood so unconcerned to View the fate of their fellows without some
apprehensions of their own.

Our two men,'though, as they confessed to me. it grieved them to be
obliged to kill so many poor creatures, who, at the same timc,had no notion
of their danger; yet, having them all thus in their power, and the first hav-.
ing to load his piece again, resolved to let fly both together among them;
and singling out. by agreement. which to aim at, they shot together, and
killed, or very much wounded, four of them; the fifth, frightened even to
death, though not hurt, fell with the rest, so that our men, seeing them all
fall together, thought they had killed them all.

The belief that the savages were all killed made our two men come boldly
out from the tree before they had charged their guns, which was a wrong
step, and they were under some surprise when they came to the place. and
found no less than four of them alive, and oi them two very little hurt.
and one not at all. This obliged them to fall upon them with the stocks of
their muskets; and first they made sure of the runaway savage, that had

I been the cause of all the mischief, and of another that was hurt in the knee,
and put them out of their pain; then the man that was not hurt at all came
and kneeled down to them. with his two hands held up, and made piteous
moans to them, by gestures and signs. for his life, but could not say one
word to them that they could understand. However, they made signs toTHE PRISONERS A BURDEN. 311

him to sit down at the foot of a tree hard by, and one of the Englishmen.
with apiece of rope--twine, which he had by great chance in his pocket,
tied his two hands behind him,and there theylcft him, and with what speed
they could make after the other two, which were gone before, fearing they,
or any of them. should find their way to the covered place in the woods,
where their wives and the few goods they had left lay. They came once in
sight of the two men, but it was at a great distance. However, they had
the satisfaction to see them cross over a valley towards the sea, quite the
Contrary way from that which led to' their retreat. whiehthcy were afraid of,
and being satisfied with that, they went back to the tree where they left their
prisoner, who, as they supposed, was delivered by his comrades, for he was
gone, and the two pieces of rope-yarn, with which they had bound him, lay
just at the foot of the tree.

They were now in as great concern as before, not knowing what course
to take, or how near the enemy might be, or in what number; so they
resolved to go au-ay to the place where their wives were, to see if all was
well there, and to make them easy, who were in [right enough to be sure;
for though the savages were their own countrymen, yet they were most tor.
ribly afraid of them, and perhaps the more [or the knowledge they had of
them. >>

When they came there, they found the savages had been in the wood,
and very near that 111 but had not found it, for it was indeed inaccessible,
from the trees standing so thick, unless the persons seeking it had been
directed by those that knew it, which these were not. They found, there-
iore, everything very safe, only the women in a terrible fright. While they
were here, they had the comfort to have seven of the Spaniards come to
their assistance. The other ten, with their servants and old Friday (I mean
Friday's father) were gone in a body to defend their bou'er,-and the corn
and cattle that were kept there, in case the savages should have roved over
to that Iside of the country, but they did not spread so far. V'l'ith the seven
Spaniards came one of the three savages, who, as I said, were their prison-
ers formerly; and with them also came the savage whom the Englishmen
had left bound hand and foot at the tree; for it seems they eznne that way,
saw the slaughter of the seven men and unbound the eighth, and brought
him along with them, where, however, they were obliged to bind him again,
as they had done the two others who were left when the third ran away.

The prisoners now began to be a burden to them, and they were so
afraid of their escaping that they were once resolving to kill them all,
believing they were under an absolute. necessity to do so for their own
preservation. However, the Spaniard governor would not consent to it, but
ordered, for the present, that they should he sent out of the way, to my old
cave in the valley, and be kept there, with two Spaniards to guard them and
give them food for their subsistence, which was done, and they were bound
there hand and foot for that night.
Vthn the Spaniards came the two Englishmen were so encouraged that
they could not satisfy themselves to stay any longer there, but taking five
of the Spaniards and themselves, with {our musket: and a pistol among
them. and two stout quarter-stavcs, away they went in quest of the savages.
And first they came to the tree where the men lay that had been killed, but
it was easy to see that some more of the savages had been there, for they
had attempted to carry their dead men away,a1)d had dragged two of them
a good way, but had given it over. From thence they advanced to the first
rising ground. where they had stood and seen their camp destroyed, and

 

"ALL THEIR Hers nxn HOUSEHOLD 5mm: FLAMING Ur TOGETHER" (g. 308).

where they had the mortification still to see some of the smoke, but neither
could they here see any of the savages. They then resolved. though with
all possible caution, to go forward towards their ruined plantation. But, a
little before they came thither, coming in sight of the seashore, they saw
plainly the savages all embarking again in their canoes, in order to be gone.
They seemed very sorry, at first. that there was no <<way to come at them, to
give them a parting blow; but; upon the whole, they were very well satis-
fied to be rid of them.

The poor Englishmen being now twice ruined and all their inmrm-exnents'37' '

310m: S.a\-'AGPSS. 313

destroyed, the test all agreed to come and help them to rebuild and assist
them with ncediul supplies. Their three countrymen, who were not yet
noted for having the least inclination to do any good, yet as soon as they
heard of it (for they. living remote eastward, knew nothing of the matter
till all was over), came and offered their help and assistance. and did, Very
friendly. work for several days to restore their habitations and make neces--
saries for them. And thus in a little time they were set upon their legs
again.

About two days after this they had \the further satisfaction of seeing
three of the savages" canoes come driving on shore and, at some distance
from them. two drowned men. by which they had reason to believe that
they had met with a storm at sea which had overset some of them, for it
had blown very hard the night after they went off.

llowever, as some might miscarr -', so, on the other hand, enough of
them escaped to inform the rest, as well of what they had done as of what
had happened to them, and to whet them on to another enterprise of the
same nature, which they. it seems, resolved to attempt with sufi'icicnt force
to carry all before them; for except what the first man had told them of
inhabitants. they couid say little of it of their own knowledge, for they
never saw one man, and the fellow being killed that had afiirmed it, they
had no other witness to confirm it to them.

It was five or six months after this before they heard any more of the
savages, in which time our men were in hopes they had either forgot their
former bad luck or g' on over hopes of better, when. on a sudden, they were
invaded by a most formidable fleet of no less than eight and twenty canoes,
full of savages, armed with bows and arrows, great clubs, wooden swords.
and such like engines of war. and they brought such numbers with them
that, in short, it put all our people into the utmost consternation.

As they came on shore in the evening and at the easternmost side of the
island. our men had that night to consult and consider what to do; and in
the first place, knowing that. their being entirely concealed was their only
safety before, and would be much more so now, while the number of their
enemies would be so great, they therefore resolved, first of all, to take down
the'huts which were built for the two Englishmen, and drive away their
goats to the old cave, because they supposed the savages would go directly
thither as soon as it was (lay to play the old game over again, though
they did not now land within two leagues of it. In the next place, they
drove away all the (locks of goats they had at the old bower, as I called it,
which belonged to the Spaniards; and. in short, left as little appearance of
inhabitants anywhere as was possi mud the next morning early they posted
themselves, with all their force, at the plantation of the two men, to await
for their coming. As they guessed, so it happened; these new invaders,
leaving their cano ' at the east end of the island. came ranging along the
shore. directly towards the place. to the number of two hundred and fifty,
as near as our men could judge. Our army was but small, indeed; but that
which was worse, lhey had not arms [or all theirntunber neither. The whole
account, it seems, stood thus: first. as to men, seventeen Spaniards, five Eng-
lishmen. old Friday (or Friday's father), the three slaves taken with the
women, who proved very faithful, and three other slaves, who lived with the
Spaniards. To arm these, they had eleven muskets, live pistols, three fowl-
ing-pieces, five muskets or fouling-pieces, which were taken by me from the
mutinous seamen whom I red uced, two swords and three old halberts.

To their slaves they did not give either musket or fusee. but they had
each a halbert or a long staff, like a quarter~staffi with a great spike of iron
fastener] into each end of it, andby his side a hatchet; also every one of our
men had a hatchet. Two of the women could not bc prevailed upon, but
they would come into the light, and they had bows and arrows, which the
Spaniards had taken from the savages when the first action happened, which
I have spoken of, where the Indians fought with one another; and thc women
had hatchets too.

The Sphniard governor, whom I described so often, commanded the
whole, and Will Atkins, who, though a dreadful fellow {or wickedness, was
a most daring, bold fellow, commanded under him. The savages came for-
ward like lions. and our men, which was the worst of their fate, had no
advantage in their situation; only that Will Atkins, who now proved a most
useful fellow, with six men, was planted just behind a small thicket of bushes,
as an advanced guard, with orders to let the first of them pass by and then
fire into the middle of them. and as soon as he had fired to make his retreat
as nimbly as he could round a part of the wood, and so come in behind the
Spaniards. where they stood, having a thicket oftrees before them.

When the savages came on. they ran straggling about every way in heaps,
out of all manner of order, and Will Atkins let about fifty of them pass by
him; then seeing the rest come in a very thick throng, he orders three of
his men to fire. having loaded their muskets with six or seven bullets apiece,
about as big as large pistol bullets. How many they killed or wounded
they knew not, but the consternation and surprise was inexpress'iie among
the savages; they were frightened to the last degree to hear such a dread~
ful noise. and see their men killed, and others hurt, but see nobody that did
it; when, in the middle 01 their fright. Will Atkins and his other three let
fly again among the thickest of them; and in less than a minute. the first
three being loaded again, gave them a third volley. -

Had Will Atkins and his men retired immediately, as soon as th'ey had
fired, as they were ordered to do, or had the rest of the body been at hand,
to have poured in their shot continually, the savages had been effectually
muted; for the. terror that was among them came principally from this, that
they were killed by the gods with thunder and lightning, and could see
nobody that hurt them; but Will Atkins. staying to load again, discovered
the cheat; some of the savages who were at a distance spying them, cameA BATTLE. 313

upon them behind; and though Atkins and his men fired at them also two
or three times. and killed about twenty, retiring as fast as they could. yet
they wounded Atkins himself. and killed one of his fellow Englishmen
with their arrows, as they did afterwards one Spaniard. and one of the
Indian slaves who came with the women. This 512 'e was a. most gallant
fellow. and fought most desperately. killing five of them with his own hand,
having no weapon but one of the armed staves and a hatchet.

Our men being thus hard laid at. Atkins wounded, and two other men

 

 

"eAMr--z KANGING ALO_\(R THY-1 SHORE" [/v,.".l:h.

killed. retreated to a rising ground in the wood; and the Spaniards, after
firing three volleys upon them. retreated also: for their number was. so great
and they were so desperate. that though above fifty of them were killed.
and more than as many wounded, yet they came on in the teeth of ourznen.
fearless of danger, and shot their arrows like u cloud; and it was observed
that their wounded men. who were not quite disabled. were made outra-
geous by their wounds. and [ought like inadmen.

W'hen our men retreated. they lcit the Spaniard and Englishman that
were killed behind them; and the savages, when they came up to lhem,
killed them over again in a wretched manner, breakingtheir arms. legs. and
heads. with their clubs and wooden swords. like true savages; but finding
our men were gone, they did not seem to pursue them. but drew themselves
up in a ring. which is; it seems. their custom, and shouted twice. in token of
their victory; after which, they had the mortification to see several of their
wounded men (all. dying with the mere loss of blood

The Spaniard governor having drawn his little body up together upon a
rising ground, Atkins, though he was wounded. would have had them march
and charge again altogether at once. but the Spaniard replied: "Scignior
Atkins, you see how their wounded men fight; let them alone till morning;
all the wounded nten will be stiff and sore with their wounds.and faint with
the loss of blood; and so we shall have the fewer to engage." This advice
was good, but \Vill Atkins replied merrily, " That is true, seignior, and so
shall I too, and that is the reason I would go on while I am warm." " \-\-'ell,
Seignior Atkins," says the Spaniard, "you have behaved gallantly.anrl done
your part; we will fight for you if you cannot come on,hut I think it best
to stay till morning:" so they waited.

But as it was a clear moonlight night, and they found the savages in
great disorder about their dead and wounded men. and a great noise and
hurry among them where they: lay, they afterwards resolved to fall upon
them in the night. especially if they could come to give them but one vol-
ley before they were discovered, which they had a fair opportunity to do,
for one of the Englishmen in whose quarter it was where the fight began,
led them round between the woods and the seaside westward, and then
turning short south, they came so near where the thickest of them lay. that,
before they were seen or heard, eight of them fired in upon them. and (lid
dreadful execution upon them; in hall'a minute more, eight others fired
after them, pouring in their small shot in such a quantity. that. abundance
were killed and wounded. and all this while they were not able to see who
hurt them. or which way to fly.

The Spaniards charged again with the utmost expedition, and then
divided themselves into three bodies, and resolved to fall in among them
altogether. 'l'hey hat! in each body eight persons. that is to say, twenty-
two men. and the the women, who, by the way, fought desperately. They
divided the fire-arms equally in each party. as well as the halberts and
staves. They would have had the women kept back, but they said they
were resolved to die with their husbands, Having thus formed their little
army, they marched out from among the trees. and came up to the teeth oi
the enemy shouting and hallooing as loud as they could; the savages stood
all together. but were in the utmost confusion, hearing the noise of our men
shouting from three quarters together; they would have fought if they had
seen us; for as soon as we came near enough to be seen, some arrows were
shot, and poor old Friday was wounded, though not dangerously; but our
men gave them no time, but, running up to them, fired' among them three
ways, and then fell in with the butt'ends of their muskcts, their swords.
armed slaves, and hatchets, and laid about them so well, that, in a word,
they set up a dismal screaming and howling, flying to save their lives which
way socvcr they could.\-' lC'I'ORY. 317

Our men were tired with the execution and killed or mortally wounded
in the two fights about one hundred and eighty of them; the reSt. being
frightened out of their wits, scoured through the woods and over the hills
with all the speed fear and nimhle feet could help them to. and as we did
not trouble ourselves much to pursue them, they got all together to the sea-
side where they landed and where their canoes lay. But their disaster was
not at an end yet. for it blew a terrible storm of wind that evening from the
sea. so that it was impossible for them to go off; nay. the storm continuing
all night. when the tide came up their canoes were most of them driven by
the surge of the sea so high upon the shore that it required infinite toil to
get them off. and some of them were even dashed to pieces against the
beach or against one another.

Our men. though glad of their victory. yet got little rest that night. but
havingr refreshed themselves as well as they Could. they resolved to march
to that part of the island where the savages were lied and see what posture
they were in. This necessarily led them over the place where the fight had
been. and where they found several of the poor creatures not quite dead,
and yet past recovering life; a sight disagreeable enough to generous
minds. for a truly great man. though obliged by the law of battle to destroy
his enemy. takes no delight inhis misery. However. there was no need to
give any orders in this case. for their own savages. who were their servants.
dispatched these poor creatures with their hatchets.

At length they came in view of the place where the more miserable
remains of the savages' army lay. where there appeared about a hundred
still; their posture was generally-sitting upon the ground, with their knees
up towards their mouth and the head put between the two hands. leaning
down upon the knees. '

When our men came within two musket shots of them, the Spaniard gov-
ernor ordered two muskets to be fired, without ball. to alarm them; this he
did. that by their countenance he might know what to expect, whether they
were still in heart to fight or were so heartily beaten as to be dispirited and
discouraged, and so he might manage accordingly. This stratagem took;
for as soon as the savages heard the first gun and saw the flash of the sec-
ond. they started up upon their feet in the greatest consternation imagin-
able.and as our men advanced swiftly towarrlslthemmhcy all ran screaming
and yelling away. with a kind of howling noise. which our men did not
understand and had never heard before; and thus they ran up the hills into
the country.

At first our men had much rather the weather had been calm. and they
had all gone away to sea; but they did not then consider that this might
probably have been the occasion of their coming again in such multitudes
as not to be resisted. or. at least. to come so many and so often as would
quite desolate the island. and starve them. Will Atkins. therefore. who.
notwithstanding his wound, kept always with them. proved the best coun-
sclor in this case; his advice was, to take the advantage that offered, and
step in between them and their boats, and so deprive them of the capacity
of ever returning any more to plague the island.

They consulted long about this; and some were against it for fear of
making the \rrctcltcs fly to the woods and live there desperate, and so they
should have them to hunt like wild beasts, be afraid to stir out about their
business, and have their plantations continually rifled, all their Layne goats
destroyer], and, in short, be reduced to a life of continual distress.

\Vill Atkins told them they had better have to do with a hundred men
than with a hundred nations; that as they must destroy their boats, so they
must destroy the men, or be all of them destroyed themselves. In a word,
he showed the necessity of it so plainly that they all came into it; so they
went to work immediately with the boats, and getting some dry wood
together from a_ dead tree, they tried to set some of them on fire, but they
were so wet that they would not burn; however, the fire so burned the upper
part that it soon made them unfit for swimming in the sea as boats. When
the Indians saw what they were about, some of them came running out of
the woods. and coming as near as they could to our men, knecled down and
cried, "0a, 0a, Waramokoal" and some other words of their language,
which none of the others understood anything of; but as they made pitiful
gestures and strange noises, it was easy to understand they begged to have
their boats spared, and that they would be gone, and never come there
again. But our men were now satisfied that they had no way to preserve
themselves. or to save their colony, but effectually to prevent any of these
people from ever going home again, depending upon this. that if even so
much as one of them got back into their country to tell the story, the col-
ony was undone; so that, letting them know that they should not have any
mercy, they fell to work with their canoes, and destroyed every one that
the storm had not desttoyed before; at the sight of which the savages
raised a hideous cry in the "oods, nhich our people heard plain enough
atter which they ran about the island like distracted men, so that in a word,
our men did not really know what at first to do with them. Nor did the
Spaniards. with all their prudence, consider that while they made those
people thus desperate, they ought to have kept a good guard at the same
time upon their plantations; for though it is true, they had driven away
their cattle, and the Indians (lid not find out their main retreat~I mean my
old castle at the hill, nor the cave in the valley--yet they found out my
plantation at the bower, and pulled it all to pieces, and all the fences and
planting: about it; trod all the do") under foot. tore up the vines and grapes,
being just then almost ripe, and did our men an iuestirnable damage, though
to themselves not one {arthing' 5 north of service.

Though our men.were able to fight them upon all occasions, yet they
were in no condition to pursue them, or hunt them up and down. for as they
were too nimble of foot for our men when they found them single, so our
men durst not go abroad single, for fear of being surrounded with their num-
bers. The best was, they had no weapons; for though they had bows, they
had no arrows left, nor any materials to make any, nor had they any edge-
tool or weapon among them.

The extremity and distress they were reduced to was great, and indeed
deplorable, but at the same time, our men were also brought to very bad
circumstances by them; for though their retreats were preserved, yet their
provision was destroyed and their harvest spoiled, and what to do, or which
way to turn themselves, they knew not. The oniy refuge they had now was
the stock of cattle they had in the valley by the cave, and some little corn
which grew there, and the plantation of the three Englishmen, Will Atkins
and his comrades, n ho were now reduced to two, one of them being killed
by an arrow, which struck him on the side of his head, just under the tem-
ples, so that he never spoke more; and it was vely remarkable that this was
the same barbarous fellow that cut the poor savage slm-e with his' hatchet,
and uho afterwards intended to have murdered the Spaniards.

I looked upon their case to have been worse at this time than mine was
at any time, after I first discovered the grains of barley and rice. and got
into the manner of planting and raising my corn, and my tame cattle; for now
they had, as I may say, ahundrcd wolves upon theisland which would devour
everything they could come at, yet could be hardly come at themselves.

When they saw what their circumstances were, the first thing they con--
cluded was, that they would, if possible, drive them up to the farther part
oi the island. southwest, that if any more savages came on shore they might
not find one another; then, that they would daily hunt and harass them. and
kill as many of them as they could come at, till they had reduced their
number, and if they could at last tame them and bring them to anything,
they would give them corn and teach them how to plant and live upon their
daily labor.

In order to do this they so followed tl1en1,a11d so terrified them with
theix guns, that 111 a few days, if any of them fired a gun at an Indian, if he
did not hit him, yet he would fall down for fear; and so dreadfully fright-
ened they were that they kept out of sight farther and farther; till, at last,
our men following them, and almost every day killing or wounding some of .
them. they kept up in the woods or hollow places so much that it reduced
them to the utmost misery for want of food; and many were afterwards
found dead in the woods, without any hurt, absolutely starved to death.

When our men found this it made their hearts relent, and pity
moved them, especially the Spaniard governor. who was the most gentle
man-like, genex'ous'ntinded man that I ever met with in my life; and he
proposed, if possiblc.to take one of them afive,and bring him to understand
what they meant, so far as to be able to act as interpreter, and go among
them and see if they might be brought to some conditions that might be
depended upon, to save their lives and do us no harm.
It was some while before any of them could be taken; but being weak
and half-starved. om: of them was at last surprised and made a prisoner.
He was sullcn at first, and would neither cat nor drink; but finding; himself
kindly used. and victuals given to him. and no violence offered him. he at

 

"DISPATCHED THhSE mun CREATURES" (p. 317).

last grew tractable. and came to himsull'. They brought old Friday to him.
who talked often will) him, and told him how kind (in: others would be to
them all; that they would not only save their lives, but give them part of the
island to live in, provided they would give satisfaction that they would keep
in their own bounds. and not come beyond it to injure or prejudice others:TRANQUILITY. 3'21

and that they should have corn given them to plant and make it grow for
their bread, and some bread given them for their present subsistence; and
old Friday bade the fellow go and talk with the rest of his countrymen, and
see what they said to it; assuring them that, if they did not agree immedi-
ately. they should be all destroyed.

The poor wretches, thoroughly humbled, and reduced in number to about
thirty'seven, closed with the proposal at the first offer, and begged to have
some food given them; upon which, twelve Spani rds and two Englislunen,
well armed. with three Indian slaves and old I' iday, marched to the place
where they were. The three Indian slaves carried them a. large quantity of
bread, some rice boiled upto cakes and dried in the sun. and three live
goats; and they were ordered to go to the side of a hill, where they sat
down, ate their provisions very thankfully, and were the most faithful fel-
lows to their words that could be thought of; for, except when they came to
beg \Iietuais and directions, they never came out oi their bounds; and there
they lived when I came to the island, and I went to see them.

They had taught them both to plant corn, make bread, breed tattle goats,
and milk them; they wanted nothing but wives, and they soon would have
been a nation. They were confined to a neck of land, surrounded with high
rocks behind them, and lying plain towards the sea before them, on the
southeast corner of the island. They had land enough, and it was very
good and fruitful; about a mile and a half broad, and three or four miles in
length.

Our men taught them to make wooden spades, such as I made for
myself, and gave among them twelve hatchets and three or four knives;
and there they lived, the most subjected, innocent creatures that ever
were heard of.

After this the colony enjoyed a perfect tranquillity, with respect to
the savages. till I came to revisit them, which was about two years
after; not but that, now and then, some canoes of savages came on
shore for their triumphal, unnatural r'casts; but as they were of several
nations, and perhaps had never heard of those that came before, or the
reason of it, they did not make any search or inquiry after their country--
men; and if they had, it would have been very hard to have found
them out.

Thus, I think. I have given a lull account of all that happened to them
till my return, at least, that was worth notice. The Indians or savages were
wonderfully civilized by them, and they frequently went among them: but
forbid, on pain of death, any of the Indians coming to them. beer '~. they
would not have their settlement betrayed again. One thing was very
remarkable, vi7.., that they taught the savages to make wicker-<<writ, or
baskets, but they soon outdid their maste '; for they made abundance e'
most ingenious things in \\-'lCl\'Cl"\\'0rl<, particularly of all sorts oi baskets,

sieves, bird-cages. cupboards, etc; as alst') chairs to sit on, stools, beds,
21couches, and abundance of other things; being very ingenious at such work,
when they were once put in the way of it.

Myeoming was a particular relief to these people, because we furnished
them with knives, scissors, spades, siioi els, picka\es, and all things of that
kind \thich they could want. \\-'ith the help of those tools, they were so
very handy that they came at last to build up their huts or houses very
handsomely, raddling or working it up like basket-work all the way round;
which was a very extraordinary piece of ingenuity, and looked very odd,
but was an exceeding good fence, as well against heat as against all sorts
of vermin; and our men were so taken with it, that they got the wild sav-
ages to come and do the like for them; so that when I came to see the two
Englishmen's colonies, they looked. at a distance, as it they all lived like
bees in a hive. As for V'v'ill Atkins. who was now become a very industrious,
useful, and sober fellow, he had made himself such a tent of baskehwork
as, I believe, was never seen; it was one hundred and twenty paces round
on the outside, as I measured it by my steps; the walls were as close worked
as a basket. in panels or squares of thirty>>tvro in number, and very strong,
standing about seven feet high; in the middle was another not above twenty-
two paces round. but built stronger, being octagon in its form, and in the
eight corners stood eight very strong posts; round the top of which he laid
strong pieces, pinned together with wooden pins, from which he raised a
pyramid fora roof of eight rafters, very handsome, I assure you, and joined
together very well, though he had no nails, and only a few iron spikes. which
he made ltimselftoo, out of the old iron that I had left there; and, indeed,
this fellow showed abundance of ingenuity in several things which he had
no knowledge of: he made him a forge, with a pair of wooden bellows to
blow the fire; he made himself charcoal for his work; and he formed out
of the iron crows a middling good anvil to hammer upon; in this manner
he made many things, but especially hooks, staples, and spikes; bolts, and
hinges. But to return to the house: after he had pitched the roof of his
innermost tent. he worked it up between the rafters with basket-work, so firm,
and thatched that over again so ingeniously with rice straw, and over that
a. large leaf of a tree, which covered the top, that his house was as dry as if
it had been tiled or slated. Indeed, he owned that the savages had made
the basket work for him. The outer circuit was covered as a. lean~to, all
round this inner apartment, and long rafters lay from the thirty-two angles
to the top posts of the inner house, being about twenty feet distant, so that
there was a space like a walk within the outer wicker-wall, and without the
inner, near twenty feet wide.

The inner place he partitioned off with the same wicker-W'Oik, but much
fairer, and divided into six apartments, so that he had si\ rooms on a floor.
and out of every one of these there was a door; first into. the entry, or
coming into the main tent, another door into the main tent, and another
door into the space or walk that was round it; so that walk was also dividedTHE NEW HOUSE. 3'23

into six equal parts, which serve-Ll not only for a retreat,but to store up any
necessaries which the family had occasion for. These six paces not taking
up the whole circumference, what other apartments the outer circle had
were thus ordered: As soon as you were in at the door of the outer circle.
you had a short passage straight before you to the rlnor of the inner house;
but on either sirle was a wicker partition, and a. door in it. by which you
went first into a large room. or storehouse. twenty feet wirle and about
thirty feet lon 1', and through that into another not quite so long. so that in the
mzter circle were ten handsome rooms. six of which were only to be come
at through the apartments oi the inner tent. and served as closets or retiring-
rooms to the respective chambers of the inner circle: and four Earge ware-
houses, or barns. or what you please to call them, which went through one'
another. two on either hand of the passage. that led through the outer door
to the inner tent.

Such a piece of basket-work, I believe. was never seen in the world, nor
a house or tent so neatly contrived, much less so built. In this great bee-
hive iimd the three families, that is to say, Will Atkins and his companion;
the third was killed. but his wife remained with three chiiclren. for she was,
it seems. big with child when he died; and the other two were not at all
backward to give the widow her full share of evei'ytliiri_. I mean as to their
corn. milk. grapes. do. and when they killed a kid. or r'otznd a turtle on the
shore; so that they a'il liretl well enough; though. it was true, they were not
so industrious as the other two, as has been observed already.

One thinghou e\ er .11an be omirn ., that as ior religion. I do not
know that there was _ thin;7 of that kind among them; tl ' often, indeed,
put one another in in d that there was a God. by the Very Common method
of seamen. swearing by His name; nor were their poor ignorant savage wives
much better for having been married to Chr tians. as we must call them;
for as they knew very little of God themselves, so they were utterly inca-
pabie of entering into any discourse with their wives about a God, or to talk
anything to them concerning reiigiozi. .

The utmost of all the improvement which I can say the wives had made
from them was. that. they had taught them to speak English pretty well;
and most of their children. who were near twenty in all. were taught to speak
English too. from their first learning to speak, though they at first spoke it
in a very broken manner, like their mothers. There was none of these chil-
dren ahorc six years olrl when I came thither. for it was not much above
seven ye: 5 since they had fetched these five savage ladies over; but they
had all. been pretty fruitful, [or they had all children. more or less; I think
the cook's mate's wife was big of her sixth child; and the mothers were all
a good sort of well-governed, quiet, laborious women. modest and decent.
helpful to one another. mighty observantand subject to their masters (I can--
not call them husbands). and wanted nothing but to be well instructed in the
Christian religion, and to be legally married; both which were happily324 Romxsox enosoE. <<

hrought about afterwards by my means, or at least in consequence of my
coming among them.

Having thus given an account of the colony in general,and pretty much
of my runagate English. I must say something of the bpaniards, who were
the main body oi the family. and in whose story there are some incidents
also remarkable enough.

I had a great many discourses with them about their circumstances
when they were among the savages. They told me readily that they had
no instances to give of their application or ingenuity in that country; that
they were a poor. miserable. dejected handful of people; that if means had
been put into their hands, they had yet so abandoned themselves to despair,
and so sunk under the weight of their misfortune, that they thought of
nothing but starving, One of them, a grave and sensible man, told me he
was convinced they were in the wrong; that it was not the part of wise men
to give themselves up to their misery, but always to take hold of the helps
which reason offered, as well for present support as for future deliverance;
he told me that grief was the most senseless, insignificant passion in the
world, for that it regarded only things past. which were generally impossi-
ble to be recalled or to be remedied, but had no views of things to come,
and had no share in anything that looked like deliverance, but rather added
to the affliction than proposed a remedy; and upon this repeated 3. Spanish
proverb, which, though I cannot repeat in just the same words that he
spoke it in. yet I remember I made it into an English proverb of my own,

thus:
" In trouble to be troubled,

Is to have your trouble doubled."

He ran on then in remarks upon all the little improvements I had made
in my solitude; my unwearied application, as he called it; and how I had
made a condition, which in its circumstances was at first much worse than
theirs, a thousand times more happy than theirs was, even now when they
were all together. He told me it was remarkable that Englishmen had a
greater presence of mind in their distress than any people that ever he met
with; that their unhappy nation and the Portuguese were the worst men in
the world to struggle with misfortunes; for that their first step in dangers,
alter the common cfiorts were over, was to despair, lie down under it, and
die; without rousing their thoughts up to proper remedies for escape.

I told him their case and mine differed exceedingly; that they were cast
upon the shore without necessaries, without supply of food, or present sus-
tenance till they could provide for it; that, it was true,1 had this disad-
vantage and discomfort, that I was alone; but then the supply I had provi-
dentially thrown into my hands, by the unexpected driving of the ship on
shore, was such a help as would have encouraged any creature in the world
to have applied himself 351 had done. ". Scignior," says the Spaniard. " had
we poor Spaniards been in your case, we should never have got half those"ATE "mam Pkovxswxs valu' THANKFULLY." (p.321).

8%
things out of the ship, as you did; nay,"says he, "we should never have
found means to have got a raft to carry them, 01' to have got the raft on
shore without boat or sail; and how much less should we have done if any
of us had been alone! " Well,l desired llllll to abate his compliments and go
on with the history of their coming on shore, where they landed. lle told
me they unhappily landed at a place when: there were people without
provisions; whereas, had they had the common sense to put off to sea again.

 

"IN THIS GREAT DEE-THY): LIVED THE Tmmn FAMILIES" (/1. 323).

and gone to another island a little farther, they had found provisions,
though without people; there being an island that way: as they had been
told, where there were provisions, though no people; that is to say, that the
Spaniards of Trinidad had frequently been there, and had filled the island
with goats and hogs at several times, where they had bred in such multitudes,
and where turtle and sca-fowls were in such plenty, that they could have
been in no want of flesh, though they had found no bread. whereas. here.
they were only sustained with a few roots and herbs. which they understood' THEIR STORY. 321

not, and which had no substance in them, and which the inhabitants gave
them sparingly enough; and they could treat them no better, unless they
uould turn cannibals, and eat men's flesh, which was the great dainty oi
their country.

They gave me an account: how many ways they strove to civilile the
savages they were with, and to teach them rational customs in the ordinary
way of living, but in vain; and how they retorted it upon them as unjust,
that they, who came there for assistance and support. should attempt to set
up for instructors of those that gave them fond, intimating, it seems, that
none should set up for the instructors of others but those who could live
without them.

They gave me dismal accounts of the extremities they were driven to.
How, sometimes, they were many days without any food at all, the island
they were upon being inhabited by a sort of savages that lived more indo-
lent, and for that reason were less supplied with the necessaries of life than
they had reason to believe others were in the same part; of the world; and
yet they found that these savages were less ravenous and voracious than
those who had better supplies of food. Also they added, they could not
but see with what demonstrations of wisdom and goodness the governing
providence of God directs the events of things in this world, which, they
said, appeared in their circumstances; {or if. pressed by the hardships they
were under, and the barren ss of the country where they were, they had
searched after a better to live in, they had then been out of the way of the
relief that happened to them by my means.

They then gave me an account how the savages whom they lived among
expected them to go out with tlle..' I'nto their wars: and, it was true, that as
they had fire-arms with them. had they not had the disaster to lose their
ammunition, they could have been serviceable not only to friends, but have
made themselves terrible both to friends and enemies; but being without
powder and shot, and yet in a condition that they could not in reason deny
to go out with their landlords to their wars. So, when they came into the
field of battle, thcv were in a nurse condition than the savages themselves,
for they had neither buns nor arrows, nor could they use those the s rgcs
gave them; so they could do nothing but stand still and be wounded with
arrows till they came up to the teeth of their enemy; and then, indeed, the
three halberts they had were of use to them, and they would often drive a
whole little army before them with those halberts and sharpened sticks put
into the muzzl ' of their muskcts; but that, for all this, they were sometimes
surrounded with multitudes, and in great danger from their arrows, till at
last they found the way to make themselves large targets of wood, which
they covered with skins of wild beasts, whose names they knew not, and
. these covered them from the arrows of the savages; that, notwithstanding
these, they were sometimes in great danger, and five of them were once
knocked down together with the clubs of the savages, which was the time
when one of them was taken prisoner, that is to say. the Spaniard whom I
relieved; that. at first they thought he had been killed, but when they after~
wards heard he has taken prisoner, they were under the greatest grief
imaginable. and would willingly have all ventured their lives to have res-
cued him.

They told me that when they were so knocked down, the. rest ofthcir com--
pany rescued them. and stood over them fighting till they were come to
themselves, all but him who they thought had been dead, and then they
made their way with their halherts and pieces, standing close together in a
line, though a burly of above a thousand savages, beating down all that
came in their way, got the victory over their enemies. but to their great
sorrow, because it was with the loss of their friend, whom the other
party, finding alive, carried OH, with some others, as I gave an account
before.

They described, most affectionately. how they were surprised with joy
at the return of their friend and companion in n " ry, who they thought
had been devoured by wild beasts of the worst ltii l--wilrl men; and yet,
how more and more they were surprised with the account he gave them of
his errand, and that. there was a Christian in any place near, much more one
that was able. and had humanity enough, to contribute to their deliver--
ancc.

They described how they were astonished at the sight of the reliefl
sent them, and the appearance of loaves of bread--things they had not
seen since their coming to that miserable place; how often they crossed it
and blessed it as bread sent from heaven; and what a reviving cordial it was
to their spirits to taste it, as also the otherthings Ihad sent for their supply;
and, after all, they would have told me something of the joy they were in
at the sight of a boat and pilots, to carry them away to the person and place
from whence all these new comforts came, but it was impossible to express
it by words, for their excessive joy naturally driving them to unbecoming
cxtra\-'agances_.they had no way to describe them,hut by telling me they
bordered upon lunacy, having no way to give vent to their passions suitable
to the sense that was upon them; that in some it worked one way, and in
some another; and that some of them, through a surprise of joy, would
burst into tears, others he stark mad, and others immediately faint. This
discourse extremely affected me, and called to my mind Friday's ecstasy
when he met his lather. and the poor people's ecstasy when 1 took them up
at sea after their ship was on fire; the joy of the mate ol the ship when he
{mind himself delivered in the place where he expected to.perish. and my
own joy, when, after twenty-eight years" captivity] found a good ship ready
to carry me to my own country. All these things made me more sensible
ol the relatio'ii of these poor men, and more affected with it.

Having thus givcn a view of the state of things as I found them, l must
relate the heads of what I did {or these people, and the condition in whichFRlENDS. 3'29

. I left them. It was their opinion,and mineloo, that they would he troubled
no more with the savages, or if they were, they would be able to cut them
off, if they were twice as many as before, so they had no concern about
that. Then I entered into a serious discourse with the Spaniard, whom I call
governor, about their stay in the island, for as l was not come to carry any of
them off, so it would not be just to carry off some and leave others, who, per-
haps,wou'.d be unwilling to stay iftheir strength was diminished On the other
hand, I told them I came to establish them there, not to remove them; and
then I let them know that I had brought with me relief of sundry kind for
them; that I had been at a great charge to supply them with all things
necessary, as well for their convenience as their defense; andthat I had such
and such particular persons with me. as well to increase and recruit their
number, as by the particular necessary employnients which they were bred
to, being artificers, to assist them in those things in which at present they
were in want.

They were all together when I talked thus to them, and before I deliv~
cred to them the stores I had brought, .I asked them, one by one, if they
had entirely forgot and buried their first animosities that had been among
them, and would shake hands with one another, and engage in a strict
friendship and union of interest, that so there might be no more misunder-
standings and jealousies.

Will Atkins, with abundance of frankness and good humor, said they
had met with affliction enough to make them all sober,and enemies enough
to make them all friends; that. for his part, he would live and die with
them, and was so far from designing anything against the Spaniards, that
he owned they had done nothing to him but what his own mad humor
made necessary, and what he would have done, and perhaps worse, in their
case, and that he would ask them pardon, if I desired it. for the foolish and
hrutish things he had done to them, and was very willingr and desirous
of living in terms of entire friendship and union with them, and would
do anything that iay in his power to convince them of it, and as for
going to England, he cared not it he did not go thither these twenty
years.

The Spaniards said they had. indeed, at first disarmed and excluded
"'ill Atkins and his two countrymen for their ill conduct, as they had let
me know, and they appealed to me for the necessity they were under to do
so; but that Will Atkins had behaved himself so bravely in the great fight
they had with the savages, and on several occasions since, and had shown
himself so faithful to. and concerned for, the general interest of them all.
that they had forgotten all that was passed, and thought he merited as
much to be trusted with arms and supplied with necessaries as any of them,
and they had testified their satisfaction in him by committing the com-
mand to him next to the governor himself, and as they had entire
confidence in him and all his countrymen. so they acknowledged they had
merited that confidence by all the methods that honest men could merit to
be valued and trusted, and 'hm 11 )st heartily embraced the occasion at giv-
ing me this assur.anLe that. thee would 1111\'1'11'ha1e any interest separate
from one another

Upon these frank and open declarations of friendship, we. appointed the
next day to Llir - all together, and, indeed, we made a splendid feast. I
caused the ship's cook and his mate to come on shore and dress our dinner.
and the old cook's mate we had on shore assisted. We brought on shore
six pieces Lvi greed beef and (earpiece; of pork, out of the ship's p101'is-
ions, with 01:1 punch- bowl, and mateiials to fill it, and, 111 11111ticula1', I gave
them ten bottles of French cla1',et and ten bottles of Inn-duh beer; things
that neither the Spaniards 1101 the English had tasted [or mam' 1'1- ars, and
which it may be supposed they were very glad of. The Spaniards added to
our feast five whole Iciils, which the cooks wasted, and thee of them
We've sent L'orele 11p L.lose.on board the. ship, to 1.1111 sL1-1111Ln, that tiny
migrht least 1111 fresh meat from on shore, as we did \1iththei1 salt meat
from 011110111'1l._

After this feast, at which \1e were very llanK. entlv 111c1rv, l bro c'ht 11. y
11131131 ut 1;L>111.s_:1\l11'1<'1nthat there mi'rht be no dispute ab1.1utdi\'i11inn'. I
showed them that there was a sulficinm) for them all. Llesrrinsv th: 1t they
might all 11111121111 Lqual qua ntit1' nl thL goods that \'.'111' elor wearing; that is
to say . equal when made up. As, first,I distributed linen 5.1ll1c11ntto1nake
every one of them {our shirts, and, at the Spaniard's request afterwards
made them 11p six; these were exceeding 110111Eortable to them, havingr been
what thcv had long since forfrot the use of. 01'11'1'1t it was to wear them,
l allotted the thin I' 111111 11 st11ffs,\1'l1ich I 111entioaed befme to make L1 L1\
111111 a light coat like a (rock, 11 huh I judged latest for the heat of the 11.11. a
sun, cool and loose; and ordered that \\'llCllU\CF thev 1l1.113\ ed, the\' should
make mmc, as they thou<rht fit, the like tor pumps. ,Ltoclt111g's.hats,etL.

I cannot express what pleasure, what satisfaction, sat upon the counte-
nanccs of all these poor men, when they saw the care I had taken of them.
and how well I had furnished them They told me i was a father to them;
and that having such a correspondent as I was in so 1e111ote :1. 11ml of the
11-",oihl it would make them forget that thev \1'1L111: lLtt 111 a (lexo. ate place:
and they all voluntarilv engang to me not to leare the place without 111v
Consent.

Then I presented to them the people I hatl bl0\|'_'ll[ with 11111, 1111rtic'11lailv
the tailor, the smith and the two carpenters. all of them must nece any
people; but, above 1111,111y general artihce than whom they couhl not name
anvthing that \1 as inore'usciul to them: and the ailor, to Show his concern
{or them went to work innnciliately and, with my lea1e,madL them mew
oneashirt, the first thing he did; a.11l, what was s1ill more. he taught the
11 not onlv how- to SLV.' and stitch, and use the needle,' 0. It 1:.ade them
ass'1t to make the shirts for their husbands, and for all the icsz.

 

 

 

 

 

 

shoesM Y FAMILY. 3'31

As to the carpenters. I scarce need mention how useful they were: for
ll'lC)' took to pieces all my clumsy, unhanrly things. and made clever con--
venient tables, stools, hedsteads, cupboards. lockers. shelves, and everything
they. wanted of that ltii ' But: to let them see how Nature made artifieers
at first. I carried the carpenters to see \~\"'ill Atltins' basket-house. as I called
it; and they both owned they never saw an instance of such natural ingenu-
ity before. nor anything so regular and so handily built. at least of its kind;
and one of them. when he saw it. after musing a good while, turning about
to me. "I am sure." says he. "that man has no need of us; you need do
nothing but give him tools."

Then I brought them out all my store of tools, and gave every man a
digging-spade, a shovel, and a. rake. ior we had no harrows or plo'ugh: and
to eveiy separate place a pickaxe. a crow. a broad axe, and a saw; always
appointing. that as often as any were broken or worn out. they should be
supplied. without grudging. out of the general stores that I left behind.
Nails. staples, hinges. hammers, chisels, hilIVCS. scissors. and all sorts of
ironqvork. they had without reserve. as they required: for no man would
take more than he wanted. and he must be a loo] that would waste or spoil
them on any account whatever; and for the use of the smith I left two tons
of unwroug'ht iron for a supply.

My magazine of powder and arms which I brought them was such, even
to profusion, that: they could not but rejoice at them. for now they could
march. as I used to do. with a musket upon each shoulder. if there was
occasion; and were able to fight a thousand savages. it' they had but some
little advantages of situation. which also they could not miss. it they had
occasion.

I carried on shore with me the young man whose mother was starved to
death. and the maid also; she was a sober. well-educated. religious young
woman. and behaved so inoffensive'ly that e y one gave her a good word;
she had. indeed an unhappy life with n'. there being no woman in the ship
but herself. but she bore it with patiei . After a while. seeing things so
well ordered andin so fine a way of thri ng upon my island. and considering
that they had neither business nor acquaintance in the East. Indies, or rea-
son for taking so long a voyage. both of them Came to me and desired I
would give them leave to remain on the island and he entered amongr my
family. as they called it. I agreed to this rcadil ,and they had a little plot
oi ground allotted to them. where they had three tents or houses set up.
surrounded with a basket-work, pallisadocd like Atkins', adjoining to his
plantation. Their tents were contrived so that they had each of them a
room apart to lodge in. and a middle tenL like a great storehouse. to lay
their goods in. and to eat azu'. drink in. And now the other two Englishmen
removed their habitation to the same place; and so the island was divided
into three colonies. and no more-- via. the Spaniards. with old Friday and
the first servants. at my old habitation under the hill. which was. in a word.
the capital City, and where they had so enlarged and extended their works,
as well under as on the outside of the. hill, [hat they lived, though perfectly
concealed, yet full at large. Never \ "as there such a little city in a wood,
and so hid. in any part of the world; for I verily believe. that a thousand
men might have ranged the island for a month, and, if they had not: known
there was such a thing, and looked on purpose for it. [hi-y would not have
found it; for the trees stood so thick and so close. and grew so fast woven
one into another, that nothing7 but cutting them down first could discover
the place, except the only two narrow entrances where they went in and out
could be found, which was not very easy; one of them was close down at.
the water's edge, on the side of the creek, and it was afterwards above two
hundred yards to the place; and the other was up a ladder at twice, as I
have already described it; and they had also a large wood, thickly planted.
on |hc 10p of the hi1l,containing' above an acre. which grew apace, and con-
cealed the place from all discovery there, with only one narrow place
between two trees, not easily to be discovered, to enter on that. side.

The only Colony was that of \-\:'ill Atkins, where there were four families
of Englialuuen, I mean those l had left (here, with their wives and children:
three savages that were slaves. the widow and the children of the English-
man that was killed, the young man and the maid, and, by the way. we made
a wife of her before we went away. There were also the two carpenters and
the tailornvhom I brought with me for them; also the smith, n ho was a very
necessary man to them, especially as a gunsmith, to take care of theirarms;
and my other man, whom I called jackrof-all-trndes, who was in himself as
good almost as twenty men; for he was not only a very ingenious cllow,
but a very merry fellow. and before I went away we married him to the
honest maid that came with the youth in the ship I mentioned before

And new I speak of marrying, it brings me naturally to say smuethiiigol
the French ecclesiastic that I had brought with me out of the ship's crew
whom I took up at sea, It is true this man was a Roman, and perhaps it
may give offense to some hereafter if I leave anything extraordinary upon
record ofa man whom,before I begin, I must (to set. him out in just colors)
represent in terms very much to his disadvantage. in the account of Protest-
ants; as, first, that he was a I'api. ; secondly, a I'opish priest; and thirdly,
:\ French Popish priest. But justice demands of me to give him a due chain
actcr: and I must . y, he was a grave, sober. pious, and most religious
person; exact in his life, extensive in his charity, and exemplary in almost
everything he did. What, then, can any one say. against being very sensible
of the value of such a man, notwithstanding his profession? though it may
be my opinion, perhaps, as well as the opinion of others who shall read this,
that he was mistaken.

The first hour that I hogan to converse with him, after he had agreed to
go with me to the East Indies, I found reason to delight exceedingly in his
Conversation; and he first began with me about religion in the most obligingRELIGION. I333

manner imaginable. "Sir," says he, " you have not only under God " (and
a: that he crossed his breast) " saved my life, but you have admitted me to
go this voyage in your ship. and, by your obliging civility. have taken me
into your family. giving me an opportunity of free conversation. Now. sir.
you see by my habit what my profession is..and I guess by your nation what
yours is; I may think it is my duty, and doubtless it is so, to use my utmost
endeavors. on all occasions, to bring all the souls I can to the knowledge of
the truth. and to embrace the Catholic doctrine; but as I am here under your
permission. and in your family, I am bound in justice to your kindness,
as well as in decency and good manners. to be under your government; and
therefore I shall not, without your leave. enter into any debate on the
points of religion in which we may not agree, farther than you shall give
me leave."

I told him his carriage was so modest that I could not but acknowledge
it; that it was true we were such people as they called heretic , but that he
was not the first Catholic 1 had conversed with. without falling into incon-
veniences, or carrying the questions to any height in debate; that he should
not find himself the worse used [or being of a different opinion from us,and
it we did not converse without any dislike on either side. it should be his
fault. not ours.

He replied that he thought all our conversation might be easily separated
from disputes; that it was not his business to cap principles with every man
he conversed with; and that he rather desired me to converse with him as a
gentleman than as a reiigionist; and that, it I would give him leave at any
time to discourse upon religious subjects. he would readily comply with it.
and that he did not doubt but I would allow him also to defend his own
opinions as well as he could; but that. without my leave, he would not break
in upon me with any such thing. He told me. farther, that he would not
cease to do all that became him. in his ofiiee as a priest, as well as a private
Christian. to procure the good ol' the ship. and the safety of all that was in
her; and though, perhaps, we would not join with him, and he eouid not pray
with us. he hoped he might pray for us, which he would do upon all occa-
sions. In this manner we conversed; and as he was of the most oblig-
ing. gentlemanlike behavior. so he was. if I may be allowed to say so, a man
of good sense, and. as I believe, of great learning.

He gave me a most diverting account of his life and of the many extra
ordinary events of it; of many adventures which had lac-fallen him in the
few years that he had been abroad in the world, and particularly it was very
remarkable, that in the voyage he was now engaged in. he had the misfor-
tune to be five times shipped and unshipped, and never to go to the place
whither any of the ships he was in at first designed. That his first intent
was to have gone to Martinico, and that he went on board a ship bound
thither at 5:. Male; but. being forced into Lisbon by bad weather. the ship
received some damage by running aground in the mouth of the river Tagus."WE MADE A sanme FEAST." (17.330).

350THE PRIEST'S STORY. 33h

and was obliged to unload her cargo there, but finding a Portuguese ship
there bound to the Madeiras. and ready lu sail, and supposing he should
easily meet with a vessel there bound to Martinieu. he went on board, in
order to sail [U the Mndeiras; but the master of the Portuguese ship. being
but an indifferent mariner. hard been out ol' his reckoning, and they drove to
l")-'ill, where, however, he happened to find a very good market for his Cargo,
which was corn, and therefore resolved not to go to the Mudeirus, but. to
load salt at the Isle of May, and to go away to Newfoundland. He had no

 

"MADE rwnnr 0m: A LlGM'l' COM (f. 'm.

remedy in this exigencc but to go with the ship. and had a pretty good
voyage as far as the banks (:10 they call the place where the}: catch the fish ).
where. meeting with a French ship bound from France. to Quebec. in the
river of Canada and from thence to Martinico. lo mir) provisions he
thought he should have an opportunity to cum-n. cte his firSt (le gn: but
when he came to Quebec the master of the ship died, and the vessel pro-
ceeded no further. So the. next myage he shipped himself for France in
the ship that was burned whcn We look them up at spa. and then shipped
with us for the East Indies. as l have already said. Thus he had been dis-
appointed in five voyages, all.asl may call it, in one voyage, besides what I
shall have occasion to mention Iarther of him.

But I shall not make digression into other men's stories. which have no
relation to my own. I return to what concerns our affairs in' the island. He
came to me one morning (for he lodged among us all the while we were
upon the island), and it happened to be just when I (vas going to visit the
Englishman's colony, at the farthest part of the island. I say, he came to
me and told me. with a very grave countenance, that he had for two orthree
days dcsireclanopportunity otsome discourse with me, which he hoped would
not be displeasing to me. because he thought it might in some measure cor.
respond with my general design, which was the prosperity of my new colony
and perhaps might put it, at least more than he yet thought it was, in the
way of God's blessing.

I looked a little surprised at the last part of his discourse, and turning
a little short, " How, sir," said I, " can it be said that we are not in the way
of God's blessing, after such visible assistances and deliverance: as we have
seen here, and of which I have given you a large account?" " If you had
pleased, sir." said he, with a world of modesty, and yet great readiness. "to
have heard me, you would have found no room to have been displeased.
much less to think so hard of me, that I should suggest that you have not
had wonderful assistances and deliverances; and] hope. on your behalf,
that you are in the way of God's blessing, and your design is exceeding
good, and will prosper; but, sir, though it were more so than is even pos-
sible to you. yet there may be some among you that are not equally right
in their actions; and you know, that in the story of the children of Israel,
one Achan in the camp removed God's blessing from them, and turned His
hand so against them, that six-and-thirty of them, though not concerned in
the crime, were the objects of Divine vengeance. and bore the weight of that
punishment."

I was sensibly touched with his discourse. and told him his inference was
so just, and the whole design seemed so sincere, and was really so religious
in its own nature, that I was very sorry I had interrupted him. and begged
him to go on; and, in the meantime. because it seemed that what we had
both to say might take up some time, I told him I was going to the Eng-
lishmen's plantations. and asked him to go with me,and we might discourse
of it by the way. He told me he would the more willingly wait on me
thither. because there partly the thing was acted which he desired to speak
to me about; so we walked on, and I pressed him to be free and plain with
me in what he had to say.

- " Why. then, sir," says he, " be pleased to give me leave to lay down a
few propositions. as the foundation of what 1 havc to say, that we may not
differ in the general principles. though We may he of some differing opin--
ions in the practice of particulars. First, sir, though we differ in some of
the doctrinal articles of religion (and it is very unhappy it is so, especiallyGOOD ADVICE. 337

in the case before us, as I shall show afterwards), yet there are some general
principles in which we both agree----that there is a God; and that this God
having given us some stated general rules for our service and obedience, we
ought not willingly and knowingly to offend Him, either by neglecting to
do what He has commanded, or by doing what He has expressly forbidden.
And let our different religions be what they will, this general principle is
readily owned by us all, that the blessing of God does not ordinarily Iollow
presumptuous sinning against l-lis command; and every good Christian will
be affectionately concerned to prevent any that are under Ilis earc living in
a total neglect of God and His commands.- It is not your men being Prot>>
estants, whatever my opinion may be of such, that discharges me from
being concerned for their souls, and from endeavoring, if it lies before me,
that they should livein as little distance from enmity with their Maker as
possible, especially if you give me leave to meddle so far in your circuit

1 could not yet imagine what he aimed at and told him I granted all he
had said. and thanked him that he would so far concern himself for us, and
begged he would explain the particulars of what he had observed. that like
Joshua, to take his own parable, I might put away the accursed thing
from us.

" Why, then, sir." says he. " l will take the liberty you give me; and there
are three things, which, if l am right, must stand in the way of God's bless-
ing upon your endeavors here and which 1 should rejoice, (or your sake and
their own, to see removed. And, sir. I promise myself that you will fully
agree with me in them all as soon as I name them; especially, because I
shall convince you that every one of them may, with great ease and very
much to your satisfaction, be remedied. First, sir," says he, "you have here
four Englishmen, who have fetched women from among the savages and have
taken them as their wives and have had many children by them all, and yet
are not married to them after any stated legal manner, as the laws of God
and man require; and thereIore are yet, in the sense of both, no less than
fornicators, it notliving in adultery. To this. sir, I know you will object that
there was no clergyman or priest oI any kind or any profession to perform
the ceremony, nor any pen and ink or paper to write down a contract of
marriage and have it signed between them. And I know also, sir, what the
Spaniard governor has told you, I mean, of the agreement that he obliged
them to make when they took those women, viz. that they should choose
them out by consent and keep separately to them; which, by the way, is
nothing of a marriage, no agreement with the women as wives, but only an
agreement among themselves to keep them from quarrcling. But. sir. the
essence of the sacrament of matrimony " (so he called it, being a Roman)
" consists not only in the mutual consent oi the parties to take one another
as man and wife, but in the formal and legal obligation that there is in the
contract, to compel the man and woman, at all times, to own and acknowl-

edge each other; obliging the man to abstain from all other women, to
n
engage in no other contract while these subsist, and, on all occasions. as
ability allows, to provide honestly [or them and their children; and to
oblige the women to the same or like conditions, mama's Illilfdfldix, on their
side. Now, sir," says he, " these men may, when they please, or when occa
sion presents. abandon these women, disown their children, leave them to
perish and take other women and marry thcm while these are living;" and
here he added, with some warmth, " How. sir, is God honored in this unlaw-
ful liherty? And how shall a blessing succeed your endeavors in this place.
however good in themselves and however sincere in your design, while these
men, who at present are your subjects, under your absolute government and
dominion. are allowed by you to live in open adultery?"

I confess I was struck with the thing itsclPS,hut much more with the con-
vincing arguments he supported it with; for it was certainly true that,
though they had no clergyman upon the spot, yet a formal contract on
both sides, made before witnesses and confirmed by any token which they
they had all agreed to be bound by, though it had been but breaking a stick
between them, engaging the men to own these women for their wircs upon
all occasions and never to abandon them or their children, and the women
to the same with their husbands. had been an effectual lawful marriage in
the sight of God; and it was a great neglect that it was not done. But I
thought to have got off my young priest by telling him that all that part
was done when I was not there, and that they had lived so many years with
them now. that if it was adultery it was past remedy; nothing could be
done in it now. .

"Sir," says he, "asking your pardon for such freedom, you are right in
this, that. it being done in your absence, you could not be charged with that
part ol the crime, but, I beseech you, flatter not yourself that you are not,
therefore, under an obligation to do your utmost now to put an end to it.
How can you think but that, let the time past he on whom it will, all the
guilt (or the future will lie entirely upon you? because it is certainly in your
power now to put an end to it, and in nobody's power but yours? "

I was so dull still that I did not understand him right, but I imagined
that by putting an end to it he meant that I should part them and not suffer
them to live together any longer, and I said to him i could not do that by
any means, for that would put the whole island into confusion. I'Ic sccmed
surprised that I should so {ar mistake him. "No, Sir," says he, "I do not
mean that you should now separate them. but legally and effectually marry
them; and as. sir, my way of marrying them may not be easy to reconcile
them to, though it will be effectual, cvcn by your own laws, so your way
may be as well before God, and as valid among men. I mean by a written
contract, signed by both man and woman and by all the witnesses present.
which all the laws 0[ Europe would decree to be valid."

I was amazed to see so much true piety and so much sincerity of zeal.
besides the unusual impartiality in his discourse. as to his own party orANOTHER COMPLAINT. 83"

church. and such true warmth for preserving the people
that he had no knowledge of or relation th; I say. for pre-

serving them from transgressing' the laws of God, the like A9
of which l had. indeed, not met with any- '5'),

 
 
 
 
 
 
  

where. But recollecting what lit: had said
of marrying them by a. written contract,
which I knew he would stand to, ,I returned
it back upon him and told him i granted all
that he had said to he just, and on his part.
very kind; 1 would discourse with the. men
upon the point now. when
Icamc to them. and I
knew no reason why they
should scruplc to let him
marry them all. which I
knc'w well enough would
be granted to be as an-
thentic and valid in Eng-
land as if they were mar-
ried by one nf our own
clergyman. W hat was
afterwards done in this
matter 1 shall speak of by
itself.

I then pressed him to
tell me what was the
second complaint which
he had to make. acknowl-
edging Lhar. l was very
much his debtor {or the
first, and thanked him
heartily for it. He told .
me he would use the same '
freedom and plainness in
the second, and hoped I
would take it as well; and
this was, that notwith-
standing th ese English
subjects of mine, as he
Callcd them. had lived
with these women almost
scven years, had taught them to speak English and even to read it. and
that they were. as he perceived, women of tolerable understanding and
capable of instruction, yet they had not to this hour taught them anything:

"WE WALKED nx' if. 336).
of the Christian religion--no. not so much as to know that there was a God
or a, worship, or in what manner God was to be served, or that their own
idolatry, and worshiping they knew not whom, was false and absurd. This,
he said, was an unaccountable neglect, and what God would certainly call
them to account for, and perhaps at last take the work out of their hands.
He spoke this very affectionately and warmly. "I am persuaded," says
he, "had those men lived in the savage country whence their wives came,
the savages would have taken more pains to have brought them to be
idolaters and to worship the devil than any of these men, so far as I car
see, have taken with them to teach them the knowledge of the true Goc
Now, sir," said he, "though I do not acknowledge your religion, or yo:
mine. yet we would be glad to see the devil's servants and the subjects 0
his kingdom taught to know the general principles of the Christian religion,
that they might, at least, hear of God and a Redeemer, and of the resurreo
tion, and of a future state-- things which we all believe; that they might,
at least, be so much nearer coming into the bosom of the true Church than
they are now, in the public profession of idolatry and devil~worship."

I could hold no longer. I took him in my arms. and embraced him with
an excess of passion. " llow far," said I to him, " have l been from under-
standing the most essential part of a Christian, viz., to love the interest of
the Christian Church. and the good of other men's souls! lscarec have
known what belongs to the being a Christian." " Oh, sir! do not say so,"
replied he; " this thingr is not your fault." " No," said I, "but why did I
never lay it to heart as well as you? " " It is not too late yet," said he; "be
not too forward to condemn yoursclf." " But what can be done now?" said
I; " you see I am going away." " Will you give me leave to talk with these
poor men about it?" "Yes. with all my heart," said 1; "and- will oblige
them to give heed to what you say too." " As to that," said he, " we must
leave them to the mercy of Christ; but it is your business to assist them,
encourage them, and instruct them; and if you give me leave, and God His
blessing, i do not doubt but the poor ignorant souls shall be brought home
to the great circle of Christianity, if not into the particular faith we all
embrace, and that even while you stay here." Upon this. I said, " I shall
not only give you leave, but give you a thousand thanks for it." What fol-
lowed 1 shall mention in its place.

Inow pressed him for the third article in which we were to blame.
"""hy, really," says he, "it is of the same nature, and I will proceed, asking
your leave, with the same plainness as before. It is about your poor sav-
ages, who are, as I may say, your conquered subjects. It is a maxim, sir,
that is, or ought to be, received among all Christians, of what church orpre-
. tended church soever, thatthe Chris ian knowledge ought to be propagated
by all possible means, and on all pOssible occasions. It is on this principle
that our church sends missionaries into Persia, India and China and thatour
clergy. even of the superior sort, willingly engage in the most hazardousMISSIONARY WORK. 34]

voyages and the most dangerous residence among murderers and barbarians.
to teach them the knowledge of the true God, and to bring them over to
embrace the Christian faith. Now, sir, you have such an opportunity here
to have six or seven and thiny poor savages brought over from a state of
idolatry to the knowledge of God. their Makerand Redeemer,that I wonder
how you can pass such an occasion of doingr good which is really worth the
expense of a man's whole life."

I was now struck dumb indeed and had not one word to say. I had
here the spirit of true Christian zeal for God and religion before me. let his
particular principles be of what kind soevcr." As for me, I had not so much
as entertained a thought of this in my heart before. and I believe I should
not have thought of it. for I looked upon the savages as slaves, and people
whom. had we not had any work for them to do. we would have used as
such. or would have been glad to have transported them to any other part
of the wm'ld; for our business was to get rid of them. and we would all
have been satisfied if. they had been sent to any country. so they had
never seen their own. Iwas confounded at his discourse and knew notwhat
answer to make him.

He looked earnestly at me. seeing me in some disorder "Sir," says he.
"I shall be \3'ery sorry if what I have said gives you any offense." "No, no."
said I. "I an) offended with nobody but myself; but I am perfectly con-
founded. not only to think that Ishould nevcrtake any notice of this before.
but with reflecting what notice lam able to take of it now. You know.
sir." said l. "what. circumstances I am in; I am bound to the East Indies in
a ship Ireighted by merchants. and to whom it would be an insufferable piece
of injustice to detain their ship here, the men lying all this while at victuals
and wages on the owners' account. It is true. I agreed to be allowed twelve
days here. and if I stay more. I must pay three pounds sterling per diam.
rlemurrage; nor can I stay upon deinurragc above eight days more. and I
have been here thirteen already. so that I am perfectly unable to engage in
this worl: unless I would suffer myself to be left behind here again, in which
case. if this single ship should miscarry in any part of her voyage. I should
be just in the same condition that I was left in here at first, and from which
I have been so wonderfully deliverec ." He owned the case was very hard
upon me as to my voyage. but laid it home upon my conscience. whether
the blessing of saving thirty-seven souls was not worth venturing all I had
in the world for. I was not so so sihle of that as he was. I replied to him
thus: "Why, sir. it is a valuable thing indeed. to be an instrument in God's
hand to convert thirty-seven heathens to the knowledge of Christ; but as
you are an ecclesiastic, and are given over to the work. so it seems so
naturally to {all into the way of your profession. How is it. then. that you
do not rather offer yourself to undertake it than press me to do it?"

Upon this he faced about just before me. as he walked along. and put-
ting me to a full stop. made me a very low bow. "I most heartily thank
God and you, sir," said he. " for giving me so evident a call to so blessed a
work; and if you think youi'selr' discharged from it. and desire me to under~
take it. I will most readily do it. and think it a happy reward for all the
hazards and difiiculties of such a broken. disappoinied voyage as l.have met
with. that I am dropped at last into so glorious a work.

I discovered a kind of rapture in his face while he spoke this to me: his
eyes sparkled like fire. his face glowed. and his color came and went, as if
he had been falling into fits; in a. word. he was fired with the joy of being
embarked in such a work. I paused a eonsiderahie uhilehefore I could tell
what to say to him; for I was really surprised to find a man of such sincer-
ity and zeal. and carried out in his zeal beyond the ordinary rate of men.
not of his profession only. but even of any profession whatsoever. But after
I had considered it awhile. I asked him seriously if he was in earnest. and
that he would venture, on the single consideration of an attempt to convert
those poor peopie. to be locked up in an implanted island for. perhaps, his
life. and at last might not know whether he should be able to do them good
or not.

He turned short upon me, and asked me what I called aventure. " Pray.
sir." said he. " what do you think I consented to go in you ship to the East
Indies for?" " Nay." said I. " that I know not, unless it was to preach to
the Indians." "' Douhtlcss it was," said he; " and do you think. if Ican con-
vert these thirty-seven men to the faith of jesus Christ. it is not worth my
time, though I should never be fetched ed the island agaiu?--r nay. is it not
infinitely of more worth to save so many souls than my life is. or the life' of
twenty more of the same profession? Yes. sir," says he. ."I would give
Christ and the blessed Virgin thanks all my days if I could be made the
happy instrument of saying the souls of those poor men, though I were
never to get my foot off this island, or see my native country any more.
But since you will honor me with putting;, me into this work, for which I
will pray {or you all the days of my life. I have one humble petition to you
besides." " ""hat is that? " said I. "Why." says he. " it is, that you will
leave your man Friday with me. to be my interpreter to them. and to assist
me; for without some help I cannot speak to them. or they to me."

I was sensibly touched at his requesting Friday. because I could not
think of parting with him, and that for many reasons: he had been the
companion of my travels: he was not only faithful to me, but sincerely
affectionate to the last degree; and I had resolved to do something consid~
erable [or him it he outlived me. as it was probable he would Then I knew
that. as I had bred Friday up to be a Protestant. it would quite confound
him to bring him to embrace another religion; and he would never, while
his eyes were open, believe that his old master was a heretic. and would be
damned; and this might in the end ruin the poor fellow's principles. and so
turn him back again to his first idolatry. However. a sudden thought
relieved me in this strait, and it was this: I told him I could not say that IFRIDAY lN DEMAND. 348

was willing to part with Friday on any account whatever, though a work
that to him was of more value than his life ought to be to me of mueh
more value than the keeping or parting with a servant. But, on the other
hand, I was persuaded that Friday would by no means agree to part with
me; and I could not force him to it without his consent, without manifest
injustice; because I had promised i would never send him away, and he

 

" mam: Ml". A VERY LOW HOW" (fl. 341).

had promised and engaged to me that he would, never leave 1110. unless I
sent him away.

He seemed very much concerned at it, for he had no rational access to
lhese poor people, seeing he. did not understand one word of their language.
not they one ofhis. To remove this tlimru I told him Friday's father
had learned Spanish, whiclil found he also understood.and he should serve
him as an interpreter. So he was much better satisfied, and nothing could
persuade him but he would stay and endeavor to convert them; but Provi-
dence gave another very happy turn to all this.

I come back now to the first part of his objections. When we came to
the Englishmen, I sent for them all together, and after some account given
them of what I had done for them, viz., what necessary things I had pro-
vided for them, and how they were distributed, which they were very sensi-
'ble of, and very thankful for, I began to talk to them of the scandalous life
they led, and gave them a full account of the notice the clergyman had
taken of it; and arguing,7 how unchristian and irreligious a life it was, I first
asked them it they were married men or bachelors. They soon explained
their condition to me, and showed that two of them were widowers, and the
other three were single men, or bachelors. I asked them with what con-
science they could take these women, and call them their wives, and have
so many children by them, and not be lawfully married to them,

They. all gave rue the answer I expected, viz, that there was nobody to
marry them; that they agreed before the governor to keep them as their
wives, and to maintain them and own them as their wives; and they thought,
as things stood with them, they were as legally married as if they had been
married by a parson, and with all the formalities in the world.

I told them that no doubt they were married in the sight of God, and
were bound in conscience to keep them as their wives; but that the laws of
men being otherwise, they might desert the poor women and children here-
after; and that their wives, being poor 'desolate women, friendlcss and
moneyless, would have no way to help themselves. I therefore told them
that, unless I was assured of their honest intent,I could do nothing for
them. but would take care that what I did should be {or the women and
children without them; and that, unless they would give me some assur-
ances that they would marry the women, I could not think it was conven-
ient they should continue together as man and wife; for that it was both
scandalous to men and offensive to God, who they could not think would
bless them if they Went on thus.

All this went on as I expected, and they told me, especially WillAtkins,
who now seemed to speak for the rest, that they loved their wives as well
as if they had been born in their own native country, and would not leave
them on any account whatever; and they did verily believe that their wives
were as virtuous and as modest. and did, to the utmost of their skill, as
much for them and for their children as any women could possibly do; and
they would not part with them on any account; and Will Atkins, for his
own particular, added, that if any man would take him away, and offer to
carry him home to England, and make him captain oi the best man-of--war
in the navy. he would not go with him if he might not carry his wife and
children with him; and it there was a clergyman in the ship, he would be
married to her now with all his heart.

This was just as I would have it. The priest was not with tne at that
moment, but was not. far off. So, to try him farther, I told him I had a
rlergyman with me, and, if he was sincere, I would have him married next
morning, and bade him consider of it, and talk with the rest. He said as forTHE MARRIAGE LAW. 345

himself, he need not consider of it at all. for he was very ready to do it. and
was glad I had a minister with me. and he believed they would be all will-
ing also. I then told him that my friend, the minister. was a Frenchman
and could not speak English. but I would act the clerk between them. He
never so much as asked me whether he was a Papist or Protestant. which
was, indeed. what. I was afraid of. So we parted. I went back to my cler-
gyman. and Will Atkins went in to talk with his companions. I desired the
French gentleman not to say anything to them till the business was thor--
oughly ripe, and I told him what answer the men had given me.

Before 1 went from their quarter they all came to me and told me they
had been considering what I had said; that they were glad to hear l had a
clergyman in my company, and they were very willing to give me the satis-
faction I desired,and to be formally married as soon as I pleased: for they
were far from desiring to part with their wives, and that they meant nothing
but what was new honest when they chose them. So I appointed them to
meet me the next morning, and, in the meantime, they should let their
wives know the meaning of the marriage law. and that it was not only to
prevent any scandal. but also to oblige them that they should not forsake
them. whatever might happen.

The women were easily made sensible of the meaning of the thing, and
were very well satisfied with it, as, indeed, they had reason in be; so they
failed not to attend altogether at my apartment next morning. where I
brought out my clergyman; and though he had not on a minister's gown.
after the manner of England. or the habit of a priest, after the manner of
France. yet having a black vest something like a cassock, with a sash round
it. he did not look very unlike a minister; and as for his language. I was
his interpreter. But the seriousness of his heliav r to them. and the
scruples he made of marrying the women. because they were not baptized
and professed Christians. gave them an exceeding reverence for his person;
and there was no need after that to inquire whether he was a clergyman
or not. Indeed, I was afraid his scruples would have been carried so far
as that he would not have married them at all; nay, notwithstanding all I
was able to say to him, he resisted me. though modestly. yet very steadily,
and at last refused absolutely to marry them unless he had first talked with
the men and the women too. and though at first I was a little backward to
it. yet at last I agreed to it with a good will. perceiving the sincerity of
his design.

When he came to them. he let them know that I had acquainted him
With their circumstances, and with the present design; that he was very
willing to perform that part of his function, and marry them. as I had
desired, but that before he could do it he. must take the liberty to talk with
them. He told them that in the sight of all indifferent men and in the
sense of the laws of society.they had lived all this while in open fornication;
and that it was true that nozhing but the consenting to marry, or effectually
separating them from one another could now put an end to it:but there
was a dimculty in it too. with respect to the laws of Christian matrimony.
which he was not fully satisfied ahout,that of marrying one that isa pro-
fessed Christian to a savage, an idolatcr, and a heathen--one that is not
baptized; and yet that he did not see that there was time'left to endeavor
to persuade the women to be baptized, or to profess the name of Christ,
whom they had, he doubted heard nothing of,antl without which they could
not be baptized. He told them he doubted they were but indifferent
Christians themselves; that they had but little knowledge of God or of His
ways, and therefore he could not expect that they had said much to their
wives on that head yet, but that unless they would promise him to use their
endeavors with their wives to persuade them to become Christians, and
would; as well as they could. instruct them in the knowledge and belief of
God that made them, and to worship jcsus Christ that redeemed them, he
could not marry them; for he would have no hand in joining Christians with
savages, nor was it consistent with the principles of the Christian religion,
and was, indeed, expressly Iorbiden in God'sluw.

They heard all this very attentively, and I delivered it very faithfully to
them from his mouth, as near his own words as I could. only Sometimes
adding something of my own, to convince them_ how just it was, and that I
was of his mind; and I always very faithfully distinguished between what I
said from myself, and what where the clergymun's words. They told me it
was very true what the gentleman said, that they were. very indifferent
Christians themselves, and that they had never talked to their wives about
religion. "Lord, sir," says Will Atkins, " how should we teach them rclig>>
ion? Why. we know nothing ourselves; and besides, sir," said he, "should
we talk to them of God and Jesus Christ, and heaven and hell, it would make
them laugh at us, and ask us what we believe ourselves. And if we should
tell them that we believe all the things we speak of to thcm,such as of good
people going to heaven, and wicked people to the devil, they would ask us
where we intend to go ourselves, that believe all this, and are such wicked
fellows as we indeed are. Why, sir, 'tis enough to give them a surfeit of
_ religion at first hearing; folks must have some religion themselves before

they pretend to teach other people." "\Vill Atkins," said I to him, "though
I am afraid that what you say has too much truth in it, yet can you not tell
your wife she is in the wrong; that there is a God, and a religion.hetter than
her own; that her gods are idols: that they can neither hear nor speak; that
there is a great lining that made all things, and that can destroy all that He
has made; that He rewards the good and punishes the had: and that we are
to he judged by Him at last for ail we do here? You are not so ignorant,
but even Nature itself will teach you that all this is true; and I am satisfied
you know it all to be true, and believe it yourself." " That is true, sir," said
Atkins, " but with what face can I say anything to my wife of all this. when
she will tell me immediately it cannot be true? " " Not true! " said I; " whatWILL ATKINS HAS SCRUPIES. \ 347

do you mean by that? " " Why, sir," said he, " she will tell me it cannot be
true that this God I shall tell her of can be just, or can punish or reward,
since I am not punished and sent to the devil, that have been such a \v kecl
creature as she knou's I have been, even to her, and to e 'Aryhody else; and
that I should he suffered to live, that have been always acting so contrary
to what I must tell her is good, and to what I ought to have done." " Why,
truly, Atkins," said I, " I am afraid thou speakest too much truth." and with
that I informed the clergyman of what Atkins had said, for he was impatient
to know. "Oh." said the priest, "tell him there is one thing willmakehim
the best minister in the world to his wife, and that is repentance; for none

  

 

 

"'I'HEY ALL cams 1'0 M17." (/1. 845).

teach repentance like true penitents. He wants nothing but to repent, and
then he will be so much the better qualified to instruct his wife; he will then
be able to tell her that there is not only a. God, and that He is the just
rcwanicr at good and evil. but that He is a merciful Being, and. with infinite
goodness and long suffering, forbears to punish those that offend; waiting
to be gracious, and willing not the death of a sinner, but rather that he should
return and live; that oftentimes l-le suffers wicked men to go a long time,
and even reserves damnation to the general day of retribution; that it is a
Clear evidence of God and of a future state, that righteous men receive not
their reward, or wicked men tln-ir punishment. till they come into anothci
world; and this will lead him to teach his wife the doctrine of the resurrec
lion and of the last judgment. Let him but repent himself, he will be an
excellent preacher of repentance to his wife."

I repeated all this to Atkins, who looked very serious all the while. and
who. we could easily perceive, was more than ordinarily affected with it.
When, being,y eager, and hardly suffering me to make an end--"l know all
this. master." says he. "and a great deal more; but l have not the impu-
ilence to talk thus to my wife. when God and my conscience know. and my
wife will he an undeniable evidence against me. that I have lived as it I had
never heard of a God or luturc state, or anything about it; and to talk of
my repenting, alas! " (and with that he fetched a deep sigh. and I could see
that the tears stood in his eyes) "'tis past all that with me." "Past it.
Atkins?" said I. " \Vhat dost thou mean by that? " "' I know well enough
what I mean." says he; " I mean 'tis too late. and that is too true."

I told the clergyman, word for word, what he said. The poor. zealous
priest--I must call him so. for. be his opinion what it will, he had certainly
a most singular affection for the good of other men's souls, and it would be
hard to think he had not the like for his'own--I say. this affectionate man
could not refrain from tears; but. recovering himself, said to me: "Ask him
but one question. Is he easy that it is too late. or is he troubled,and wishes
it were not so?" I put the question fairly to Atkins. and he answered with
a gicat deal of passion. " How could any man be easy in a condition that
must certainly end in eternal destruction? that he was far from being easy;
but that. on the contrary. he believed it would one time or other ruin
him." " What do you mean by that? " said I. " "Why." he said. " he
believed he should one time or another cut his throat to put an end to the
terror of it."

The clergyman shook his head with great concern in his face, when I
told him all this, but turning quick to me upon it. says: " II that be his case.
we may assure him it is not too late; Christ will give him repentance. But
pray," says he, "explain this to him; that as no man is saved but by Christ
and the merit of His passion procuring Divine mercy iorhim, how can it be
too late for any man to receive mercy? Does he think he is able to sin
beyond the power or reach of Divine mercy? Pray tell him there may be
a time when provoked mercy will no longer strive. and when God may
refuse to hear. but that it is never too late for men to ask mercy. and we.
that are Christ's servants. are commanded to preach mercy at all times. in
the name of Jesus Christ, to all those that sincerely repent; so that it is
never too late to repent."

I told Atkins all this. and he heard me with great earnestness; but it
seemed as il he turned off the discourse to the rest, for he said to me he
would go and have some talk with his wife. So he went out awhile, and we
tallied to the rest. I perceived they were all stupidly ignorant as to matters
of religion, as much as l was when I went rambling away from my father;THE CONVERSION. 349

and yet there were none of them backward to hear what had been said, and
all of them seriously promised that they would talk with their wives about
it, and do their endeavors to persuade them to turn Christians.

The clergyman smiled upon me when I reported what answer they gave,
but said nothing a good while; but at last, shaking his head, "We that are
Christ's servants," says he, " can go no farther than to exhort and instruct,
and when men com ply, submit to the reproof, and promise what we ask, 'tis
all we can do; we are bound to accept their good words, but believe me,
sir," said he, " whatever you may have known of the life of that man you
call Will Atkins, I believe he is the only sincere convert among them. I
will not despair of the rest, but that man is apparently struck with the sense
of his past life. and I doubt not, when he comes to talk of religion to his
wife, he will talk himself effectually into it; for, attempting to teach others,
is sometimes the best way of teaching ourselves. I know a man who, having
nothing but a summary notion of religion himself, and being wicked and prof-
ligate to the last degree in his life, made a thorough reformation in himself
by laboring to convert a Jew. If that poor Atkins begins but once to talk
seriously of Jesus Christ to his wife, my life for it he talks himself into a
thorough convert. makes himself a penitent, and who knows what may
follow? "

Upon this discourse.however. and their promising', as above, to endeavor
to persuade their wives to embrace Christianity, he married the other two
couple; but Will Atkins and his wife were not yet come in. After this, my
clergyman waiting awhile, was curious to know where Atkins was gone; and
turning to me, said, "I entreat you, sir, let us walk out of your labyrinth
here, and look; I dare say we shall find this poor man somewhere or other
talking seriously to his wife, and teaching her already something of religion."
I began to beef the same mind; so we went out together, and I carried him
a way which none knew but myself, and where the trees were so very thick
that it was not easy to see through the thicket of leaves, and far harder to
see in than to see out; when, coming to the edge of the wood, I saw Atkins
and his tawny wife sitting under the shade of a bush, very eager in dis-
course; I stopped short till my clergyman came up to me, and then, having
shown him where they were. we stood and looked very steadily at them a
good while. We observed him very earnest with her, pointing up to the
sun, and to every quarter of the heavens, and then down to the earth. then
out to the sea, then to himself, then to her, to the woods, to the trees.
"Now," says the clergyman, "you see my words are made good, the man
preaches to her; mark him now, he is telling her that our God has made him
and her, and the heavens, the earth, the sea. the woods. the trees, etc." "I
believe he is," said I. Immediately. we perceived Will Atkins start upon
his feet, fall down on his knees, and lift up both his hands. We supposed
he said something, but we could not hear him; it was too far for that. He
did not continue kneeling half a minute1 but comes and sits down again by
his wife, and talks to her again; we perceived then the woman very atten--
tive, but whether she said anything to him we could not tell. While the
poor fellow was upon his knees I could see the tears run plentiiuily down
my clergyman's checks, and i could hardly forbear myself; but it was a
great aflliction to us both that we were not near enough to hear anything
that passed between them. W'ell, however, we could come no nearer for
fear of disturbing them; so we resolved to see an .end of this piece of still
conversation, and it spoke loud enough to us without the help of voice. He
sat down again, as I have said, close by her, and talked again earnestly to
her, and two or three times we could see him embrace her most passionately;
another time we saw him take out his handkerchief and wipe her eyes, and
then kiss her again with a kind of transport very unusual; and after several
of these things, we saw him on a sudden jump up again, and lend her his
hand to help her up, when immediately leading her by the hand a step or
two, they both knccled down together, and continued so about two minutes.

My friend could bear it no longer, but' cries out aloud, "St. Paul! St.
Paul! behold, he praycthl" I was afraid Atkins would hear him, therefore
I entreated him to withhold himself awhile. that we might see an end to the
scene, which to me, I must confess, was the most affecting that I ever saw
in my life. \Vell, he strove with himself for awhile, but was in such raptures,
to think that the poor heathen woman was become a Christian, that he was
not able to contain himself. He wept several times, then throwing up his
hands and crossing his breast, said over several things ejaculatory, and by
the way of giving God thanks for so miraculous a testimony of the success
of our endeavors; some he spoke softly, and I could not well hear others;
some in Latin, some. in French; then two or three times the tears would
interrupt him, that he could not speak at all; but I begged that he would
contain himself, and let us more narrowly and fully observe what was before
us, which he did for a time, the scene not being near ended yet; for utter
the poor man and- his wife were risen again from their knees, we observed
he stood talking still eagerly to her, and we observed by her motion that
she was greatly affected with what he said, by her frequently lifting up her
hands, laying her hand to her breast, and such olherpostures as express the
greatest seriousness and attention; this continued about half a quarter of an
hour; and then they walked away so we could see no more of them in that
situation. I tool: this interval to say to the clergyman, first,thatl was glad
to see the particulars we had both been witness to; that, though I was hard
enough of belief in such cases, yet that I began to think that it was all very
sincere here, both in the man and his wife, however ignorant. they might
both he. and I hoped such a beginning would yet have a more happy end:
"And who knows," said I, "but these two may in time, by instruction and
example. work upon some of the others? " " Some of them?" said he, turn-
ing quick upon me; " aye. upon all of. them; depend upon it, if those two
savages--for he has been but little better as you relate it--should embraceRELIGIOUS PRINCIPLES. 351

Jesus Christ, they will never leave till they work upon all the rest; for true
religion is naturally communicative, and he that is once made a Christian
will never leave a Pagan behind him, if he can help it." I owned it was a
most Christian principie to think so, and a testimony of true zeal, as well as
a generous heart in him. " But, my friend." said I, " will you give me leave
to start one difficulty here? I cannot teli how to object the least thing
against that affectionate concern which you show (or the turning of the pom
. people from their Paganism to the Christian religion; but how does this
comfort you, while these people are, in your account, out of the pale of the
Catholic Church, without which you believe there is no salvation? so that
you esteem these but heretics, as effectually lost as the Pagans themselves."
To this he answered with abundance of candor, thus: " Sir, I am a
Catholic of the Roman Church, and a. priest of the order of St. Benedict,
and I embrace ali the principles of the Roman faith; but yet, if you will
believe me, and that I do not sp c in compliment to you, or in respect to
my circumstances and your civilities; I say, neverthel I do not look upon
you, who call yourselves reformed, without some charity; I dare not say
(though I know it is our opinion in general) that you cannot be saved; I
will by no means limit the mercy of Christ so far as to think that He cannot
receive you inlo the bosom of His Church. in a manner to us unperceivablc;
and I hope you have the same charity for us; I pray daily for your being,'
all restored to Christ's Church, by whatsoever method He, who is all--wise,
is pleased to direct. In the meantime, sur 'ou will allow it eonsxsts with
me, as a Roman, to distinguish far between a Protestant and a Pagan;
between one that calls on jcsus Christ, though in a way which I do not think
is according to the true faith, and a savage or a barbarian, that knows no
God, no Christ, no Redeemer; and it you are not within the pale of the
Catholic Church, we hope you are nearer being restored to it than those who
know nothing of God or of His Church; and I reioice,thercfore, when I see
this poor man, who, you saw, has been a prolligate, and almost a murderer,
kneel down and pray to Its ' (Ll t. as we uppose he did, though not fully
enlifihtened; believing,Y that God, from whom every such work proceeds,
will sensibly touch his heart, and bring him tothc further knowledge of that
truth in llis own time; and if God shall influence this poor man to convert
and instruct the ignorant savage, his wife, I can never believe that he shall
be cast away himself. And have I not reason, then. to rejoice. the nearer
any are brought to the knowledge of Christ, though they may not he brought
quite home into the bosom of the Catholic Church just at the time when I
may desire it, leaving it to the goodness oi Christ to peril-ct Ilis work in
IIis own time. and in His own way? Certainly, 1 would rejoice if all the
savages in America were brought, like this poor woman. to pray to God,
though they were all to be Protestants at first. rather than they should com
tinue Pagans or heathens; firmly believing that He that had bestowed the
first light on them would farther illuminate them with a beam of Ilis
heavenly grace, and bring them into the pale of His Church. when He
should see good."

I was astonished at the sincerity and temper of this pious Papist. as
much as I was oppressed by the power of his reasoning. and it presently
occurred to my thoughts. that if such a temper was universal, we might be
all Catholic Christians, whatever Church or particular profession we joined
in; that a spirit of charity would soon work us all up into right principles;

 

"ATKISS 33m ms rawm' "urn" (p.849).

land as he thought that the like charity would make us all Catholics. so I
told him 1 helieved,had all the members of his Church the like moderation.
they would soon all be Protestants. And there we left that part; {or we
never disputed at all.

However, I talked to him another way, and taking him by the hand
"My friend," says I, "I wish all the clergy of the Romish Church were
blessed with such moderation and had an equal share of your charity. 1
am entirely of your opinion, but I must tell you. that if you should preach
such doctrine in Spain or Italy they would put you into the Inquisition."
" It may be so." said he; "I know not what they would do in Spain orA TALK \VITH ATKINS. 353

Italy. but I will not say they would be the better Christians for that sever-
ity; for I am sure there is no heresy in aboundint,r with charity."

Well, as Will Atkins and his wife were gone, our business there was
over. so we went back our own way; and when we came back we found
them waiting to be called in; observing this, I asked my clergyman if we
should discover to him that we had seen him under the bush or not, and it was
his opinion we should not, but that we should talk to him first and hear
what he would say to us; so we called him in alone, nobody being in the
place but ourselves and I began with him thus:

" Will Atkins." said I, "prythcc what education had you? W'hat was
your father? "

W. A.--A better than ever I shall he; sir, my father was a clergyman.

R. C.--\\-'hat education did he give you?

W. A.--He would have taught me well, sir. but I despised all education,
instruction or correction, like a beast as I was.

R. C--It is true, Solomon says, " He that despises rcproot is brutish."

W. rim-Aye, sir, I was brutish indeed, for I murdered my father; for
God's sake, sir, talk no more about that; sir, I murdered my poor father.

R. C--Ha! 'a murderer!

Here the priest started (for I interpreted every word he Spoke) and
looked pale: it seems he believed that W'ill had really killed his father.

R. C--No. no, sir; I do not understand him so. Will Atkins, explain
yourself; you did not kill your father, did you, with your own hands?

W. A. No. sir. I did not cut his throat, but I cut the thread of' all his
comforts and shortened his days. I broke his heart by the most ungrateful,
unnatural return for the most tender and affectionate treatment that ever
father gave. or child could receive.

R. C--\Vell, I did not ask you about your father to extort this confes-
sion. I pray God give you repentance for it, and forgive that and all your
other sins; but I asked you because I see that though you have not much
learning. yet you are not so ignorant as some are in things that are good;
that you have known more of religion, .1 great deal. than you have prac-
ticed. _

W. A.----Though you, sir, do not extort the confession that I make about
my father, conscience does, and whenever we come to look back upon our
lives. the sins against our indulgent parents are certainly the first to touch
us; the wounds they make lie deepest, and the weight they leave will lie
heaviest upon the mind of all the sins we can commit.

R. C----You talk too feelingly and sensibly for me, Atkins,I cannot
bear it. .

W. A.--You hear it, master! I dare say you know nothing of it.

R. C. ->>Yes, Atkins, every shore, every hill, nay, I may say every tree in
this island is witness to the anguish of my soul for my ingratitude to, and
bad usag; of, a good tender father; a father much like yours. by your
description; and! murdered my father as well as you. Will Atkins, but I
think, for all that. my repentance is short of yours too, by a great deal.

I would have said more if I could have restrained my passions, hurl
thought this poor man's repentance was so much sinccrcr than mine, that I
was going to leave off the discourse and retire, forI was surprised with
what he had said, and thought that instead of my going about to teach and
instruct him. the man was made a teacher and instructor to me in a most
surprising and unexpected manner.

I laid all this before the young clergyman, who was greatly affected with
it, and said to me, " Did I not say, sir, that when this man was converted
he would'preach to us all? I tell you, sir, if this one man be made a true
penitent, here will be no need of me; he will make Christians of all in the
island." But having a little composed myself, I renewed my discourse with
Will Atkins. " But Will," said I, " how comes the sense of this matter to
touch you just now? "

IV. A.--Sir, you have set me about a work that has struck a dart through
my very soul. 1 have been talking about God and religion to my wife, in
order, as you directed me, to make a Christian of hcr, and she has preached
such a sermon to me as I shall never forget while I live.

K. C \o, no, it is not your wife has preached to you, but when you
were moving religious arguments to her, conscience has flung them back
upon you.

W. A.--Aye, sir, with such force as is not to be resisted.

R. 6'."--Pfay, Will, let us know what passed between you and your wife: -
for I know something of it already.

W. A.--Sir, it is impossible to give you a full account of it; I am too full
to hold it,and yet have no tongue to express it; but let her have said .what
she will, though I cannot give you an account of it, this I can tell you, that
I have resolved to amend and reform my life.

R. C--But tell us some of it; how did you begin, Will? for this has been
an extraordinary case, that is certain. She has preached a sermon, indeed,
if she has wrought this upon you.

W. A.-- W'hy. I first told'her the nature of our laws about marriage, and
what the reasons were that men and women were obliged to enter into such
compacts as it was neither in the power of one nor other to break; that
otherwise, order and justice could not be maintained, and men would run
from their wives, and abandon their children, mix confusedly with one
another, and neither families he kept entire nor inheritanccs be settled by
legal descent.

R. (,Z--You talk like a civilian, Will. Could you make her understand
what you meant by inheritance and families? They know no such things
among the savages, but marry anyhow, without regard to relation, consan-
guinity, or family; brother and sister, nay, as I have been told, even the
father and the daughter, and the son and the mother.
H". A.---I believe. sir. you are misinformed, and my wife assures me of
the 'contrary'. and that they abhor it; perhaps, for any further relations, they
may not be so exact as we are; but she tells me never in the near relation-
ship you speak of.

R. C---\Vell, what did she say to what you told her?

IV. A.--She said she liked it very well. as it was much better than in
her country.

It C. But did you tell her what marriage was?

 

"wr: CALLED mm m nose" (f. 358).

W. A.---Aye, aye, there began all our dialogue. I asked her if she would
be married to me our way. She asked me what way that was I told her
marriage was appointed by God. And here we had a strange talk together,
indeed. asever man and wife had. I believe.

N. B.--This dialogue between Will Atkins and his wife I took down in
writing, just after he had told it me. which was as follows:

Wifi'. Appointed by your God! Why. have you a. God in your countiy?

IV. <<Is--"Yes. my dear, God is in every country.

"mu--No your God in my country; my country have the great old
Benamuckce God.
W. A.--Child, I am very unlit to show you who God is; God is in heaven,
and made the heaven and the earth, the sea. and all that in them is.

ll'ifiz--No maker: dc earth; no you God makee dc earth; no makee my
Country.

W'ill Atkins laughed a little at her expression of God not making her
country.

Wife.-- No laugh; why laugh me? This nothing to laugh.

lle um; justly reproved by his wife, {or she was more serious than he at
first.

H'. {L--That's true, indeed; I will not laugh any more, my dear.

l'Vi/Z -Why. you say you God inakce all?

I'V. A.---ch, child, our God made the whole world, and you,and me,and
all things; for He is the only true God-and there is no God but Him; He
lives lut' ever in heaven.

"792'.-- Why you no tell me long ago?

l'V. A.--That's true, indeed; but I have been a wicked wretch. and have
not only torgottcn to acquaint thee with anything before, but have lived
without God in the world myself.

llV:fl'.--\Vh21t, you have a great God in your country, you no know Him?
X0 say Oh! to Him? No do good thing for Him? That no possible.

IV. A. -I_t is true, though, for all that; we live as if there was no (30d in
heaven, or that He had no power on earth.

Hire--But why God let you do so? Why He no makee you good live?

l-V. A.--It is all our own fault.

1% a-- But you say me He is great, much great, have much great power.
can makee kill when He will,why He no makee kill when you no serve Him?
No say Oh! to Him, no be good mans.

W. A. That is true, He might strike me dead; and I ought to expect it.
(or 1 have been a wicked wretch, that is true; but God is merciful, and does
not deal with us as we deserve.

H'ifi'.-- --But then you do not tell God thankce for that too?

W. A.-- _\'0, ii: t. 'ced. I have not thanked God for His mercy any more
than I have feared God for His power.

IV'flz--Then your God no God; me no think believe ll: be such one,
great much power strong; no makee kill you, though you make Him much
angry.

W. A.--Whatl will my wicked life hinder you from believing in God?
What a dreadful creature am ll and what a sad truth is it, that the horrid
lives of Christians hinder the conversion of heathens!

"fifth--How me think you have great much God up theretshe points up
to heaven], and yet no do well, no do good thing? Can He tell? Sure He
no tell what you do?

W. A.--Yes, yes, Ile knows and sees all things; Ile hears us speak, sees
what we do. knows what we think, though we do not speak.\\'lLL ATKINS AND HIS WIFE. 3'

-i

Ibi:/k.--Whnt! Hc no hear you curse. swear, speak dc great damn?

IV. A. Yes. yes. He hears it all.

[W 5. <<Where he then thc much great. power strong?

ll". A--He is merciful. that is .111 we can say for it; and this proves Him
to he the true God; He is God, and not man. and therefore we are not com
sumccl. .,

Here Will Atkins told us he was struck with horror. to think how he
could tell his wife so clearly that God sees.3nd hears. and knows the secret
thoughts of the heart, and all that we do. and yet that he had dared to do
all the vile things he had done.

l-l"ifPS.--'.Vlerciful! What you call that?

1V. A.----llc is our Father and Maker, and He pities and spares us.

l/VI/a--So then He never make-e kill, never angry when you do wickcd;
thcn lle no good Himself. or no great able.

W. A.--Yes, yes. my dear, He is infinitely good and infinitely great, and
able to punish too; and sometimes. to Show His justice and vcngcance. Hc
lots fly llis anger to destroy sinncrs and make examples; many are cut oil
in their sins.

W1? a--llut no makce kill you yet; then He tell you. maybe. that He no
makee you kill; so you maker: dc bargain with Him. you do bad thing. He
no be angry at you when He be angry at other mans.

IV {lg--No. indeed, my sins are all presumptions upon His goodness;
and He would be infinitely just if He destroyed me. as He has done other
men.

ll'lfl'.--V\-'ell. and yet no kill, no makee you dead; what you say to Him
for that? You no tell Him thankee [or all that too?

IV. I'l.---l am an unthankful. ungrateful dog. that is true.

H"?'/e.--\:Vhy He no makee you much good better? You say He makce
you.

W. A. He made me as lle made all the world; it is I have deformed
myself. and abused Ilis goodness and made myself an abominable wretch.

WWI--I wish you makes God know me. I no make: Him angry I no
do had, wicked thing.

Herc \Vill Atkins said his heart sunk within him,to heara poor untaught
creature desire to be taught to know God. and he such a wicked wretch that
he 'could not say one word to her about God. but what the reproach of
his own carriage would make most irrational to her to believe; nay. that
already she had told him that she could not believe in God. because he.
that was so wicked. was not destroyed.

N". A. My dour. you mean. you wish I could teach you to know God.
not God to know you; for He knows you already, and every thought in your
hcurt.

Iii/n--V'Vhy, then, He know what I say to you now; He know me wish
to known Him. Ilow shall me know who nmkee me?
l-V. A.--v-Poor creature! He must teach thee, 1 cannot teach thee. I will
pray to Him to teach thee to know Him, and [orgivc me, that am unworthy
to teach thee.

The poor fellow was in such an agony at her desiring him to make her
know God, and her wishing to know Him. that he said he fell down on his

.knees before her, and prayed to God to enlighten her mind with the saving

knowledge of Jesus Christ. and to pardon his sins, and accept of his being
the unworthy instrument of instructing her in the principles of religion;
after which he sat down by her again, and their dialogue went on. This
was the time when we saw him kneel down,and hold up his hands.

Wi c. --\\-'hat you put down the knee for? What you hold up the hand
for? What you say? Who you speak to? What is all that?

W. A.--l\-ly dear, I bow my knees in token of my submission to Him
that made me. I said Oh! to Him, as you call it, and as your old men do to
their idol Benamuekee; that is, I prayed to Him.

"7/23: What say you Oh! to Him for?

I V. A.---l prayed to Ilim to open your eyes and your understanding, that
you may know. Him, and be accepted by Him.

ll'ffi'.---Can l-Ie do that too?

W. Air--Yes, He can; He can do all things,

ll'llfl'.--llut now He hear what you say? .

IV. 11.--\'es, He has bid us pray to Him. and promised to hear us.

ll'ifiz--Bid you pray? When He bid you?- How He bid you? What
you hear Ilim speak?

W. A.----I\'o, we do not hear him speak; but He has revealed Himself
many ways to us. -

Here he was at a great loss to make her understand that God has
revealed Himself to us by His Word. and what His Word was; but at last
he told it her thus:

l-V. A.--God has spoken to some good men in former days, even from
heaven, by plain words; and God has inspired good men by His Spirit; and
they have written all His laws down in a book. ' '

Wiflr--Me no understand that; where is book?

W. A.--Ala5! my poor creature, I have not this book; but I hope I shall
one time or other get it for you, and help you to read it.

Here he embraced her with great affection, but with inexprcssible grief
that he had not a Bible.

"Wk--But hour you makee me know that God teachee them to write
that book ?

W. A.---By the same rule that we know Him to be God.

Wi L--W'hat rule? \Vhat way you know Him?

W. Ax--'BCCRUSC He teaches and commands nothing but what is good,
righteous, and holv. and tends to make us perfectly good. as well as per-
fectly happy; and ntcansc llc forbids. and commands us to avoid, all that
is wicked, that is evil in itself, or evil in its consequence.VVIIJ. ATKINS AND HIS "I'lFE. 859

"fifth--That me would understand. that me fair: see; if He teachcc all
good thing. He makee all good thing, He give all thing, He hear me when
I say Oh! to Him, as you do just now; He maltee me good, if I wish to be
good; Ile spare me, no makce kill me, when I no be good; all this you say
He do, yet He be great God. Me take, think, believe Him to be great God.
Me say Oh! to him with you, my dear. r

Here the poor man could lorbcar no longer, but raised her up, made her
kneel by him, and he prayed to God aloud to instruct her in the knowledge
or Himself, by His Spirit; and that by some good providence, if possible,
she might, some time or other, come to have a Bible, that she might read
the Word of God, and be taught by it to know llim. This was the time
that we saw him lift her up by the hand, and saw him kneel down by her, as
above.

They had several other discourses, it seems, afler this, too long to be set
down here; and particularly, she made him promise that, since he confessed
his own life had been a wie :cd, abominable course of prm-'ocations against
God. that he would reform it, and not make God angry any more, lest He
should make him dead, as she called it, and then she would be left alone.
and never be taught to know this God better; and lest he should be miser-
able. as he had told her wicked men would be, alter death.

This was a strange account, and very affecting to us both, but particularly
to the young: clergyman; he was, indeed. \mntlcrl'ully surprised with it, but
under the greatest affliction imaginable that he could not talk to her, that
he could not speak English, to make her understand him; and as she spoke
but very broken English, he could not understand her: however, he turned
himself to me, and told me that he believed that there must be more to do
with this woman than to marry her. I did not understand him at first; but
at length he explained himself. viz., that site ought to be baptized. [agreed
with him in that part readily, and wished it to be done presently. "No_
"0; hold sir," said ho; " though I would have her be baptized, by all means,
forI must observe that Will Atkins, her husband, has indeed brought her, in
a wonderful manner, to be willing;r to embrace a religious life, and has given
her just ideas of the being of a God, of llis power, jus re, and mercy; yet,
I desire to know of him if he has said anything to her of Jesus Christ, and
of the salvation of sinners; of the nature of faith in Him, and redemption
by Hint; of the Holy Spirit, the resurrection, the last judgment, and the
future state." .

I L. lied Will Atkins again and asked him; but the poor fellow l'ell imme-
dialely into tears, and told us he had said something to her of all those
things, but that he was himself so wicked a creature, and his own conscience
so reproachcd him with his horrid, ungodly life, that he trembled at the
apprehensions that her knowledge of him should lesson the attention she
should give to those things, and make her rather contemn religion than
receive it; but he was assured, he said, that her mind was so disposed to
receive due impressions of all those things, and that if I would but discourse
with her, she would make it appear to my satisfaction that my labor would
not be lost upon her.

Accordingly, I called her in, and placing myself as interpreter between
my religious priest and the woman, 1 untreated him to begin with her; but
sure such a sermon was never preached by a Popish priest in these latter
ages of the world; and, as I told him, I thought he had all the zeal, all the
knowledge, all the sincerity of a Christian, without the error of a Roman
Catholic; and that I took him to be such a clergyman as the Roman bish-
ops were before the Church of Rome assumed spiritual sovereignty over
the consciences of men. In a word, he brought the poor woman to embrace
the knowledge of Christ, and of redemption by Him, not with wonder and
astonishment only, as she did the first notions of a God, but with joy and
faith; with an affection, and a surprising degree of understanding, scarce to
be imagined. much less to be expressed; and, at her own request, she was
baptized.

When he was preparing to baptize her I entreated him that he would
perform that office with some caution, that the man might not perceive he
was of the Roman Church, if possible, because of other ill consequences
which might attend a difference among us in that very religion which we
were instructing the other in. He told me that as he had no consecrated
chapel, nor proper things for the office,l should see he would do it in a
manner that I should not know by it that he was a Roman Catholic myself,
if I had not known it before; and so he did; for saying only some words
over to himself in Latin, which I could not understand, he poured a whole
dishful of water upon the woman's head, pronouncing in French, very loud,
"Mary" (which was the name her husband desired me to give her. for I was
her godfather), "I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and of the Son,
and of the Holy Ghost," so that none could know anything by it what
religion he was of. He gave the benediction afterwards in Latin, but either
Will Atkins did not know but it was French, or else did not take notice of
it at that time.

As soon as this was over we married them, and after the marriage was
over. he turned to Will Atkins, and in a very affectionate manner exhorted
him not only to persevere in that good disposition he was in, but to support
the convictions that were upon him by a resolution to reform his life; told
him it was in vain to say he repented if he did not forsake his crimes; rep-
resented to him how God had honored him with being the instrument of
bringing his wife to the knowledge of the Christian religion, and that he
should be careful he should not dishonor the grace of God; and that if he
did, he would see the heathen a betten Christian than himself, the savage
converted, and the instrument cast away. He said a great many good
things to them both; and then, recommending them to God's goodness,
gave them the benediction again. 1 repeating everything to them in English;ANOTHER W'EDDING. Ski]

and thus ended the ceremony. I think it was the most pleasant and agree-
able day to me that ever I passed in my whole life. I

But my clergyman had not done yet; his thoughts hung continually upon
the conversion of the thirty-seven savages, and fair) he would have stayed
upon the island to have undertaken it, but I convinced him, first, that his
undertaking was impracticable in itself; and. secondly, that perhaps I would
put it into a way of being done in his absence to his satisfaction.

Having thus brought the affairs oi the island to a. narrow compass, I was
preparing to go on board
the ship when the young

. man I had taken out of
the famishcd ship's com.
pany came to me, and told
me he understood I had a
clergyman with me, and
that I had caused the Eng-
lishmen to be married to
the savages; that he had
a match, too, which he
dcsircd might be. finished
before 1 went. between two
Christians which he hoped
would no: he disagreeable
to me.

I knew this must be the
young woman who was his
mother's servant, for there
was no other Christian
woman on the. island. So
l began to persuade him _ "mm-z HER Kain-m nv um"
not to do anything of that 5 (fl- 309"
kind rashly. or because he
found himself in this soli-
tary circumstance. l represented to him that he. had some considerable
substance in the world, and good friends, as I understood by himself,
and the maid also; that the maid was not only poor. and a servant but was
unequal to him, she being six or seven and twenty years old. and he not
above seventeen or eighteen; that he might very probably. with my assit'l-
ance, make a. remove from this wilderness. and come into his own country
again; and that then it would be a thousand to one but he would repent his
choice. and the dislike of that circumstance might be disadvantageous to
_ both. Iwas going to say more but he interrupted me, smiling, and told me.
with a great deal of modesty, that Imistoolt in my guesses; that he had
nothing of that kind in his thoughts. and he was very glad to hear that l
had an intent of putting them in a way to see their own country again, and
nothing should have made him think of staying there, but that the voyagel
was going was so exceeding long and hazardous, and would carry him quite
out of the reach of all his friends; that he had nothing to desire of me, but
that I would settle him in some little property in the island where he was,
give him a servant or two, and some few necessaries, and he would live here
likea planter, waiting the good time when, if everI returned to England, I
would redeem him, and hoped I would not he unmindful ofhim when 1 came
to England; that he would give me some letters to his friends in London,
to let them know how good Iliad been to him,and in what part ofthe world
and what circumstances I had left him in; and he promised me that when-
ever I redeemed him, the plantation and all the improvements he had made
upon it, let the value be what it would. should be wholly mine.

His discourse was very prettily delivered, considering his youth, and
was the more agreeable to me, because he told me positively the match was
not for himself. I gave him all possible assurances that if I lived to come
safe to England, I would deliver his letters, and do his business effectually.
and that he might depend I should never forget the circumstances I had
left him in; but still I was impatient to know who was the person to be
married; upon which he told me it was my Jack-of~all-trades and his maid
Susan. I was most agreeably surprised when he named the match; for,
indeed, I thought it very suitable. The character of that man 1 have
given already; and as for the maid, she was a very honest, modest, sober.
and religious young woman; had a very good share of sense, was agreeable
enough in her person, spoke very handsomely and to the purpose, always
with decency and good manners, and was neither too backward to speak
when requisite, nor . impertinently forward when it was not her business;
very handy and housewifely, and an excellent manager; fit, indeed, to have
been governess to the whole island; and she knew very well how to behave
in every respect; .

The match being proposed in this manner. we married them the same
day, and as l was father at the altar, and gave her away, so I gave her a
portion; for I appointed her and her husband a handsome large space of
ground for their plantation; and, indeed, this match, and the proposal the
young gentleman made to give him a small properly in the island, put me
upon parceling it out amongst them, that they might not quarrel afterwards
about their situation.

This sharing out the land to them I left to Will Atkins, who was now
grown a sober, grave, managing fellow, perfectly reformed, exceedingly
pious and religious; and, as far as I may he allowed to speak positively in
such a case, I verily believe he was a true penitent. He divided things so
justly, and so much to every one's satisfaction, that they only desired one
general writing under my hand for the whole, which I caused to be drawn
up and signed and sealed. setting out the bounds and situation of everyCONVERTING THE SAVAGES. 353

man's plantation, and testifying that I gave them thereby severally a right
to the whole possession and inheritance of the respective plantations or
farms, with their improvements. to them and their heirs, reserving all the
rest of the island as my own property, and a certain rent [or every particu-
lar plantation after eleven years, if I, or any one from me. or in my
name, came to demand it, producing an attested copy of the same
writing. '

As to the government and laws among them. I told them I was not
capable oi giving them better rules than they were able to give themselves;
only I made them promise me to live in love and good neighborhood with
one another; and so I prepared to leave them.

One thing I must not omit, and that is. that being new settled in a kind
oicommonwealth among themselves, and having much business in hand.
it was odd to have sevenmnd-thirty Indians live in a nook of the island
independent. and. indeed, unemployed; for, excepting the providing them~
selves with food. which they had difficulty enough to do, sometimes they
had no manner of business or property to manage. 1 proposed. therefore.
to the governor Spaniard, that he should go to them with Friday's father.
and propose to them to remove, and either plant for themselves. or be
taken into their several families as servants. to be maintained for their
labor. but without being absolute slaves; for I would not permit them to
make them slaves by force, by any means; because they had their liberty
given them by capitulation. as it were articles of surrender. which they
ought not to break.

'l'hey most willingly embraced the proposal, and came all very cheer~
fully along with him; so we alloted them land and plantations. which three
or {our accepted of, but all the rest chose to be employed as servants in the
several families we had settled; and thus my colony was in a manner settled
as follows: The Spaniards possessed my original habitatiomwhieh was the
capital city, and extended their plantations all along the side of the brook.
which made the creek that l have so often described. as far as my bower;
and as they. increased their culture. it went always eastward. The English
lived inthe northeast part, where Will Atkins and his comrades began, and
came on southward and southwest, towards the back part of the Spaniards;
and every plantation had a. great addition of land to take in. if they found
occasion, so that they need not jOStle one another for want of room. All
the east end of the island was left uninhabited; that if any of the savages
should come on shore there only for their usual customary barbarities. they
might come and go; if they disturbed nobody, nobody would disturb them;
and no doubt but they were often ashore. and went away again. for I never
heard that the planters were ever attacked or disturbed any more.

It now came into my thoughts that I had hinted to my friend the clergy-
man that the work of converting the savages might perhaps be set on footin
his absence to his satisfaction. and I told him that now I thought that it was
put in a fair way; for the savages, being thus divided among the Christians.
if they would but every one of them (lo their part with those which came
under their hands, I hoped it might have a very good effect.

He agreed presently in that, if they did their part. "But how," says he,
"shall we obtain that of them 2" I told him we would call them all
together. and leave it in charge with them, or go to them one by one, which

 

"WE MARRIED 'rmm run SAME DAY" ()5. 362).

he thought best; so we divided itvhe to speak to the Spaniards, who were
ail I'apists,and I to speak to the English, who were all Protestants, and we
recommended it earnestly to them, and made them promise that they would
never make any distinction of Papist or Protestant in their cxhortingr the
savages to turn Christians, but teach them the general knowledge of the
true God. and of their Saviour Jesus Christ; and they likewise promised us
that they would never have any differences or disputes one with another
about religion.

When I came to Will Atkins' house (I may call it so, for such a house,
or such a piece of basket-work, I believe was not standing in the world
again), there I found the young woman I have mentioned above and Will
Atkins' wifc were become intimates; and this prudent, religious youngA PRESENT T0 WILL ATKINS. 385

woman had perfected the work Will Atkins had begun; and though it. was
not above {our days after what I have related, yet the newbaptized savage
woman was made such a Christian as I have seldom heard of in all my
observation or conversation in the world.

It came next into my mind in the morning before I went to them that
amongst all the needed things I had to leave with them. I had not left them
a Bible, in which I showed myself less considering for them than my good
friend the widow was for me when she sent me the cargo of a hundred
pounds from Lisbon, where she packed up three Bibles and a prayer-hook
However, the good woman's charity had a greater extent than ever she
imagined. for they were reserved for the comfort and instruction of those
that made muCh better use of them. than I had done.

I took one of the Bibles in my pocket, and when I came to W'ill Atkins
tent or house and found the young woman and Atkins' baptized wife had
been disconrsing of religion together. for Will Atkins told it me with a great
deal of joy, I asked if they were together now, and he said yes; so I went
into the house and he with me and we found them together very earnest in
discourse. "Oh, sir," says Will Atkins. "when God has sinners to reconcile
to Himself, and aliens to bring home, He never wants a messenger; my wife
has got a new instructor; I knew I was unworthy, as I was incapable of that
work. That young woman has been sent hither from heaven; she is enough
to convert a whole island of savages", The young woman blushed, and rose
up to go away, but I de ' d her to sit still. I told her she had agood work
upon her hands and I hoped God would bless her in it.

\'\-'e talked a little and I did not perceive that they had any book among
them, though I did not ask; but I put my hand into my pocket and pulled
out my Bible. "Here," said 1 to Atkins, "I have brought you an assistant
that perhaps you had not be fore." The man was so confounded that he was
not able to speak for some time; but recovering himself, he takes it with both
his hands and turning to his wife, "Here. my dear," says he, " did I not tell
you our God. though He lives above. could hear what we have said? Here's
the book I prayed for when you and I kneeled down under the bush; now
God has heard us and sent it." W'hen he had said so, the man fell into such
transports of passionate joy, that between the joy of having it and giving
God thanks for it, the tears ran down his face like a child that was crying

The woman was surprised and was like to have run into a mistake that
none of us were aware of. for she firmly believed God had sent the book
upon her husband's petition. It is true that providentially it was so, and
might be taken so in a consequent sense; but I believe it would have been
no diflicult matter at that time to have persuaded the poor woman to have
believed that an express messenger came from Heaven on purpose to bring
that individual book; but it was too serious a matter to suffer any delusion
to take place. so I turned to the young woman and told her we did not
desire to impose upon the new convert in her first and more ignorant under--3C8 liUEllNSOX CRL-S'Jli.

standing of things, and begged her to explain to her that God-may be very
properly said to answerour petitions, when, in the course of llis providence,
such things are in a particular manner hrought lo pass as we petitioned for;
but we did not expect returns from Heaven in a miraculous and particular
manner, and it is a mercy that it is not so.

This the young woman did afterwards effectually, so that there was, I
assure you, no priestcraft used here; and I should halve thought it one of
the most unjustifiable frauds' in the world to have had it so. But the sur--
prise of joy upon \-Vill ALL-ins is really not to be expressed, and there we
may be sure was no delusion. Sin-c no man was ever more thankful in the
world for anything of its kind than he was for the. Bible; nor,] believe, never
any man was glad of a Bible from a butter principle: and though he had been
a most profiigate creature, headstrong, furious, and desperately wicked, yet
this man is a standing rule to us all for the well instructing children, viz.,
that parents should never give over to teach and instruct nor ever despair
of the success of their endeavors, let the children he ever so'relractory, or.
to appearance, insensible to instruction; for," ever God, in His providence,
touches the conscience of such, the force of their cducation returns upon
them. and the early instruction of parents is not lost, though it may have
been many years laid asleep. but some time or other they may find the
benefit of it. Thus it was with this poor man; however ignorant he was of
religion and Christian knowledge, he found he had seine to do with now
more ignorant-than himself, and that the least part of the instruction of his
good father that now came to his mind was of use lo him.

Among the rest. it occurred to him, he said, how his father used to insist
so much on the inexpressible value of the Bible and the privilege and
blessing of it to nations, families, and persons; but he never entertained the
least notion of the worth of it till now, when being to talk to heathens,sav--
ages, and barbarians, he wanted the help of the written oracle for his assist-
ance,

The young woman was glad of it also for the present occasion, though
she had one and so had the youth on board our ship among their goods,
which were not yet brought on shore. And now, having said so many
things of this young woman, I cannot omit telling one story more of
her and myself. which has something in it very instructive and remarkable,

l have related to what extremity the poor young woman was rcduccd~
how her mistress was starved-to death and died on board that unhappy ship
we met at sea, and how the ship's company were reduced to the last
extremity. The gentlewoman and her son and this maid were first hardly
used as to provisions, and at last totally neglected and starved--that is to
say. brought to the last extremity of hunger One day, being disc-cursing
with her on the extremities they suffered, I asked her if she could describe.
by what she had felt, what it was to starve and how it appeared. She
told me she believed she could, and she told her talc very distinctly thusiTHE YOUNG \\-'OMAN'S STORY. 367

" First, sir," said she. " we had for soxne'days fared exceeding hard and
suffered very great hunger; but at last we were wholly without food of any
kind except sugar and alittlc wine-and-water. The first day after I had
received no food all, 1 found myselflownrds evening, first empty and sink at
the stomach. and nearer night much inclined to yawning and sleep. I lay
down on the couch in the great cabin to sleep and slept about three hours, and
awaked a little refreshed, having taken a glass of wine whcn I lay down.
After being about three hours awake, it being about five o'clock in the morn-
ing, I found myself emptyand my stomach sielcish, and lay down again, but
could not sleep at all, being very faint and ill; and thus l continued all the
second day with a strange variety first hungry,then sick again, with retell-
ings to vomit. The second night, being obliged to go to bed again without
'uny food more than a draught of fresh water, and being asleep, I dreamed
I was at Barbadoes and that the market was mightily stocked with provis-
ions--(hut I bought some for my mistress, and went and dined very
heartily. Ithought my stomach was as full after this as it would hate been
after a good dinner; but when l m\'ulccd,I was exceedingly sunk in my
spirits to find myself in the extremity of famine. The last glass of wine we
had I drank. and put sugar in it because of its having some spirit to supply
nourishment. but there being no substance in the stomach for the digesting
office to work upon. I found the only effect of the wine was to raise dis-
agreeable fumes from the stomach into the head; and I lay. as they told me.
stupid and senseless, as one drunk, {or some time. The third day. in the
morning, after a night of strange, confused, and inconsistent dreams. and
rather dozing than sleeping, I awaked ravenous and furious with hunger;
and I question. had not my understanding returned and conquered it,
whether, if I had been a mother and had had a. little child with me. its life
would have been safe or not. This lasted for about three hours. during
which time I was twice raging mad as any creature in Bedlam," my young
muster told me, and as he can now inform you.

" In one of those fits of lunacy or distraction. I fell down and struck my
face against the corner of a pallet-bed. in which my mistress lay, and with
the blow the blood gushed out of my nose, and, the cabin-boy bringing me
a little basin. I sat down and bled into it a great deal; and as the blood
came from me I came to myself. and the violence oi the flame or fever 1
was in abated,:1nd so did the ravenous part of the hunger. Then I grew
sick. and retched to vomit, but could not, for I had nothing in my stomach
to bring up.

"After I had bled some time I swooned, and they all believed I was dead,
but I came to myself soon after, and then had a most dreadful pain in 'my
stomach not to be described--not like the colic; but a. gnawing. eager pain
for food, and towards night it went off with a kind of earnest wishing or
ranging for food, something like, as I suppose, the longing of a woman with
child. I took another draught of water with sugar in it. but my stomach
loathed the sugar, and 'brought it all up again; then I took a draught of
water without sugar, and that stayed with me; and I laid me down upon
the bed, praying most heartily that it would please God to take me away,
and, composing my mind in hopes of it, I slumbered awhile, and then wak-
ing, thought myself dying. being light with vapors from an empty stomach.
I recommended my soul then to God. and earnestly wished that somebody
would throw me into the sea.

"All this while my mistress lay by me, just, as I thought, expiring, but
bore it with much more patience than I--gave the last bit of bread she had
left to her child. my young master, who would not have. taken it, but she
obliged him to eat it, and I believe it saved his life. -

"Towards the morning I slept again, and when I awoke I fell into a vio-
lent passion of crying, and after that had a second fit of violent hunger. I
got up ravenous and in a most dreadful condition. Had my mistress been
dead, as much as I loved her, I am certain I should have eaten a piece of
her flesh with as much relish and as unconcerned as ever I did eat the flesh
of any creature appointed for food, and once or twice I was going to bite
my own arm. At last I saw the basin in which was the blood I had bled at
my nose the day before. I ran to it and swallowed it with such haste, and
such a greedy appetite, as if I wondered that nobody had taken it before,
and afraid it should be taken from me now. After it was down, though,
the thoughts of it filled me with horror, yet it checked the fit of hunger, and
I took another draught of water, and was composed and refreshed for some
hours after. This was the fourth day, and thus I kept up till towards night,
when, within the compass of three hours, I had all the several circumstances
over again, one after another, viz., sick, sleepy, eagerly hungry, pain in the
stomach, then ravenous again, then sick, then lunatic, then crying, then
ravenous again, and so every quarter of an hour, and my strength wasted
exceedingly. At night I lay me down, having no comfort but in the hope
that I should die before morning.

"All this night I had no sleep, but the hunger was now turned into a
disease, and I had a terrible colic and griping by wind instead of (cod, hav-
ing found its way into the bowels, and in this condition I lay till morning,
when I was surprised by the cries and lamentations of my young master,
who called out to me that his mother was dead. I lifted myself up a little.
for I had not strength to rise, but found she was not dead, though she was
able to give very little signs of life.

"I had then such convulsions in my stomach. for want of some suste-
nance, as I cannot describe; with such frequent throes and pangs of appetite,
as nothing but the tortures of death can imitate; and in this condition I was
when I heard the seamen above cry out, 'A sail! a sail!' and halloo and jump
about as if they were distracted.

" I was not able to get off from the bed, and my mistress much less; and
my young master was so sick that I thought he had been expiring; so we"an: mm SUCH A BROADSIDP." (@373).
w
could not open the cabin door, or get any account what it was that ocea-
sioned such confusion; nor had we had any conversation with the ship's
company for two days, they having told us that they had not a mouthful
of anything to cut in the ship; and this they .(old us afterwards--they
thought we had been dead. It was this dreadful condition we were in when
you were sent to save our lives; and how you found us, sir, you know us
\vel'i as l. and better too."

This was her own relation, and is such a distinct account of starving to

 

'1 rows BROUGHT You an ASSISTANT " (1;. 3655).

death as, I confess, I never met with, and was exceedingly entertaining to
me. Iam the rather apt to believe it to be a true account, because the
youth gave me an account of at good part of it; though I must own, not so
distinct and so feeling as the maid; and the rather, because it seems his
mother fed him at the price of her own life; but the poor maid, though her
constitution being stronger than that of her mistress, who was in years, and
a weakly woman too, she might struggle harder with it; Isay. the poor
maid might be supposed to feel the extremity something sooner than her
mistress. who might be allowed to keep the last bit something longer than
she parted with any to relieve the maid. No question, as the case is here
related. if our ship, or some other. had not so providentially met them. a

\WE SET SAIL. 371

few days more would have ended all their lives, unless they had prevented
it by eating one another; and that even, as their case stood. would have
served them but a little while, they being five hundred leagues from any
land, or any possibility of relief, other than in the miraculous manner it
happened; but this is by the way. Ircturn to my disposition of things
among the people. '

And, first, it is to be observed here, that Em" many reasons I did not
think fit to let them know anything of the sloop I. had framed, and which I
thought of setting up among them: for I found, at least at my first coming,
such seeds of division among them, that I saw plainly, had I set up the
sloop, and left it among them, they would, upon every light disgust, have
separated, and gone away from one another; or perhaps have turned pirates,
and so made the island a den of thieves, instead of a plantation oi sober
and religious people, as I intended it; nor did I leave the two pieces of
brass cannon that I had on board. or the two quarter-dock guns that my
nephew took extraordinary. for the same reason; I thought it was enough
to qualify them for a defensive war against any that should invade them,
but not to set them up for an often. ve war. or to go abroad to attack others;
which. in the end, would only bring ruin and destruction upon them; I
reserved the sloop, therefore, and the guns, for their service another way,
as I shall observe in its place.

l-Iaving now done with the island, I left them all in good circumstances
and in a flourishing condition, and went on board my ship again on the 6th
of May, having been about twenty-five days amongthem, and as they were
all resolved to stay upon the island till I came to remove them, I promised
to send them further relief from the Brazils, if Icould possibly find an
opportunity, and particularly I promised to send them some cattle, such as
sheep, hogs and cows. As to the two cows and calves which I brought
from England, we had been obliged, by the length of our voyage, to kill
them at sea for want of hay to feed them.

The next day,giving them a salute of five guns at parting, we set sail,
and arrived at the bay of All Saints in the Brazils in about twenty-two days,
meeting nothing remarkable in our passage but this: that about three days
after we had sailed. being becalmcd, and the current setting strong to the
liNJ'fh. running, as it were, into a bay or gulf on the land side, we were
driven something out of our course, and once or twice our men cried out,
" Land to the eastward!" but whether it was the continent or islands we
could not tell by any means. But the third day, towards evening, the sea
smooth and the weather calm, \\'c saw the sea, as it were, covered towards
the land with something very black; not being able to discover what it was
till after some time our chief mate, going up the mainshrouds a little way
and looking at them with a perspective. cried out it was an army. I could
not imagine what he meant by an army. and thwarted him a little hastily.
" Nay. sir," says he, " don't be angry, in; .is an army. and a fleet too; for l
believe there are a thousand canoes, and you may see them paddle along, I
{or they are coming towards us apacc."

I was a little surprised then, indeed, and so was my nephew, the cap-
tain, for he had heard such terrible stories of them in the island,and having
never been in those seas before, that he could not tell what to think of it,
but said, two or three times, we should all be devoured. I must confess.
considering we were becalmed and the current set strong towards the shore,
I liked it the worse; howevenl bade them not be afraid, but bring the ship
to an anchor as soon as we came so near as to know that we must engage
them.

The weather continued calm and they came on apace toward. us, so I
gave orders to come to an anchor and furl all our sails. As for the savages.
I told them they had nothing to {ear but fire. and therefore they should get
their boats out, and fasten them, one close by the head and the other by the
stern, and man them both well and wait the issue in that posture. This I
did that the men in the boats might be ready with sheets and buckets to put
out any fire these savages might endeavor to fix to the outside of the
ship.

In this posture we lay by for them, and in a little while they came up
with us; but never was such a horrid sight seen by Christians; though my
mate was much mistaken in his calculation of their number, yet when they
came up we reckoned about a hundred and twenty-six; some of them had
sixteen or seventeen men in them, and some more, and the least six or
seven.

When they came nearer to us they seemed to he struck with wonder and
astonishment, as at a sight which doubtless they had never seen before, nor
could they at first, as we afterwards understood, know what to make of us.
They came boldly up, however, very near to us, and seemed to go about to
row round us; but we called to our men in the boats nor to let them come
too near thorn. This very order brought us to an engagement with them,
without our designing it; for five or six of the large canoes came so near
our long-boat, that our men beckoned with their hands to keep them back.
which they understood very well, and went back; but at their retreat about
fifty arrows came on board us from those boats, and one of our men in the
long-boat was very much wounded. However, I called to them not to fire
by any means; but we handed down some deal boards into the boat, and
the carpenter presently set up a kind of fence, like waste boards, to cover
them from the arrows of the savages, it they should shoot again.

About half an hour afterwards they all came up in a body astern of us,
and so near that we could easily discern what they were, though we could
not tell their design; and I easily found they were some of my old friends,
the same sort of savages that I had been used to engage with; and in a short
time more they rowed a. little farther out to sea, till they came directly
broadside with us, and then rowed down straight upon'us, till they came soDEATH 0 F FRIDA Y. 378

near that they could hear us speak. Upon this I ordered all my men to
keep close. lest they should shoot any more :LH'UWS, and made all our guns
ready; but being so near as to be within hearing, I made Friday go out
upon the ddck. and call out aloud to them in his language. to know what
they meant; which accordingly he did. Whether they understood him or
not, that I knew not; but as soon as he had called to them. six of them, who
were in the foremost or nighest boat to us, turned their canoes from us, and
stomping down, showed us their naked backs. \'\-'hether this was a defiance
or challenge we knew not, or whether it was done in mere contempt, or as
a signal to the rest; but immediately Friday cried out they were going to
shoot, and. unhappily for him, poor fellow. they let fly about three hundred

 

"owner. 'rnen A SALUTE or FIVE cuss" (@371).

of their arrows. and, to my inexpressible grief, killed poor Friday, no other
man being in their sight. The poor fellow was shot with no less than three
arrows. and about three more fell very near him; such unlucky marksmen
they were!

I was so enraged at the loss of my old trusty servant and companion,
that I immediately ordered five guns to be loaded with small shot. and four
with great, and gave them such a broadside as they had never heard in their
lives before, to be sure. They were not above half a cable's length off
when we fired; and our gunners took their aim so well, that three or {our of
their canoes were oversea, as we had reason to heiieve. by one shot only.

The ill manners of turning up their bare backs to us gave us no great
offense; neither did I know for certain whether that which would pass for
the greatest contempt among us might be understood so by them or not;
therefore, in return, I had only resolved to have fired four or five guns at
them with powder only, which I knew would frighten them sufficiently;
but. when they shot at us directly with all the fury they wore capable
of. and especially as they had killed my poor Friday, whom I so entirely
loved and valued, and who. indccd, so well deserved it, I thought
myself not only justifiable before God and man, but would have been very
glad it I could have overset every canoe there. and drowned every one of
thexni

I can neither tell how many we killed nor how many we wounded at
this broadside, but sure such a fright and hurry never were seen among
such a multitude; there were thirteen or fourteen of their canoes split and
overset in all, and the men all set: a--swimming; the rest, frightened out of
their wits, scoured away as fast as they could, taking but little care to save
those whose boats were split or spoiled with our shot; so l suppose that
many of them were lost, and our men tool: up one poor fellow swimming
[or his life, above an hour alter they were all gone.

The small shot from our cannon must needs kill and wound a great
many; but, in short we never knew how it went with them, for they fled so
fast that. in three hours of thereabouts. we could not see above three or four
straggling canoes, nor did we ever see the rest any more; {or a breeze of
wind springing up the same evening, we weighed and set sail for the
Brazils.

We had a prisoner, indeed, but the creature was so sullen that he would
neither eat our speak, and we all fancied he would starve himself to death,
but I took a way to cure him, for I made them take him and turn him into
the long'boat, and make him believe they would toss him into the sea again
and so leave him where they found him, if he would not speak; nor would
that do, but they really did throw him into the sea. and came away from
him; and then he followed them, for he swam like a cork. and called to
them in his tongue. though they knew not one word of what he said; how-
ever, at last, they took him in again, and then he began to be more tract-
able; nor did I ever design they should drown him. '

We were now under sail again, but I was the most disconsolate creature
alive for want of my man Friday, and would have been very glad to have
gone back to the island, to have taken one of the rest from thence for my
occasion, but it could not be. so we went on. We had one prisoner, 351
have said, and it wasa long time before we could make him understand
anything; but, in time, our men taught him some English, and he began to
be a little tractable. Afterwards, we inquired what country he came from,
' but could make nothing of what he said; for his speech was so odd, all
gntturals, and he spoke in the throat in such a hollow, odd manner, that we
could never form a word after him; and we were all of opinion that they
might speak that language as well if they were gagged as otherwise; norOFF FOR BRAZIL. ' 3'35

could we perceive that they had any occasion either for teeth, tongue, lips,
or palate, but formed their words just as a huntinghorn forms a. tune with
an open throat. He told us,however, some time after, when we had taught
him to speak a little English, that they were going with their kings to fight
a great battle. When he said kings, we asked him how many kings. He
said they were five nation (we could not make him understand theplurais),
and that they all joined lo go against two nation. We asked him what
made them come up to us. He said, "To makee tc great wonder look."
Here it is to be observed, that all those natives, as also those of Africa.
when they learn English, always add two ['5 at the end of the words where
we use one; and they place the accent upon them, as makee, takEe, and the
like; nay. I could hardly make Friday leave it off, though at last he did.

And now I name the poor fellow once more, I must take my last leave
of him. Poor honest Friday. We buricd him with all the decency and
solemnity possible, by putting him into a coffin and' throwing him into the
sea; and [caused them to fire eleven guns for him; and so ended the life of
the most grateful. faithful, honest, and most affectionate servant that ever
man had.

We went now away with a (air wind for Brazil, and in about twelve days'
time we made land, in the latitude of five degrees south of the line, being
the northeastcrmuust land of all that part of America. \\-'e kept on S. by
1-1. in sight of the shore {our days, when we made Cape St. Augustine, and
in three days came to an anchor off the bay of All Saints, the old place
of my deliverance. from whence came both my good and evil Iatc.

Never ship came to this port that had less business than I had, and yet
it was with great diliicully that we were admitted to hold the least corre.
spondence on shore; not my partner himself. who was alive, and made a
great figure among them; not my two merchant-trustees; not the fame of
my wonderful preservation in the island, could obtain me that favor; but
my partner, remembering that I had given five hundred moidorcs to the Prior
of the Monastery of the Augustines and two hundred and seventy--two to the
poor, went to the monastery, and obliged the Prior that then was to go to
the governor. and get leave for me personally, with the captain and one
more, besides eight seamen, to come on shore and no more; and this upon
condition. absolutely Capitulated for, that we should not offer to land any
goods out of the ship. or to carry any person away without. license.
They were so strict with us, as to landing any goods, that it was with
extreme difficulty that I got on shore three haies of English goods, such as
fine broadcloths, stuffs, and some linen, which I had brought for a present
to my partner.

He was a very generous. open-hearted man; though, like me, he began
with little at first. and though he knew not that I had the least design of
giving him anything, he sent me on board a present of fresh provisions,
wine, and sweet-meats, worth above thirty moidores, including some
tobacco, and three or four fine medals ot' gold;-but I was even with him in
my present, which, asI have said, consisted of fine broadcloth. English
studs. lace, and fine Hollands; also, I delivered him about the value of one
hundred pounds sterling, in the same goods. for other uses; and I obliged
him to set up the sloop, which I had brought with me from England, as I
have said, for the use of my colony, in order to send the rct'rcshmcntsi
intended to my plantation.

Accordingly, he got hands, and finished the sloop in a very few days,
for she was already framed, and I gave the master of her such instructions
that he could not miss the place; nor did he, as I had an account from my
partner afterwards. I got him soon loaded with the small cargo I sent
them; and one of our seamen, that had been on shore with me there, offered
to go with the sloop and settle. there, upon my letter to the governor Span-
iard, to allot him a sufficient quantity of land for a plantation, and giving
him some clothes and tools for his planting work, which he said he under-
stood, huving been an old planter at Maryland, and a buccaneer into the
bargain. Icneourag'ed the fellow by granting all he desired, and, as an
addition, I gave him the savage whom we had taken prisoner of war, to be
his slave, and ordered the governor Spaniard to give him his share of every--
thin" he named with the rest.

When we came to fit this man out my old partner told me there was a
certain \cry honest fellow, :1 Brazil planter of his acquaintance, who had
fallen into the displeasure of the Church. "I know not what the matter is
with him," says he, " but, on my conscience, I think he is a'heretic in his
heart, and he has been obliged to conceal himself for fear of the Inquisi--
tion," that he would he very glad of such an opportunity to make his
escape, with his wife and two daughters, and if I would let them go to my
island, and allot them a plantation, he would give them a small stock to
begin with--for the officers of the Inquisition had seized all his effects
and estate, and he had nothing left but a little household stuff and two
slaves. "And," adds he, " though I hate his principles, yet I would not
have him {all into their hands, {or he will be assuredly burned alive it
he does."

1 granted this presently. and joined my Englishman with them; and we
concealed the man, and his wife and daughters, on board our ship, till the
sloop put out to go to sea; and then, having put all their goods on board
some time before, we put them on board the sloop after she was got out of
the hay.

Our seaman was mightily pleased with this new partner; and their stocks,
indeed, were much alike, rich in tools, in preparations, and a fawn--but
nothing to begin with, except as above. However, they carried over with
them it hat was worth all the rest, some materials for planting sugar canes,
with some plants of canes, which howl mean the Portugal man--understood
very w.ell
Among the rest of the supplies sent to my tenants in the island, I sent
them by the sloop three milch cows and five calves, about twentydwo hogs.
among them three sows big with pig, two mares, and a stone-horse. For
my Spaniards, according to my promise, I engaged three Portugal women
to go, and recommended it to them to marry them and use them kindly. I
could have procured more women,
but I remembered that the poor per-
secuted man had two daughters, and
that there were but five of the Span-
iards that wanted--the rest harl wives
of their own, though
in another countiy.

All this cargo ar-
rived safe, and, as
you may easily sup-
pose, was very wel--
come to my old in-
habitants, who were
now, with this addi-
tion, between sixty
and seventy people,
besides little chil-
dren, of which there
were a great many.
I found letters at
London from them
all, by way of Lisbon,
when I came back to
England, of which I
shall also take some
notice immediately.

I have now done

"KILLED POOR vxrnar" [/I. 373). With the island, 311d
all manner of dis-
course about it; and

whoever reads the rest of my memorandums would do well to turn his
thoughts entirely from it, and expect to read of the follies of an old man,
not warned by his own harms, much less by those of other men, to beware;
not cooled by almost forty years' miseries and disappointments; not satis-
fied with prosperity beyond expectation, nor made cautious by afiiictions
and distress beyond imitation.

I had no more business to go to the East Indies than a man at full lib-
erty has to go to the turnkey at Newgate and desire him to lock him up
among the prisoners there, and starve him. Had I taken a small vessel

nu
from England, and gone directly to the island; had I loaded her, as I did
the other vessel, with all the necessaries for the plantation. and for my peo-
ple; taken a patent from the Government here to have secured my prop-
erty in subjection only to that of England; had I carried over cannon and
ammunition, servants and people to plant, and taken possession of the place,
fortified and strengthened it in the name of England, and increased it with
people, as I might easily have done; had I then settled myself there, and
sent the ship back laden with good rice, as I might also have done in six
months' time, and ordered my friends to have fitted her out again for our
supply--had I done this, and stayed there myself. I had at least acted like
a man of common sense; but I was possessed of a wandering spirit, and
scorned all advantages. I pleased myself with being the patron of the peo-
ple I placed there, and doing for them in a kind of haughty, majestic way,
like an old patriarchal monarch, providing for them as if I had been father
of the whole family, as well as of the plantation; but I never so much as
pretended to plant in the name of any government or nation. or to acknowl-
edge any prince, or to call my people subjects to any one nation more than
another; nay, I never so much as gave the place a name, but left it as]
Iound it, belonging to nobody, and the people under no discipline or gov-
ernment but my own; who, though I had influence over thorn as a father
and benefactor, had no authority or power to act or command one way or
other, further than voluntary consent movcd'them to comply; yet even this,
had I stayed there, would have done well enough; but as l rambled from
them and came there no more, the last letters I had from any of them were
by my partner's means, who afterwards sent another sloop to the place, and
who sent me word, though I had not the letter till I got to London, several
years after it was written. that they went on but poorly; were discontent
with their long stay there; that Will Atkins was dead; that five of the Span-
iards were come away; and though they had not been much molested by
the savages, yet they had had some skirmishes with them; and that they
begged of him to write to me to think of the promise I had made to fetch
them away, that they might see their country again before they died.

But I was gone a wildgoosc chase indeed! and they that will have any
more of me must be'contcnt to foilow me into a new \'arictyof follies, hard~
ships and wild adventures, wherein the justice of Providence may be duly
observed; and we may see how easily Heaven can gorge us with our own
desires, make the strongest of our wishes be our affliction, and punish us
most severely with those very things which we think it would be our- utmost
happiness to be allowed in. Whether I had business or no business. away]
went. It is no time now toenlarge upon the reason or absurdity oi my own
conduct, but to come to the history--I was embarked for the voyage and
the voyage I went.

I shall only add a word or two concerning my honest Popish clergyman;
for let their opinions of us, and all other heretics in general, as they call us,ARRIVE AT MADAGASCAR. 379

be as uncltaritablc as it may. I verily believe this man was very sincere and
wished the good of all men;yet I believe he was upon the reserve in many
of his expressions. to preventgiving rne offense; for l scarce heard him once
call on the Blessed Virgin, or mention St. Jago, or his guardian angel,
though so common with the rest of them; hm\-'e\rer,I say,l had not the
least doubt of his sincerity and pious intentions, and I am firmly of opinion
if the rest of the Popish missionaries were like him they would strive to visit
even the poor Tartars and Laplanders, where they have nothing to gnu
them. as well as covet to flock to India. Persia, China,etc., the most wealthy
of the heathen countries; for if they expected to bring no gains to their
church by it, it may well be admired how they came to admit the Chinese
Confucius into the calendar of the Christian saints

A ship being ready to sail for Lisbon. my pious priest asked me leave
to go thither, being still. as he observed, bound never to finish any voyage
he began. How happy it had been {or me if I had gone with him! But it
was too late now: all things Heaven appoints for the best Had I gone
with him, I had never had so many things to be thankful for, and the reader
had never heard of the second part of the travels and adventures of Robin-
son Crusoe: so I must here leave explaining at myself, and go on with my
voyage. From the Brazils we made directly over the Atlantic sea to the
Cape of Good Hope,and had a tolerably good voyage, our course generally
southeast, now and then a storm and some contrary winds; but my disaster:
at sea were at an end--my future rubs and cross events were to befall me
on shore, that it might appear the land was as well prepared to be our
scourge as the sea.

Our ship was on a trading voyage. and had a. supercargo on board. who
was to direct all her motions after she arrived at the Cape, only being lim-
ited to a certain number of days for stay, by charter-party, at the several
ports she was to go to' This was none of my business, neither did I meddle
with it; my nephew. the captain, and the supercargo, adjusting all those
things between them as they thought fit.

We stayed at the Cape no longer than was neediul to take in fresh water,
but made the best of our way for the coast of Coromandel. We were,
indeed. informed that a French inau-ol-war, of fifty guns, and two large
merchant ships. were gone for the Indies; and as I knew we were at war
with France, I had some apprehensions of them; but they went their own
way. and we heard no more of them.

I shall not pester the reader with a tedious description of places, journals
of our voyages, variations of the compass. latitudes, trade-winds, etc; it is
enough to name the ports and places which we touched at, and what occurred
to us upon our passage from one to another. We touched first at the island
of Madagascar, where. though the people are fierce and treacherous, and
very well armed with lances and bows, which they use with inconceivable
dexterity, yet we fared very well with them awhile' they treated us very
civilly; and for some trifies which we gave them, such as knives, scissors.
etc., they brought us eleven good {at bullocks, of a middling size, which we
took in, partly for fresh provisions for our present spending, and the rest to
salt for the ship's use:

W'e were obliged to stay here some time after we had lurnished ourselves
with provisions; and I, who was always too curious to look into every nook
of the world wherever I came, went on shore as often as I could. It was on
the east side of the island that we went on shore one evening; and the peo.
ple, who, by the way, are very numerous, came thronging about us,-and
stood gazing at us at a distance; but as we had traded freely with them, and
had been kindly used, we thought ourselves in no danger. When we saw
the people, we cut three boughs out of a tree. and stuck them up at a. distance
from us; which, it seems, is a mark in that country, not only of a truce of
friendship, but when it is accepted, the other side set up, three poles or
boughs, which is a signal that they accept the truce, too; but then this is a
known condition of the truce, that you are not to pass beyond their three
poles towards them, nor they to come past your three poles, or boughs,
towards you; so that you are perfectly secure within the three poles,
and all the space between your poles and theirs is allowed like a market
for free converse, traffic, and commerce. When you go there you must
not carry your weapons with you; and if they come into that space, they
stick up their javclins and lances all at the first poles, and come on
unarmed; but if any violence is offered lhem,and the truce thereby broken.
away they run to the poles, and lay hold of their weapons. and the truce is
at an end.

It happened one evening. when we went on shore, that a greater number
of their people came down than usual, but all very_ friendly and civil; and
they brought several kinds of provisions, for which we satisfied them with
such toys as we had; the women also brought us milk and roots, and several
things very acceptable to us, and all was quiet, and we made us a little tent
or hut of some boughs or trees, and lay on shore all night.

I know not what was the occasion, but I was not so well satisfied to lie
on shore as the rest; and the boat riding at anchor at about a stone's cast
from the land, with two men in her to take care of her, I made one of them
come on shore; and getting some boug'lis of trees to cover us also in the
boat, I spread the sail on the bottom of the boat, and lay under the cover
of the branches of the trees all night in the boat.

About two o'clock in the morning, we heard one of our men make a ter-
rible noise on the shore, calling out for God's sake to bring the boat in, and
come and help them. for they were all like to be murdered; at the same
time, I heard the tire of live muskets. which was the number of guns they
had, and that three times over; Ior, it seems, the natives here were not so
easily frightened with guns as the savages were in America, where I had to
do with them. All this while I knew not what was the matter. but rousingMOONLIGHT. 381

immediately from sleep with the noise, I caused the boat to be thrust in.
and resolved, with thrcc fusees we had on board, to land and assist our men,

"it: got the boat soon to the shore, but our men were in too much haste;
for being come to the shore, they plunged into the water, to get to the boat
with all the expedition they could, being pursued by between three or four
hundred men. ()ur men were but nine in all, and only five of them had
iusees with them; the rest had pistols and swords, indecd, but they were of
small use to them.

\\-'e took up seven of our men, and with difficulty enough too, three of
them being very ill wounded; and that which was sti worse was, that while
we stood in the boat to take our men in, we were in as much danger as they
were in on shore; for they poured their arrows in upon us so thick that we
were glad to barricade the side of the boat up with the benches, and two or
three loose boards. which, to our great satisfaction, we had by mere accident
in the boat. And yet, had it been daylight, they are, it seems, such exact
marksmen, that if they could have seen but the least part of any of us,thcy
would have been sure of as \\-'e had, by the light of the moon, 3. little sight
of them. as they stood pelting us irom the shore with darts and arrows; and
having got ready our fire-arms, we gave them a volley, that we could hear,
by the cries of some of'thcm. had wounded several; however, they stood
thus in battle array on the shore till break of day, which we supposed was
that they might see the better to take their aim at us.

In this condition we lay, and-could not tell how to weigh our anchor. or
setup our sail, because we must needs stand up in the boat, and they were as
sure to hit us as we were to hit a bird in a tree with small shot, We made
signals of distress to the ship. and. though she rode a league off, yet my
nephew, the captain. hearing our firing, and by glasses perceiving the
posture we lay in. and that we fired towards the shore, pretty well under-
stood us; and weighing anchor with all speed, he stodd as near shore as he
durst with the ship, and then sent another boat, with ten hands in her, to
assist us; but we called to them not to come too near, telling them what
condition we were in; however, they stood in near lo us, and one of the men
taking the end of a tow-line in his hand, and keeping one boat between him
and the enemy, so that they could not perfectly see him, swam on board us,
and made fast the line to the boat; upon which we slipped out a little cable,
and leaving our anchor behind. they towed us out of reach of the arrows;
we all the while lying close behind the barricado we had made,

As soon as we were got from between the ship and the shore. that we
could lay her side to lhe shore, she ran along just by them, and poured in a
broadside among them. loaded with pieces of iron and lead, small bullets,
and such stuff, besides the grcat shot, which made a terrible havoc among
them.

When we were got on board and out of danger we had time to examine
into the occasion of this fray. and. indeed. our supercargo, who had been
often in those pans, put me upon it, for he said he was sure the inhabitants
would not have touched us after we had made a truce, if we had not done
something to provoke them to it. At length it came out that an old woman.
who had come to sell us some milk, had brought it within our poles, and a
young woman with her, who also brought some roots or herbs, and while the
old woman (whether she was mother to the young woman or no, they could
not tell) was selling us the milk, one of our men offered some rudeness to
the trench that was with her, at which the old woman made a great noise:
however, the scaman would not quit his prize, but carried her out of the old
woman's sight among the trees, it being almost dark; the old woman went
away without her, and as We may suppose, made an outcry among the
people she came from, who, upon notice, raised this great army upon us in
three or four hours, and it was great odds but we had all been destroyed.

One of our men was killed with a lance, thrown at him just attire begin-
ning of the attack, as he sallied out of the tent they had made; the rest
came off free, all but the fellow who was the occasion of all the mischief,
who paid dear enough for his black mistress, for we could not hear what
became of him for a great while. We lay upon the shore two days after,
though the wind presented, and made signals for him, and made our boat
sail up shore and down shore several leagues, but in vain; so we were
obliged to give him over, and if he alone had suffered for it, the loss had
been less.

I could not satisfy myself. however. without venturing on shore once
more to try ifI could learn anything of him or them. It was the third
night after the action that I had a great mind to learn, if I could by any
means, what mischief we had done, 'and howthe game stood on the Indians'
side. I was careful to do it in the dark, lest we should be attacked again;
but I ought, indeed, to have been sure that the men I went with had been
under my command. before I engaged in a thing so hazardous and mischiev-
ous as I was brought into by it, without design.

\Ve took twenty as stout follows with us as any in the ship, besides the
supercargo and myself. and we landed two hours before midnight at the
someplace. where the Indians stood drawn up on the evening before. I
landed here because my design, as I have said, was chieflyto see if they had
quitted the field, and it they had left any marks behind them of the mischief
we had done them; and I thought. if we could surprise one or two of them
perhaps we might get our man again by way of exchange.

We landed without any noise and divided our men into two bodies.
whereof the boatswain commanded one and l the other. We neither saw
nor heard anybody stir when we landed; and we marched up; one body at
a distance from the other, to the place; but at first could see nothing, it
being very dark, [ill by and by our boatswain, who led the first parly.stum-
bled and fell over a dead body. This made them halt awhile. for knowing by
the circumstances that they were at the place where the Indians had stood,A HAZARDOUS PLAN. 38:3

they waited for my coming up there We concluded to halt till the moon
began to rise, which we knew would be in less than an hour, when we
could easily discern the havoc we had made among them. "it: told thirty-
two bodies upon the ground, whereof two were not quite dead; some had
an arm and some a leg shot off. and one his head; those that were wounded
we supposed they had carried away.

When we had made. as I thought. a full discovery of all we could come
to the knowledge of, I resolved on going on board, but the homswain and
his party sent me word that they were resolved to make a visit to the Indian

 

""1: mm THE." A VOLLEY" (y. 351).

town, where these dogs. as they called them, dwelt and asked me to go
along with them; and if they could find them. as they still fanciedjhcy
should. they did not doubt of getting a good booty, and it might be they
might find Tom Jeffry there; that was the man's name we had lost.

Had they sent to ask my leave to go, I knew well enough what answer
to have given them. for I should have commanded them instantly on board.
knowing,r it was not a hazard fit for us to run.who had a ship and ship--load--
ing in our charge and a voyage to make which depended very much upon
the lives of the men, but as they sent me word they were resolved to go,
and only asked me and my company to go along with them. I positively
refused it and rose up, for I was sitting on the ground, in order to go to the
boat. One or two of the men began to importnne me to go. and when I
refused. began to grumble and say they were not under my command and
they would go. " Come, Jack," says one of the men, " will you go with me?
I'll go' for one." jack said he would~anrl then another--and, in a word,
they all left me but one, whom I persuaded to stay. and a. boy left in the
boat. So the supercargo and I, with the third man. went back to the boat,
where we told them we would stay for them and take in as many of' them
as should be left; [or I told them it was a mad thing they were going about
and supposed most of them would have the fate of Tom jeffry.

They told me. like seamen, they would warrant it they would come off
again, and they would take care, etc; so away they went. I untreated them
to consider the ship and the voyage, that their lives were not their 'own,and
that they were intrusted with the voyage, in some measure: thatif they mis--
carried, the ship might be lost for want of their help, and that they could
not answer for it to God or man. But I might as well have talked to the
mainmast of the ship; they were mad upon their journey; only they gave
me good words, and begged I would not be angry; that they did not doubt
but they would be back again in about an hour at farthest; for the Indian
town, they said, was not above half a mile off, though they found it above
two miles before they got to it.

Well, they all went away, and though the attempt was desperate, and
such as none but madmen would have gone about. yet to give them their
due, they went about it as warily as boldly; they were gallantly armed, for
they had every man a.fusee or musket, a bayonet, and a pistol; some of
them had broad cutlasses, some of them had hangers. and the boatswain and
two more had poleaxes; besides all which. they had among them thirteen
hand grenadoes; bolder fellows. and better provided, never went about any
wicked work in the world.

When they went out, their chief design was plunder, and they were in
mighty hopes of finding gold there; but a circumstance which none of them
were aware of set them on fire with revenge, and made devils of them all.

When they came to the few Indian houses which they thought had been
the town, which was not above half a mile off, they were under a great dis-
appointment, for there were not above twelve or thirteen houses; and where
the town was, or how big, they knew not. They consulted, therefore, what
to do, and were some time before they could resolve; for if they fell upon
these, they must cut all their throats; and it was ten to one but some of
them might escape, it being in the night, though the moon was up; and if
one escaped, he would run and raise all the town, so they should have a
whole army upon them. Again, on the other hand, if they went away and
left those untouched. for the people were all asleep, they could not tell
which way to look for the town; however, the last was the best advice, so
they resolved to leave them and look for the town as well as they could.
They went on a. little way, and found a cow tied to a tree; this, they pres-
ently concluded, would be a good guide to them; for, they said, the cow
certainty belonged to the town before them. or the town behind them, andREVENGE. 3&5

if they untied her, they should see which way she went; if she went back
they had nothing to say to her; but if she went forward they would follow
her; so they cut the cord, which was made of twisted flags. and the cow
went on before them, directly to the town; which, as they reported, con~
sisted of above two hundred houses or huts, and in some of these they
found several families living together.

Here they found all in silence, as profoundly secure as sleep could malte
them; and. first, they called another council, to consider what they had to
do; and. in a word, they resolved to divide themselves into three bodies.
and so set three houses on fire in three parts of the town; and as the men
came out, to seize them and bind them (if any resisted, they need not be

- asked what to do then), and so to search the rest of the houses for plunder.
But they resolved to march silently first through the town, and see what
dimensions it was of, and if they might venture upon it or no.

They did so, and desperately resolved that they would venture upon
them; but while they were animating one another to the work, three oi
them, who were a little before the rest, called out aloud to them. and told
them that they had found Tom Jeffry; they all'ran up to the place, where
they had found the poor fellow hanging up naked by one arm, and his
throat cut. There was an Indian house just by the tree, where they found
sixteen or seventeen of the principal Indians, who had been concerned in
the fray with us before, and two or three of them wounded with our shot;
and our men found they were awake, and talking one to another in that
house, but knew not their number.

The sight of their poor mangled comrade so enraged them, as before,
that they swore to one another they would be revenged, and that not an
lndian that came into their hands should have any quarter; and to work
they went immediately. and yet not so madly as might be expected from
the rage and fury they were in. Their first care was to get something that
would soon take fire; but. after a little search. they found that would be to
no purpose; for most of the houses were low, and thatched with flags and
rushes, of which the country is full; so they presently made some wildfire,
as we call it, by wetting a little powder in the palm of their hands. and in
a quarter of an hour they set the town on fire in four or five places, and par-
ticularly that house where the Indians were not gone to bed.

As soon as the fire began to blaze, the poor frightened creatures began
to rush out to save their lives, but met with their fate in the attempt; and
especially at the door, where they drove them back, theboatswain himself
killing one or two with his poleaxe. The house being large, and many in
it, he did not care to go in, but called for a hand grenado, and threw it
among them, which at first frightened them, but, when it burst, made such
havoc among them that they cried out in a hideous manner. In short, most
of the Indians who were in the open part of the house were killed or hurt
with the grenade, except two or three more who pressed to the door. which

we
the boatswain and two more kept, with their bayonets on the muzzles of
their pieces. and dispatched all that came in their way; but there was
another apartment in the house, where the prince or king, or whatever he
was, and several others, were; and these were kept in till the house, which
was by this time all in a. light
flame. fell in upon them, and
they were smothered together.

All this while they fired not
a gun, because they would not
woken the people faster than

 
 
 
 
   

"rm-2 cow WENT on nnrnnr: 1mm " (p.335).

they could master them; but the fire began to waken them fast enough,
and our fellows were glad to keep a little together in bodies; for the fire
grew so raging, all the houses being made of light combustible stuff, that
they could hardly bear the street between them; and their business was
to follow the fire. for the surer execution. As fast as the fire either forced
the people out at those houses which were burning, or frightened them
out of others, our people were ready at their doors to knock them on the
head. still calling and hallooing one to another to remember Tom Jeffry.

While this was doing, I must confess I was very uneasy, and especially
when I saw the flames of the town, which. it being night, seemed to be just
by me. My nephew, the captain, who was roused by his men, seeing suchO.\' THE MARCH. 38?

a. fire, was very uneasy, not knowing what the matter was, or what danger I
was in, especially hearing the guns too, for by this time they began to use
their lire-arms; a thousand thoughts oppressed his mind concerning me and
the

   

tpereargo. what would become of us; 1nd at last, though he could ill
e any more men, )"t not knowing what 8 gence we in the in. he
takes another boat. and with thirteen men and himself eotnes ashore to me.

He was surprised to . ,e um and the Supereargo in the boat with no more
than two men; and though he was glad that we were well, yet he was in the
same impatie e with 1:5 to know what was doing; for the noise continued,
and the flame .ner ' "ed; in short. it was next to an impossibility [or any
men in the world to restrain their curiosity to know what had happened. or
their concern {or the safety of the men. In a word. the captain told me he
would go and help his men, let what would COHIC. I argued with him, as 1
did before with the men, the safety of the ship, the danger of the voyage,
the interest of the owners and merchants, etc., and told him I and the two
men would go. and only see if we could at a dalance learn what was likely
to be the event, and come back anr' tell him. It was in vain to tall: to my
nephew. as it was to tall: to the rest before: he would s , he said; and he
only wished he had left but (on men in the ship, for he can i not think of
having his men lost for want of help: he had rather lose the ship, the voyage.
and his life. and all; and anay he went.

I was no more able to stay behind new than'I was to persuade them not
to go; so. in short, the captain ordered two men to row back the pinnacc.
and fetch twelve. men more, leaving the longboat at an anchor; and that,
when the) came bade: men should keep the two boats. ands V more come
after us; so that he left only sixteen men in the ship: for the whole ship's
company consisted of sixty-Eve tnen, whereof two were lost in the late
quarrel which brought this mischicf on.

Being now on the march, you may be sure we felt little of the ground we
trod on; and being guided 2:); the fire. we kept no path, but went directly to
the plm'e of the flame. If flu: noisi- of the guns was surprising to us lM'FIH't',
the cries of the poor people were now quite of another nature, and filled us
with horror. I must confess I was never at the sae' ng of a city, or at tak--
ing a town by storm. I had heard of Oliver Cromwell taking Droghmla, in
Ireland. and killing man, woman, and child; and l had read of Count Tilly
sacking the city oi h'iagi'iehourg, and Cutting the threats oi twenty--two
thousand. of all scxes' but I never had an idea of the thing itself before,
nor is it possible to describe it, or the horror that was upon our minds at
hearing it. However, we went on, and at length came to the town. though
there was no entering the streets of it for the fire. The first object we met
with was the ruins of a hut or house, or rather the ashes of it, for the house
was consumed; and just before it,pl:1inl}-' now to be seen by the light of the
fire, lay four men and three women killed. and, as we thought. one or two
more lay in the heap among the fire; in short. there were such instances of
rage, altogether barbarous, and of a fury something beyond what was
human, that we thought it impossible our men could be guilty of it; or, if
they were the authors of it, we thought they ought to be every one of them
put to the worst of deaths. But this was not all: we saw the fire increased
forward, and the cry went on just as the fire went on; so that we were in the
utmost confusion. "is advanCed'a little way farther, and behold, to our
astonishment, three naked women, and crying in the most dreadful manner,
came flying as if they had wings, and after them sixteen or seventeen men,
natives, in the same terror and consternation, with three of our English
butchers in'the rear, who, when they could not overtake them. fired in among
them. and one that was killed by their shot fell down in our sight. When
the rest saw us, believing us to be their enemies, and that we would murder
them as well as those that pursued them, they set up a most dreadful
shriek, especially the women; and two of them fell down, as it already dead,
. with the fright.

My very soul shrank within me, and my blood ran chill in my veins, when
I saw this; and, l.belicve, had the three English sailors that pursuedx', em
come on, I had made our men kill them all; however, we look some means
to let the poor flying creatures know that we would not hurt them; and
immediately they came up to us, and kneeling down, with their hands lifted
up, made piteous lamentation to us to save them, which we let them know
we would; whereupon they crept together in a huddle close behind us, as
[or protection. I left my men drawn up together, and, charging them to
hurt nobody, but, if possible, to get at some of' our people. and see what
devil it was possessed them, and what they intended to do, and to command
them off; assuring them that if they stayed till daylight they would have a
hundred thousand men about their ears. I say I left them, and went among
those flying people, taking only two of our men with me; and there was,
indeed, a piteous spectacle among them. Some of them had their feet ter-
ribly burned with trampling and running through the fire; others their hands
burned; one of the women had fallen down in the fire, and was very much
burned before she could get out again; and two or three of the men had cuts
in their backs and thighs, from our men pursuing; and another was shot
through the body, and died while I was there.

I would fain have learned what the occasion of all this was; but I could
not understand one word they said; though, by signs, I perceived some of
them knew not what was the occasion themselvcs. I was so terrified in my
thoughts at this outrageous attempt, that I could not stay there, but went
back to my own men, and resolved to go into the middle of the town,
through the fire, or whatever might be in the way, and put an end to it,
cost what it would; accordingly, as I came back to my men, I told them my
resolution, and commanded them to follow me, when, at the very moment,
came four of our men, with the boatswain at their head, roving over heaps
of bodies they had killed, all covered with blood and dust, as if they wantedRETURN TO THE BOAT. 359

more people to massacre, when our men hallooed to them as loud as they
could halloo; and with much ado one of them made them hear, so that they
knew who we were, and came up to us.

As soon as the boatswain saw us, he set up a halloo like a shout of
triumph, for having, as he thought, more help come; and, without waitingr
to hear me, "Captain," says he, "noble captain! I am glad you are come;
we have not half done yet. Villainous, hell-hound dogs! I'll kill as many
of them as poor Tom has hairs upon his head. We have sworn to spare none
of them; we'll root out the very nation of them from the earth." And thus
he ran on, out of breath, too, with action, and would not give us leave to
speak a word.

At last, raising my voice, that I might silence him a little, " Bar-barons
dog!" said I, " what are you doing? I wont have one creature touched
more, upon pain of death; I charge you, upon your life, to stop your hands,
and stand still here, or you are a dead man this minute." " Why, sir," says
he, " do you know what to do, or what they have done? It you want a
reason for what we have done, come hither." And with that he showed
me the poor fellow hanging, with his throat cut. .

I confess I was urged then myself, and at another time would have been
forward enough; but I thought they had carried their rage too tar, and
remembered jacnb's words to his sons Simeon and Levx: " Cursed be their
anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was,cruel." But I had now
a new task upon my hands; for when the men I carried with me saw the
sight,as I had done, I had as much to do to restrain them as I should have
had with the others; nay. my nephew himself fell in with them, and mid me,
in their hearing, that he was only concerned for-tearof the men being over~
powered; and as to the people, he thought not one of them ought to live;
for they had all glutted themselves with the murder of the poor man, and
that they ought to be used like murderers. Upon these words, away ran
eight of my men, with the boatswain and his crew, to complete their bloody
work; and I, seeing it quite out of my power to restrain them, came away
pensive and sad; for 1 could not bear the sight, much less the horrible noise
and cries of the poor wretches that fell into their hands.

I got nobody to come back with me but the supercargo and two men.
and with these walked back to the boat. It was a very great piece of folly
in me, I confess, to venture back as it were alone; for as it began now to he
almost day, and the alarm had run over the country, there stood about forty
men armed with Ianees and bows, at the little place where the twelve or
thirteen houses stood, mentioned before; but by accident I missed the place,
and came directly to the seaside; and by the time I got to the seaside, it
was broad day. Immediately I took the piunaee and went on board, and
sent her back to assist the men in what might happen.

I observed, about the time thatI came to the boat-side, that the fire was
pretty well out, and the noise abated; but in about half an hour alter I got
on board, I heard a volley of our men's fire-arms, and saw a great smoke.
This, as I understood afterwards, was our men falling uponthe men who, as
1 said, stood at the few houses on the way, of whom they killed sixteen or
seventeen, and set all the houses on fire, but did not meddle with the
women or children. '

By the time the man got to shore again with the pinnace, our men began
to appear; they came dropping in, not in two bodies as they went, but
straggling here and there in such a manner. that a small force of resolute
men might have cut them all elf. But the dread of them was upon the
whole country; and the men were surprised. and so frightened. that I
believe a hundred of them would have fled at the sight of but five of our
men; nor in all this terrible action was there a man that made any consider-
able defense; they were so surprised between the terror of the fire and the
sudden attack of our men in the dark, that they knew not which way to
turn themselves; for ifthcy fled one way, they were met by one party; it
back again, by another; so that they were everywhere knocked down; nor
did any of our men receive the least hurt, except one that sprained his foot,
and another that had one of his hands burned.

l was very angry with my nephew. the captain, and indeed with all the
men, in my mind, but with him in particular, as well for his acting so out of
his duty as commander of the ship, and having the charge of the voyage upon
him, as in his prompting, rather than cooling, the rage of his blind men,
in so bloody and cruel an enterprise. My nephew answered me very
respectfully, but told me that when he saw the body of the poor Seaman
whom they had murdered in so cruel and barbarous a manner, he was not
master of himself, neither could he govern his passion. He owned he
should not have done so, as he was commander of the ship; but as he was
a man, and nature moved him, he could not bear it. As for the rest of the
men, they were not subject to me at all, and they knew it well enough; so
they took no notice of my dislike.

The next day we set sail, so we never heard any more of it. Our men
differed in the account of the number they had killed; but according to the
best of their accounts put all together, they killed or destroyed about one
hundred and fifty people mien, women, and children, and left not a house
standing in the town. As for the poor feliow Tom Jeffry, as he was quite
dead (for his throat was so cut that his head was half off), it would do him
no service to bring him away; so they only took him down from the tree
where he was hanging by one hand.

However just our men thought this action, I was against them in it, and
1 always after that time told them God would blast the voyage; for I looked
upon all the blood they shed that night to be murder in them. li'orthough
it is true that they had killed Torn Jeffry, yct Jeffry was the aggressor, had
broken the truce, and had violated a young woman of theirs, who came
down to them innocently, and on the faith of the public capitulation.RETRIBUTION. 391

The hoatswain (l cfcnded this
quarrel when we were afterwards on
board. He said it was true that we
seemed to break the truce, but really
had not; and that the war was begun
the night before by the natives them-
selves,who had shot at us and killed
one of our mcn without any just pru-
vocation; so that as we were in a
capacity to fightthcm now, wcmight
also be in a calqacity to do ourselves
justice upon them in an extraordi-
nary mannpr; that though the poor
man had takcn a little liberty with
the wench, he ought not to have _.
been murdered, and that in such a'
villainous manner; and tliatthcy
did nothing but what was just,
and what the laws of God al~
lowed to be done to murderers

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

"Hi: snothn ME Tm: i-nok FELLOW nANGxxG" (p.389).
One would think this should have been enough to have warned us
against going on shore amongst heatheus and barbarians; but it is impos-
sible to make mankind wise but. at their own expense; and their experience
seems to be always ot most use to them when it is dearest bought.

We were now bound to the Gulf of Persia and from thence to the coast
of Coromandel Only to touch at Surat; but the chief of the supercargo's
design lay at the Bay of Bengal, where, it he missed his business outward
bound 1. -e "as to go up to ( hina and return to the coast as he caine home.

Ilie first disaster that helell Us "as in the Gulf of Persia, where five of
our men. venturing on shore on the Arabian side of the gulf. were surrounded
by the Arabians and either all killed or carried away into slavery; the rest of
the boat's crew vere not able to rescue them and had but just time to get oil
their boat. I began to uphraid them with the just retribution of Heaven in
this case, but the boatswain very warmly told me he thought i went further
in my censures than I could showme warrant for in Scripture, and referred
to Luke xiii. 4, where our Saviour intimates that those men on whom the
Tower of Siloam tell were not sinners above all the Galileans; but that
which put me to silence in the case u'as.that not one of these five men who
were now lost were of those whowent on shore to the massacre of Mada-
gascar--so I always called it, though our men could not bear to hear the
word Izmsmcrc' with any patience.

But my frequent preaching to them on this subject had worse conse-
quences than I expected; and the boatswain. who had been the head of the
attempt, came up boldly to me one time and told me he found that I
brought that affair continually upon the stage; that I made unjust reflec-
tions upon it and had used the men very ill on that account, and himself in
particular; that as I was but a passenger and had no command in the ship or
concern in the voyage, they were not obliged to bear it; that they did not
know but I might have some. ill design in my head,and perhaps to call them
to an arcount for it when they came to England; and that. thereforeunless
I would resolve to have done with it, and also not to concern myself any
further with him or any of his affairs. he would leave the ship; for he did
not think it safe to sail with me amongvthem.

I heard him patiently enough till he had done and then told him that I
confessed I had all along opposed the massacre of Madagascar, and that I
had, on all occasions. spoken my mind freely about it, though not more
upon him than any of the rest; that as to having no command in the ship,
that was true. nor did I exercise any authority, only took the liberty of speak-
ing my mind in things which publicly concerned us all; and what concern
Iliad in the voyage was none of his business; that I was a considerable
owner in the ship. In that claim, I conceived I had a right to speak even
further than I had done, and would not be accountable to him orany one else,
and began to be a little warm with him. He made but little reply to me at
that time, and I thought the affair had been over. We were at this time inA MUTlNY. 395

the road at Bengal,and being willing to see the place, I went on shore with
the supercargo in the ship's boat to divert myself; and towards evening was
preparing to go on board, when one of the men came to me and told me he
would not have me trouble myself to come down to the boat. for they had
orders not to carry me on board any more. Any one may guess what a
surprise I was in at so insolcnt a message-fund I asked the man who bade
him deliver that message to me. He told me the coxswain. I said no more
to the fellow. but bade him let them know he had delivered his message,
and that I had given him no answer to it,

I immediately went and found out the supercargo. and told him the
story, adding. what I presently foresaw. that there would be a mutiny in the
ship; and entreated him to go immediately on board the ship in an Indian
boat, and acquaint the captain of it. But I might have spared this intelli-
gence, for before I had spoken to him on shore, the matter was effected on
board. The boatsvrain, the gunner, the carpenter, and all the inferior offi-
cers, as soon as I was gone off in the boat, came up, and desired to speak
with the captain; and there the boatswain. makinga long harangue, and
repeating all he had said to me. told the captain in a few words, that as l
was now gone peaceably on shore, they were 10th to use any violence with
me. which, if I had not gone on shore. they would otherwise have done... to
oblige me to have gone. They therefore thought fit to tell him, that as
they shipped themselves to serve in the ship under his command, they
would perform it well and faithfully; but if I would not quit the ship or the
captain oblige me to quit it, they would all leave the ship, and sail no
farther with him; and at that word all, he turned his face towards the main--
mast, which was, it seems, the signal agreed on between them, at which.the
seamen. being got together there, cried out, " 0/1: and (111/ one and a!!!"

My nephew, the captain, was a man of spirit and of great presence of
mind; and though he was surprised. you may be sure, at the thing, yet he
told them calmly that he would consider of the matter: but that he could
do nothing in it till he had spoken to me about it. He used some argu-
ments with them, to show them the unreasonableness and injustice of the
thing, but it was all in vain; they swore and shook hands round before
his face, that they would all go on shore, unless he would engage to them
not to suffer me to come any more on board the ship.

This was a hard article upon him, who knew his obligation to me, and
did not know how I might; take it; so he began to talk smartly to them;
told them that I was a very considerable owner of the ship, and that, in
justice, he could not put me out of my own house; that this was next door
to serving me as the famous pirate Kidd had done, who made a mutiny in
the ship, set the captain on shore on an uninhabited island, and ran away
with the ship; that let them go into what ship they would.if ever they came
to England again. it would cost them very dear; that the ship was mine, and
that he Could not put me out of it; and that he would rather lose the ship,
and the voyage too, than disoblige me so much: so they might do as they
please. However, he would go on shore and tall: with me, and invited the
hoatswain to go with him, and perhaps they might accommodate the matter
with me, But they all rejerted the preposal, and said they would have
nothing to do with me any more; and if I came on board, they would all go
ashore. " Well," said the captain, " if you are all of this mind,let me go on
short: and (all: with him." So away he came to me with this account, :1 ~
little after the message had been brought to me from the Coxswain.

l was very glad to see my nephew, l must confess; {or I was not with-
out apprehensions that they would confine him by violence, set sail and
run away with the ship; and then l had been stripped naked in a remote
country, having nothing to help myself. In short, I harl been in a worse
case than when I was alone in the island. But they had not come to that
length. it seems, to my satisfaction; and when my nephew told me what
they had said to him, and how they had sworn and shook hands, that they
would. one and all, leave the ship if I was suffered to come on board, I told
him he should not be concerned at it at all, for I would stay on shore. I
only desired he would take care and send me all my necessary things
on shore. and leave me a sufficient sum of money, and I would find my way
to England as well as I could. .

This was a heavy piece of news to my nephew, but there was no way to
help it but to comply, So, in short, he went on board the ship again, and
satisfied the men that. his uncle had yielded to theirimportunity, and had sent
for his goods from on board the ship, so that the matter was over in a few
hours, the men returned to their duty, and l hogan to consider what course
I should steer.

l was now alone in the most remote part of the world, as I think I may
call it, for I was near three thousand leagues by sea farther off from
England than I was at my island; only, it is true,I might travel here by
land over the Great Mogul's country to Surat, might go from thence to

'Bassora by sea, up the Gulfof Persia, and take the way of the caravans over
the desert of- Arabia to Aleppo and Scandemon; from thence by sea again
to Italy, and so overland into France; and this put together, might at least
be a full diameter of the globe or more.

I had another way before me, which was to wait for some English ships,
which were coming to Bengal from Achin, on the Island of Sumatra, and
get passage on board them for England. But as I came hither without any
concern with the liast India Company, so it would be difficult to go from
hence without their license, unless with great favor of the captains of the
ships, or the company's factors, and to both I was an utter stranger.

Here I had the mortification to see the ship set sail without me, a treat-
ment I think a man in my circumstances scarcely ever met with, except
from pirates running away with a ship and. setting those that would not
agree with their villainy on shore. Indeed, this was next door to it bothA PRO POSAL. 395

ways. However, my nephew left me two servants, or rather one compan-
ion and one servant; the first was clerk to the purser, whom he engaged to
go with me, and the other was his own servant. I took me also a good
lodging in the house of an Englishwoman, where several merchants lodged,
some French, two Italians, or rather Jews, and one Englishman. Here I was
handsomely enough entertained, and that I might not be said to run rashly
upon anything. I stayed here above nine months, considering what course
to take, and how to manage myself. Ihad some English goods with me
of value, and a considerable sum of money, myncphcw furnishing me with
a thousand pieces of eight and a letter of credit for more, if I had occasion,
that I might not be straitened, whatever might happen.

I quickly disposed of my goods to advantage. and, as I originally
intended, I bought here some very good diamonds, _which, of all other
things, were the most proper for me in my present circumstances, because
I could always carry my whole estate about me.

After a long stay here, and many proposals made for my return to Eng-
land, but none falling out to my mind, the English merchant who lodged
with me, and whom I had contracted an intimate acquaintance with, came
to me one morning. " Conntryman," says he, " I have a project to commu-
nicate to you, which, as it suits with my thoughts. may, (or aught I know, suit
with yours also, when you shall have thoroughly considered it. Here we
are posted, you by accident. and I by my own choice, in a part of the world
very remote from our own country; but it is in a country where, by us, who
understand trade and business, a great deal of money is to be got. If you
will put one thousand pounds to my one thousand pounds, we will hire a
ship here, the first we can get to our minds; you shall be captain, l'il be
merchant, and we'll, go a trading voyage to China; for what should we
stand still for? The whole world is in motion, rolling round and round; all
the creatures of God. heavenly bodies and earthly, are busy and diiigcnt;
why should we be idle? There are no drones in the world but men; why
should we be of that number?"

I liked this proposal very well, and the more so because it seemed to be
expressed with so much good-will, and in so friendly a manner. I will not
say but that I might, by my loose, unhinged circumstances, be the fitter tn
embrace a proposal for trade. or indeed. anything else; otherwise, trade
was none of my element. However, I might perhaps say with some truth,
that if trade was not my element, rambling was; and no proposal for seeing
any part of the world which I had never seen before could possibly come
amiss to me.

It was, however, some time before we could get a ship to our minds, and
when we had got a vessel, it was not easy to get English sailors; that is to
say, so many as were necessary to govern the voyage and manage the sail--
ors which we should pick up there. Aiter some time we got a mate, a
boatswain, and a gunner, English; a. Dutch carpenter, and three ioremast
men, With these we found we could do well enough, having Indian sea-
men. such as they were, to make up. _

There are so many travelers who have written a history of their voyages
and travels this way, that it would be very little dive 'on to anybody to
give a long account of the places we went to, and the people who inhabit
there; these things I leave to others, and refer the reader to those journals
and travels of Englishmen, of which many I find are published, and more
promised every day; it is enough for me to tell you that we made this voy--
age to Achin, in the island of Sumatra. and from thence to Siam, where we
exchanged some of our wares for opium and some arraclr; the first a com-
modity which bears a great price among the Chinese, and which, at that
time, "as much wantcd there. In a word, we went up to Suslcan, made a
very great voyage, were eight months out, and returned to Bengal, and I
was very well satisfied with my adventure. l observe that our people in
England often admire how officers. which the Company send into India,
and the merchants which generally stay there, get such very great estates
as they do, and sometimes come home worth sixty or seventy thousand
pounds at a time; but it is no wonder. or at least we shall see so much farther
into it, when we consider the innumerable ports and places where they
have a free commerce, that it will be none, and much less it will be so when
we consider that at those places and ports where the English ships come,
there is such great and constant demands for the growth of all other coun-
tries, that there is a certain vent {or the returns, as well as a market abroat'
for the goods carried out.

In short. we made a very good voyage, and I got so much money by my
first adventure and such an insight into the method of getting more, that
had I been twenty years younger, I should have been tempted to have
stayed herc,and sought S" farther [or making any fortune; but what was all
this to a man upwards of threescorc, that was rich enough, and came abroad
more in obedience to a restless desire of seeing the world than a covctous
desire of gaining by it? And, indeed, l think it is with great justich now call
it restless desire. for it was so. When I was at home I was restless to go
abroad. and when I was abroad I was restless to be at home. I say, what
was this gain to me? I was rich enough already, nor had I any uneasy
desires about getting more money; and therefore the profit of the voyage
to me was of no great force for the prompting me forward to further under-
takings; hence, I thought that by this voyage 1 had made no progress at
all, because I was come back, as I might call it, to the place from whence I
came, as to a home; whereas my eye, like that which Solomon speaks of,
was never satisfied with seeing. I was come into a part of the world which
I was never in before, and that part, in particular, which I had heard much
of, and was resolved to see as much oi it as I could; and then I thought I
might say I had seen all the world that was worth seeing.

But my iclloviutravcler and I had different notions. I do not name thisA SATISFACTORY VOYAGE. 39'!

to insist on my own, for I acknowledge his were most just. and the more
suited to the end of a merchant's life; who, when he is abroad upon adven-
tures, is wise to stick to that.as the best thing for him, which he is likely
to get the most money by. My new friend kept himself to the nature of
the thing and would have been content to have gone like a carrier's horse,
always to the same inn, backward and forward, provided he couldas he
called it, find his account in it. On the other hand, mine was the motion of
a mad, rambling boy. that never cares to see a thing twice over. But this
was not all. I had a kind of impatience upon me to be nearer home, and
yet the most unsettled resolution imaginable which way to go. In the
interval of these consultations my friend, who was always upon the search
for business, proposed another voyage to me among the Spice Islands, and
to bring home a loading of cloves from the Manillas, or thereabouts; places,
indeed, where the Dutch trade, but islands belonging partly to the Span-
iards; though we went not so far, but to some other, where they have not
the whole power, as they have at Batavia, Ceylon, etc.

\Ve were not long in preparing for this voyage; the chief difiiculty was
in bringing me to come into it, However, atlast, nothing else offering, and
finding that really stirring about and trading, the profit being so great and,
as I may say, certain, had more pleasure in it, and had more satisfaction to
my mind than sitting still, which. to me especially, was the unhappiest part
of life,l resolved on this voyage too, which we made very successfully,
touching at Borneo, and several islands whose names I do not remember,
and came home in about five months.- We sold ourspice, which was chiefly
cloves and nutmegs. to the Persian merchants, who carried them away to
the gulf; and making near five of one, we really got a great deal of money.

My friend, when we made up this account, smiled at me. "Well, now,"
said he, with a sort of agreeable insult upon my indolent temper, "is not
this better than walking about here, like a man with nothing to do, and
spending our time in staring at the nonsense and ignorance of the Pagans ?"
"Why. truly," says I, "my friend, I think it is, and I begin to be a convert
'tu the principles of merchandising: but I must tell you," said I, "by the
way, you do not know what I am doing; for if I once conquer my back-
wardness, and embark heartily, as old as I am, I shall harass you up and
down the world till I tire you; for I shall pursue it so eagerly I shall never
let you lie still."

But, to be short with my speculations, a little while after this there came
in a Dutch ship from Batavia; she was a coaster, not an European trader, of
about two hundred tons burden; the men, as they pretended, having been
so sickly that the captain lzad not hands enough to go to sea with, he lay
by at Bengal; and having, it seems, got money enough, or being willing,
for other reasons, to go for Europe, he gave public notice he would sell his
ship. This came to my ears before my new partner heard of it, and I had
a great mind to buy it; so I went to him and I told him of it. He consid-

>>
erod awhile, for he was no rash inan neither; but musing some time. he
replied. "She is a little too big; but, however, we will have her." Accord'
ingly. we bought the ship, and agreeing with the master, we paid for her,
and tool: possession. "When we had done so, we resolved to engage the
men, it we could, to join with those we had. for the pursuing our business;
but. on a sudden, they having received not their wages. but their share of
the money. as we afterwards learned, not one of them was to be found. we
inquired much about them, and at length were told that they were all gone

 

"Comes To ME 0st; DAY AN ENGLISHMAN" (p. 399).

together by land to Agra. the great city of the Mogul's residence. and from
thence to travel to Surat, and gel>>: the sea. to the Gulf of Persia.

Nothing had so much troubled me a good while. as that I should miss
the opportunity of going with them; {or such a ramble I thought. and in
such company as would both have guarded and diverted me, would have
suited mightily with my great design, and 1 should have both seen the
world, and gone homeward too. But I was much better satisfied a few days
after. when I came to know what sort of fellows they were; for. in short,
their history was, that this man they called captain was the gunner only,
not the commander; that they had been :1 trading voyage. in whiCh theyIN DANGER. 399

had been attacked on share by some oi the Malays. who had killed the
captain and three of his men; and that. after the captain was killed, these
men, eleven in number, had resolved to run away with the ship, which they
did, and brought her to Bengal. leaving the mate and five men more on
shore

Well, let them get the ship how they would, we came honestly by her,
as we thought. though we did not, I confess, examine into things so exactly
as we ought; for we never inquired anything of the seamen, who would cer-
tainly have ialtered in their account, contradicted one another. and perhaps
contradicted themselves. Somehow or other we should have had reason to
have suspected [her ml the man showed us a bill of sale for the ship. to
one Emanuel Clostershoven. or some such name, for I suppose it was all a
forgery, and called himself by_tliat name. and we could not contradict him;
and withal. having no suspicion of the thing, we went through with our
bargain.

' We picked up some more English sailors here after this, and some
Dutch, and now we resolved on a second voyage to the southeast for
cloves, ctc., that is to say, among the Philippine and Molucca isles. and, in
short, not to fiil up this part of my story with trifies. when what is to come
is so remarkable, I spent. from first to last, six years in this country, trading,r
from port to port, Luieluvatrd and forward, and with very good success, and
was now the lust your with my new 1); tuer, going in the ship ahm'e meii-
tioncd. on .1 Voyage to China, but des hing first to go to Siam, to buy rice.

In this voyage, being:r by contrary winds obliged to beat up and down a
great while in the Straits of Malacca, and among the. islands, we were no
sooner got clear of those dimeuit seas. than we found our ship had sprung
a leak. and we were not able, by all our industry, to find out where it was.
This iorced us to malce some port; and my partner, who knew the country
better than I did, directed the captain to put into the river of Cambodia,
for I had made the English mate. one Mr. Thompson, captain. not being
willing to take the charge of the ship upon myself. This river lies on the
north side of the great bay or gulf which goes up to Siam. While we were
here. and going often on shore for refreshment. there comes to me one (lay
an Englishman. and he was, it seems, a gunner's mate on board an English
East. India ship, which rode in the same river. at or near the city of Cam-
hodia. W'lmt brought him hither, we knew not, but he comes to me, and
speaking English. " Sir." says he, "you are a. stranger to me, and I to you,
but I have something to tell you that very nearly concerns you."

I looked steadfastly at him a good while, and thought at first I had
known him, but I did not. "If it very nearly concerns me," said I, "and
not yourself. what moves you to tell it to me?" "I am moved," says he.
"by the imminent danger you are in, and, for aught I see, you have no
knowledge of it." "I know no danger 1 :un in," says I, "but that my ship is
leaky and I cannot find it out; but I intend to lay her aground to-morrow,400 . nonmsox causoiz.

to see if I can find it" "But, sir;" says he, "leaky or not leaky, find it or
not find it, you will be wiser than to lay your ship on shore to-morx'ow when
you hear what I have to say to you. Do you know, sir," said he, "the town
of Cambodia lies about fiitcen leagues up this river; and there are two large
English ships about five leagues on this side, and three Dutch?" "Well,"
said I, "and what is that to me?" "Why, sir," said he, "is it for a man that
is upon such adventures as you are to come into a port, and not examine
first what ships there are there, and whether he is able to deal with them? I
suppose you (lo not think you are a match for them i'" I was amused very
much at his discourse, but not amazed at it, for I could not conceive what
he meant; and I turned short upon him and said: "Sir, I wish you would
explain yourself; I cannot imagine what reason I have to be afraid of any
of the Company's ships, or Dutch ships. 1 am no interloper. What can
they have to say to me?" He looked like a man half angry and half pleased,
and pausing awhile, but smiling, "\Nell, sir," says he, "if you think yourself
secure, you must take your chance; I am sorry your fate should blind you
against good advice; but assure yourself, if you do not put to sea immedi-
ately, you will the very next tide be attacked by five long-boats full ofmen,
and perhaps, if you are taken, you will be hanged for a pirate, and the
particulars be examined afterwards. I thought sir," added he. "I should
have met with a better reception than this for doing you a piece of service
of such importance." "I can never be ungrateful," said I, "for any service,
or to any man that offers me any kindness; but it is past my comprehension
what they should have such a design upon me for; however, since you say
there is no time to he lost, and that there is some villainous design on hand
against me, I will go on board this minute, and put to sea immediately, if
my men can stop the leak, or if we can swim without stopping it; but sir,"
said I, "shall I go away ignorant of the cause of all this? Can you give me.
no further light into it?" "I can tell you but part of the story, sir," says
he, "but I have a Dutch seaman here with me, and l believe I could persuade
him to tell you the rest, though there is scarce time for it. The short of
the story is this--the first part of which I suppose you know well enough ~
that you were with this ship at Sumatra; that there your captain was mur-
dered by the Malays, with three of his men, and that you, or some of those
that were on board with you, run away with the ship, and are since turned
pirates. This is the sum of the story, and you will all be seized as pirates,
I can assure you, and executed with very little ceremony; for you know
merchant ships show but little law to pirates, if they get them into their
power." "Now you speak plain English," said I. "and I thank you; and
though I know nothing that we have done like what you talk or', for I am
sure we came honestly and fairly by the ship, yet seeing such a. work is
doing, as you say. and that you seem to mean honestly, I will be upon my
guard." "Nay, sir," says he, do not talk of being upon your guard; the best
defense is to be out of the danger. liyou have any regard for your life,FLIGHT. 401

and the lives of all your men, put to sea without fail at high water; and as
you have a whole tide before you, you will be gone too far out before they
can come down; {or they will come away at high water, and as they have
twenty miles to come, you will get near two hours of them by the difference
of the tide, not reckoning the length of the way; besides, as they are only
boats, and not ships, they will not venture to follow you far out to sea,
especially if it blows." " Well." said I, "you have been very kind in this;
what shall I do for you to make you amends?" "Sir," says he. "you may
not be willing to make me any amends, because you may not be convinced
of the truth of it. I will make an offer to you: I have nineteen months' pay
due me on board the ship , which I came out of England in, and the
Dutchman that is with me has seven months' pay due to him. If you will
make good our pay to us. we will go along with you; if you find nothing
more in it, we will desire no more; but if we do convince you that we have
saved your lives, and the ship, and the lives of all the men in her, we will
leavelthe rest to you.

I consented lo this readily and went immediately on board, and the two
men with me. As soon as I came to the ship's side my partner, who was on
board, came out on the quarter-deck and called to me with a great deal of
joy, "Oh,ho'. Oh, ho! we have stopped the leak, we have stopped the leak!"
"Say you so?" said I; "thank God! but weigh anchor, then, immediately."
"Weigh!" says he; "what do you mean by that? What is the matter?"
"Ask no questions," said I, "but all hands to work. and weigh without los-
ing a minutcl" He was surprised; but, however, he called the captain, and
he immediately ordered the anchor to be got up, and though the tide was
not quite down, yet a little land--breeze blowing, we stood out to sea. Then
I called him into the cabin and told him the story,and we called in the men
and they told us the rest of it; but as it took up a. great deal of time before
he had done, ascaman comes to the cabin door and called out to us that the
captain bade him tell us we were chased. "Chased!" says I; "by what?"
"By live sloops, or boats," saysthe fellow, "full of men." "Very well," said
I, "then it is apparent there is something in it." In the next place, I ordered
all our men to be called up and told them that there was a design to seize
the ship, and to take us for pirates, and asked them if they would stand by
us, and by one another. The men answered cheerfully, one and all, that
they would live and die with us. Then I asked the captain what way he
thought best for us to manage a light with them; for resist them I was
resolved we would, and that to the last drop. He said readily that the
way was to keep them off with our great shot as long as w-'- could, and then
to fire at them with our small arms. to keep them from boarding us; but
when neither of these would do any longer, we would retire to our close
quarters; perhaps they had not materials to break open our bulk-heads,
or get in upon us. _ I

Tlg: gunner had, in the meantime. orders to bring two guns to bear for:
and aft. out of the steerage, to clear the deck, and load them with musket-
bullcts and small pieces of iron, and what came next to hand. And thus we
made ready for light. But all this while we kept out to sea, with wind
enough, and could see the boats at a distance, being five large long-boats,
following us with all the sail they could make.

Two of these boats (which by our glasses we could see were English)
had outsailed the rest, were near two leagues ahead of them, and gained
upon us considerably, so that we found they would come up with us, upon
which we fired a gun without ball, to intimate that they should bring to, and
we put out a flag of truce, as a signal {or parley, but they came crowding
after us, till they came within shot, when we took in our white flag, they
having made no answer to it, and hung out a red flag, and fired at them with
a shot. Notwithstanding this, they came on till they were near enough to
call to them with a speaking-trumpet which we had on board. So we called
to them. and bade them keep off at their peril.

It was all one; they crowded after us, and endeavored to come under our
stern so as to board us on our quarter; upon which, seeing they were reso-
lute for mischief and depended upon the strength that followed them, I
ordered to bring the ship to, so that they lay upon our broadside; when imme-
diately we fired five guns at them, one of which had been leveled so true as
to carry away the stern of the hindermost boat, and bring them to the
necessity of taking down their sail, and running all to the head of the boat
to keep her from sinking; so she lay by, and had enough of it; but seeing
'.he foremost boat crowd on alter us, we made ready to fire at her in par-
ticular. While this was doing, one of the three boats that was behind, being
forwarder than the other two, made up to the boat which we had disabled,
to relieve her, and we could see her take out the men; we called again to
the foremost boat, and offered a truce to parley again, and to know what
her business was with us; but had no answer, only she crowded close under
our stern. Upon this, our gunner, who was a very dextcrous fellow, ran out
his two chase guns, and fired again at'her. but the shot missing, the men in the
boat shouted, waved their caps, and came on; the gunner getting quickly
ready again, fired among them a second time, one shot of which, though it
missed the boat itself, yet fell in among the men, and we could easily see
had done a great deal of mischief among them; but we took no notice of
that, were the ship again, and brought our quarter to bear upon them,
and firing three guns more, we found the boat was almost split to pieces;
in particular, her rudder and a piece of her stem were shot quite away,
so they hauled her sail immediately, and were in great disorder. But,
to complete their misfortune, our gunner let fly two guns at them again.
Where he hit them we could not tell, but we found the boat was sinking,and
some of the men already in the water. Upon this. I immediately manned out
our pinnace, which we had kept close by our side, with orders to pick up
some of the men, it they could, and save them from drowning, and imamTHE DU'I'CHMAN'S STORY. 403

diately to come on board ship with them. because we saw the rest of
the boats began to come up. Our men in the pinnace iollowed theirorders,
and tool: upthrec men, one of whom was just drowning, and it was a good
while before we could recover him. .-'\s soon as they were on board, we
crowded all the sail we could make, and stood farther out to sea; and we
found that when the other three boats came up to the first two they gave
over their chase.

Beii thus delivered from a danger which, though 1 knew not the rea-
son of it, yet seemed to be much greater than I apprehended, I resolved that
we should change our course, and not let 'any one know whither we \\ re
going; so we stood out to sea eastward, quite out of the course of all Euro-
pean ships, whether they were bound to China or anywhere else, within the
commerce of the European nations.

\\-'lien we were at sea we began to consult with the two seamen, and
inquire what the meaning of all this should he; and the Dutchman let us
into the secret at once, telling us that the fellow that sold us the ship, as
we said. was no more than a thief that had run away with her. Then he
told us that the captain, whose name too he mentioned, though I do not
remember it now, was treacherously murdered by the natives on the coast
of Malacca, with three of his men --and that he, this Dutchman. and four
more go: into the woods, where they wandered about a great while, till at
length he, in particular '21 a miraculous manner, made his escape and swam
off to a Dutch ship, which, sailing near the shore, in its way from China,
had sent their boat on shore for fresh water; that he durst not come to that
part of the shore where the boat was, but made shift in the night to take
the water farther off, and swinnniag a great while, at last the ship's boat
took him up.

He then told us that he went to Batavia, where two of the seamen
belonging to the ship had arrived, having deserted the rest in their travels,
and gave an account that the fellow who had run away with the ship sold
her at Bengal to a set of pirates, who were gone a-cruising in her. and that
they had already taken an English ship and two Dutch ships very richly
laden.

This latter part we found to concern us directly, though we knew it to
be false; yet, as my partner said, very justly, it we had fallen into their
hands, and they had had such a prepossessiun against us beforehand, it
had been in vain for us to have defended ourselv ', or to hope for any
good quarter at their hands; and especially considering that our accusers
had been our judges, and that we could have expected nothing from them
but what rage would have dictated, and an ungoverned passion have exe-
cuted; and therefore it was his opinion we should go directly back to Ben--
gal, from whence we came, without putting;r in at any port whatever, because
there we could give a. good account of ourselves, couid prove where we
were when the ship put in, of whom we bought her, and the like; and, what
was more than all the rest, if we were put upon the necessity of bringing it
before the proper judges we should be sure to have some justice, and not
be hanged first and judged afterwards.

I was some time of my partner's opinion, but after a little more serious
thinking I told him I thought it was a very great hazard {or us to attempt

  
 

returning to Bengal,

for that he were on

the wrongr side of the
Straits of Malacca, and
that if the alarm was
given we would be sure
to be waylaid on every
side, as well as by the
Dutch at Batavia as the
English elsewhere; that if we
should be taken as it were
running away, we should even
condemn ourselves, and there
would want no more evidence to destroy us. I also asked the English
sailor's opinion, who said he was of my mind, and that we should certainly
be taken. This danger a little startled my paitnei' and all the ship's com-
pany, and we immediately resolved to go away to the coast of 'l'onquin.
and so on to the coast of China; and pursuing the first design as to trade,
find some way or other to dispose of the ship, and come back in some of
the vessels of the country, such as we could get, This was approved 0'
an the best method {or our security: and accordingly we steered away
l\ \'.E., keeple about fifty leagues off from the usual course to the east-

" Cour." 5m: 1m! sons .\'r .\ ms'rAxcz" (p. 402).AN EMBARRASSING POSITION. 405

wmd. This, however. put us to some inconvenience; ior, first, the winds
when we came that distance from the shore seemed to be more steadily
against us. blowing almost trade, as we call it, from the E. and I'LN.E., so
that we were a long while upon our voyage, and we were but ill provided
with victuals [or so long a run; and. what was still worse, there was some
danger that those English and Dutch ships, whose boats pursued us,
whereof some were bound that way, might have got in before us, and if not,
some other ship bound to China might' have information of us from them,
and pursue us with the same vigor.

Imust confess I was now very uneasy, and thought myself. including
the lateescape from the long-boats, to have been in the most dangerous con
dition that ever I was in through all my past life; for whatever ill circum-
stances I had been in, I was never pursued for a thief before; nor had I ever
done anything that merited the name of dishonest or fraudulent, much less
thievish. 1 had chiefly been my own enemy, or, as I may rightly say, I had
been nobody's enemy but my own; but now I was embarrassed in the worst
condition imaginable; for though I was perfectly innocent, Iwas in no con-
dition to make that innocence appear; and if I had been taken, it had been
undera supposed guilt of the worst kind at least, a crime esteemed so
among the people I had to do with. This made me very anxious to make
an escape, though which way to do it I knew not, or what port or place we
should go to. My partner seeing me thus dejected, though he was the most
concerned at first, began to encourage me, and describing to me the several
ports of that coast, told me he would put in on the coast of Cochin China,
or the Bay of Tonquin, intending afterwards to go to Macao, a town once
in possession of the Portuguese, and where still a. great many European
families rcsided,and particularly the missionary priests usually went thither
in order to their going forward to China.

Hither, then, we resolved to go; and accordingly, though aftera tedious
and irregular course, and very much straitened for provisions, we came
within sight of the coast very early in the morning; and upon reflection on
the past circumstances we were in, and the danger if we had not escaped,
we resolved to put into a small river, which, however, had depth enough of
water for us, and to see if we could, either overland or by the ship's pinnuce.
come to know what ships were in any port thcrcubouts This happy step
was, indeed, our deliverance; for though we did not immediately see any
European ships in the Bay of 'l'onquin. yet the next morning there came
into the bay two Dutch ships; and a third, without any colors spread out,
but which we believed to be a Dutchman, passed by at about two Ieugues'
distance, steering for the coast of China, and in the afternoon went by two
English ships steering the same course; and thus we thought we saw our-
selves beset with enemies both one way and the other. The place we were
in was wild and barbarous--the people thieves, even by occupation or pro-
{ession; and though, it is true, we had not much to seek of them. and
except getting a few provisions, cared not how little we had to do with
them, yet it was with much difliculty that we kept ourselves from being
insulted by them several ways. We were in a small river of this country,
within a few leagues of its utmost limits northward; and by our boat we
coasted northeast, to the point of land which opens the great Bay of Ton-
quin; and it was in this heating up along the shore that we discovered we
were surrounded with enemies. The people we were among were the most
I barbarous of all the inhabitants oi the coast, having no correspondence with

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"THEY naumn man SAIL" (/:. 402).

any other nation, and dealing only in fish and oil, and such gross commodi-
ties; and it may be particularly seen that they are the most barbarous of
any of the inhabitants. Among other customs, they have this one "that if
any vessel has the misfortune to be shipwrecked upon their coast. they
presently make the men all prisoners or slaves; and it was not long before
we found a piece of their kindness this way. on the occasion following.

I have observed above, that our ship sprung a leak at sea, and that we
could not find it out; and it happened that, as I have said, it was stopped
unexpectedly. in the happy minute 0( our being to be seized by the Dutch
and English ships near the Bay of Siam, yet, as we did not find the ship soA SURPRISE. 4m

perfectly tight and sound as we desired, we resolved while we were at this
place to lay her on shore, and take out what heavy things we had on board.
and clean her bottom, if possible, to find out where the leaks were. Accord-
ingly, having lightened the ship, and brought all our guns and other mov-
ablcs to one side, we tried to bring' her down, that. we might come at her
bottom; but, on second thoughts, we did "gt care to lay her on dry ground,
neither could we find out a. proper place for it.

The, inhabitants, who had never been acquainted with such a sight, came
wondering down the shore to look at us; and seeing the ship lie down on
one side in such a manner, and healing in towards the shore, and not seeing
our men, who were at work on her bottom with stages, and with their boats
on the oliside, they presently conciizded that the ship was, cast away, and
lay fast on the ground. On this supposition. they all came about us in two
or three hours' time, with ten or twelve large boats, having some of them
eight, some ten men in a boat, intending, no doubt, to have come on board
and plundered the ship, and if they found us there, to have carried us away
{or slaves to their king, or whalevcr they call him, for we knew nothing oi
their governor.

Vl'hen they came up to the ship, and began to row round her, they dis-
covered us all hard at work on the outside of the ship's bottom and side,
washing, and gravin'g, and stopping, as every sea-faring man knows how.
They stood for a while gazing at us, and we, who were a little surprised,
could not imagine what their design was; but being; willing to be sure, we
took this opportunity to get some of us into the ship, and others to hand
down arms and ammunition to those that were at work, to defend them
selves with, it there should be occasion; and it was no more than need--for
in less than a quarter of an hour's consultation, they agreed, it seems, that
the ship was really a wreck, and that we were all at work endeavoring to
save. her, or to save our lives by the help of our boats; and when we handed
our arms into the boat, they concluded, by that motion. that we were
endonvoring to save some of our goods. Upon this, they took it for granted
we all belonged to them, and away they came directly upon our men, as if
it had been in a line of battle.

Our men, seeing so many of them, began to be frightened, for we lay
but in an ill posture to fight, and cried out to us to know what they should
do. I immediately called to the men that worked upon the stages, to slip
them down. and get up the side into the ship, and bade those in the boat to
row round and come on board; and the few who were on board worked with
all the strength and hands we had to bring the ship to rights; but, however,
neither the men upon the stages nor those in the boats could do as they
were ordered before the Cochin Chinese were upon them; and two of their
boats boarded our long-boat, and began to lay hold of the men as their pris-

DI'ICX'S.
The first. man they laid hold of was an English Seaman, a stout, strong
fellow, who, having a musket in his hand, never offered to fire it. but laid
it down in the boat, like a fool, as I thought; but he understood his business
better than I could teach him, for he grappled the pagan and dragged him
by main force out of their boat into ours, where, taking him by the ears he
beat his head so against the boat's gunnel that the fellow died in his hands;
and in the meantime a Dutchman, who stood next, took up the musket and
with the butt-end of it so laid about him that he knocked down five of them

. who attempted to enter the boat. But this was doing little towards resist--
ing thirty or forty men, who, fearless because ignorant of their danger,
began to throw themselves into the long-boat where we had but five men in
all to defend it; however, the following accident, which deserved our laugh-
ter, gave our men a complete victory,

Our carpenter being prepared to grave the outside of the ship, as well
as to pay the seams where he had caulked her to stop the leaks, had got
two kettles just let down into the boat, one filled with boiling pitch, and
the other with resin, tallow, and oil, and such stuff as the Shipwrights use
for that work: and the man that attended the carpenter had a great iron
ladle in his hand, with which he supplied the men that were at work with
the hot stuff. Two of the enemy's men entered the boat just where this
fellow stood. being in the fore~sl1eets; he immediately saluted them with a
ladlcful of the stuff, boiling hot. which so burned and scalded them, being
half naked, that they roared out like bulls, and. enraged with the fire,
leaped both into the sea. The carpenter saw it, and cried out, ""-'ell done,
jack! give them some more of ilg" and stepping forward himself, takes one
the mops, and dipping it in the pitch-pot, he and his man threw it among
them so plentifully that, in short of all the men in the three boats there
was not one that" escaped being scaldcd and burned with it in a most
frightful, pitiful manner, and made such a howiing and crying that I never
heard a worse noise, for it is worth observing that, though pain naturally
makes all people cry out, yet every nation has a particular way of exclama-
tion, and make a noise as different one from another as their speech. I
cannot give the noise these creatures made a better name than howling, nor
a name more proper to the tone of it; for I never heard anything more like
the noise of the wolves which, as l have said, I heard howl in the forest
on the frontiers of Languedoc. _

I was never bcttcr pleased with a victory in my life; not only as it was
a perfect surprise to me, and that our danger was imminent before, but as
we got this victory without any bloodshed, except of that man the fellow
killed with his naked hands, and which I was very much concerned at, for
I was sick of killing such poor savage wretehes, even though it was in my
own defense, knowing they came on errands which they thought just, and
knew no better; and that though it may be a just thing because necessary
(for there is no necessary wickedness in nature). yet I thought it was a sad
life when we must be always obliged to bc killing our fellow-creatures toVICTORY. 409

preserve ourselves; and, indeed, I think so still; and I would even now suffer
a great deal rather than I would take away the life even oi the worst person
injuring me; and I believe all considering people, who know the value of
life, would be of my opinion if they entered seriously into the considera-
tion of it.

But to return to my story: All the while this was doing, my partner
and I, who managed the rest of the men on board, had with great dexterity
brought the ship almost to rights, and having go: the guns into their places
again, the gunner called to me to bid our boat get out of the way, for he
would let fly among them. I called back again to him, and bid him not
offer to fire, for the carpenter would do the work without him; but bid him
heat another pitch-kettle, which our cook, who was on board, took care of.
The enemy was so terrified with what they had met with in their first attack.
that they would not come on again; and some of them who were (artiiesl
nl'f, seeing the ship swim, as it wet"- upright began, as we suppose, to see
their mistake, and gave over the enterprise, finding it was not as they
expected. Thus we got clear of this merry fight,and having got some rice,
and some roots and bread, with about sixteen hogs, on board, two days
before, we resolved to stay here no longer, but go forward, whatever came
of it; for we made no doubt but we should be surrounded the no day with
rogues enough, perhaps more than our pitch-kettle would dispo. of (or ns.
\'\"C, therefore, got all out things on board the same evening. and the next
morning were ready to sail; in the meantime, lying at anchor at some dis~
tance from the shore, we were not so much concerned, being now in a fight-
ing posture, as well as in a sailing posture, if any en'eniy had presented. The
next day, having finished our work within board, and finding our ship was
perfectly healed of all her leaks, we set sail. We would have gone into the
Bay of Tonquin, for we wanted to inform oursel es of what was to be known
concerning the Dutch ships that had been there; but we durst not stand in
there, because we had seen several ships go in, as we supposed, but a litzle
before, so we kept on N.E.. towards the island of Formosa, as much afraid
of being seen by a Dutch or English merchant ship, as a Dutch or English
merchant ship in the Mediterranean is of an Algerine man--obwar.

When we were thus got to sea. we kept on NE, as if we would go to
the Manillas or the Philippine Islands. and this we did that we might not
{all into the way of any of the European ships; and then we steered north,
till we came to the latitude of 22 degrees 20 minutes, by which means we
made the island of Formosa directly, where we came to an anchor, in ordgr
to get "alter and fresh pro sions. which the people there, who are very
courteous and civil in their manners. supplied us with willingly, and dealt
very {a ly and punctually with us in all their agreements and bargains.
which is what we did not find among other people. and may be owing to the
remains of Christianity whieh was once planted here by a Dutch niis onary
of Protestants, and is a testimony of what I have often observed, viL, that
the Christian religion always civilizcs the people and reforms their manners,
where it is received, whether it works saving effects upon them or no.

From thence we sailed still north, keeping the coast of China at an equal
distance, till we knew We were beyond all the ports of China where our
European ships usually come, being resolved, it possible, not to {all into
any of their hands, especially in this country, where. as our circumstances
were, we could not tail of being entirely ruined.

Being now come to the latitude of 30 degrees, we resolved to put into
the first trading port we should come at, and standing in for the shore, a
boat came oil two leagues to us with an old Portuguese pilot on board, who,
knowing us to be a European ship, came to offer his service, which, indeed,
we were glad of, and took him on board; upon which, without asking
whither we would go, hodismisscd the boat he came in, and sent it back.

I thought it was now so much in our choice to make the old man carry
us whither we would, that I began to talk to him about carrying us to the
Gulf of Nanquin. which is the most northern part of the coast of China.
The old man said he knew the Gulf of Nanquin very well, but smiling,
asked us what we would do there. I told him we would sell our cargo and
purchase China wares, calicoes, raw silks, tea, wrought silks, etc, and so
would return by the same course we came. He told us our best port would
have been to put in at Macao, where we could not have failed of a market
for our opium to our satisfaction, and might for our money have purchased
all sorts of China goods as cheap as we could at Nanquin.

Not being able to put the old man out of his talk, of which he was we \'
opinionated or conceited,I told him we were gentlemen as well as mer-
chants, and that we had a mind to go and see the 'great city of Pekin and the
famous court of the monarch of China. "\Vliy, then," says the old man,
"you should go to Ningpo, where, by the river which runs inlo the' sea there,
you may go within five leagues of the great canal. This canal is a navigable
stream, which goes through the heart of that vast empire of China, crosses
all the rivers, passes some considerable hills by the help of sluices and
gates, and goes up to the city of Pelrin, being in length near two hundrenl .
and seventy leagues."

"Well," t id I, " Seignior Portuguese, but that is not our business now,
the great question is, if you can carry us up to the city of Nanquin, from
whence we can travel to Peltin afterwards? " He said he could do so very
well, and that there was a great Dutch ship gone up that way just before.
This gave me a little shock, for a Dutch ship was now our terror, and we
had much rather have met the devil, at least it he had not come in too
Eriglitiul a figure, and we depended upon it that a Dutch ship would be our
destruction, {or we were in no condition to fight them; all the ships they
trade with into those parts beingr of great burden,and of much greater force
than we were.

The old man found me a little confused, and under some concern whenDOUBT AXE) UNCIiR'l'AIN'I'Y. '5"

he named a Dutch ship, and said to me, " Sir, you need be under no
apprehensions of the Dutch, I suppose they are not now a: war with your
nation? " " No," said I, "' that's true, but I know not what liberties men may
take when they are out of the reach of the laws of their own country."
"Why," s' ys be, "you are no pirates, what. need you fear? The); will not
meddle with peaccahle merchants, sure."

It 1 had any blood in my body that did not fly up into my face at that
word. it was hindered by some stop in the vessels appointed by nature to
circulate it, for it put me into the greatest disorderand confusion imaginable;
nor was it possible for me to conceal it so, but the old man easily per-
ceived it.

"3' ," says he, "I find you are in some disorder in your thoughts at my
talk; pray be pleased to go which way you think fit, and depend upon it,
I'll do you all the service I can." " Why, scignior, said I, "it is true] am a
little unsettled in my resolution, at this time, whither to go in particular;
and I am something more so [or what you said about pirates. I hope there
are no pirates in these seas. We are but in an ill condition to meet with
them, for you see we have but' a small force, and are but very weakly
maimed." "Oh, sir," says he, "don't be concerned; I do not know that
there have been any pirates in these seas: these fifteen years, except one,
which was so . as I hear, in the Bay of Siam, about a month since; but you
may be assured she is gone to the southward; nor was she a ship of any
great force, or fit for the work. She was not built for a privateer, but was
run away with by a reprobate crew that was on board, after the captain and
some of his men had been murdered by the Malayans, at or near the island
of Sumatra." "What!" said I, seeming to know nothing of the matter, "did
they murder the captain?" " No," said he, "I don't understand they mun
dered him; but, as they afterwards ran away with the ship, it is generally
believed that they betrayed him into the hands of the A'laiayans, who did
murder him, and perhaps they procured them to do it." "Why, then," said
I. "lhey deserve death as much as if they had done it themselves." "Nay,"
says the old man, "they do deserve it; and they will certainly have it, if
they light upon any l-anlish or Dutch ship; for they have all agreed
together, that if they meet that rogue, they'll give him no quarter." "' But,"
said I to him, "you say the pirate is gone out of these seas; how can they
meet with him, then?" "Why, that's true," says he, " they do say so: but
he was, as I tell you, in the Bay of Siam, in the river Cambodia, and was dis-
covered there by some Dutchmen who belonged to the ship, and who were
left on shore when they ran away with her; and some English and Dutch
traders being in the river, they were within a little of taking him; may " said
he. " if the foremost boats had been well seconded by the rest, they had
certainly taken him; but he, finding only two boats within reach of him,
lacked about. and fired at those two. and disabled them before the others
came up. and then standing off to sea, the others were not. able to follow,"\x'nu. 1mm; 53cm! cw: THEM some norm OF n'" (f. 408).

u:N0 QUARTER. 418

and so he got away; but they have all so exact a description of the ship,
that they will be sure to know her; and wherever they find her, they have
vowed to give no quarter either to the captain or seamen, but to hang them
all up at the yard-arm." " What!" said I, " will they execute them, right or
wrong? hang them first, and judge them afterwards?" " Oh, sir," says the
old pilot, "there is no need to make a formal business of it with such rogues
as those; let them tie them back to hack, and set them a diving--'tis no
more than they rightly deserve." '

I knew I had my old man fast on board, and that he could do no harm
so that I turned short upon him. " Well, now, seignior," said I, this is the
very reason why I would have you carry us up to Nanquin, and not put
back to Macao. or to any other part of the country where the English or

 

"A "on CAME err" (fl,4l0).

Dutch ships come; for be it known to you, seignior, those captains of the
English and Dutch ships are a parcel of rash, proud, insolent fellows, that
neither know what belongs to justice, nor how to behave themselves as the
laws of God and nature direct; but being proud of their offices, and not
understanding their power, they would act the murderers to punish robbers;
would take upon them,to insult men falsely ancused. and determine them
guilty without due inquiry; and perhaps I may live to bring some of. them
to account for it, when they may be taught how justice is to be executed,
and that no man ought to be treated as a criminal till some evidence may
be had of the crime, and that he is the man."

With this I told him that this was the very ship they attached. and gave
him a full account of the skirmish we had with their boats, and how'fool-
ishly and cowardly they behaved. I told him all the story of our buying
the Ship, and how the Dutchmen served us. I told him the reasons I hadro
believe the story of killing the master by the Malayans was true, as also
the running away with the ship; but it was all a fiction of their own to sug--
gest that the men had turned pirates, and they ought to have been sure it
was so before they ventured to attack us by surprise, and oblige us to resist
them; adding that they would have the blood of those men whom we killed
there in just defense to answer for.

The old man was amazed at this relation, and told us we were very much
in the rightto go away to the north; and that, if he might advise us, it
should be to sell the ship in China, which we might very well do, and buy
or build another in the country. "And," said he, " though you will not get,
so good a ship, yet you may get one able enough to carry you and all your
goods back again to Bengal, or anywhere else." I told him I would take
his advice when I came to any port where I could find a ship for my turn,
or get any customer to buy this. He replied I should meet with customers
enough (or the ship at Nanquin, and that a Chinese junk would serve me very
well to go back again; and that he would procure me people both to buy
one and sell the other. " Well, but, seiguior," said I, "as you say they know
the ship so well, I may, perhaps, if I follow your measures, be instrumental
to bring some honest, innocent men into a terrible broil. and perhaps to be
murdered in cold blood; for wherever they find the ship they will prove
the guilt upon the men, by proving this was the ship; and so innocent men
may probably be overpowered and murdered." " Why." says the old man,
" I'll find out a way to prevent that also; Ior as I know all those commanders
you speak oi very well, and shall see them all as they pass by, I will be sure
to set them to rights in the thing, and let them know that they had been so -
much in the wrong; that though the people who were on board at first
might run away with the ship, yet it was not true that they had turned
pirates; and that, in particular, these were not the men that first went off
with the ship, but innocently bought her for their trade; and I am persuaded
they will so far believe me as at least to act more cautiously for the time to
come."

While these things were passing between us, by way of discourse, we
went forward directly for Nanquin, and in about thirteen days' sail came to
an anchor at the southwest point of the great Gull oi Nanquin; where, by
the way, I came by accident to understand that two Dutch ships were gone
the length before me, and that I should certainly fall into their hands. I
consulted my partner again in this exigency, and he was as much at a loss
as I was, and would very gladiy have been sale on shore almost anywhere;
however, I was not in such purple. :y neither. but I asked the old pilot if
there was no creek or harbor which I might put into and pursue my busi-
ness with the Chinese privately. and be in no danger of the enemy. He
told the if i would sail to the southward about forty-two leagues, there was
a little port called Quinehang, where the fathers of the mission usuallyI. BOUND FOR QUINCIIANG. 41.5
landed from Macao, on their progress to teach the Christian religion to the
Chinese, and where no European ships ever put in; and if I thought to put
in there, I might consider what further course to take when I was on shore.
lle confessed, he said, it was not a place for merchants, except that at some
certain times they had a kind of a fair there, when the merchants from
Japan came over thither to buy Chinese mcrclrandises.

We all agreed to go hack to this place; the name of the port, as he
called it. I may perhaps Spell wrong, for I do not particularly remember it,
having lost this, together with the names of many other places set down in
a little pocket-hook, which was spoiled by the water by an accident, which
I shall relate in its order; but this I remember, that the Chinese or
lapancse merchants we corresponded with called it by a different name
from that which our Portuguese pilot gave it, and pronounced it as above,
Quinchang.

As we were unanimous in our resolution to go to this place, we weighed
the next day. having only gone twice on shore where we w :'e, to get fresh
water, on both which occasions the people of the country were very civil to
us, and brought abundance of things to sell to us; I mean of provisions,
plants, roots, tea, rice, and some (owls; but nothing without money.

we did not come to the other port (the wind being contrary) for five
days; but it n as very much to our satisfaction, and I was joyful, and I may
say thankful, when I set my foot on shore, resolving, and my partner, too,
that if it was possible to dispose of ourselves and effects any other way.
though not every way to our satisfaction, we would never set one foot on
board that unhappy vessel more; and indeed, I must acknowledge, that of
all the circumstances of life that ever I had any experience of, nothing
makes mankind so completely miserable as that of being in constant fear.
\Vell does the SCripturc say, "The fear of man bringcth a $11 :rc;" it is a life
of death, and the mind is so entirely oppressed by it, that it is capable of no
relief, and all the vigor of Nature which usually supports men under
other afflictions, and is present with them in the greatest exigencies, fails
tlrern' hero.

Nor did it fail of i s usual opera

 

 
    
 

ns upon the fancy. by heightening
every danger; representing the Er h and Dutch captains to be men
incapable of hearing r on, or of (ii. inguishing between honest men and
rogues; or between a sto.'y calculated for our own turn, made out of notlr>>
ing, on purpose to deceive, and a true genuine account of our whole \'o 4e,
progress, and dos. bIn; for we might many ways have convinced any reason-
able creature that we were not pirates; the goods we had on heard, the
course we st cred, our frankly showing ourselves, and entering,r into such
and such ports; and e\ en our very manner, the force he had, the number
of men, the few arms, the little ammunition,short provisions; all these would
have served to convince any men that we were no pirates The opium and
other goods we had on board would make it appear the ship had been at
Bengal; The Dutchmen, who. it was said, had the names of all the men that
were in the ship, might easily see that we were a mixture of English, Fortuv
guese and Indians. and but two Dutchmen on board. These, and many
other particular circumstances, might have made it evident to the under-
standing of any commander whose hands we might {all into, that we were
no pirates. But fear, that blind, useless passion, worked another way, and
threw us into the vapors; it bewildered our understandings, and set the
inmgination at work to form a thousand terrible things that perhaps might
never happen. We first supposed, as indeed everybody had related to us,

 

"nkoumu- ABUNDA or THINGS in sum," (it. 4L3).

'Lhat' the seamen on board the English and Dutch ships, but especially the
Dutch, were so enraged at the name ofa pirate, and especially at our beating
off their boats and escaping, that they would not give themselves leave to
inquire whether we were pirates or no, but would execute us off hand, with~
out giving us any room for a defense. We reflected that there really was
so much apparent evidence before them, that they would scarce inquire after
any more; as, first. that the ship was certainly the same, and that some of
the seamen among them knew her, and had been on board her; and, sec-
ondly. that when we had intelligence at the river of Cambodia that theyAPI'REHENSION. 417

were coming down to examine us, we fought their boats and fled; so that
we made no doubt but they were as fully satisfied ofour being pirates as we
were satisfied of the contrary; and, as I often said, I know not but I should
have been apt to have taken those circumstances for evidence, it the tables
were turned, and my case was theirs, and have made no scruplc of cutting
all the crew to pieces, without believing. or perhaps considering. what they
might have to offer in their defense.

But let that be how it will, these were our apprehensions; and both my
partner and I scarce slept a night without dreaming of halters and yard--
arms, that is to say, gibbets; of lighting, and being taken; of killing, and
being killed; and one night I was in such a fury in my dream, fancying the
Dutchmen had boarded us, and I was knocking one of their seamen down,
that I struck my double fist against the side of the Cabin I lay in with such
a force as wounded my hand grievously, broke my knuckles, and cut and
bruised the flesh, so that it awaked me out of my sleep.

Another apprehension I had was, the cruel usage we might meet with
from them if we fell into their hands; then the story of Amboyna came into
my head, and how the Dutch might perhaps torture us, as they did our
countrymen there, and make some of our men, by extremity of torture. con-
fess those crimes they never were guilty of, or own themselves and all of us
to be pirates, and so they would put us to death with a formal appearance
of justice, and that they might be tempted to do this for the gain of our
ship and cargo, which was worth four or five thousand pounds altogether,

These things tormented me, and my partner, loo, night and day; nor did
we consider that the captains oi ships had no authority to act thus; and it
we had surrendered prisoners to them they could not answer the destroying
us, or torturing us, but would be accountable for it when they came to their
country This, I say, gave me no satisfaction; [or if they were to act thus
with us, what advantage would it be to us that they should be called to an
account for it? Or if we were first to be murdered, what satisfaction would
it be to us to have them punished when they came home?

I cannot refrain taking notice here what reflections I now had upon the
vast variety of my particular circumstances; how hard I thought it was that
I, who had spent forty years in a life of continual difl'iculties,and was at last
come, as it were, to the port or haven which all men drive at, viz., to have
rest and plenty, should be a volunteer in new sorrows by my own unhappy
choice; and that I, who had escaped so many dangers in my youth, should
now come to be hanged in my old age, and in so remote a place, [or a
crime which I was not in the least inclined to, much less guilty of.

After these thoughts, something of religion would come in, and I
would be considering that this seemed to me to be a disposition of immedi~
ate Providence, and I ought to look upon it and submit to it as such; that,
although I was innocent as to men, I was far from being innocent as to my
Maker; an: I ought to look in and examine what other crimes in my life
were most obvious to me, and for which Providence might justly inflict this
punishment as a retribution; and that I ought to submit to this just as I
would to a shipwreck it it had pleased God to have brought such a disaster
upon me.

In its turn. natural courage would sometimes take its place, and then I
would be talking myself up to vigorous resolutions; that I would not be
taken to be barbarously used by a parcel of merciless wretches in cold
blood; that it were much better to have Iallen into the hands of the savages,
though I was sure they would feast upon me when they had taken me, than
those who would perhaps glut their rage upon me by inhuman tortures and
barbaritics; that in the case of the savages. I always resolved to die fighting
to the last gasp,and why should I not rlo so now. seeing it was much more
dreadful, to me at least, to think of falling into these men's hands than ever
it was to think of being eaten by men? iorthe savages, give them their due.
would not eat a man till he was killed and dead, but these men had many
arts beyond the cruelty of death. Whenever these thoughts prerailed, I
was sure to put myself into a kind oi (ever with the agitation of a supposed
fight; my blood would boil and my eyes sparkle as if I was engaged, and I
always resolved to take no quarter at their hands; but even, at last, if I
could resist no longer, I would blow up the ship and all that was in her and
leave them but little booty to boast of.

The greater weight the anxieties and perplexities of these things were
to our thoughts while we were at sea, the greater was our satisfaction when

I we saw ourselves on shore; and my partner told nu: he dreamed that he
had a very heavy load upon his back, which he was to carry up a hill, and
found that he was not able to stand longer under it; but that the Portuguese
pilot came and took it off his back, and the hill disappeared, the ground
before him appearing all smooth and plain; and truly it was so; they were
all like men who had a load taken off their backs. For my part, I had
a weight taken off my heart that it was not able any longer to bear; and
as I said above, we. resolved to go no more to sea in that ship. When we
came on shore. the old pilot, who was now our friend, got us a. lodging and
a warehouse for our goods, which. by the way, was much the same; it was
a little house, or hut, with a larger house adjoining to it, all built with canes,
and palisadoed round with large canes, to keep out plltcring thieves,
of which, it seems, there were not a few in that country; however. the
magistrates allowed us a little guard, and we had a soldier with a kind
of halbcrt, or halt-pike, who stood sentinel at our door; to whom we allowed
a pint of rice, and a little piece of money. about the value of threepence,
per day, so that our goods were kept rely safe.

The fair, or mart, usually kept at this place. had been over some time;
however, we found that there were three or {our junks in the river. and two
Japanners, I mean ships from Japan, with goods which they had bought in
China, and were not gone away, having some japanese merchants on shore.FATHER SIMON. 419

The first thing our old Portuguese pilot did for us was, to get us
acquainted with three missionary Romish priests who were in the town,
and who had been there some time converting the people to Christianity;
but we thought they made but poor work of it, and made them but sorry
Christians when they had (lone; however, that was none of our business.
One of these was a Frenchman, whom they called Father Simon; another
was a. Portuguese, and a third a Genoese; Father Simon was courteous,
easy in his manner, and very agreeable company; the other two were more
reserved, seemed rigid and austere, and applied seriously to the work they
came about, \'iz., to tall: with and insinuate themselves among the inhabit-
ants, whenevcr'they had opportunity" We often ate and drank with those
men; and though, I must confess, the conversion, as they call it, of the
Chinese to Christianity is so far from the true conversion required to bring
heathen people to the faith of Christ, that it seems to amount to little more
than letting them know the name of Christ, and say some prayers to the
Virgin Mary and her Son, in a tongue which they understand not, and to
cross themselves, and the like: yet it must be confessed that the religionists,
whom we call missionaries, have a firm belief that these people will be
saved, and that they are the instruments of it; and on this account, they
undergo not only the fatigue of the voyage, and the hazards of living in
such places, but oftentimes death itself, and the most violent tortures, [or
the sake of this work.

But to return to my story: This French priest, Father Simon, was
appointed, it seems, by order of the chief of the mission, to go up to Pekin,
the royal seat of the. Chinese emperor. and waited only for another priest,
who was ordered to come to him from Macao, to go along with him, and
we scarce ever met together but he was inviting me to go that journey;
telling me how he would show me all the glorious things of that mighty
empire, and, among the rest, the greatest city in the world; "a city," said
he, " that your London and our Paris put together cannot be equal to."
This was the city of Pekin, which, I confess, is very great. and infinitely
full of people; but, as I looked on those things with different eyes
from those of other men, so I shall give my opinion of them in a few
words, when I come in the course of my travels lU speak more particularly
of them.

But first, I come to my friar or missionary. Dining with him one day,
and being very merry together, I showed some little inclination to go with
him, and he pressed me and my partner very hard, and with a great many
persuasions, to consent. " \Vhy, Father Simon," says my partner, "should
you (lesire our company so much? you know we are heretics, and you (lo
not love us, nor cannot keep us company with any pleasure." " Oh," says
he, "you may perhaps be good Catholics in time; my business here is to
Convert heathens, and who knows but I may convert you too?" "Very
well, Father," said I, " so you will preach to us all the way?" "I will not
be troublesome to you," says he, "our religion does not divest us of good
manners; besides we are here like countrymen, and so we are compared to
the place we are in, and if you are I-Iuguenots and I a Catholic, we may all
(:3 Christians at last: at least we are all gentlemen and we may converse so.

~ithont being uneasy to one another." I liked this part of his discourse
very nail, and it began to put me in mind of my priest that I had left in
the Brazils; but this Father Simon did not come up to his character by a
great deal; for though l'aiher' Simon had no appearance of a criminal levity
in him, yet he had not that fund of Christian zeal, strict piety, and sincere
affection to religion, that my' other good ecclesiastic bad.

But to leave him a little, although he never left us, nor solicited us to
go with him: we had something else before us at first, [or we had all this
while our ship and our merchandise to dispose of. and we began to be very
doubtful what we should do, for we were now in a place of very little busi-
ness; and once I was about to venture to sail for the river of Kilarn, and the
city of Nunquiu; but Providence seemed now more visibly, as I thought,
than ever, to concern itself in our affairs, and I was encouraged, from this
very time, to think I should, one way or other, get out of this entangled
circumstance, and be brought home to my own country again, though I had
not the least View of the manner. Providence, I say, began here to clear
up our way a little, and the first thing that offered was, our old Portuguese
pilot brought a Japan merchant to us, who inquired what goods we had, and,
in the first place, he bought all our opium, and gave us a. very good. price
[or it. paying us in gold by weight, some small pieces of their own coin,
and some in small wedges, of about ten or twelve ounces each. While we
were dealing with him for our opium, it came into my head that he might
perhaps deal for the ship. too, and I ordered the interpreter to propose it
to him; he shrunk up his shoulders at it, when it was first proposed to him;
but in a. few days after he came to 'me, with one of the missionary priests
for his interpreter, and told me he had a proposal to make to me, which
was this: he had bought a great quantity of goods of us, when he had no
thoughts of proposals made to him of buying the ship, and that, therefore,
he had not money to pay {or the ship; but it I would let the same men who
were in the ship navigate her, he would hire the ship to go to japan, and
would send them from thence to the Philippine Islands with another loading,
which he would pay the freight of before they went from Japan.and that at
their return he would buy the ship. I began to listen to this proposal, and
so eager did my head still run upon rambling, that I could not but begin to
entertain a notion of going myself with him, and so to set sail from the
Philippine Islands away to the South Seas; accordingly I asked the japan-
ese merchant if he would not hire us to the Philippine Islands and dis-
charge us there. He said no, he could not do that, for then he could not
have the return of his cargo; but he would discharge us in Japan, at the
ship's return. Well, still I was for taking him at that proposal, and goingAN [INLLICKY SHIP. 4'31

myself, but my partner, wiser than myself, persuaded me from it, rcpiesent~
ing the dangers as well of the seas as of the Japanese, who are a false, cruel,
and treacherous people; likewise those of the Spaniards at the Philippines,
more false, c111el, and treachemus than they.-

But to bring this long turn of our (<<flaws to a conclusion: the first thing
we had to do was to consult \vitli,tlie captain of the ship and with his men,
and know if they were willing to go to Japan; and while I was doing this,
the young man whom my nephew had left with me as my companion
for my travels came to me and told me that he thought that voyage
promised very fair, and that there was a great prospectof advantage and
he would be very glad _i[ I unde: took it; but that if I would not, and would
give him leave, he would go as a mere-11:11. t or as I pleased to order him;
that if ever he came to Enrrland and I "as there and ali\e he would 1'ende1
me a faithful account of his success, which should be as much mine as I
pleased. I was really lolh to part with him, but considering the prospect
of advantage, which really was considerable, and that he was ayoung fellow
as likely to do well in it as any I knew, I inclined to let him go; but I told
him I would consult my partner and give him an answer the next day.
My partner and I discoursed about it, and my partner made a most
generous offer: "You know it has been an unlucky ship," said he, " and we
both resolve not to go to sea in it again; if yoursteward " (so he called my
man) " will Venture the voyage, I will leave my share of' the \-'e sel tohim,
and let him make the best of it. and if we live to merit in England, and he
meets with success abroad. he shall account forone~half of the profits of the
ship's freight to us, the other shall be his own."

If my partner, who 'was no way concerned with my young;' man, made
him such an offer, I could do no less than offer him the same, and all the
ship's company being willing to go with him, we made over half the ship to
him in property and took a writing from him, obliging him to account for
the other, and away he went to Japan. The japan merchant proved :1. very
punctual, honest man to him; protected him at japan and got him a license
to come on shore. which the Europeans ingeneral have not lately obtained;
paid him his freight very punctually; sent him to the Philippines, loaded
with Japan and China wares and a supercargo of their own who, trafficking
with the Spaniards, brought back European goods again and a great quan-
tity of cloves and other spices; and there he was not only paid his freight
very well and at a very good price, but not being willing to sell the ship
then, the merchant furnished him goods on his account, and with some
money and some spices of his own which he brought with him, he went
back to the Manillas to the Spaniards, where he sold his cargo very well.
Here, having got a good acquaintance at Manilla, he got his ship made a
free ship, and the governor of Manilla hired him ,to go to Acapulco, in
America, on the coast of Mexico, and gave him a license to land here and
to travel to Mexico and to pass in any Spanish ship to Europe with all his
men. He made the voyage to Acapulco very happily, and there he sold his
ship; and having there also obtained allowance to travel by land to I'orto
licllo, he found means, somehow or other, to get to jamaica with all his
treasure, and about eight years after came to England, exceeding rich; of
which I shall take notice in its place; in the meantime I return to our par-
ticular affairs.

Being now to part with the ship and ship's company, it came before us,
of course, to consider what recompense we should give to the two men that
gave us such timely notice of the design against us in the river Cambodia.
The truth was, they had done us a very considerable service and deserved
well at our hands; though, by the way, they were a couple oI rogues too,
for, as they believed the story of our being pirates and that we had really'
run away with the ship. they came down to us, not only to betray the design
that was formed against us but to go to sea with us as pirates; and one of
them confessed afterwards that nothing else but the hopes of going
a-roguing brought him to do it; however, the service they did us was not
the less, and therefore. as I had promised to be grateful to them, I first
ordered the money to be paid them which they said was due to them on
hoard their respective ships; over and above that, I gave each of them a
small sum of money in gold, which contented them very well; then I made
the Englishman gunner in the ship,the gunner being now made second mate
and purser; the Dutchman I made boatswain. So they were both very well
pleased and proved very serviceable, both being able seamen and very stout
fellows.

We were now on shore in China; it I thought myself banished, and
remote Irom my own country at Bengal, where I had many ways to get home
[or my money, what could I think of myself now. when I was got about a
thousand leagues farther off from home, and perfectly destitute of all man-
ner of prospect of return? All we had for it was this, that in about four
months' time there was to be another fair at the place where we were, and
then we might be able to purchase all sorts of the manufactures of the
country. and willml m ight possibly find some Chinese innks or vessels from
'I'onquin that would be sold, and would carry us and our goods whither we
we pleased. This I liked very well, and resolved to wait; besides. as our
particular persons were not obnoxious, so it any English or Dutch ships
came thither, perhaps we might have an opportunity to load our goods,
and get passage to some other place in India nearer borne. Upon these
hopes, we resolved to continue here; but, to divert ourselves, we took two
or three journeys into the country. First, we Went ten (lays' journey to the
city of Nanquin, a city well worth seeing, indeed. They it has a. million
of people in it; it is regularly built, the streets all exactly straight. and cross
one another in direct lines, which 9," s the figure of it great advantage.
But when I come to compare the miserable people of these countries with
ours, their fabrics. their manner of living, their government, their religion.IN CHINA. 4233

their wealth, and their glory, as some call it, I must confess that I scarcely
think it worth my while to mention them here. It is very observable that we
wonder at the grandeur, the riches, the pomp, the ceremonies. the govern-
ment, the. manufactures, the Commerce. and conduct of these people; not
that it is to be wondered at, or, indeed, in the least to be regarded, but
because, having a true notion of the barbariry of those countries, the rude--
ncss and the ignorance that prevail there, we do not expect to find any such
thing so far off. Otherwise, what are their buildings to the palaces and
royal buildings of Europe? What their trade to the universal commerce of
England, Holland, France, and Spain? \l'hat are their cities to ours for
wealth, strength, gaycty of apparel, rich furniture, and infinite variety?
\'Vhat are their ports, supplied with a few junks and barks, to our naviga--
tion, our merchant fleets, our large and powerful navies? Our city of Lon-
don has more trade than half their mighty empire; one English, Dutch, or
French marrof-war of c ty guns would be able to light almost all the
shipping belonging to China; but the greatness of their wealth, their trade,
the power of their government, and the strength of their armies, may be a
little surprising to us, because, as I have said, considering (them as a bar-
barous nation of Pagans, little better than savages, we did not expect such
things among them; and this, indeed, is the. advantage with which all their
greatness and power is represented lo us; otherwise, it is in itself nothing
at all; for what I have said of their ships may be said of their armies and
troops; all the Iurces of their empire, though they were to bring two mill--
ions of men into the field together, would be able to do nothing but ruin
the country. and starve themselves, if they were to besiege a strong town in
Flanders, or to fight a disciplined army; one good line of German cuirassicrs,
or of French cavalry, might withstand all the horse of China; a million of
their foot would not stand 'before one embattled body of our infantry,
posted so as not to be surrounded, though they were not to be one to twenty
in number; nay,I do not boast ii I say that thirty thousand German or
English foot. and ten thousand horse, well managed, could defeat all the
lorces of China. And so of our fortified towns, and of the art of our
engineers in assaulting and defending towns; there is not a fortified town
in China could hold out one month gainst the batteries and attacks of an
European army; and. at the same ie, all the armies of China could never
take such a town as Dunkirk, provrded it was not starved; no, not in ten
years' siege. They had fire-arms, it is true, but they are awkward and
uncertain in their going off; and their powder has but little strength. Their
armies are badly disciplined, and want skill to attack, or temper to retreat;
and therefore, I must confess, it seemed strange to me, when I came home,
and heard our people say such fine things of the power, glory, magnificence,
and trade of the Chinese; because, as far as I saw, they appeared to be a
contemptible hcrd or crowd of ignorant, sordid slaves, subjected to a gov--
ernment qualified only to rule such a people; and were not its distance
inconceivably great from Muscovy, and the Muscovite empire in a manner
as rude, impotent, and ill governed as they, the Czar oi Muscovy might
with ease drive them all out of their country, and conquer them in one cam-
paign; and had the Czar (who is now a growing prince) fallen this way,
instead ofattucking the warlike Swedes, and equally improved himself in
the art of war. as they say he has done, and if none of the powers of Europe
had envied or interrupted him, he might by this time have been Emperor
of China, instead of being beaten by the King of Sweden at Narva. when

    

"HP. CAME Lro m: WITH mu: on THE MISSIONARY kansrs" (/1, 420).

the latter was not one to six in number; As their strength and their
grandeur, so their navigation, commerce. and husbandry are very imperfect,
compared to the same things in Europe; also, in their knowledge, their
learning. and in their skill in the sciences, they are either very awkward
or defective,'though they have globes or spheres, and a smattering of the
mathematics. and think they know more than all the world besides; but
they know little of the motions of the heavenly bodies; and so grossly and
absurdly ignorant are their common people, that when the sun is eclipsed
they think a great dragon has assaulted it. and is going to run away with it;OUR WANDE RINGS. 4'25.

and they {all a clattering with all the drums and kettles in the country, to
{right the monster away, just as we do to hive a swarm of bees.

As this is the only excursion of the kind which I have made in all the
accounts I have given of my travels, so I shall make no more such; itis
none of my business, nor any part of my design; but to give an account oi
my own adventures through a life of inimitable wanderings, and a long
variety of changes. which, perhaps, few that come after me will have heard
the-like of; I shall therefore say very little of all the mighty places. desert
countries and numerous people I have yet to pass through, more than relates
to my own story, and which my concern among them make necessary.

I was now, as near as I can compute, in the heart of China, about thirty
degrees north of the line, {or w'c were returned to Nanquin. I had. indeed,
a mind to see the city of Pekin. which Iliad heard so much of. and Father
Simon impel-tuned me daily to do it. At length his time of going away
being set, and the other missionary who was to go with him being arrived
from Macao, it Was necessary that we should resolve either to go. or not; so
I referred it wholly to my partner, and left it wholly to his choice, who at
length resolved it in the afiirmative. and we prepared for our journey. We
set out with very good advantage, as to Gliding the way; for we got leave to
travel in the retinue of one of their mandarins, a kind of a Viceroy or prir:
cipal magistrate in the province where they reside, and who take great state
upon them. traveling with great attendance. and great homage from the
people, who are sometimes greatly impm'erished by them, being obliged to
furnish provisions for them and all their attendants in theirjourneys. That
which I particularly observed in our traveling with his baggage, was this,
that though we received sufficient provisions both for ourselves and our
horses from the country. as belonging to the mandarin, yet we wei'e'obliged
to pay for everything we had,alter the market price of the country, and the
mandarin's steward collected it duly from us; so that our traveling in the
retinuc ol the mandarin. though it was a very great kindness to us, was not
such a mighty favor in him, but was a great advantage to him. considering
there were above thirty other people traveled in the same manner besides
us, under the protection of his retinuu; {or the country furnished all the
provisions for nothing to him, and yet he took our money for them.

We were twenty-five days traveling to Pekin, through a country infi.
nitely populous. but I think badlycultivated; the husbandry.tlic economy,
and the way of living miserable, though they boast so much of the industry
of the people. I say miserable, if compared with our own. but not so to
these poor wretches, who know no other. The pride of the people is infi-
nitely great. and exceeded by nothing but their poverty, in some parts. which
adds to that which I call their misery; and I must needs think the native
savages of America live much more happy than the poorer sort of these,
because as they have nothing, so they desire nothing; whereas, these are
proud and insolent, and in the main are in many parts mere beggars and
drudgcs. 'l'heir ostentation is inexpressiblc, and, it they can, they love to
keep multitudes of servants or slaves, which is to the last degree ridiculous,
as well as tho contempt of all the world but themselves.

I must confess I traveled more pleasantly afterwards in the deserts and
vast wildcrncsscs of Grand Tartary than here, and yet the roads here are
well paved and well kept, and very convenient for travelers; but nothing
was more awkward to me than to see such a haughty, imperious, insolent
people, in the midst of the grossest simplicity and ignorance; and my friend
li'ather Simon and I uscd to be very merry upon these occasions. to see the
heggarly pride of these people. For example, coming by the house of a
country gentleman, as Father Simon called him, about ten leagues off the
the city of Nanquin, we had first of all the honor to ride with the master of
the house about two miles. The state he rode. in was a perfect Don Quixoh
ism, being a mixture of pomp and poverty. His habit was very proper for
a scaramouch. or merry--andrew, being a dirty calico, with hanging sleeves,
tassels, and cuts and slashes almost on every side; it covered a taffety vest,
as greasy as a butcher's, and which testified that his honor must be a most
exquisite slovcn. Ilis horse was but a poor, starved, hobbling creature, and
he had two slaves followed him on foot to drive the poor creature along; he
had a whip in his hand, and he belabored the beast as last about the head
as his slaves did about the tail, and thus he rode by us, with about ten or
twelve servants, going from the city to his country scat about half a league
before us. We traveled on gently, but this figure of a gentleman rode away
before us, and as we stopped at a village about an hour to refresh us, when
we came by the country seat of this great man, we saw him in a little place
before his door, eating a repast. It was a kind of garden, but he was easy
to be seen, and we were given to understand that the more we looked at him
the better he would be pleased. He sat under a tree, something like the pal-
metto, which effectually shaded him over the head, and on the south side;
but under the tree was placed a large umbrella, which made that part look
well enough. -He sat lolling back in a great elbow--chair, being a heavy,
corpulent man. and had his meat brought him by two women slaves. He
had two more, one of whom fed the squire with a spoon, and the other held
the dish with one hand and scraped off what he let fall upon his worship's
beard and taffety vest.

Thus leaving the poor wretch to please himself with our looking at him
as if we admired his pomp. though we really piticd and contemncd him, we
pursued our journey, only Father Simon had the curiosity to stay to inform
himself what dainties thc countryjusticc had to feed on in all his state.
which he had the honor to taste of, and which was, I think. a mess of boiled
rice with a great piece of garlic in it. and a little bag filled with green
pepper, and another plant which they have there, something like our ginger,
but smelling like musk, and tasting like mustard; all this was put together
and a small piece of lean mutton boiled in it, and this was his worship'sARRIVAL AT PEKIN. - 427

repast. Four or five servants more attended at a distance, who we supposed
were to out of the same after their master.

As for our mandarin with whom we traveled, he was rcspcctedasa
king, surrounded always with his gentlemen, and attended in all his appear-
ances with such pomp. that I saw little of him but at a distance. But this
I observed, that there was not a horse in his retinuc but that our carriers'
packhorses in England seemed to me to look much better; though it was
hard to judge rightly, for they were so covered with equipagc, mantles,
trappings, etc., that we could scarce see anything but their feet and their
heads as they went along.

I was now light-hearted, and all my trouble and perplexity that I have
given an account or' being over, I had no anxious thoughts about me, which
made this journey the pleusanter to me; nor had I any ill accident attended
me, only in passing or Iording a small river my horse fell, and made me
free of the country, as they call it--that is to say, threw me in. The place
was not deep, but it wetted me all over. I mention it because it spoiled
my pocket--book, wherein I had set down the names of several people and
places which I had occasion to remember, and which not taking due care
of. the leaves rolled, and the words were never after to be read, to my
great loss, as to the names of some of the places I touched at in this
journey.

'At length we arrived at Pekin. lhad nobody with me but the youth
whom my nephew the captain had given me touttcnd me as a servant, and
who proved very trusty and diligent; and my partner had nobody with him
but om: servant, who was a kinsman. As for the Portuguese pilot, he being
desirous to see the court, we bore his charges {or his company, and to use
him as an interpreter, [or he understood the language of the country, and
spoke good French and a little English; and indeed this old man was a
most useful implement to us e\-'ery\-rhere; for we had not been above a week
at Pekin, when he came laughing. "Ah, Seignior Inglcsc." says he, "I
have something to tell will make your heart glad." " My heart glad," says
I, " what can that be? I don't know anything in this country can either give
me joy or grief to any great degree." "Yes, yes." says the old man in
broken English. " make you glad. me sorry." " Why,"said I, " will it make
you sorry?" "Because," said he, "you have brought me here twenty-five
days' journey, and will leave me to go back alone; and which way shall I
get to my port afterwards, without a ship, without a horse, without pal/11c? "
----so he called money. being his broken Latin. of which he had abundance
to make us merry with. In short, he told us that there was a great caravan
of Muscovite and Polish merchants in the city, preparing to set out on their
journey by land to Muscovy. within four or five weeks; and he was sure
we would take the opportunity to go with them and leave him behind to
go back alone. .

I confess I was greatly surprised with this good news, and had scarce
power to speak to him for some time; but at last I turned to him. " How
do you know this?" said I; " are you sure it is true?" "Yes," says he; "I met
this morning in the street an old acquaintance of mine, an Armenian, who
is among them. llc came last from Astracan, and was designing to go to
'l'onquin, where I formerly knew him, but has altered his mind, and is now
resolved to go with the caravan to Moscow, and so down the river W'olga to
Astracan." " Well, Seignior," says I, " do not be uneasy about being left to
go back alone; if this be a method for my return to England, it shall be
your fault if you go back to Macao at all." \-Vc then went to consuit
together shat was to be done; and I asked my partner what he thought ot
the pilot 5 news, and whether it would suit with his affairs? He told me he
would do just as I would; for he had settled all his affairs at Bengal, and
left his effects in such good hands, that as we had made a good voyage here.
if he could invest it in China silks, wrought and raw, such as might be worth
the carriage, he would be content to go to England, and then make his voy-
age back to Bengal by the Company's ships.

Having resolved upon this, we agreed mat if our Portuguese pilot would
go with us, we would bear his charges to Moscow, or to England, if be
pleased; nor, indeed, were we to be esteemed over-generous in that either,
if we had not rewarded him further, the service he had done us being really
worth more than that; [or he had not only been a pilot to us at sea, but he
had been like a broker for us on shore; and his procuring for us the Japan
merchant was some hundreds of pounds in our pockets. So we consulted
together about it, and being willing to gratify him, which was but doing him
justice, and very willing also to have him with us besides, for he was amost
necessary man on all occasions, we agreed to give him a quantity of coined
gold, which, as I compute it, came to about one hundred and seventy-live
pounds sterling, between us, and to bear all his charges, both for himself
and horse, except only a horse to carry his goods. Having settled this
between ourselves, we called him to let him know what we had resolved. I
told him he had complained of our being willing to let him go back alone,
and I was now about to tell him we were resolved ht: s'hould not go back at all;
that as we had resolved to go to Europe with the caravan, we resolved also
he should go with us; and that we called him to know his mind. He shook
his head and said it was a. long journey, and that he had no promo to carry
him thither, or to subsist himself when he came there. We told him we
believed it was so, and therefore we had resolved to do something for him
that should let him see how sensible we were of the service he had done us,
and also how agreeable he was to us; and then I told him what we had
resolved to give him here, which he might lav out as we would do our our"
and that as for his: charges, if he would go with us we would set hnn sate 0..
shore (life and casualties excepted) either in Muscovy or England, which
he would, at our own charge, except only the carriage of his goods. Ile
received the proposal like a man transported, and told us he would go with
us over the whole world; and so we all prepared for our journey. However,
as it was with us so it was with the other merchants; they had many things
to do. and instead of being ready in five weeks, it was four months and
some days before all things were got together.

It was the beginning of February, our style, when we set out from Pckin.
My partner and the old pilot had gone express back to the port where we
had first put in, to dispose of some goods which we had left there, and I,
with a Chinese merchant whom I had some knowledge of at Nanqnin, and
who came to I'ekin on his own affairs, went to Nanquin. where I bought
ninety pieces of line damasks, with about two hundred pieces of other very
line silks of several sons, some mixed with gold, and had all these brought
to Pekin against my partner's return; besides this, we bought a. very large
quantity of raw silk, and some other goods, our cargo amounting, in these
goods only, to about three thousand live hundred pounds sterling, which,
together with tea and some fine calicoes, and three camels' loads of nub
megs and cloves, loaded in all eig iteen camels for our share, besides those
we rode upon, which with two or three spare horses, and two horses loaded
with provisions, made us, in short, twenty~six horses and camels in our
retinue. -

The company was very great, and, as far as I can remember, made
between three and four hundred horse, and upwards of one hundred and
twenty n1cn,vcry well arined,and provided for all events, for as the Eastern
Cara) ns are subject to be attacked by the Arabs, so are these by the
Tartars, but they are not altogether so dangerous as the Arabs, nor so bar-
barous when they prevail.

The company consisted of people of several nations, but there were
about sixty of them merchants or inhabitants of Moscow, though of them
some were Livonians, and to our particular satisfaction, live of them were
Scots, who appeared-also to be men of great experience in business, and of
very good substance.

When we had traveled one day's journey, the guides, who were five in
number, called all the gentlemen and merchants--that is- to say, all the pas~
sengcrs except the servants--to a great council, as they called it. At this
council, every one deposited at certain quantity oi money to a common
stock, for the necessary expense of buying forage on the way, where it was
not otherwise to be had, and [or satisfying the guides. getting horses, and
the like; and here they constituted the journey, as they call it, viz., they
named captains and officers to draw us all up, and givc the word of com-
mand, in case of an attack, and give every one their turn of command; nor
was this forming us into order any more than what \ 'e found .ncedfnl on the
way, as shall be observed.

The road all on this side of the country is very populous, and is full of
potters. and earth-makers --that is to say, people that temper the earth for
the China. ware; and as I was coming along, our Portugal pilot, who had
always something or other to say to make us merry, came sneeriugV to me,
and told me he would show me the greatest rurit) in all the country. and
that I should have this to say of China, after all the ill-liumored things that
I had said of it, that I had seen one thing which was not to be seen in all
the world beside, I was very impm'tunatc to know what it was: at last he
told me it was a gentleman's house built with China ware. " Well," says
I, "are not the materials of their buildings the product of their own country?
and so it is all China ware, is it not?" "No, no," says he, "I mean it
is a house all made of China ware, such as you call it in England, or as it is
called in our country, porcelain." "Well," says I, "such a thing may be.
How big is it? Can we carry it in a box upon a camel? If we can,wc will
buy it." " Upon a camel! " says the old pilot, holding up both his hands;
"why, there is a family of thirty people 'ives in it."

I was then curious, indeed, to see it; but "hen I came to it, it was noth-
ing but this: It was a timber house, or a house built, as we call it in Eng-
land, with lath and plaster; but all this plastering was really China. ware--
that is to say, it was plastered with the earth that makes China ware. The
outside, which the sun shone hot upon, was glazed, and looked very well,
perfectly white, and painted with blue figures, as the large China ware in
England is painted, and hard as if it had been burned. As to the inside. all
the walls, instead of wuinscot, were lined with hardened and painted tiles,
like the little square tiles we call galley-tiles in England, ail made of the
fittest China, and the figures exceedingly fine indeed, with extraordinary
variety of colors, mixed with gold, many tilcs making but one figure, but
joined so artificially, the mortar being made of the same earth. that it was
very hard to see where the tiles met. The floors of the rooms were of the
same composition, and as hard as the carthcn floors we have in use in sev~
eral parts of England; as hard as stone, and smooth, but not burned and
painted, except some smaller rooms, like closets, which were all, as it were,
paved with the same tile. The ceiling and all the plastering work in the
whole house were of the same earth; and, after all, the roof was covered
with tiles of the same, but of a deep shining black. This was a China ware
house indeed, truly and literally to be called so, and had I not been upon
the journey I could have stayed some days to see and examine the particu>>
lars of it. They told me there were fountains and fish-ponds in the garden,
all paved on the bottom and sides with the same; and fine statues set up in
rows on the walks. entirely formed of the porcelain earth, and burned whole.

As this is one of the singularities of China, so they may be allowed to
excel in it; but I am very sure they excel in their accounts of it; {or the)
told me such incredible things of their performance in crockery-ware, for
such it is. that 1 care not to relate, as knowing it could not be true. They
told me, in particular. of one workman that made a ship. with all its tackle.
and masts, and sails in earthenware, big enough to carry fifty men. Iftliey
had told me he launched it, and made a voyage to Japan in it,.l might have"as soox AS nmv saw rs. "M: or THEM 1;an A rum) (.6 Hons" M. 483'

4:?!
'32 ROBINSON CRUSOE.

said something to it indeed; but as it was, I knew the whole of the story.
which was, in short, asking pardon [or the word, that the fellow lied; so I
smiled, and said nothing to it.

This odd sight kept me two hours behind the caravan. for which the
leader of it for the day fined me about the value of three shillings, and told
me if it had been three days' journey without the wall, as it was three days
within, he must have fined me [our times as much, and made me ask pardon
the next council day. I promised to he more orderly; and, indeed, I found
afterwards the orders made for keeping all together were absolutely neces-
sary for our common safety. '

In two days more we passed the great China wall, made for a fortifica-
tion against the 'l'aitars; and a very great work it is, going over hills and
mountains in a needless track, where the rocks are impassable, and the
precipices such as no enemy could possibly enter, or indeed climb up. or
where, if they did, no wall could hinder them. They tell us its length
is near a thousand English miles. but that the country is five hundred in a
straight measured line, which the wall bounds, without measuring the wind-
ings and turnings it takes; it is about four fathoms high, and as many thick
in some places. .

I stood still an hour or thereabouts without trespassing our orders (for
so long the caravan was passing in the gate). to look at it on every side,
near and far 03,1 mean what was within my view; and the guide of our
caravan, who had been extolling it for the wonder of the world, was mighty
eager to hear my opinion of it. I told him it was a most excellent thing
to keep out the Tartars; which he happened not to understand as I meant
it; and so took it for acomplimcnt; but the old pilot laughed, "Oh, Seignior
Inglesc," says he, "you speak in colors." "In colors!" said I. "what do you
mean by that?" "Why, you speak what looks white this way, and black
that way--gay one way, and dull another. You tell him it is a good wall
to keep out Tartars; you tell me by that it is good for nothing but to keep
out Tartars. I understand you. Seignior Inglese, I understand you; but
Seignior Chinese understood you his own way." "Well," says I, "seignior,
do you think it would stand out an army of our country people, with a good
train of artillery? or our engineers with two companies of miners? Would
not they batter it down in ten days, that an army might enter in battalia?
or blow it up in the air, foundation and all, that there should be no sign of
it left?" "Aye, aye," says he, "I know that." The Chinese wanted mightily
to know what I said, and I gave him leave to tell him a few days alter. for

_we were then almost out of their country, and he was to leave us a little
time after this; but when he knew what 1 said, he was dumb all the rest of
the way, and we heard no more of his fine Story of the Chinese power and
greatness while he stayed.

After we passed this mighty nothing. called' a wall, something like the
Picts' wall. so famous in Northumberland, builtby the Romans, we began toAN ENCOUNTER "'ITH TARTARS. 433

find the country thinly inhabited, and the people rather confined to live in
fortified towns or cities, as being: subiect to the inroads and deprcdations of
[he Tartars, who rob in great armies, and therefore are not to be resisted by
the naked inhabitants of an open country. And here I began to find the
necessity of keeping together in a caravan as we traveled, for we saw several
,troops of 'l'nrtars roving about: but when I came to see them distinctly, I
wondered more that the Chinese Empire could be conquered by such eon-
temptihle follows; for they are a mere horde of wild fellows, keeping no
order, and understanding no discipline or manner of fight. Their horses
are poor lean creatures, taught nothing, and fit {or nothing; and this we
found the first day we saw them,whieh was alter we entered the wilder part
of the country. Our leader {or the day gave leave [or about sixteen of us
to go a-hunting, as they call it; and what was this but hunting of sheep]
However, it may be called hunting, too. for the creatures are the wildest
and swiltest of foot that everI saw of their kind, only they will not run
a great way, and you are sure of sport when you begin the chase, for they
appear generally thirty or forty in a flock, and, like true sheep, always keep
together when they fly.

In pursuit of this odd sort ol game, it was our hap to meet with about
forty Tartars; whether they were hunting mutton, as we were, or whether
they looked for another kind of prey, we know not; but as soon as they
saw us, one of them blew a. kind of horn very loud, but with a barbarous
sound that I had never heard belore, and, by the way, never care to hear
again. We all supposed this was to call their friends about them, and so
it was, for. in less than ten minutes, a troop of forty or fifty more appeared,
at about a mile's distance, but our work was over first, as it happened.

One of the Scots merchants of Moscow happened to be amongst us, and
as soon as he heard the horn, he told us that we had nothing to do but to
charge them irmnediately, without loss of time. and drawing us up in a line,
he asked if we were resolved. We told him we were ready to follow him,
so he rode directly towards them. They stood gazing at us like a mere
crowd, drawn up in no order, nor showing the [ace of any order at all; but
as soon as they saw us advance, they let fly their arrows, which, however,
missed us. very happily. It seems they mistook not their aim, but their
distance. for their arrows all fell a little short of us, but with so true an aim.
that had we been about twenty yards nearer, we must have had several men
wounded, if not killed.

Irmnediately we halted. and though it was at a great distance, we fired,
and sent them leadcn bullets for wooden arrows, following our shot full
gallop, to fall in among them sword in hand--for so our bold Scot that led
us directed. He was, indeed, but a merchant, but he behaved with such
vigor and bravery on this occasion, and yet with such cool courage too, that
I never saw any man in action litter for command. As soon as we came up

to them, we fired our pistols in their faces. and then drew, but they {led in
u
the greatest confusion imaginable. The only stand any of them made was
on our right. where three of them stood, and. by signs, called the rest to
come back to them, having a kind of scimitar in theirhands, and their bows
hanging to their backs. Our brave commander, without asking anybody to
follow him, gallops up close to them, and with his fusee knocks one of
them off his horse, killed the second with his pistol. and the third ran away,
and thus ended our fight. but we had this misfortune attending it, that all
our mutton we had in chase got away. We had not a man killed or hurt,
but as for the Tartars, there were about five of them killed. How many
were wounded we knew not; but this we knew. that the other party were so
frightened with the noise of our guns, that they made off, and never made
any attempt upon us.

We were all this while in the Chinese dominions, and therefore the Tar-
tars were not so bold as afterwards; but in about five days we entered a vast,
great, wild desert, which held us three days' and nights' march, and we
were obliged to carry our water with us in great leathern bottles and to
eucamp all night, just as I have heard they do in the desert of Arabia.

I asked our guides whose dominion this was in, and they told me this
was a kind of border, that might be called no man's land, being a part of
Great Karakathy, or Grand 'l'artary; that, however, it was all reckoned as
belonging to China, but that there was no cure taken hereto preserve it from
the inroads of thieves, and therefore it was reckoned the worst desert in
the whole march. though we were to go over some much larger.

In passing this wilderness, which was at first very frightful to me, we saw,
two or three times, little parties of the Tar-tars, but they seemed to be upon
their own affairs and to have no design upon us; and so, like the man who
met the devil. ifthey had nothing to say to us, we had nothing to say to them;
we let them go. Once, however, a party of them came so near as to stand
and gaze at us; whether it was to consider if they should attack us or not,
we knew not; but when we had passed at some distance by them, we made
a. rear guard of forty men and stood ready for them, letting the caravan
pass half a mile or thereabouts before us, but after awhile they marched off,
only we found they saluted us with five arrows at their parting which
wounded a horse so that it disabled him and we left him the next day, poor
creature, in great need of a good Iarrier. They might shoot more arrows,
which might fall short of us, but we saw no more arrows or Tartars that
time.

We traveled near a month after this, the ways not being so good as at
first, though still in the dominions of the Emperor of China, but lay for the
most part in the villages, some of which were fortified because of the incur-
sions of the Tartars. When we Were come to one of these towns (it was about
two days and a half's journey before we came to the city of Naum), I wanted
to buy a camel, of which there are plenty to be sold all the way upon that
mad. and horses also, such as they are, because, so many caravans comingCAUGHT BY TARTARS. 43SS

that way, they are often wanted. The person that I spoke to to get me a
camel would have gone and fetched one for me, but I. like :1 fool, must be
omcious and go myself along;r with him; the place was about two miles out
of the village, where, it seems, they kept the camels and horses feeding,
I under a guard. ' i
I walked it on foot with my old pilot and a Chinesc,being very desirous
of a little variety. When we came to the place, it was a low, marshy ground,
walied round with a stone wall, piled up dry, without mortar or earth among
it, like a park, with a little guard '01 Chinese soldiers at the door. Having

 

"KILLED nut, sacoxn wr-rn His 145101." (1). 484).

bought a camel and agreed for the price, 1 came away and the Chinese man
that went with me led the camel, when on a sudden came up live Tartnrs
on horseback. Two of them seized the fellow and took the camel from
him. while the other three stepped up to me and my old pilot, seeing us, as
it were, unarmed, for I had no weapon about me but mysword, which could
but ill defend me against three horsemen. The first that came up stopped
short upon my drawing my sword, {or they are nrrnnt cowards; but a sec-
ond, coming upon my left, gave me a blow on the head which I never felt
till afterwards and wondered, when I came to myself, what was the matter
and where I was, [or he laid me flat on the ground; but my ncver~iailing old
pilot, the Portuguese, (so Providence, unlocked for, directs dcliverances
from dangers which to us are unforeseen) had a pistol in his pocketnvhichl
knew nothing of, nor the Tartars either; if they had. I suppose they would
not have attacked us; but cowards are always boldest when there is no
danger. The old man seeing me down, with a bold heart stepped up to the
fellow that had struck me, and laying hold of his arm with one hand and
pulling him down by main force a little towards him, with the other shot
him in the head, and laid him dead upon the spot. He then immediately
stepped up to him who had stopped us, as I said, and before he could come
forward again made a blow at him with a scimitar, which he always wore,
but missingr the man, struck his horse on the side of his head, cut oneof the
cars off by the root and a great slice down by the side of his face. The poor
beast,enraged with the wound. was no more to be governed by his rider,
though the fellow sat well enough too, but away he flew, and carried him
quite out of the pilot's reach; and at some distance, rising;r upon his hind
legs, threw down the Tartar and fell upon him.

In this interval the poor Chinese came in who had lost the camel, but
he had no weapon; however, seeing the Tartar down. and his horse fallen
upon him, away he runs to him, and seizing upon an ugly ill- favored
weapon he had by his side, something like a poleaxe, but not a poleaxe
neither, he wrenched it from him and made shift to knock his Tartarian
brains out with it. But my old man had the third Tartar to deal with still;
and seeing he did not fly; as he expected, nor come on to fight him, as he
apprehended, but stood stock still, the old man stood still too, and fell to
work with his tackle to charge his pistol again; but as soon as the Tartar
saw the pistol,away he scoured and left my pilot, my champion I called
him afterwards. a complete victory.

By this time I was a little recovered; for I thought when I first began
to wake that I had been in a sweet sleep; but, as I said above, I wondered
where I was, how I came upon the ground, and what was the matter; but a
few moments after, as sense returned, I felt pain. though I did not know
where; so I clapped my hand to my head, and took it away bloody; then I
felt my head ache; and then in a moment memory returned, and every-
thing was present to me again. I jumped upon my feet instantly, and got
hold of mylsword, but no enemies were in view; Ilound a'l'artar lying
dead, and his horse standing very quietly by him; and, looking farther, I
saw my champion and deliverer, who had been to see what the Chinese had
done, coming back with his hanger in his hand. The old man, seeing me
on my feet, came running to me and embraced me with a great deal of joy,
being afraid before that I had been killed; and seeing me bloody, would
see how I was hurt; but it was not much, only what we call a broken head;
neither did I afterwards find any great inconvenience from the blow, for it
was well again in two or three days.

We made no great gain, however. by this victory, for we lost a camel and
gained ahorse. But that which was remarkable, when we came back to
the village, the man demanded to be paid for the camel; I disputed it. andDANGER AHEAD. 437

it was brought to a. hearing before the Chinese judge of the place, To give
him his due, he acted with a great deal OI prudence and impartiality; and
having heard both sides he gravely asked the Chinese man that went; with
me to buy the camel, whose servant he was? "I am no servant," says he,
"' but went with the stranger," " At whose request? " says the justice. " At
the stranger's request." says he. " Why, then," says the justice, " you were
the stranger's servant {or the time; and the camel being delivered to his
servant, it was delivered to him, and he must pay [or it."

I confess the thing,' was so clear that I had not a word to 53". but
admiring to see such just reasoning upon the consequence, and an accurate
stating of the case,l paid willingly [or the camel and sent for another; but,
you may observe, I did not go the {etch it myself any more, for I had had
enough of that.

The city of Naum is a frontier of the Chinese Empire; they call it forti'
tied, and so it is, as fortifications go there; for this I will venture to affirm,
that all the Tartars in Karakathay, which, I believe. are some millions,
could not batter down the walls with their bows and arrows; but to call it
strong, if it were attacked with cannon, would be to make those who under-
stand it laugh at you.

"it: wanted, as I have said above, two days' journey of this city. when
messengers were sent express to every part of the road to tell all travelers
and caravans to halt till they had aguard sent {or them; for that an unusual
body of 'l'artars, making ten thousand in all, had appeared in the way
about thirty miles beyond the city.

This was very bad news to travelers; however, it was carefully done of
the governor, and we were very glad to hear we should have a guard.
Accordingly, two days after, we had two hundred soldiers sent us from a
garrison of the Chinese, on our left, and three hundred more from the city
of Naum. and with these we advanced boldly; the three hundred soldiers
from Naum marched in our front, the two hundred in our rear, and our men
on each side of our camels, with our baggage, and the whole caravan in the
center. In this order, and well prepared for battle. we thought ourselves
a match for the whole ten thousand Mogul Tartars, if they had appeared;
but the next day, when they did appear, it was quite another thing.

It was early in the morning. when marching from a well-situated little
town called Changu, we had a river to pass, which we were obliged to terry,
and, had the 'l'artars had any intelligence, then had been the time to have
attacked us, when the caravan being over, the roar-guard was behind; but
they did not appear there. About three hours after, when we were entered
upon a desert at about fifteen or sixteen miles over. behold, by a cloud of
dust they raised, we saw an enemy was at hand, and they were at hand.
indeed, for they came on upon the spur.

The Chinese. our guard in the front, who had talked so big;r the day before.
began to stagger, and the soldiers frequently looked behind them. which is
a certain sign in a soldier that he is just ready to run away. My old pilot
was of my mind, and being near me, called out: "Seignior Inglcsc," says
he. "those fellows must be encouraged, or they will ruin us all; for if the
'I'artars come on, they will never stand it." "I am of your mind," says I,
"but what must be done?" "Done!" says he, "let fifty of our men advance
and flank'them on each wing, and encourage them, and they will fight like
brave fellows in brave company; but without this they will every man turn
his back." ImmediatelyI rode up to our leader and told him, who was
exactly of our mind. and accordingly fifty of us marched to the right wing,
and fifty to the left, and the rest made a line of rescue; and so we marched,
leaving the last two hundred men to make a. body by themselves. and to
guard the camels, only that, if need were, they should send a hundred men
to assist the last fifty.

In a word, the Tartars came on, and an innumerable company they were;
how many we could not tell, but ten thousand, we thought, was the least; a
party of them came on first and viewed our posture, traversing the ground in
the front of our line, and, as we found them within gunshot. our leader
ordered the two wings to advance swiftly, and give 'them a salvo on each
wing with their shot, which was done, and they went off, I suppose back, to
give an account of the reception they were like to meet with, and, indeed,
that salute cloyed their stomachs, for they immediately halted, stood awhile
to consider it, and wheeling OK to the left, they gave over their design and
said no more to us for that time, which was very agreeable to our circum-
stances, which were but very indifiercnt for a battle with such a number.

Two days after, we came to the city of Nana. or Naum; we thanked the
governor for his care of us, and collected to the value of a hundred crowns.
or thereabouts, which we gave to the soldiers sent to guard us; and here
we rested one day. This is a garrison indeed, and there were nine hundred
soldiers kept here; but the reason of it was, that formerly the Museovite
frontiers lay nearer to them than they do now, the Muscovites having
abandoned that part of the country which lies from this city west for about
two hundred miles, as desolate and unfit for use; and more especially being
so very remote, and so difficult to send troops thither for its defense; for
we were yet above two thousand miles from M uscovy, properly so called.

After this, we passed several great rivers, and two dreadful deserts; one
of which we were sixteen days passing over, and which, as I said, was to be
called no man's land; and, on the 13th of April, we came to the frontiers of
the Muscovite dominions. 1 think the first town or fortress. whichever it
may be called, that belonged to the Czar of Muscovy, was called Arguna.
being on the west side of the river Arguna.

I couid not but discover an infinite satisfaction that I was so soon arrived
in, as I called it, a Christian country. or, at least, in a country governed by
Christians; for though the Muscovites do, in my opinion, but just deserve
the name of Christians, yct such they pretend to be, and are very devoutENTRANCE INTO THE MUSCOVITE DOMINIONS. 439

in their way. It would certainly occur to any man who travels the world as
I have done, and who had any power of reflection, what a blessing it is to
be brought into the world where the name of God and a Redeemer is known,
adored, and worshiped; and not where the people, given up to Heaven by
strong delusions, worship the devil, and prostrate themselves to stocks and
stones; worship monsters, elements, horrid shaped animals, and statues or
images of monsters. Not atown or city we passed through but had their
pagodas, their idols, and their temples, and ignorant people worshiping
even the works of their own hands. Now we came where, at least, a face
of the Christian worship appeared; where the knee was bowed to Jesus; and
whether ignorantly or not, yet the Christian religion was owned, and the
name of the true God was called upon and adored; and it made my soul
rejoice to see it. I saluted the brave Scots merchant I mentioned above
with my first acknowledgment of this; and taking him by the hand, I said
to him,_" Blessed be God, we are once again among Christians." He smiled
and anSWered, " Do not rejoice too soon, countryman; these Muscovites are
but an odd sort of Christians; and but for the name of it, you may see very
little or the substance for some months farther of our journey." " Well,"
says 1, " but still it is better than paganism and worshiping of devils."
" Why, I will tell you," says he, " except the Russian soldiers in the garri-
son, and a few of the inhabitants of the cities upon the road, all the rest 0[
this country, {or above a thousand miles farther, is inhabited by the worst
and most ignorant of pagans." And so, indeed, we found it.

We were now launched into the greatest piece of solid earth, if I under-
stand anything oi the surface of the globe, that is to be found in any part
of the World; we had, at least, twelve thousand miles to the sea. eastward;
two thousand to the bottom of the Baltic Sea, westward; and above three
thousand, if we left that sea, and went on west, to the British and French
channels; we had full live thousand miles to the Indian or Persia Sea, south,
and about eight hundred to the Frozen Sea, north. Nay, if some people
may be believed, there might be no sea northeast till we came round the
Pole, and consequently into the northwest, and so had a continent of land
into America, the Lord knows where, though I could give some reasons why
I believe that to be a mistake.

As We entered into the Muscovite dominions a good while before we
came to any considerable towns, we had nothing to observe there but this:
first, that all the rivers run to the east; as I understood bythe charts, which
some in our caravan had with them, it was plain all those rivers ran into the
great river Yamour, or (iamour; which river, by the natural course of it,
must run into the East 9cm, or Chinese Ocean. The story they tell us, that
the mouth of this river-is choked up with bulrushes of a monstrous growth--
\'iz., three feet about, and twenty or thirty feet high--I must be allowed to
say, I believe nothingr of it;. but as its navigation is of no use, because there
is no trade that way, the Taitars, to whom it alone belongs, dealing in
nothing but cattle, so nobody that ever I heard of has been curious cnngh
either to go down to the mouth of it in boats, or come up from the mouth
of it in ships, as far as I can find; but this is certain, that this river running
east, in the latitude of about 50 degrees, carries a vast concourse of rivers
along with it, and finds an ocean to empty itself in that latitude, so we are
sure of sea there.

Some leagues to the north of this river, there are several considerable
rivers. whose streams run as due north as the Yamour runs east, and these
are all found to join their waters with the great river Tartarus, named so from

 

"TWO mr THEM SEIZED 'rim FELLOW AND Toox 'I'NPZ cmmt." (j). 485].

the northernmost nations of the Mogul 'l'artars; who. as the Chinese say,
were the first 'l'artars in the world, and who, as our geographers allege. are
the Gog and Magog mentioned in sacred history. These rivers running all
northward, as well as all the other rivers I am yet to speak of, make it evi-
dent that the Northern Ocean bounds the lands also on that side, so that it
does not seem rational in the least to think that the land can extend itself
to join with America on that side, or that there is not a communication
between the Northern and Eastern Ocean. but of this I shall say no more;
it was my observation at that time, and therefore I take notice of it in this
place. I

We now advanced from the river Arguna by'easy and moderate journeys.AN IDOL. 44!

and were very visibly obliged to the care the Cun- of Muscovy has taken to
have cities and towns built in as many places as it is possible to place them,
where his soldiers keep garrison, something like the stationary soldiers
placed by the Romans in the remotest countries of their empire; some of
which I had read of were placed in- Britain, for the security of commerce,
and (or the lodging oi travelers; and thus it was here, [or wherever we came.
though at these towns and stations the garrisons and governors were Rus--
sians and professed Christians, yet the inhabitants were mere pagans, sac-
rificing to idols, and worshiping the sun, moon, and stars, or all the host of
heaven; and not only so, but were, of all the heathens and pagans that ever
I met with, the most barbarous, except only that they did not eat men's
flesh, as our savages of America did.

Some instances of this we met with in the country between Argnna,
where we enter the h'luscovite dominions, and a city of Tartars and Russians
together, called Nortziousky, in which is a continued desert or forest, which
cost as twenty days to travel over. In a village near the last of these
places. 1 had the curiosity to go and see their way of living, which is most
brutish and insufferable. They had, I suppose, a great sacrifice that day,
for there stood out, upon an old stump of a tree. an idol made of wood,
frightful as the devil; at least. as anything we can think of to represent the
devil _ can be made. It had a head not resembling any creature that the
world ever saw; ears as big as goat's horns, and as high; eyes as big as a
crown piece; a nose like a crooked ram's horn, and a mouth extended four-
cornered, like that of a lion, with horrible teeth, hooked like a parrot's
under bill. It was dressed up in the filthiest manner that you could sup-
pose; it's upper garment was of sheep-skins, with the wool outward; a great
Tartar bonnet on the head, with two horns growing through it. It was
about eight feet high, yet had no feet or legs. nor any other proportion of
parts. '

This scarecrow was set up at the outer side of the village, and when I
came near to it. there were sixteen or seventeen creatures--whether men or
women 1 could not tell. for they made no distinction by their habits--all
lying flat upon the ground round this formidable block of shapeless wood.
I saw no motion among them, any more than if they had been all logs of
wood, like the idol, and at first I really thought they had been so; but when
I came a little nearer, they started up upon thei: feet and raised a bowling
cry, as if it had been so many deep-mouthed h :unds, and walked away, as if
they were displeased at our disturbing them. A little way off from the idol,
and at the door of a tent or hut, made all of sheep'skins and cow-skins dried,
stood three butchers--l thought they were such when I came nearer to
them, for I found they had long knives in their hands, and in the middle of
the tent appeared three sheep killed, and one young bullock or steer.
These, it seems, were sacrifices to that senseless log of an idol; the three
men were priests belonging to it, and the seventeen prostrated wretches
were the people who brought the offering. and were making their prayers to
that stock.

I confess I was more moved at their stupidity and brutish worship of a
hohgoblin than ever I was at anything in my lite--to sce God's most glori-
ous and best creature, to whom he had granted so many advantages, even
by creation, above the rest of the works of His hands, vested with a reason
able soul, and that soul adorned with faculties and capacities adapted boti.
to honor his Maker and to be honored by Him, sunk and degenerated to a
degree so very stupid as to prostrate itself to a frightful nothing, a mere
imaginary object dressed up by themselves and made terrible to themselves
by their own contrivance, adorned only with clouts and rags----and that this
should be the effect of mere ignorance, wrought up into hellish devotion
by the devil himself, who, envying his Maker the homage and adoration of
Ilis creatures, had deluded them into such sordid and brutish things as one
would think would shock Nature itself.

But what signified all the astonishment and reflection of thoughts? And
thus it was, and I saw it before my eyes, and there was no room to wonder
at it, or think it impossible. All my admiration turned to rage, and I rode
up to the image or monster--call it what you will--and with my sword made
a stroke at the bonnet that was on its head, and cut it in two; and one of
our men that was with me took hold oi the sheeposkin that covered it and
pulled at it, when, behold, a most hideous outcry and howling: ran through
the village, and two or three hundred people came about my ears, so that I
was glad to scour for it, for we saw some had some bows and arrows; but I
resolved from that moment to visit them again.

Our caravan rested three nights at the town, which was about four miles
oil, in order to provide some horses which they wanted, several of the
horses having been lamcd and jaded with the badness of the way and long
march over the last desert; so we had some leisure here to put my design
in execution. I communicated it to the Scots merchant of Moscow, of
whose courage I had sufficient testimony; I told him what I had seen, and
with what indignation I had since thought that human nature could be so
degenerate; I told him if I could get but four or five men well armed to go
with me, I was resolved to go and destroy that vile, abominable idol, and let
them see that it had no power to help itself, and consequently could not be
an object of worship, or to he prayed to, much less help them that offered
sacrifices to it.

He laughed at me; says he, "Your zeal may be good. but what do you
propose to yourself by it?" "Propose!" said i, "to vindicate the honor of
God, which is insulted by this devil-worship." "But how will it vindicate
the honor of God," said he, "while the people will not be able to know what
you mean by it, unless you could speak to them, and tell them so? and then
they will fight you, and beat you, too, I assure you; for they are desperate
fellowsuand that especially in defense of their idolatry." "Can we not."A PLOT. 443

said I, "do it in the night, and then leave them the reasons and the causes
in writing in their own language ?" "W'riting!" said he; "why. there is not a
man in live nations of them that knows anything of a letter, or how to read
a word any way." "Wretched ignorance,"said I to him, "however .I have a
great mind to do it; perhaps nature may draw inferences from it to them.
to let them see how brutish they are to worship such horrid things." "Look
you. sir," said he, "if your zeal prompts you to it so warmly, you must do it;
but, in the flex-t place, I would have you consider these wild nations oi
people are subjected by force to the Czar of Muscovy's dominion; and if
you do this, it is ten to one but they will come by thousands to the governor
of Nertzinskay and demand satisfaction; and if he cannot give them satis-
faction. it is ten to one but they revolt, and it will occasion a new war with
all the Tartars in the country."

This, I confess, put new thoughts into my head for awhile; but I harpcd
upon the same string still; and all that day I was uneasy to put my project
into execution. Towards the evening, the Scots merchant met me by acci-
dent in our walk about the town, and desired to speak with me. "I believe,"
said he, "I have put you off your good design. I have been a little con-
cerned about it since, ior I abhor idolatry as much as you can do." "Truly,"
said I,"'you have put off a little the execution of it; but you have not put it
out of my thoughts, and I believe I shall do it before I quit this place.
thoughl were to tie-delivered up to them for satisfaction." "No, no." said
he. "God forbid they should deliver you up to such a crew of monsters.
They shall not do that either; that would be murdering you, indeed."
"W'hy," said I. "how would they use me .9" "Use you!" said he, "I'll tell you
how they served a poor Russian who afironted them in their worship just as
you did, and whom they took prisoner, after they had lamed him with an
arrow that he could not run away. They took him and stripper! him stark
naked, and set illlll upon the top of the idol-monster. and stood all round
him, and shot as many arrows into him as would stick over his whole body;
and then they burned him and all the arrows sticking in him, as a sacrifice
to the idol." "And was this the same idol?" said I. "Yes," said he, "the
very same." "\Vell," said I, "I will tell you a story." So I related the
storyot our men at Madagascar, and how they burned and sacked the village
there, and killed man, woman and child, for their murdering one of our
men, just as it is related before; and I added that I thought we ought to do
so to this village.

He listened very attentively to the story; but when I talked of doing so
to that village, said he, " You mistake very much; it was not this village---
it was almost a hundred miles from this place; but it was the same idol, for
they carry him about in procession all over the country." 'Wcll." said I,
" then that idol ought to be punished for it; and it shall," said I, " ii I live
this night out."

In a word, finding me resolute, he liked the design, and told me I should
not go alone, but he would go with me, but he would go first and bring a
stout follow, one of his countrymen, to go also with us; " and one," said he,
" as famous [or his zeal as you can desire any one to be against such develish
things as 111658." In a word, he brought me his comrade, a Scotsman, whom
he called Captain Richardson; and I_ gave him a lull account of what I had
seen, and also what I intended; and he told me readily he would go with
me if it cost him his life. So we agreed to go--only we three. I had,
indeed, proposed it to my partner, but he declined it. He said he was ready
to assist- me to the utmost, and upon all occasions, for my defense; but this
was an adventure quite out of his way; so, I say, we resolved upon our work,
only we three and my man-servant, and to put it in execution that night
about midnight, with ail the secrecy imaginable.

However, upon second thoughts, we were willing to delayit till the next
night, because the caravan being to set forward in the morning, we supposed
the governor could not pretend to give them any satisfaction upon us when
we were out of his power. The SCots merchant, as steady in his resolution
for the enterprise as bold in executing, brought me a Tartar's robe or gown
of sheep-skins, and a bonnet, with a bow and arrows, and had provided the
same for himself and his countryman, that the people, if they saw us, should
not determine who we were.

All the first night we spent in mixing up some combustible matter, with
aqua vitae, gunpowder, and such other materials as we could get; and hav--
ing a good quantity of tar in a. little pot, about an hour after night we set
out upon our expedition.

We came to the place about eleven o'clock at night, and found that the
people had not the least jealousy of danger attending their idol. The night
was cloudy; yet the moon gave us light enough to see that the idol stood
just in the same posture and place that it did before. The peopie seemed
to be all at their rest. only that in the great hut or tent, as we called it, where
we saw the three priests, whom we mistook for butchers, we saw alight,
and going up close to the door, we heard people talking as it there were
five or six of them; we concluded, therefore. that if we set wildfire to the
idol, these men would come out immediately, and run up to the place. to
rescueit from the destruction that we intended for it; and what we intended
to do with them we knew not. Once we thought of carrying it away, and
setting fire to it at a distance; but when we came to handle it, we found it
too bulky for our carriage; so we were at a loss again. The second Scots-
man was for setting fire to the tent or hut, and knocking the creatures that
were there on the head when they came out; but I could not join with that;
Iwas against killing them, if it were possible to avoid it. "\Vell, then,"
says the Scots merchant, "I will tell you what we will do; we will try to
make them prisoners, tie their hands, 'and make them stand and see their
idol destroyed."

As it happened, we had twine or pack--thread enough about us, whichTHE END OF THE IDOL. 445

we used to tie our fireloeks together with; so we resolver] to attack these
people first. and with as little noise as we could. The first thing we 'did we
knocked at the door, when one of the priests coming to it, we immediately
seized upon him, stopped his mouth, and tied his hands behind him, and led
him to the idol, where we gagged him that he might not make a noise, tied
his feet also together, and left him on the ground.

Two of us then waited at the door, expecting that another would COIHC
out to see what the matter was; but we waited so long till the third-man
came back to us; and then nobody coming out, we knocked again gently.
and immediately out came two more. and we served them just in the same
manner. but were obliged to go all with them, and lay them'down by the
idol some distance from one another; when, going back, we found two more
were Come out to the door. and a third stood behind them within the door.
\Ve seized the two, and immediately tied them, when the third, stepping
back and crying out, my Scots merchant went in after them, and taking out
a composition we had made that would only smoke and stink, he set fire to
it and threw it in among them. By that time the other Scotsman and my
man, taking charge of the two men already bound, and tied together also
by the arm, led them away to the idol, and left them there, to see if their
idol would relieve them, making haste back to us. '

When the furze we had thrown in had filled the hut with so much smoke
that they were almost suffocated, we then threw in a small leather bag of
another kind, which flamed like a candle, and following it in, we found there
were but four people. and, as we supposed, had been about some of their
diabolical sacrifices. They appeared, in short, frightened to death, at least
so as to sit trembling and stupid, and not able to speak either for the smoke.

In a word, we took them. bound them as we had done the others, and all
without any noise. I should have said we brought them out of the house
or hut first; for indeed we were not able to bear the smoke any more than
they were. When we had done this we carried them altogether to the idol.
When we came there we fell to work with him, and first we daubed him all
over, and his robes also, with tar. and such other stuff as we had, which was
tallow mixed with brimstone; then we stopped his eyes. and ears, and
mouth full of gunpowder; then we wrapped up a great piece of wildfire in
his bonnet, and then sticking all the combustibles we had brought with us
upon him, we looked about us to see if we could find anything else to help
to burn him; when my Scotsman remembered that by the tent or hut, where
the men were, there lay a heap of dry forage, whether straw or rushes I do
not remember. Away he and the other Scotsman ran and fetched their
arms full of that. When we had done this. we took all our prisoners and
brought them, having untied their feet and ungagged their mouths, and
made them stand up, and set them before their monstrous idol, and then set
fire to the whole.

We stayed by it a quarter of an hour or thereabouts, till the powder in the
eyes, and mouth, and ears of the idol blew up and, as we could perceive, had
split and detormcd the shape of it; and, in a word, till we saw it'burned into
a mere block or log of wood, and setting dry forage to it, we found it would be
soon quite consumed; so we began to think of going away, but the Scots-
man said. " No, we must not go, for these poor deluded wretches will all
throw themselves into the fire and burn themselves with the idol." So we
resolved to stay till the forage was burned down too, and then came away
and left them,

After the feat was performed, we appeared in the morning among our
fellow-travelers exceedingly busy in getting ready for our journey; nor
could any man suggest that we had been anywhere but in our beds. as trav-
elers might be supposed to be, to fit themselves for the fatigue: of the day's
journey.

But the affair did not end so. The next day came a great number of the
country people to the- town gates, and in a most outrageous manner
demanded satisfaction of the Russian governor [or the insulting their priest.
and burning their great Chant Chi-Thaungu. The people of Nertzinska;
were at first in a great consternation, for they said the Tartars were already
no less than thirty thousand strong. The Russian governor sent out mes-
sengers to appease them. and gave them all the good words possible; assur-
ing them that he knew nothing of it and that there had not a soul in his
garrison been abroad, so that it could not be from anybody there; but if
they could let him know who did it, they should be exeinplarily punished
They rcturncd haughtily that all the country reverenced the great Cham
Chi-Thaungu, who dwelt in the sun, and no mortal would have dared to
offer violence to his image but some Christian miscreant; and they there-
fore resolved to denounce war against him and all the Russians, who, they
said. were miscreants and,Christians.

The governor. still patient and unwilling to make a breach or to have
any cause of war alleged to be given by him, the Czar having strictly
charged him to treat the conquered country with gentleness and civility,
gave them still all the good words he could. At last he told them there was
a caravan gone towards RuSsia that morning, and perhaps it was some of
them who had done them this injury, and that it they would be satisfied
with that he would send after them to inquire into it. This seemed to
appease them a little, and accordingly the governor sent after us, and gave
us a particular account how the thing was, intimating withal, that if any in
our caravan had done it they should make their escape; but that whether
we had done it or no, we should make all the haste forward that was possible,
and that, in the meantime, he would keep them in play aslong as he could.

This was very friendly in the governor, however, when it came to the
caravan, there was nobody knew anything of the matter, and as [or us that
were guilty, we were least of all suspected. However, the captain of the
caravan for the time took the hint that the governor gave us, and weTHROUGH A DESERT. 4-17

Lraveled two days and two nights without any considerable stop, and then
we lay at a village called Plothus; nor did we make any long stop here, but
nastened on towards jarawena, another of the Czar of Muscovy's colonies.
and where. we expected we should be safe. But upon the second day's
march from Plothus, by the clouds of dust behind us at a g at distance.
some of our people began to be sensible we were pursued. we had entered
a great desert,and had passed by a. great lake called Schaks Oser, when we
perceived a very great body of horse appear on the other side of the lake,
to the north, we traveling west. We. observed they went away west, as we
did, but had supposed we would have taken that side of the lake, whereas
we very happily took the south side, and in two days more they disap--
peared again, for they, believing we were still before them, pushed on till
they came to the river Udda, a very great river when it passes farther north.
but when we came to it we found it narrow and ford-able.

The third day they had either found their mistake or had intelligence of
us, and came pouring inupon us towards the dusk of the evening. "it: had.
to our great satisfaction, just pitchedlupon a place for our camp, which was
very convenient for the night, for as we were upon a desert. though but at
the beginning of it, that was above five hundred miles over, we had no
towns to lodge at, and, indeed, expected none but the city Jarawena, which
we had yet two days' march to; the (. tert, however, had some (ew woods
in it on this side, and little rivers, which ran all into the great river Udda:
it was in a narrow strait, between little but very thick woods. that we
pitched our little camp for that night, expecting to be attacked before
morning.

Nobody knew but ourselves what we were pursued for, but as it wac
usual for the Mogul Tartars to go about in troops in that desert, so the
caravans always forti i y themselves every night against them. as against
'armies of robbers, and it was, therefore, no new thing to be pursued.

But we had this night. of all the nights of our travels, a most advanta-
geous camp, for we lay between two woods,with a little rjvulet running just
before our front, so that we could not be surrounded, or attacked any way
but inour front or rear. We took care also to make our front as strong as
we could, by placing our packs, with our camels and horses, all in a. line, on
the inside of the river, and telling some trees in our rear.

In this posture we encamped for the night, but the enemy was upon us
before we had finished. They did not come on us like thieves, us we
expected, but sent three messengers to us. to demand the men to be deliv~
'cred to them that had abused their priests, and burned their god Cham Chi-
Thaungu with fire, that they might burn them with fire, and upon th is, thcv
said, they would go away, and do us no further harm, otherwise they would
destroy us all. Our men looked very blank at this message, and began to
stare at one another to see who looked with the most guilt in their faces,
but nobody was the word--nobody did it. The leader of the caravan sent
word he was well assured that it was not done by any of our camp, that we
were peaceful merchants. traveling on our business, that we had (lone no
harm to them or tr: auvone else, and that, therefore, they must look farther
for their enemies who had injured them, [or we were not the people; so he
desired them not to disturb us, for if they did we should defend ourselves.

They were far from being satisfied with this for an answer, and a great
crowd of them came running down in the morning, by break of day, to our '
camp, but seeing us in such an unaccountable situation. they durst come no v
farther than the brook in our front, where they stood, and showed us such
a. number that indeed terrified us very much, for those that spoke least of
them spoke often thousand. Here they stood and looked at us awhile.
and then setting up a great howl, they let fly a crowd of arrows among us;
but we were well enough fortified for that, for ue sheltered under our bag--
gage, and I do not remember that one oi us was hurt.

Some time after this we saw them move a little to our right, and expected
them on the rear, when a cunning fellow, a Cossack of Jaiawena, 1n the pay
of the Muscovites, calling to the leadcr of the caravan, said to him, " I'll go
send all these people away to Sibeilka." This was a city tour or five days'
journey at least to the right. and rather behind us. So he takes his bow and
arrows, and gettingr on horseback, he rides away from our rear directly, as
it were back to Nertzinskay'. after this he takes a great circuit about, and
comes directly on the army of the 'l'artars, as if he had been sent express
to tell them a. long story that the people who had burned the Cham (hi-
Thaungu were gone to Sibeilka, witha caravan of miscreants, as he called
them--that' 15 to say, Christians, and that they had resolved to burn the God
Schal-Isar, belonging to the 'l'ongueses.

As this fellow was himsell' a mere Tartar, and perfectly spoke their lan-
guage, he counterfeitcd so well that they all believed him, and away they
drove in a most violent hurry to Sibcillta, which, it seems, was five days'
journey to the north, and in less than three hours they were entirely out of
our sight, and we never heard any more of them, nor whether they went to
Sibeilka or no. So we passed away safely on to jarawcna, where there was
a. garrison of Muscqvites. and there we rested five days, the caravan being
exceedingly fatigued with the last day's hard march, and with want of rest
in the night.

From this city we had a frightful desert, which held us twenty-three
days' march. We furnished ourselves with some tents here, for the better
accommodating ourselves 1n the night, and the leader of the caravan pro'
cured sixteen carriages or wagons of the country, for carrying our water or
provisions, and these carriages were ourdei nse every nilrht round ourlittle
camp, so that had the Tartars appeared, unless they nad been very numer-
ous indeed. they would not have been able to hurt us.

We may well be supposed to have wanted rest again after this long
journey; for in this desert we neither saw house nor tree, and scarce a bush;THE MUSCOVITES._ ' 449

though we saw abundance of the sable hunters, who arc all Tartars of the
Mogul Tartary, of which this country is a part. and they frequently attack
smallcaravans, but we saw no numbers of them togcthcr.

After we had passed this desert, wc came into a country pretty well
inhabited; that is to say, we found towns and castles, settled by the
Czar of Muscovy. with garrisons of stationary soldiers, to protect the cara-
vans and defend the country against the Tartai's, who would othcrwisc make
it very dangerous-traveling; and his czarish majesty has given such strict
orders for the well guarding the caravans and merchants, that, if there are
any 'l'artars heard of in the country, detachments of the garrison are always

 

"sax-r THREE MESSENGILRS To vs." (,9. 44?).

sent to scc the travelers safe from station to station. And thus the governor
of Adinskoy, whom I had an opportunity to make a visit to by means of
the Scots merchant, who was acquainted with him, offered us a guard of
fifty men, ifwe thought thcrc was any danger, to the next station.

I thought, long before this, that as we came nearer to Europe we should
h: country better inhabited, and the people more civilized; but I found
nistaken in both; for we had yet the nation of the 'l'ongucsos to
'lugh, where we saw the same tokens of paganism and barbarity as
fly, as they wcrc conquered by the Muscm-'ites, thcy were not so
but for rudeness of manncrs and idolatry, no people in the
vent beyond them; thcy arc clothed all in skins of beasts, and
: are built of the same; you know not a man from a. woman,
e ruggedncss of their countenanccs nor their clothes; and in
thewintcr. when the ground is covered with snow, they live underground in'
vaults, which have cavities going from one to another.

If the 'l'artars had their Chain Chi--Thaungu for a whole village or country,
these had idols in every but and every cave; besides, they worshipthe stars,
the sun, the water, the snow, and, in a word, everything they do not under-
stand, and they understand but very little; so that every element, every
uncommon thing, sets them sacrificing. I met with nothing peculiar myself
in all this country, which I reckon was, from the desert I spoke of last, at
least four hundred miles. hall of it being another desert. which took us up
twelve days' severe traveling, without'house or tree; and we were obliged
again to carry our own provisions, as well water as bread. After we were
out of this desert, and had traveled two days, we came to janezay. a Muscu-
vite city, or station, on the great river Janezay, which, they told us there,.
parted Europe from Asia.

Here I observed ignorance and paganism still prevailed, except in the
Muscovite garrisons. All the country between the river Oby and the river
)anezay is as entirely pagan, and the people as barbarous, as the remotest.
of the Tartars; nay, as any nation, [or aught I know, in Asia or America. I
also found. which I observed to the Muscovite governors whom I had an
opportunity to converse with, that the poor pagans are not much wiser, or
nearer Christianity. for being under the Muscovite government, which they
acknowledged was true enough; but that, as they said,was none of their
business; that iithc Czar expected to convert his Siberian, Tongucse, or
Tartar subjects, it should be done by sending clergymen among them, not
soldiers; and they added, with more sincerity than I expected, that they-
found it was not so much the concern of their monarch to make the people-
Christians as it was to make them subjects.

From this river to the great river Oby, we crossed a wild, uncultivated
country, barren of people and good management; otherwise it is in itself
a most pleasant. fruitful and agreeable country. What inhabitants we found
in it were all pagans, except such as are sent among them from Russia; for
this is the country--l mean on both sides the river Oby--whither the Mus-
covite criminals that are not put to death are banished, and from whence
it is next to impossible they should ever get away.

Ihave nothing material to say of my particular affairs till I came
Tobolski, the capital city of Siberia, where I continued some time
following account.

We had now been almost seven months on our journey, '
began to come on apace; whereupon my partner and I called a c
'our particular afl'airs, in which we found it proper, as we w
England, and not for Moscow, to consider how to dispose
They told us of sledges and reindeer to carry us over the sum
time; and, indeed,they have such things that it would be incr
the particulars of, by which means the Russians travel morHOW l KEPT WARM. 451

they can in summer, as in these sledges they are able. to run night and day;
the snow, being frozen, is one universal covering to Nature. by which the
hills \rales, rivers, and lakes are all smooth and hard as a stone, and they
run upon the surface, without any regard to what is underneath.

But I had no occasion to urgea wintcr journeyoi this kind. I was bound
to England, not to Moscow, and my route lay two ways. Either I must go
on as the caravan went. till I came to jamslnw, and theirgo off west for
Narva, and the Gulf of Finland, and so on to Dantzic, where 'I might pos-
sibly sell my China cargo to good advantage; or 1 must leave the caravan
at a little town on the Dwina, from whence I had but six days by water to
Archangel, and from thence might be sure of shipping either to England,
Holland, or Hamburg.

Now, to go any of these journeys in the winter would have been prcp05<
torous; for as to Dantzic, the Baltic would have been frozen up, and I could
not get passage; and to go by land in those countries was far less safe than
among the Mogul Tartars; likewise, to go to Archangel in October, all the
ships would be gone from thche, and even the merchants who dwell there
in summer retire south to Moscow in the winter, when the ships are gone;
so that I could have nothing but extremity of cold to encounter, with a
scarcity of provisions, and must lie in an empty town all the winter; so that,
upon the whole,I thought it much my better way to let the caravan go,
and make provision to winter where I was, at 'l'obolski. in Siberia, in the
latitude of about sixty degrees, where I was sure of three things to wear
out a cold winter with, \-'iz., plenty of provisions, such as the country
afforded, a warm house, with fuel enough, and excellent company.

I was now in quite a different climate from my beloved island, where I
never felt cold, except when I had my ague; on the contrary, I had much
to do to bear any clothes on my back, and never made any fire but without
doors, which was necessary for dressing my food, etc. vaI had three
good vests, with large robes or gowns over them, to hang down to the feet,
and button close to the wrists; and all these lined with furs, to make them
sufiicicntly warm.

As to a warm house, I must conless I greatly disliked our way in England
of making fires in every room in the house in open chimneys, which, when
u fire was out, always kept the air in the room cold as the climate; but
an apartment in a good house in the town, I ordered a chimney
"t like a furnace, in the center of six several rooms, like a stove;
to carry the smoke went up one way, the door to come at the
another, and all the rooms were kept equally warm, but no fire
they heat the bagnios in England. By this means we had
ne climate in all the rooms, and an equal heat was preserved;
socvcr it was without, it was always warm within; and yet we
r were ever incommoded with smoke.
nderful thing of all was, that it should be possible to meet
with good company here, in a country so barbarous as that of the most
northerly pans of Europe, near the Frozen Ocean, within but_a very few
degrees at Nova Zeznbla. But this being the country where the state
criminals of Muscovy, as I observed before, are all banished, this city
was full of noblemen, gentlemen, soldiers, and courtiers of hit covy. Here
was the famous Prince Galitzin, the old General Robostis i, and several
other persons of note, and some ladies. By means of my beats merchant,
whom, nevertheless, I parted with here, I made an acquaintance with
several of these gentlemen; and from these, in the long winter nights
in which I stayed here, I- received several very agreeable visits.

It was talking one night with Prince , one of the banished ministers
of state belonging to the Czar of Muscovy, that the discourse of my par.
tieular case began. He had been telling me abundance of fine things of
the greatness, the magnificence, the dominions, and the absolute power
of the Emperor of the Russians: I interrupted him, and told him I was
a greater and more powerful prince than even the Czar of Museovy was,
though my dominions were not so large, or my people so many. The
Russian grandee looked a Little surprised, and, fixing his eyes steadily
upon me, began to wonder what I meant. I told him his wonder would
cease when I had explained myself. First, I told him I had absolute
disposal of the lives and fortunes of all my subjects; that notwithstanding
my absolute power,I had not one person disaffected to my government,
or to my person, in all my doniinions, He shook his head at that; and
said, there, indeed, I outdid the Czar oi Muscovy. I told him that all
the lands in my kingdom were my own, and all my subjects were not only
my tenants, but tenants at will; that they would all fight for me to the
last drop; and that never tyrant, (or such I acknowledged myself to be.
was ever so universally beloved, and yet so horribly feared, by his subjects.

Alter amusing him with these riddles in govcrnment for awhile, I opened
the ease, and told him the story at large of my living in the island; and how
I managed both myself and the people that were under me, just as I have --
since minuted it down. They were exceedingly taken uith the story, and
especially the prince, who told me uith a sigh, that the true greatness of
life was to be masters of ourselves; that he would not have exchang
a state of life as mine to be Czar of Muscovy; and that he f
felicityin the retirement he seemed to be banished to there
found in the highest authority he enjoyed in the court of
Czar; that the height of human wisdom was to bring our t
our circmnstances, and to make a calm within, under
greatest storms without. "'hen he came first hither, he
the hair from his health and the clothes from his back,
before him; but a little time and consideration had i
himself, as well as round him. to things without; that
of man. if it was but once brought to reflect upon the .A TRUE MONARCII. 4-5?

and how little this world was concerned' in its true felicity, was perfectly
capable of making a felicity for itself, fully satisfying to itself, and suitable
to its own best ends and desires, with but very little assistance from the
world. The air to breathe in, food to sustain life, clothes for warmth, and
liberty for exercise, in order to health, completed, in his opinion, all that
the world could do for us; and though the greatness, the 311tl11)i'ily,tl1e
riches, a11d1':1e pleasures which some enjoyed in the world had much in them
that was agreeable to us, yet all those things chiefly gratified the coarsest
of our affections, sueh as our ambition. our particular pride, avarice, vanity,
and sensmh. '; all which, being the mere product of the wordsc partof man,
were in thems cs crimes, and had in them the seeds of all manner of
crimes; but neither were related to, nor concerned with, any of those virtues
that constituted us wise men, nor of those graces that distinfruished us as
Christians; that hei: 1" now deprived of allt he fancied felicity "hich he
enjoy ed' 1:1 the full exercise of all those vices, he sazd he was at leisure to look
upon the dark side of them, where he found all manner of deformity; and
was now convinced that virtue only makes a man truly 11'i ', rich, and great,
and preserves him in the way to a superiorhappiness in .1 future state; and
in tl1is,l1e said they were more happy in their ban .1ment than all their
enemies were, who had the full poss ssion of all the wealth and power
they had lcit behind them "Nor. si1.' says he, " do I bring my mind to
to 1i1 politica.l1, f1om the necessity of 1111! circumstances, 11h1ch some call
mi. rahle; but t, it] know anvthing of unset l 1101:; cl not now go hack,
though the Curr my master should call me, and reins ate me in all my lor--
mer grandeur; I say, I would no more go back to it'than I believe my soul,
when it shali be delivered from this prison of the body, and has had a taste
of the glorious state beyond life, would come back to the goal of flesh and
blood it is now inclosed in, and leave heaven, to trail in the dirt and crime
oi human affaus. "

lle spoke this with so much warmth 1n his temper, so much earnestness
3111: motion of' his spirits, that it was evident it was the true sense of his
soul; there was no 100111 to doubt his sincciity I told him I once thought
myself :1. kind of 111011a1'ch in my old station, of which I had given him an
not: but that I thought he was 11oronly a monarch, but 11 great com
or he that had got a. victory over his own exorbitant desires. and
dominion over himself. he whose reason entirely governs lzis
inly greater than he that conquers a cit,>> "But my lord," Ed
'e the liberty to ask you (1 question '3" "\Vith all my heart," says
or of your liberty was opened." said I, "would you not take
liver yourself from this exile?" "Hold," said he, "your ques-
(1 requires some serious, just distinctions to give it a sincere
'll give it you from the bottom of my heart. Nothing that
world would move me to deliver myself from this state of
'pt these two: first. the enjoyment of my relations; and.
secondly a little warmer climate; but! protest to you that to go back to the
pomp o[ the court, the glory, the power, the hurry of a minister of state,
the wealth, the gaycty and pleasures of acourtier; if my master should send
me word this moment that he restores me to all he banished me from, I
protest if I know myself at all, I would not leave this wilderness. thcsc
deserts, and these frozen lakes, for the palace at Moscow." "But, my lord,"
said I, "perhaps you not only are banished from the pleasures of the court,
and from the power,
authority, and wealth
you enjoyed before, but
you may be absent, too,
from some of the con-
vcnicnccs of life; your
estate, perhaps, confis-
cated, and your effects
plundered; and the sup--
plies left you here may
not be suitable to the
ordinary demands of
life," "Aye," says he,
"that is as you suppose
me to he 21 lord, or a
prince, etc.: so, indccd
1am; but you are now
to consider me only as
a man, a human crou>>
ture, not at all distin-
guishcd from another,
and so I can suffer no
want. unless I should bi: " xxoucm us Ix rm: vnxxsos " (p. 435).
visited with sickness
and distcuipers. How-
ever, to put the question out of dispute you scc our way of life; wc arc, in
this place, five persons of rank; we live perfectly retired, as suited
State of banishment; we have something rescued from the shipwrc
fortunes, which keeps us from the mere necessity of hunting f '
but the poor soldiers, who are here without that help, live in as
as we, who go in the woods and catch subles and foxes; t
month will maintain them a year; and as the way of living '
so it is not hard to get sufficient for ourselves. So that 0
doors."

I have not room to give a: full account of the most 21'r
tion I had with this tmly great man, in all which he she
was so inspired with a superior knowledge of things, so s
ion, as well as by a vast share of wisdom, that his contempt of the world
was really as much as he had expressed, and that he was always the same
'to the last, as will appear in the story Iam going to tell.

I had been here eight months, and a dark. dreadful winter I thought it;
the cold so intense that I could not so much as look abroad without being
wrapped in furs, and a mask of fur before my face, or rather a hood, with
only a hole for breath and two for sight; the little daylight we had was, as
we reckoned, for three months not above five hours a day, and six at most;
only that the snow lying on the ground continually, and the weather being,r
clear, it: was never quite dark. Our horses were kept, or rather starved,
underground; and as for our servants, whom we hired here to look after our<<
selves and horses. we had, every now and then their fingers and toes to
'thaw and take care of, lest they should xnortify and fall off.

It is true, within doors we were warm, the houses being close, the walls
'thick, the lights small, and the glass all double. Our food was chiefly the
flesh of deer, dried and cured in the season; bread good enough, but baked
as biscuits; dried fish of several sorts, and some flesh of mutton and of
buffaloes, which is pretty good meat. All the stores oi'provisions {or the
winter are laid up in the summer, and well cured; our drink was water,
mixed with aqua vita: instead of brandy; and for a treat, mead instead of
wine, which, however, they have very good. The hunters who venture
abroad all weathers, frequently brought us in fine venison, and sometimes
bear's flesh. but we did not much care for the last. We had a good stock
of tea. with which we treated our friends, and we lived very cheerfully and
well, all things considered.

It was now March, the days grown considerably longer, and the weather
at least tolerable; so the other travelers began to prepare sludges to carry
them over the snow, and to get things ready to be going; but my measures
being fixed, as I have said, for Archangel, and not for Muscovy or the Bal-
tic, I made no motion; knowing very well that the ships from the south do
not set out for that part of the world till May orJune; and that if I was
there by the beginning of August it would be as soon as any ships would be
ready to go away; and therefore I made no haste to be gone, as others did;
a word, I saw a great many people, nay, all the travelers, go away before
t seems every year they go from thence to Muscovy [or trade, to
's. and buy necessaries, which they bring back with them to furnish
75; also others went on the same errand to Archangel; but then
'ing to come back again above eight hundred miles. went out

nth of May, I began to make all ready to pack up; and, as l
s, it occurred to me that, seeing all these people were banished
Museovy to Siberia, and yet, when they came there, were
0 go whither they would. why they did not then go away to
2 world, wherever they thought fit; and I began to examine
what should hinder them from making such an attempt. But my wonder
was over when I entered upon that subject with the person I have mentioned,
who. answered me thus: " Consider, first, sir," said he, "the place where we
are; and, secondly, the condition we are in; especially the generality of
the people who are banished hither. We are surrounded with stronger
things than bars or bolts; on the north side, an unnavigable ocean, where
ship never sailed, and boat never swam; every other way we have above a
thousand miles to pass through the Czar's own dominions, and by ways
utterly impassable, except by the roads made by the government. and
through the towns garrisoned by his troops; so that we could neither pass
undiscovered by the road, nor subsist any other way; so that it is in vain to
attempt it."

I was silenced, indeed, at once, and found that they were in a prison
every jot as secure as if they had been locked up in the castle at Moscow.
However, it came into my thoughts that I might certainly be made an instru-
ment to procure the escape of this excellent person; and that, whatever
hazard I ran, I would certainly try it] could carry him off. Upon this, I
took an occasion. one evening, to tell him my thoughts. 1 represented to him
that it was very easy'ior me to carry him away, there being no guard over
him in the country; and as I was not going to Moscow, but to Archangel, '
and that I went in the retinue of a caravan, by which I was not obliged to
lie in the stationary towns in the desert, but couldencamp every night
where I would, we might easily pass uninterrupted to Archangel. where I
would immediately secure him on board an English ship, and carry him
safe along with me; and as to his subsistence and other particulars, it should
be my care till he could better supply himself.

He heard me very attentively, and looked earnestly on me all the while
I spoke; nay, I could see in his very face that what I said put his spirits
into an exceeding ferment; his color frequently changed, his eyes looked
red, and his heart fluttered, till it might be even perceived in his counte-
nance; nor could he immediately answer me when I had done. and, as it
were. hesitated what he would say to it; but. after he had paused a little, he
embraced me and said, " How unhappy are we, unguarded creatures as we
are, that even our greatest acts of friendship are made snares unto us. a
we are made tempters of one another! My dear friend," said he,
offer is so sincere, has such kindness in it. is so disinterested in it-
is so calculated for my advantage, that I must have very little 1
of the world it I did not both wonder at it and acknowledge the
I have upon me to you for it. But did you believe I was sine
have often said to you of my contempt of the world? Did
spoke. my very soul to you, and that I had really obtained 1
felicity here that had placed me above all that the world c
Did you believe I was sincere when I told you I would no
was recalled even to be all that I once was in the court, wiFRIEND AND 'I'EMPTER. ' 457

the Czar my master? Did you believe me, my friend. to be an honest man?
or did you believe me to he a boasting hypocrite? " Here he stopped, as if
he would hear what .I wonid say; but, indeed, I soon after perceived that
he stopped because his spirits were in motion, his great- heart was full of
struggles, and he could not go on. I was, I confess, astonished at the
thingr as well as at the man, and I used some arguments with him to urge
him to set himself free; that he ought to look upon this as a door opened
by Heaven (or his deliverance, and a summons by Providence, who has the
care and disposition of all events, to do himself good, and to render him-
self useful in the world.

He had by this time recovered himself. "How do you know, sir," says
he, warmly, "but that, instead ola summons from Heaven, it may be a (eiut
of another instrument. representing in alluring colors to me the show of
felicity as a deliverance, which may in itself be my snare, and tend directly
to my ruin? Here, I am free from the temptation of returning to my former
miserable greatness; there, I am not sure but that all the seeds of pride.
ambition, avarice, and luxury, which I know remain in nature, may revive
and take root. and, in a word, again overwhelm me; and then the happy
prisoner, whom you see now master of his soul's liberty, shall be the miner-
able slave of his own senses, in the full enjoyment of all personal liberty.
Dearsir, lct_rue remain in this blessed confinement,banishedfrom the crimes
of life, rather than purchase a show of freedom at the expense of the liberty
of my reason, and at the future happiness which I'now have in my view, but
shall then. I fear, quickly lose sight oi; for I am but flesh; :1 man. a mere
man; have passions and affections as likely to possess and overthrow me as
any man. Oh, be not my friend and tempter both together!"

It I was surprised before, I was quite dumb now, and stood silent, look-
ing at him. and. indeed, admiring what I saw. The struggle in his soul was
so great that, though the weather was extremely cold, it put him into a most
violent sweat. and I found he wanted to give vent to his mind: so I said a
word or two, that I would leave him to considerof it, and wait on him again
and then I withdrew to my own apartment.

About two hours after, I heard somebody at or near the door of my room,
HI I was going to open the door, but he had opened it and come in. "My
riend." says he. "you had almost overset me, but I am recovered. Do
it ill that I do not close with your offer. I assure you it is not for
ensc of the kindness of it in you; and I came to make the most sin-
wlcdgment of it to you; but I hope I have got the victory over
\'Iy lorr ." said I. "I hope you are Iully satisfied that you do not
I of Heaven." "Sir,"said he. "if it had been from Heaven, the
would have influenced me to have accepted itzbut 1 hope, and
Fred, that it is from Heaven that I decline it, and I have infinite
i the parting that you shall leave me an honest man still.
free man."
I had nothing to do but to acquiesce and make professions to him of my
having no end in it but asincere desire to serve him. He embraced me
very passionately, and assured me he was sensible of that, and should always
acknowledge it; and with that he offered me a. very fine present of sables,
too much, indeed, for me to accept from a man in his circumstances, and I
would have avoided them, but he would not be refused.

The next morning lsent my servant to his lordship with a small present
of tea, and two pieces oi China damask, and four little wedges of Japan
gold. which did not all weigh above six ounces or thereabouts, but were far
short of the value of his sables, which, when I came to England, I found
worth near two hundred pounds. He accepted the tea,and one piece of the
damask and one of the pieces of gold, which had a line stamp upon it, of
the Japan coinage, which I found he took for the rarity of it, but would not
take any more; and he sent word by my servant that he desired to speak
with me.

""hen I came to him he told me I knew what had passed between us,
and hoped I would not mo\'e him any more in that affair; but that, since I
made such a generous offer to him, he asked me if I had kindness enough
to offer the same to another person that he would name to me, in whom he
had a great share of concern. I told him that I could not say I inclined to
do so much for any but himself, for whom I had a particular value, and
should have been glad to have been the instrument of his deliverance.
However, if he would please to name the person to me, I would give him
my answer. He told me it was his only son; who, though I had not seen
him, yet was in the same condition with himself, and above two hundred
miles from him, on the other side of the Oby; but that. if I consented, he
would send for him.

I made no hesitation, but told him I would do it. I made some ceremony
in letting him understand that it was wholly on his account; and that. see~
ing I could not prevail on him, I would show my respect to him by my con-
cern for his son; but these things are too tedious to repeat here. He sent
the next day for his son; and in about twenty days he came back with the
messenger. bringing six or seven horses, loaded with very rich furs, which,
in the whole, amounted to a very great Value. His servants brought the
horses into the town, but left the young lord at a distance till night, \
he came incognito into our apartment, and his father presented him
and, in short, we concerted the manner of our traveling, and ev:
proper for the journey.

I had bought a considerable quantity of sables, black fox
ermincs, and such other furs as are very rich in that city, in e
some of the goods I had brought from China; in particular, it
and nutmegs. of which I sold the greatest part here, and the re'
at Archangel, for a. much better price than I could have g
and my partner, who was sensible ol the profit, and whose hOUR JOURNEY. 459

particularly than mine, was merchandise, was mightily pleased with our
stay, on account of the trafiic we made here.

It was the beginning of June when I left this remote place; a city, I
believe, little heard of in the world; and, indeed, it is so far out of the road
of commerce, that I know not how it should be much talked of. W'e were
now reduced to a very small caravan, having only thirty--two horses and
camels in all, and all of them passed for mine, though my new guest was
proprietor of eleven of them; it was most natural, also, that I should take
more servants with me than I had before; and the young lord passed {or
my steward. What great man I passed for myself, I know not, neither did
it concern me to inquire. We had here the worst and the largest desert to
pass over that we met with in our whole journey. I call it the worst
because the way was very deep in some places, and very uneven in others;
the best we had to say tor it was, that we thought we had no troops of Tar-
tars or robbers to fear, and that they never came on this side the river Oby,
Or at least very seldom; but we found it otherwise.

My young lord had a faithful Siberian servant who was perfectly
acquainted with the country, and led us by private roads, so that we
avoided coming into the principal towns and cities upon the great,roa(l,
such as Turnen, Soloy Kamskoi, and several others; because the Museovite
garrisons which are kept there are very curious and strict in their observa-
tion upon travelers, and searching lest any of the banished persons of note
should make their escape that way into Muscovy; but,by this means, as we
were kept out of the cities, so our whole journey was a desert and we were
obliged to encamp and lie in our tents when we might have had very good
accommodation in the cities on the way. This the young lord was so sensi-
ble of that he would not allow us to lie abroad when we came to several
cities on the way, but lay abroad himself, with his servant, in the woods and
met as always at the appointed places.

We had just entered Europe, having passed the river Kama, which in
these parts is the boundary between Europe and Asia, and the first city on
the European side was called Soloy Kamskoi. which is as much as to say
the great city on the river Kama; and here we thought to see some evident
alteration in the people, but we were mistaken, for as we had a vast desert
)ass, which is near seven hundred miles long in some places, but not above
undrcd miles over where we passed it, so till we came past that horri-
ace, we found very little difference between that country and the
Tartary. The people are mostly pagans and little betterthan the
t'America, their houses and towns full of idols, and their way of
lly barbarous, except in the cities and the villages near them,
are Christians, as they call themselves,ol the Greek Church, hut
religion mingled with so many relics of superstition that it is
e known in some places from mere sorcery and witchcraft.
ng this forest, I thought. indeed, we must (after all our dangers
were, to our imagination, escaped ') have been plundered and robbed, and
perhaps murdered by a troop of thieves; of what country they were 1 am
yet at a loss to know, but they were all on horseback, carried bows and
arrows and were at first about forty-five in number. They came so near to
us as to be within two musket-shots, and. asking no questions, surrounded us
with their horses and looked very earnestly upon us twice; at length, they
placed themselves just in our way, upon which we drew up in a little line
before our camels, being not above sixteen men in all; and being drawn up
thus, we halted. and sent out the Siberian servant, who attended his lord.to
see who they were; his master was the more willing to let him go because
he was not a little apprehensive that they were a Siberian troop sent out
after him. The man came up nearer them with a flag of truce and called
to tliet ; but though he spoke se eral of their languages, or dialects of Ian-
guages rather. he could not understand a word they said. However, atter
some signs to him not to come near them at his peril. the fellow came back
no wiser than he went, only that by their dress, he said, he believed them to
be some Tartars of Kahunak, or of the Circassian hordes, and that there
must he more of them upon the great desert, though he never heard that
any of them were seen so far north before.

About an hour after, they again made a motion to attack us, and rode
round our little wood to see where they might break in; but finding us
always ready to face them. they went off again; and we resolved not to ir
for that night.

This was small comfort to us: however. we had no remedy; there was,
on our left hand at about a quarter of a mile distant. a little grove, and
very near the road. I immediately resolved we should advance to those
trees, and fortify ourselves as well as we could there; for, first, 1 considered
that the trees would in a great measure cover us from their arrows; and, in
the next place, they could not come to charge us in a. body: it was, indeed,
my old Portuguese pilot who proposed it. and who had this exrtzllency
attending him. that he was always readiest and most apt to direct and
encourage Ls in cases of the most danger. We advanced immediately, with
what. speed we Could. and gained that little wood; the Tartars. or thieves,
for we knew not what to call them, keeping their stand, and not attempting
to hinder us. \thn we came thither. we found. to our great satisfttetio
that it was a swam' y piece of ground, and on the one side a very f"
spring of water, which. running out in a little brook, was a little fa
joined by another of the like size: and \t s, in short, the source of
sirlerable river, called afterwards the \\-'ntska; the trees which grr
this spring; were not above two hundred. but very large, and stor.
thick, so that as soon as we got in, we saw ourselves perfectly .
the enemy unless they attacked us on foot.

V'V'nile we stayed here waiting the. motion of the enemy some 1
out perceiving that they made any movement. our Portuguese,OUR LAST ADVENTURE. 46!

help, cut several arms of trees half off. and laid them hanging;r across from
one tree to another, and in amanner fenced us in About two hours before
night, they came down directly upon us; and though we had not perceived
it, we found they had been joined by some more, so that they were near
fourscore horse; whereof, however, we fancied some were women. They
came on till they were within hall-shot of our little wood, when we fired
one musket without ball, and called to them in the Russian tongue,to know
what they wanted, and bade them keep off; but they came on with a double
fury up to the wood side, not imagining we were so barricaded that they
could not easily break in. Our old pilot was our Captain, as well as our
engineer, and desired us not to fire upon them till they came within pistol
shot, that we might be sure to kill. and that when we did fire we should be
sure to take. good aim; we bade him give the word of command, which he
delayed so long, that they were some of them within two pikes' length of
us when we let fly. \Ve aimed so true that we killed fourteen of them,and
wounded several others, as also several of their horses; [or we had all of us
loaded our pieces with two or three bullets at least.

They were terribly surprised with our fire. and retreated immediately
about one hundred rods from us, in which time we loaded our pieces again.
and seeing them keep that distance, we sallicd out, and caught four or five
of their horses, whose riders we supposed were killed. and coming up to
the dead, we judged they were Tartars, but knew not how they came to make
an excursion such an unusual length.

We slept little, you may he sure, but spent the most part of the night in
strengthening oursituation. and barricading the entrances into the wood. and
keeping a strict watch. We waited for daylight, and when it came, it gave
us a very unwelcome discovery indeed. for the enemy, who we thought
were discouraged with the reception they met with, were now greatly
increased, and had set up eleven or twelve huts or tents, as if they were
resolved to besiege us; and this little camp they had pitched uponthe open
plain, about three--quarters of a mile from us. _ We were indeed surprised at
this discovery, and now, I confess. I gave myself over for lost, and all that
I had. The loss of my effects did not lie so near me, though very consid-
erable, as the thoughts of falling into the hands of such barbarians, at the
latter end of my journey, after so many difiiculties and hazards as I had
'one through, and even in sight of our port, where we expected safety and
verance. As to my partner. he was raging, and declared that to lose
voods would be his ruin, and that he would rather die than he starved,
a was for fighting to the last drop.
younglord. a'gallant youth, was for fighting to the last also, and
pilot was of opinion that we were able to resist them all in the situ-
': were then in, and thus we spent the day in debates of what we
0; but towards the evening we found that the number of our one-
increased, and we did not know but by the morning they might-9

462 ROBINSON CRUSOE.

still be a greater number. So I began to inquire of those people we had
brought from Tobolski, if there were no private ways by which we might
avoid them in the night, and perhaps retreat to some town, or get help to
to guard us over the desert. The Siberian who was servant to the young
lord told us, if we designed to avoid them, and not fight, he would
engage to carry us off in the night, to a way that went north, towards the
river l'etrou, by which he made no question but we might get away, and the
Tartars never discover it, but he said his lord had told him he would not
retreat, but would rather choose to fight. I told him that he mistook his I
lord. for that he was too wise a man to love fighting for the sake of it; that
I knew his lord was brave enough, by what he had showedalready; but that
his lord knew better than to desire seventeen or eighteen men to fight five
hundred, unless an unavoidable necessity forced them to do it; and that if
he thought it possible for us to escape in the night, we had nothing else to
do but to attempt it. He answered, if his lordship gave him such orders, he
would lose his life if he did not perform it. "He soon brought his lord to
givo tlnt order. though privately, and we immediately prepared forputting
it in practice.

And first, as soon as it began to be dark, we kindled a fire in our littln
campnvhich we kept burning, and prepared so as to make it burn all night.
that the Tartars might conclude we were still there, but as soon as it was
dark, an-l we could see the stars (for our guide would not stir before), hav-
ing all cur horses and camels ready loaded we followed our new guide,
who I soon found steered himself by the north star

After we had traveled two hours very hard, it began to be lighter still;
not that' .t was dark all night, but the moon began to rise, so that, in short,
it was rather lighter than we wished it to be, but by six 'o'clock the next-
morning, we had got above thirty miles, having almost spoiled our horses.
Here we found a Russian village, named Kermazinskoy, where we rested,
and heard nothing of the Kalmuck Tartars that day. About two hours
belore night we set out again, and traveled till eight the next morning,
though not quite so hard as before, and about seven o'clock we passed a
little river called Kirtza, and came to a good large town inhabited by Rus-
sians, called Ozomeys; there we heard that several troops of Kalmucks had
been abroad upon the desert, but that we were now completely out of (lane '-
of them, which was to our great satisfaction. Here we were obliged t
some fresh horses. and having need enough of rest, we stayed five d'
my partner and I agreed to give the honest Siberian who brought u'
the value of ten pistoles.

In five days more we came to Veuslima upon the river Wirt
running into the Dwina, we were there, very happily. near the
travels by land, that river being navigable, in seven days' passag
angel. From hence, we came to Lawrenskoy, the 3d of July,
ing ourselves with two luggage boats, and a barge for our own
we embarked the 7th, and arrived all safe at Archangel theHOME AGAIN. 468

been a year, five months. and three days on the journey, including our stay
of eight months at 'l'oholski. We were obliged to stay at this place six
weeks for the arrival of the ships. and must have tari'ied longer had not an
Hamburger come in above a month sooner than any of the English ships;
when, after some consideration that the city of Hamburg might happen to
be as good a market for our goods as London, we all took freight with him,
and, having put our goods on board, it was most natural for me to put my
steward on board to take care of them, by which means my young lord had
a sufficient opportunity to conceal himself, never coming on shore again all
the time we stayed there, and this he did that he might not be seen in the
city, where some. of the Moscow merchants would certainly have seen and
discovered him.

We then set sail from Archangel the 20th of August, the same year, and,
after no extraordinary bad voyage, arrived safe in the Elbe the 18th of
Sentetnbei'. Here my partner and I found a very good sale for our goods,
as well those of China as the sablcs. etc, of Siberia, and, dividing the prod-
uce, my share amounted to PS5405 17s. 3(l., including about six hundred
pounds' worth of diamonds, which I purchased at Bengal.

Here the young lord took his leave of us. and wentup the Elbe, in order
to go to the court of Vienna, where he resolved to seek protection, and
could correspond with those of his father's friends who were left alive. He
did not part without testimonies of gratitude for the service I had done
him. and [or my kindness to the prince, his father.

To conclude: having stayed near four months in llamburg, I came from
thence by land to The Hague, where I embarked in the paeket,aud arrived
in London the ioth of January, 1705, having been absent from England ten
years and nine months. And here I resolved to prepare for a longer jour--
ney than all these, having lived a life of infinite variety seventy-two years,
and learned sufficiently to know the value of retirement, and the blessing
of ending our days in peace.C o ' D . o I .
ff." a at. K \efi
Fv' Quikdifid'bu. 1...!fl. - v: "Q .

Wilt" {3r

     

    

  

      

  

_ is). <<15.33 a...>> ..

PS33.. Wwfi

Luhwwwnfiyfiu. WE
Wm .93? -N
L"?

     

a
T'QK
.qu.Y=.? . m . .<<G. .
u. _ f I .
'ea. I v

  

'7! lgfisc. is. "n 1
sum .UNM- "Ladfitrl.v. . o

1&0... "14.1..
.33 r 5. 9>>,

z a. 0' N, Jug!

. a! v 0\ I V? c .
. by? firflmmgfivmmsuwmm
:

.. W . . . .1 , . 1. .. a
. 01a .3. .hfiifia . .0 "Tim. . ...M.p...
. ~ N.>> Mum; JSS.H.SSfl "main? . : . 34. .,.. 3m. .
u '0 o. 4 o'vyflo'th b'V-Kbb Ki'n'ofiafln'w" c ' '3 4 .
9 . a
, a

      

 

in ol)\v: .16 10:. s .1 . .
1n; figuring $37.43.. , ..
.MHSfi . nflfitmawdo." $1 Marga

)0 c , .H o
' p . n'lf 15".. yup 6
3..."!"fi u. . .. . h .n . <<v .0. u
n 0 .Vu. no, 0 b I" 0.. o c
_ 33:. 43$ . . u
. v u . u .

    
  

{. 9

.. , 7.
I ,Dr . afiv o
. .25 .
. 1v;

'
5.; a
.'

     

3%