The Baldwin Library

Rmfiffl"5 9:2":

"1,53.. .: \):.>v!\1eu:xJACK AND THE DONKEY.THEFAVORITFLIBRARY '

THE sWIsS FAMILY
' ROBINSON ' '

'on,m

  
    
 

- {ADVENTURES OF A SHIPWREOKED FAMILY ON AN ,1
I I. UNINHABITED ISLAND NEAR- NEW GUINEA. , _

 

qProfusely Illustrated in Black and White, and _
I' ' - ' with Colored Plates.

 

 

BOSTON: __
.DEWOI.I=E, FISKE &-_Co. -LIST 01: BOOKS VIN LIBRARY.

  
 

Livgs 9? THE PRESIDENTS.

 
 

Woon's- NATURAL HISTORY.

  
 

CHILD'S LIFE 01'? CHRIST.

ROBINSON CRUSOE. x

 
    
 

wass FAMILY ROBINSON.

 
 

GRIMM'S FAIRY TALES.
HANS ANDERSEN'S FAIRY TALES.

 
 

BLACK BEAUTY.

  
    
 

MOTHER Goosn Rflvnns.

 
 

AUNT MARmA's C93 g3 CUPBOARD.

 

ARABIAN NIGHTS ENTERTAINMENTS. '

  
   
 

ALICE IN WONDERLAND.

\

CorYRlGHT. raga,
DBWOLBI, FISKK 6!. Co..<<

 

THE WRECK.

CHAPTER I.
smPWRECKED AND ALONE.

HE storm, which-had lasted for six long and terrible days,
appeared on the seventh to redouble its fury. We were _
driven out of our course far to the south-east, and all trace -

of our position was lost. _ ' ' '
-. Sailors and-passengers were alike worn out with fatigue and '
_ long watching ; indeed, all hope of saving the ship had disappeared.
'he masts were split and overboard, the ' sails rent, and the water
in the hold from a. leak made us expect every moment to be swal--
" _ lowed up in the waves.4' . . SWIss .FXMI'L Y Ie'051N50'N:

_-Nothing could now be heard among the crew 01'" the passengers
'liut earnmt prayers to God for mercy l--knowing that His power
alone could save them from death. -'
. ~ My children stood clinging to their mother, and trembling

with fear in our little cabin, and I endeavoured to cheer them by. "-

saying. .
" My children, .God can save us if it is His will ; if not, we
must resign ourselvesto what He judges is best'for us.

' My poor wife on this wiped her tears and became calm, to give -

courage to her boys ; and yet I could scarcely restrain my. grief.
At last we knelt together and offered our united prayers to the
Almighty for 'suecour: my eldest boy Fritz prayed aloud most
. earnestly that God would save his dear parents and brothers, seem-
ing not to think at all of his own safety. ' -

All at once was heard abovethe fury of the storm the cry, _ '_ -'

" Land ! land i" At the same moment we felt a- shock so violent

that I believed the ship had strfick on a rock, and would imme" '-

diately fall to pieces. The sounds of cracking timber, and the rush?
_of water quickly proved that I was not mistaken. The voice ofthe
captain made itself heard in terrible tones, " We are lost ! loWer
the boats l" and the words struck like a sword to my heart.

" Lost 2" I exclaimed in my terror; but the piteous cries of

my children aroused me. I must not allow them to despairat this '
awful moment. " Keep up your courage !" I exclaimed. '_' God; .-
'can help us still if we trust in Him l" I will go at once, and try'

to discover whether some way of deliverance may not be left for us. '_'

I went up quickly on deck, but as I endeavoured to advance, -

wave after wave passed over me. The first, for which I was unpre-
pared, dashed me to the ground; but I struggled to withstandthe'
force of the next by clinging to the side of the ship, and then what
a sight presented itself l

One boat was far out at sea, and a'sailor--the last to leap on

board the other boat--was about to cut the rope and let it drift " . 1; .

away. When I realized the fact that they were escaping, and had

left me and my dear ones to perish, Iraised my voice in earnest ' ' '_ .\
.entreaty. I cried, I prayed, I implored. PS116th return and rescue '- _- '

4K." L .

, I
A us. All to no purpose. My voice was lost amid the roar of the

' storm,- and even had I been heard, the fury of the waves made the

"return of the boats an impossibility. .

.For a few moments I looked around me in despair. Then,
with>> a sudden hope, I' observed the position of the vessel. The '
bow had sunk forward, leaving the stern high above the water as
far-as a kind of partition situated amidships, which separated the
captain's and the other cabins from the steerage of the ship.

_ Added to this, I found that the wreck was fixed in this position

i. ' between two rocks, and therefore likely to remain in safety, especi~

ally if .the storm abated. Then I turned my attention towards the

; _ Shore. A misty rain obscured the view, and perhaps made 'it ap-

pear more barren and desolate; yet I determined to strain every

nerve in an effort to reach a spot upon which I now placed my

. highest hopes of safety. I Went below to the cabin and addressed:

I. . my dear 'ones hepefully. .

. "Take courage," I said as I entered, "all hope is not lost.
'The ship is fixed between the rocks, and this little place of refuge
is highiahove the water. To-morrow, if the wind and waves sub-

_ side, ive may be able to reach the land.'_' -

_ 'My boys received this news with joy. But my wife discovered
__rny hidden anxiety in spite of my calmness. I knew by her manner
that her confidence in God was still unshaken, and this gave me re--

" _ '- 'newed' courage.

' ' Her first act was to search in the steward's room for provisions,

and with such success that a plentiful supper was quickly prepared

for us. V ._

_ " Let us take food," she said; "nourishment for the body
gives strength to the spirit, and we may have a very disturbed

. night." . -

' And so it truly proved. The three younger boys retired to

' rest after supper, and were soon fast asleep, overcome withfatigue
and excitement. Fritz, the eldest, a youth of fourteen, preferred to
share the watch with his parents. We discovered after awhile one

'of his reasons for wishing to sit up with us. -

'As night advanced the storm still continued, and the waves -'6- ' . SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.

' '_ broke over the lower part "of ' the ship with undiminished fury. 1A

cracking noise told us that the planks and beams of the wreck were .
strained by their force, and a continual trembling caused a dread
that every moment the vessel would fall in pieces.

" '. . After one of these shocks Fritz exclaimed, ,

[a

" My father, do you think we could find any swinnning~belts
on board for my mother and the boys? You and I could swim on
shore if anything happened to thetwreck, but they cannot swim."

. " Not a. had thought, my boy," I replied: " we will search at
' once." ,
' But no swimming--belts could be obtained, and I contrived a
plan which -I hoped would prove successful. In the steward's cabin
we found a number of empty barrels strong enough to support a
person in the waves These we fastened together, and tied them.
under the arm-pits of the three boys and my wife. We also sup-
plied ourselves with knives, string, a tinder-boxend matches, and
other useful but not cumbrous articles, and then seated Ourselves to
await calmly the result, hoping that, should the vessel fall to pieces,
we might be able to gain the shore partly by swimming and partly
byheing borne on the waves. '

' Fritz, however, worn out, retired to rest and slept soundly. I ,

'and'my brave wife remained awake, listening to each shock that
threatened a change in the position of the vessel. It was, indeed,
a sad night for us both ; we passed it in 'prayer and consultation re-
specting our future, till with thankful hearts we observed the first
glimmer of daylight, and felt that we were safe. As morning
advanced thewind lulled, the sky Cleared and with joyful eyes we
gazed at the brilliant colours that glowed in the east as the sun rose
foretelling a bright day. ' -' _
' In a cheerful voice I roused the boys, and led them' with their
mother on deck. Then for the first time they became aware that
we were alone on the ship. ' .
" Oh, papa 1 " exclaimed Jack, " where are the sailors and
the other passengers? How are we to get to land P--are they
gone ?--why did they not take us?" .
' " My children,'.' I said, " our companions have left us to ourE TUB-BOAT.

TH'8. j '- SWISS PS4111er ROBINSON. --

 
  

 

 

'fate, but we must not desp aii. If we exert ourselves and do all we ' I

' can, God 111 His mercy will help us. "
" The sea is calm enough to reach the shore by swimming,"
remarked Fritz.

"Sw1mm1ng 'would be all right for you," said Ernest, "but '. -_ J" '

not for us, who can't swim."
' "Suppose we search the ship, and see if any materials for a,
raft can be found," I suggested.
I prooeede'd at once to the provision stores, which, to my great

satisfaction, were well supplied with both food and water. My ' I
wife and the youngest boy went to visit the animals, Fritz ran to '

the armory, and Ernest to the ship carpenter s workshop. As Jack
- opened the door of the captain s cabin, two large dogs sprang out, '
and, full of' Joy, bounded upon him so roughly, that they threw him

down. This startled the little man, and he at first cried 0.11; in '

alarm; but recm ering himself quickly, rose to his feet, and mount-
ing on the back of the largest dog, he rode gran ely towaxds me, just
as I appeared coming up from the ship' -5 hold
One by one we returned to the cabin, each bringing what he
. considered would be the most useful in our position
Fritz brought powder, small shot, bullets, and two guns.
Ernest held in his' hand a. hatful of nails and a hammer, while from
' his pocket stuck out a' pair of pineers and a hatchet. Even little
Frank had a packet of fishing-hooks and lines.
. "As to myself," said my dear wife, "I have only brought
good news. I am delighted to tell you that there are still alive on
'the ship a cow, a donkey, two goats, six sheep, a ram and a sow."
_ "You have all done well, " I said at last, "yet I am afraid
Master jack has brought two tremendous eaters instead of anything
useful; we shall find it difficult to feed them when we get on
shore'
" Oh. i but papa," exclaimed Jack, " _the dogs will help us to
hunt. "
" Yes, " I replied, " but how are we to get there?"
- " Can we not sail 1n tubs? " said Jack, " I have often done so
on the pond at home." -.
SHIPWKECKED AND ALONE. '_ 9

" Happy thought! " I exclaimed; " let us see what can be
found-in the hold." '
My wife and the boys. excepting Jack, followed me to the hold

- where we found four large empty casks, and set to work at 'once to

3 saw them apart through the middle. After great exertion, I con-
templated with pride the eight half casks or tubs as they stood side
by side on the deck

. " I could never dare to trust mySelf on the open sea in one of
those things," said my wife with a sigh.

" Do not alarm yourself too soon, dear y1fe," I replied ; "my
work is not yet finished; you Will find that these tubs are much
better for 'us than a wrecked vessel which is a fixture in the rocks."

After a search I discovered atlong plank, and upon this I
fastened my eight tubs. Two other planks we nailed firmly to the

3 tubs 011 each side, and brought together at the ends to form the

stem and stem. In reality I had made a narrow boat divided into

'eight'compartments, all strong and well fitted.

But, alas I my wonderful contrivance was found so heavy that

tin spite of our united efforts we were not able to move it an inch.

 

  

" Fetch me one of the capstan- -rods," I cried," I can use it as
a lever." '
. Fritz ran to find one. Then I cut ofi' some pieces of wood
.- from the sail "yards for rollers, and lifting the lower part of my boat
-' with the non bai, Fritz placed them underneath.
' ' Then I fastened a rope to the tub- raft with a strong knot, and
after placing the two rollers under it and giving it a slight push, we
had the pleasure of seeing om little vessel glide from the lower deck
-; towards the sea. But she descended with such rapidity that had I
not taken the precaution to fasten the rope to a beam on the wreck,
she would have been carried far out of our reach. Unfortunately,
. the boat leaned so much on one side that no one would have dared
to embark in it ; but I saw in a moment what it wanted. Iquickly
gathered up all the heavy things around me, and threw them as
ballast into the tubs. The boat immediately righted itself, butI
saw plainly that the slightest obstruction would capsize the craft.
To -._a'.void this danger, Ithought I might contrive to manufacture"xo - . stss FAA/[LY Roemzsow.

some of those paddles Which savage nations use to balancetheir
canoes even against adverse winds." .

Fritz and I'found two long sail-yards, which were fastened,
one in front and the otherat the hinder part of the boat,'so that
they could be moved without in any way interfering with the prog-
ress of our little raft. ' '

To the end of each of these we fixed two little empty'casks _
which were to serve as a counterpoise and nothing now remained _
butto secure the oars for our voyage on the morrow. '

At last we gladly sought repOSe after the fatigues of the day,

.but I took the precaution to desire my boys to attach the empty

. cans and flasks to their arms as a means of safety, should- anything
happen to the ship. _I advised my wife also to dress herself in
sailorls clothes, as more convenient for swimming should she be
thrown into the water. -

 

 

She objected greatly at first, but eventually I convinced her of ~ I

the incans of safety the dress would prove in case of accident, and .
she retired from the cabin to make the change. '

When she re-ap'pcared I could not help paying her a compli-
"'ment, for the middy's dress became her admirably. Perhaps my
bright hopes for the morrow made her forget her boyish appear-
ance and we retired to rest in our berths and slept peacefully till.
morning.

CHAPTER II.
A DESOLATE ISLAND.

. The next morning at daybreak we were all awake, for hope as
_. well as care is no' friend to sleep. As_ soon as we had offered our
prayers to God, I said to my children,

" I hope now', that with the aid of the Almighty, we shall soon
be out of danger. And, first, let us provide food and water for the
poor animals enough to last for several days ; perhaps we may beERNEST FEEDING THE DOGS.' "12' ' " sums-salinity 30.131.130.111.

able to' return for them. . And will you, my boys, collect. together
all that we shall require to take with us for our most pressing wants: '
_ My first care had. been to place on board Our little barque a
. birrcl of powder, three fowlingpieces, gguns, pistols, and a supply
of bullets, with a bullet-mould and lead to prepare more when these
were gone. To my wife and each of the boys I gave a game-bag
' filled with provisions.

' I also loaded the two unoccupied tubs of the boat with an
iron pot for cooking, a fishing line and rod, :1 box of nails, a ham--
mer, saw, hatchet, pinccrs, and a quantity of sail-- ~cloth, with which ,
to erect a tent.

When all was ready, we knelt once more to ask protection on
our perilous voyage. I then placed the boys each 1n a boat, and
waited for my wife '

We were about to follow the children into the boat, when all
at once the cocks began to crow and the hens to Cluck in such a
mournful manner, that they appeared to be complaining at being
left behind
' " I think we might manage to take them with us," I said;-
" for if they are not cared for now we cannot expect them to be of
use to us by- -and bye."

80 two cocks and ten hens were placed' in the tubs, and I con-
trived akind of lattice- work to keep them from jumping out. The

' ' 'ducks, geese, and pigeons I merely set free, feeling convinced that

 

they would find their way to land, either through the air or by
water.

_ At length when we were all safely stowed away in our tubs, I
cut the cable and placed myself at the helm. In the first tub was
my wife, close behind her little Frank ; the two next tubs-contained
the ammunition, the sail-cloth, the tools the provisions, and the
chickens; Fritz occupied the fifth ; Ernest and Jack the sixth and
seventh; and I had taken the last for myself, that Imight guide
the vessel containing my family by the stern oar, which served for
a rudder.

_ It was just half-tide as we quitted the vessel, and I counted
upon that to carry us to land. , --A "550" TE ISLAND] ' _ _ ~13

Presently we were startled by hearing the two dogs, which had
been left on the wreck, whining piteously , and in a few moments

~; they sprang into the sea and swam after us. '1' hey were too'heavy

for us to add to the weight by taking them 011 board our frail
barque. Turk was a large English mastiff, and Floss, equally
large, a Danish hound. I pitiecl them, however, for I feared they
would not be able'to swim {or such a distance ; yet, now and then,

' they suppo1tcd themselves very cleverly, by resting their fore paws

on the planks which balanced the tubs, and followed us as a rear-
guard without much trouble.
After awhile, finding we made but little progress, I took

another oar, and by guiding the boat into the current of the flowing
' tide, our navigation became less difficult, and we found ourselves

approaching heater to the shore.
Around us floated chests casks, and bales of goods--the
((eeri: of the ill- fated ship. Fritz and I hooked some of them with

-' our oars, and fastened them to 0111 raft

As we drew nearer, the land lost much of its Wild and sterile

---aspe'ct, and Fritz, who has the eye of a falcon, declared that he

could already distinguish trees, and amongst them palms and

Ieocoanut-trees.

I was beginning to 1egret that I had forgotten to bring the

I telescope from the t3captain's cabin, when Jack drew from his

pocket 3. smaller one and offered it to me.

P1csently I pe1ce11ed a narrow bay, towards which our ducks
and geese were rapidly swimming in advance of us, as if to lead
the way.

This creek in the shore presented also a much more pleasant
aspect, andas I guided our boat towards the entrance, I found the
water only just sufficiently deep to float it ; and we arrived at last,
after some little trouble, at a spot where it was so shallow that the
shore was on a. level with the top of our tubs.

We all sp1a11g out joyfully from the boat excepting little Frank,
who was obliged to be assisted by his mother. The dogs, who had
arrived as soon as ourselves bounded with joy and barked around
us in the wildest manner. The geese and ducks quacked loudly to1'4 _ SWbS FAN/Z. Y ROBINSON.

welcome us. To this and the barking of the dogs were added the
cries of the fiamingoes, who flew away as we appeared, mingled
with the screams of the penguins perched on the rocks.

. But these noises and confusion of sounds did not make us
forget that we were safe; and our first act was to fell upon our

 

PENGUINS.

knew and thank God for having mercifully preserved us in the .
hour of danger, and pray to Him to continue to grant us His
protection.

We then commenced unloading the boat.

After choosing a suitable Spot, we prepared to erect a tent as '
a place of shelter for the night, and in this we quickly succeeded,21' 113550111 TE ISLAND; r's:

having all the necessary materials. One of. the poles, which had
served to balance the boat, was firmly fixed in the ground ; and the
end of another pole placed on the top of it, the opposite end being
fixed in the crevice of the rock. a
Otier this framework we threw our sail-cloth, fastening it firmly
to the ground with a number of stakes. '
For greater security our chests and other heavy articles were
placed round the cloth to keep out the wind, and Fritz attached.
hooks to the edges in front, that we might draw them together
during the night. Then I sent the children to gather as much; '
moss and grass as they could find, and lay it in the sun to dry.
- While they were thus engaged, I piled up a number of large,
stones at some distance from the tent, to form a fireplace, on the.
. borders of the little creek by which we had reached the land. '
Branches of trees and dried wood I found readily, and gathering
. armfuls, I placed them on my stone hearth, and soon had a cheer-
ful fire. '
_. Upon this I placed our iron pot full of water, and into it my
' wife threw one of the tablets she had brought with her, for she had
intended us to have soup for dinner. .
Meanwhile Fritz had loaded his gun' and took his way along
the banks of the stream. Ernest, remarking that to seek for game'
upon a desert coast did not appear very agreeable; turned. towards
thesea, while Jack wandered among the rocks to search for shells. . ,
Iemploycd myself in drawing from the water the two casks which
we had secured in our transit from the ship to the shore. "
,I discovered, however,. that while the water at the spot on
which we landed was convenient for unloading the boat, it hadnot.
depth enough to float it when heavily-laden. While .I stood con>>: . '
,sidcring what was best to be done, I heard Jack cry out as if in
terror. Seizing a hatchet, I ran in the direction of his voice, and
'saw him in the water up to his knees, and .an enormous lobster or
crab holding him by the leg in one of his claws, while Jack tried in-
vain to get rid of his enemy. _ ' .' '
I at once jumped into the water, disabling'him with my hatchet,
I brought him ashore, to Jack's great delight. ' ' . * ' '' sWIs'jS'rAMIILY RbBIAfsom

-'.

. Burning with impatience to show his beautiful capti.
mother, he caught the creature in both hands , but hardl -
touched it when it struck him such a violent blow in" its tail that
' he threw it on the gmund and began to cry.
. I terribly offended him by laughing outright, and in his anger_
he took up a stone and stunned the fallen foe by a blow on the head.
"Jack pfiuding the lobster helpless, ran in triumph to his mother,
exclaiming,

 

 

  

"See, mammai Ernest! Frank! look, I've caught alobster-- '

such a- large one ! Where is Fritz? "
' - Everyone came round him and congratulated him on his suc~
Cass; and Ernest suggested that the creature should be at once

cooked for dinner, and that it would make delicious soup. But his \

mother decided that it should be set aside till we had more need of. it.
_' " I think," cried. Ernest, " I have seen some animals quite as
' good to eat as Jack's lobster; but I did not care to get any, because
'I should have had to wade through the water "

"What an excuse!" exclaimed jack " Afraid of getting

Wet! ahd they were only mussels after all, I dare say, and not fit to . f

eat " .
" In my opinion they are oysters,' 'replied Ernest, " and they
are not at any great depth in the water "

"-And ray, Mr. Philoao her, if they are 0 sters, Wh did on
P P Y Y Y

not bring us some for dinner? In our present position every sort
of wholesome food' 15 acceptable, and to fear getting wet is absurd!
You- see that the sun has dried my clothes and Jack's already. " '

" I forgot that, papa.' replied Ernest, " or I could have

brought salt as well I saw a great quantity in the crevices of the . -_-'

' cks,' left there by the sea, I suppose."

~ "Of course, my son Well, now go and fetch some of this '

' salt, unless you would like to eat your soup without it, Ernestx" '
In a short time he returned with what was evidently common

'salt, but so mixed with sand, that I should have thrown it away

had not my wife prevented me from doing so.

- " I can improve it," she said, " by dissolving it in fresh

' water, and straining it through a piece of linen. " .JACK AND THE LAND CRAB."3' m.

-- _A DESOLATE ISLAND. - " 17

And so-it preved, for the pure salt fell through, and my wife

threw it into the soup. _ -
" Why could we not use sea-water ?" asked Jack.

 

JACK CAUGHT BY TKE.LOBSTER.

- "Because it would be too bitter," replied Ernest. "The
bitter taste is very strong when sea-water is boiled."

" Quite right, Ernest," I said. " Sea-water contains a bitu-

men very disagreeable to the taste, which does not exist in crystal-

lized. salt. ' '
2' _ is SWYSS FAMILY Roam-"501v:

My wife now informed us that the soup was ready, but Fritz
,had not returned. Where could he be? While we waited, she re-
marked, '

" How are we to eat the soup now it is prepared ? We can-
not possibly lift a great burning pot to Our lips, nor fish out the
biscuits with our hands, and we have neither spoons nor cups. I
think," she added, laughing, " we are in the same predicament as
the fox in the fable, when the stork offered him his breakfast in a
jug with a long narrow neck I" .

We all laughed heartily, especially when Ernest said, _

"If _we only had coconut-shells divided in two, they would
make splendid cups 1" .

_"No doubt," I replied 3. " why don't you wish we had a
dozen silver spoons at hand? Wishing is useless 3 can you not in-
vent something P". -

"Those shells I saw would seri/e us for spoons capitallypl"
said Ernest.

" A bright idea, my. boy,--although, as our oyster-shell spoons
will have no handles, we 'shall be obliged to bum our fingers in
getting out the soup. However, oyster-shells are better than noth-
ing, boys, so run and get as many as you can."

Away started Jack. Ernest followed slowly, and when he
reached the spot, there was. jack up to his knees in the water. As
he stood still, dreading to wet his feet, jack detached the oysters
and threw them to his brother.

" You can gather them up and help me carry them," he said,
" if you are so afraid of the water."

Ernest gladly assented, and they quickly obtained a sufiicient

_ number. Presently they appeared at the tent, carrying a supply of
unopened spoons. ' '

At this moment Fritz approached, walking slowly with his '

' hands behind his back, and his head bowed as if in great trouble.

"I have found nothing," he said, dolefully.

"Absolutely nothing?" I said. '

" Nothing," was the reply. -

But his brothers slipping quietly behind him exclaimed,
\

. " Oh, Fritz! and you've got a little pig? Where did you find

' 'it? Did you kill it? Oh, do show it to us.'.'

. Fritz then, with a self-satisfied air, placed before me the first

' result of his hunting exploits.

' And then he told us he had wandered to the other side of the
creek, and found the vegetation very different; green grass, pleasant
meadows, and such magnificent trees to shade us from the heat.

"And, papa," he added; "there are. chests and boxes and
spars floating about from the wreck. Can we not go and fetch

. them? If the animals were here that we left on board, it would be
easy to find food for them; and how useful they would be, especi-
ally the cow, to supply us with__milk. Don't let us stay in this
barren place." '

" Patience, patience, my boy," I said. " One thing at a
time. Totmorrow we will try what can be done. But, tell me,
did you see anything of our fellow--passengers?"

" No, papa; not a single trace on sea or land. And, papa, I
think this place is an island; and," he added quickly, " there are
pigs here. because I have shot one; but I don't think it exactly re--
sembles the pigs in Europe, for its paws are more like those of a
hare. I saw several in the grass; they had no fear of me, so I
ventured quite close, and saw them sitting on their hind legs, and

. feeding themselves like squirrels."

" 'his is not a. pig at all, Fritz," said Ernest, "it has hair like
silk, ani four large cutting teeth'in front. I belicve it is an animal

' I've readabout in my Natural History called an agouti."

" Ernest, I believe, is right," I cried; "I have never seen the
agowti ; but the appearance of this animal corresponds entirely with
the descriptions I have read, as well as the pictures."

-While we were discussing this question, Jack was using his ut-
most efforts to open an oyster with his knife, but without success.

' " You will never succeed, Jack," I said, "unless you place
the oysters on the hot embers ; they will then open of themselves. '

In a few minutes Jack brought me an open oyster.

. "See, my children," I said ; "this is considered a'great deli--
cacy, let us taste it. "A20 1' 514/155 FAMILY ROBINSON.

The boys, after looking more closely at the glutinous object,
appeared reluctant to make the attempt, but they knew that they.
must each eat one to obtain'a shell for a spoon. .

The empty shells were at last obtained, and we hastened to
put our new fashioned spoons in use. '

Suddenly, while we were enjoying our soup the dogs spied the
[lead agouti, and before we could prevent them they had de--
voured it; .

 

THE AGO UTI.

Fritz started up in a rage, and seizing his gun, flew at the-
dogs as if he would kill them, and when'they rushed from him in
terror he threw stones after them, which caused them to howl with
pain. - _
My angry voice recalled him to himself, and when his rage _
calmed down, I talked to him seriously about his hasty temper
which so pained me. He looked very much ashamed as I thus
talked to him, and owned he was wrong, and presently I observed

. , '3A V0 YA GE 01" DISCO VER Y. I 2:

him trying to make friends with the dogs 3 I hoped, thei'efore, that
my words had done good. -

As sunset approached, the poultry gathered round us and began
to pick up the crumbs, and then I discovered the valuable contents
of a bag' which my wife had placed in the tub with little Frank.
She opened it now, and scattered oats, peas, and barley, which were
eagerly swallowed by pigeons and poultry. -
~ .\ We now began to think about retiring to rest. We had agreed

' to watch alternately during the night, but in spite of all my efforts
I could not keep awake. Unconsciously my eyelids closed softly,'
slumber fell upon me, and this our first night on our land of safety
was passed calmly'and without alarms.

CHAPTER III.
A VOYAGE or nrs'covnnv. -

At early dawn we were aroused by the crowing of the cocks,
and my wife and I consulted together on the best plan to adopt in
our proceedings during the day. She agreed with me that not
only was it necessary to search for some trace of our fellow-pas-
- sengers, but also to explore the country before we decided upon
' our future resting--place. She understood readily that it would be
impossible for the whole family to venture on such an expedition.
She proposed, therefore, that I should take Fritz; as he was the
strongest and the most useful, and leave the younger boys under
- her. care.

'T he boys were soon awake, even Ernest did not require much
to rouse him, and then I inquired of Jack what had become of the
lobster.

_ He ran at once to fetch it from a crevice in the rock, where he
had hidden it for safety. .

' " I was determined the dogs should not devour it, as they did

' the agouti, papa," he said. '
'22 SWISS FAIKIIL l' ROBINSON:

" Certainly you take care of what belongs to yourself, my boy,"
I said, " but they are happier who care for the wants of others. I
think also you ought to give up to Fritz the claws of the lobster
which I promised you, to provide him with a dinner on his journey j
to-day.' ' - . _
"'A journey! a journey 1" they all cried; "are we going?"
and they began to jump and dance round me like young kids.

"This time it is impossible," I said; "we know not what
dangers we may meet. Fritz and I have strength to bear the
fatigue of a long journey. You must stay here with your mother,.
in safety. We shall take Turk with us, and leave Floss to guard

n

you.
When I desired Fritz to take his gun and an axe, witha game-

bag, he blushed, and asked my permission to choose another instead _
of his Own. -

To this I readily agreed, although I would not notice the blush.
I knew that he had injured his gun in trying to strike the dogs on
the previous evening, and I felt pleased to see that he still remem-
bered his outburst of temper with shame.

I told him, however, to place two small pistols in his belt, while
I loaded the game-bag with powder and shot, some biscuits and a
bottle of water. ,

. By this time breakfast was ready ; it consisted of the lobster and
some biscuits. . The flesh, however, of the fish was so hard that no"
one regretted its loss when Fritz placed what remained in the game-
bag.

And then kneeling together we asked God in His mercy still
to protect us, and especially to watch over us while we were

* _- separated.

 

At last we departed, not without grief and hesitation, for we
knew not what might happen to us before we met again ; Fritz and
I heard the sorrowful adieus of those we left behind till we reached
the banks of the stream which we intended to cross.

The ground here rose abruptly, and was so rocky and steep
that we were obliged to follow the current for along time, to find
a spot at which to cross. 'A PLEASANT REST.24 514/135 FAMILY 11011111150111:

After walking 9. long distance, the stream grew narrower, and, _

' at length we reached its source, from which it tumbled over rocks
and stones down a precipice, forming a cascade 111 its descent.
Across the narrowest part we contrived to leap from stone to
stone, and after a struggle over broken rocks and tall withered
grass, we reached the opposite bank 111 safety
W e had not advanced a hundred steps, when we .heard- a;
strange noise, and a rustling in the grass behind us. I stopped, and
saw Fritz fearlessly raise his gun and wait calmly for the unknown
enemy, which proved to be no other than our dog Turk. In our
trouble we had forgotten to sell him, and he had been sent after us.
Pursuing our journey we reached the sea- shore. Here we stood
still for a while, looking 1n every diiection amoss the ocean, in the
hope of discovering the boats containing our fellow-passengers; but
not even in the sand could we find any trace of the footsteps of man.
" Why should we-trouble ourselves about those who forsook us
so cruelly?" asked Fritz.
" For scv eral reasons, my boy,' I replied, " and first, because

. We ought always to return good for evil, and therefore if they could '

not be useful to us, we might help them greatly, for they carried
nothing away from the wreck, and may be dying of hunger."

Silently reflecting, we continued our walk inland, and at the end I

of two hours arrived at the entrance of a wood. Here we halted,
and seated ourselves in the cool shade by a rippling brook which
flowed under the trees.

Presently Fritz fancied he saw an ape among the foliage, and"

the uneasiness of Turk, who barked furiously, confirmed him 1n his
idea, He rose to assure himself that he was right, and while
iooking up, and regardless of his steps, he struck his foot violently
against someting round which had fallen in his path. .

He picked it up, and bringing it to me, he said, "What is
this, papa? I think it must be the nest of some bird."

I smiled as I replied, " It is a. nut, my boy, a cocoanut too."

" Some birds make round nests, I know," he persisted.

" Certainly they do, but that is no reason that this should be
a nest. Do you not remember that the cocoan'ut has two shells, the

 

1outer one thin and covered with fibres, and the inner one hard and
containing amjlky fluid? Break it, Fritz, and you will find the
inner nut or kernel inside." '

' . He obeyed, but the nut was evidently an old one, for the in-

\ side of the kernel was quite decayed and unfit to eat.

Fritz was disappointed; he had expected to find the sweet
milk and the white lining to the inner shell. l proposed that we
should go farther into the wood. where no doubt grew other cocoa-
nut-trees, and perhaps meet with a fresher nut. .

. At length, after walking for nearly four hours, we arrived at a
kind of peninsula, which stretched far out into the sea and termi-
nated in a small but steep hill.

. Up this we climbed with some difficulty; but when we reached

'the top, a glorious prospect repaid us for our trouble.

After gazing with delight on this fertile spot, we turned towards
the sea, and examined with our glass its vast expanse, but no trace
of our companions could. be discovered. The same result followed
our search through the glass over'thc inland prospect. . No habita-
tions of man or signs of his presence could be discovered.

After some minutes of silence, I said,

" Fritz, God has prepared for us another destiny to the one we
- anticipated. He has chosen for us the life of colonists, and our
confidence in our heavenly Father has not been misplaced. He
orders all things for the best, and we will try to be as happy as
possible in our lonely island." -

As we descended the hill we perceived at some little distance a
grove of palmArees ; but to reach it we had to cross alarge space of
ground thickly overgrown with tall reeds, so interlaced with each
other that our progress was most difficult.

* We advanced slowly and cautiously, for at every step we feared

_-that we shOuld tread upon venomous-Snakes. I therefore sent Turk
onbefore, that he might give us warning; and, as a further means
of defence, I cut from the reeds, which were tall and thick, one of
the strongest I could find, and carried it in my hand.

Very soon, to my astonishment. a glutinous liquid ran between
. my fingers. I touched it with my lips, and its .swaet taste proved
to me at once that we had discovered a wild overgrowth of sugar

canes. . -

Presently I told Fritz, who was a little in advance of me, to

cut a reed as a protection, but I said nothing of the sugar. I left
0 him the pleasure of finding it out for himself.

He obeyed at'once, seized the cane, and commenced bran-
dishing it over his head and striking the reeds right and left, to
frighten away the serpents. In so doing he broke it, and set free
an abundance of the juice, which streamed upon his hands.

Without a word he tasted it, and immediately sucked his
fingers, laughing and jumping for joy as he cried,

" Papa ! oh, papa! it is the sugar-cane! Only taste it ! I am
_ sure it is sugarcane. I can cut d0wn enough sugar-sticks to carry
with us, to refresh ourselves on our way home, and that mamma and

my brothers may share in the pleasure of our diseovery'."

" I can have no objection, Fritz; but will it not be too heavy
a load to carry such a distance? "

My advice fell powerless. Fritz cut down a dozen of the
finest andlargest canes, and tied them in a bundle, which he took
under his am. We then continued our way till the cane forest
came to an end, and we found ourselves in the grove of palm-trees.

Presently a troop of monkeys, alarmed at our appearance as
well as at the furious barking of Turk, sprang to the top of the trees
with such rapidity, that we could not follow their movements with

' our eyes.

I had only just time to notice that these creatures had perched
themselves on the cocoanut-trees, and therefore that I could make
them useful, when I saw Fritz throw down his bundle of canes, seize'
hisgun, and point it at one of the monkeys. '

My hasty cry arrested his hand. '

" What are you about, Fritz? What advantage will you gain
by destroying even one of those poor animals? " ' -

" Why should they not be killed?" he said, angrily. " Just
look how they are showing their teeth at us. I believe they are
spiteful, malicious creatures."MONKEY.

E

 

FRITZ RESTRAINED FROM SHOOTING TH
"'I think I know a better way to make them useful than'if
you were to-kill a dozen. I am going to try, but take care of your
head."

' I picked up some stones as I spoke, which I threw at the mon-
keys,.but not high enough to reach. them. Their rage at this
increased to fury, and presently they plucked and poured down
upon us a perfect hail of cocoanuts. The nuts fell around us in '
_ every direction, and we had to save ourselves as best we could in

the shelter of the trees, or by jumping aside to avoid them.

Fritz laughed 'so heartily, that he had scarcely strength left to
escape; but when the cocoanut shower ceased he gathered up as
many as he could carry with eager satisfaction. '

I selected a few of the cocoauuts, the stalks of which still ad-
hered; these I tied together, to enable me to carry them more
easily Fritz took up his bundle of sugar- canes, and, thus laden,
we started on our walk homeward to rejoin our family.

CHAPTER 1v.
THE HOME'VARD JOURNEY.

In a very. short time I discovered that Fritz began to feel the
bundle of canes lie heavily on his shoulders. He shifted it from
one to the other continually, and at last, placing it under his arm,
with a sigh exclaimed, _

"IReally, papa, I never could have Supposed these reeds would
prove so heavy." .

- " Patience and courage, my boy," I' replied. "Your burden
will diminish ; for we shall have occasion often to refresh ourselves .
before we reach home. Give me a cane, which shall be a staff as '
well as a cruise of honey , and I advise you to follow my example. _
Tie the rat tightly to the end of your gun, anl carry it across your
shoulder]THE. 'HOME WA RD f0 URNEY. 929

As we continued our journey, Fritz remarked that I was suck-
ing the end of the cane.

" How cleverly you manage, papa," he said; "I have tried
with all my efforts to obtain sugar from one of the canes, but I can--
not succeed." '

. "Reflect a little," I replied, " and perhaps you will find it
out." '

After a few minutes of silence, he exclaimed,

" Papa, I have discovered the reason 2' I believe if I make a
hole just above the first joint of the cane, that the juice will come."

While he thus spoke, he pierced a small opening with the point
of his penknife, and the sweet liquid passed freely into his mouth.

" But," said he, " we must not be extravagant with our refresh-
ing liquid, or we shall have nothing left to carry to the tent but dry
sticks." " Do not let that trouble you," said I, " for the heat of
the sun will most likely turn the sweet juice sour."_

. " At any rate," said Fritz, " I have somehottles full of cocoa-
nut milk in my game--bag, tightly corked down, that will be a treat
for them."

" Don't make too sure, Fritz. You-may find a bottle full of
vinegar instead of cocoanut milk when we reach home 5 it quickly
spoils." '

" Shall we try one now?" he asked.

A bottle was taken from the bag; and as we endeavoured to

force the cork out, it burst forth with an explosion like gunpowder,

 

and the contents flew into the air, frothing and foaming like cham-
pagne.

" The movement in walking has caused it to ferment," I said
as I tasted the liquor, " and it is really very pleasant and refreshing. "

' Fritz followed my example. .

" Mammawill like this," he said, as we continued our way.

We had scarcely entered the wood in which we had dined when
Turk rushed past us, barking furiously at a group of monkeys.

Alarmed at the barking of the dog, they sprang into the trees
out of his way--all but a female monkey, who carried a little one
on her back, and could not escape.
Before we reached him, Turk had seized the poor animal, and
although Fritz rushed to the rescue, throwing off his hat and the
sugar-canes,- he arrived too late to save her.

The baby monkey had fallen on the grass when Turk seized its
mother. The instant the little one caught sight of Fritz, with one '
spring he jumped on his'back and clung firmly to his hair. Seeing
there was no danger, the annoyance to Fritz and the grimaces of
the little monkey rendered it impossible {or me to help laughing
heartily. .

I hastened, however, to remove the unwelcome guest. 'It was
not much larger than a. kitten, and evidently incapable of providing
for itself.

" The little creature has lost its mother, and has taken you for
its adopted father, Fritz," I said, joking him. -

" The little rogue l" laughed Fritz, he has pulled my hair
terribly." ' '

But do let me keep it and bring it up. We can feed it with
cocoanut milk ; or if we get the cow and the goat from the ship,
(here will be milk to spare. And perhaps the instinct of this little
creature may help us to discover if the fruits and vegetables we find
are fit for food."

 

" I cannot object, my son," I replied ; " and farm pleased to _ .

find you have no foolish resentment against the poor little beast.
You shall bring it up ; and, according to the manner in which it is
trained, its instinct will be useful or hurtful."

Taking the bundle of sugar-canes, we continued our walk.
Presently we heard Turk trotting 'after us ; and the presence of the
dog alarmed the monkey, and he nestled in Fritz's bosom for pro-
. iection.

A sudden thought flashed across the youth's mind. He took
a piece of string from his pocket and tied the little monkey on the
dog's back. '

Turk at first objected to this arrangement, but we induced him
to 'submit.

This scheme of Fritz amused me .greatly ; and presently I
said, with a laugh.A GLORIOUS PROSPECT.
_ " We are approaching our home like two mountebanks going
to a fair with a monkey and a perfonning clog. "

' When we rea'ehed the tent, I found a wonderful repast prepar-
ing' for 'us at the cooking place.

. Upon a large fire burning on the stone hearth stood the iron
pot full of soup. From a piece of wood, which rested at each end
on two other pieces fixed in the ground, hung a goose roasting, the
{at falling into dried oyster shells underneath it.

Several kinds of fish were cooking on the hot stones ; and, best

'of all, there stood at a little distance one of the chests I had saved

from the wreck. My wife and the boys had contrived to drag it '

up from the river side and open it, and I cOuId see it contained a
large number of Dutch cheeses wrappedin thin sheets of lead.

While we were enjoying the fish, which were very good, Fritz
asked if his mother would not like to taste the cocoanut champagne.

" Taste it first yourself, Fritz," I said. .

_ " Ho l" he exclaimed presently, with a wry face, " it is vine-
gar-EH . ~

_ "As I expected, my boy; but never mind, vinegar is very
good with fish ;" and as I spoke I poured some into my gourd
basin, and the rest followed my example.

It was near sunset by the time we had finished, and necessary,
therefore, to prepare our beds for the night. 'My wife and the boys
had provided a large quantity of dry moss and grass to spread on
the floor of our tent, and we expected, in consequence, to find Our
beds softer than on the preceding night. -

The poultry were already gone to roost on the ridge of the tent,
and the geese and ducks had betaken themselves to their night -
quarters. And after offering our evening prayer, we entered the
tent. The baby ape entered with us, and Fritz and Jack took the
little molherless creature .to sleep between them, to protect him
from the cold.

We had not been asleep long, however, when I was aroused by
the restless movements of the fowls and the barking and yelping of
the dogs. Seizi-ng my gun, I rushed out quickly, followed by my '
wife and Fritz, who were also armed.zit-SUCCESSFUL VO YA GE. ' 33

' In amazement I perceived, by the light of the moon, that a
great battle was going on at a little distance, between a number of
jackals and our brave dogs. Already they had settled three or four
of their assailants, and those who remained surrounded them, hop-
ing to take 'them at a disadvantage ; but the two courageous animals
kept them at bay. Fritz and I fired together, two of the jackals
fell dead on the sand ; and our second volley wounded others, while
the rest took to flight.

' Fritz asked permission to bring the jackal he had killed. away
' rom' the d)gs ; he wished to preserve it, to show to his brothers in
the morning. Not without great efforts, however, could he drag
the dead body of the animal to the tent, for it was unusually large.
We returned to the sleepers, who had not been disturbed by the
unusual noise, and fell asleep again almost immediately, and did
not wake till the crowing of the cocks announced the return of the
sun. - -

CHAPTER v.
A SUCCESSFUL VOYAGE.

I at once began to consult my wife, and seek her advice.
. " What shall I undertake first to-day, dear wife P" I said. '3 I
know avoyage to the ship is absolutely necessary, if we wish to
save the animals from starving; and there are so many things on
' the wreck that would be useful to us. On the other hand, we
have. much to do here, and above all, to construct a new dwelling
place."

. " Do not be uneasy, clear husband," she replied ; " most cer-
tainly a. voyage to the wreck is first necessary, for should a storm
arise, everything on board would be lost."

After arranging that the younger boys should= remain on shore
with their mother, and Fritz accompany me, I roused the sleepers.

' Fritz was ready quickly, and rushed out of the tent to find the
dead jackal. The cold night air had stiffened it, so that he could

3v

3-4 SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.

easily stand it on its legs at the entrance of the tent, like a sentry.
Then he waited impatiently for his brothers to appear, and won-
dered what they would say. . '

But Fritz had forgotten the dogs. No sooner did they catch
sight- of one of their enemies on his legs, than they rushed forward

to attack it 3 and it was with great difficulty that he kept them from '

destroying the animal. . _

Meanwhile those in the tent were wondering what could be the
matter with the dogs. They came out, one by one. The little
monkey. peeped out, with a look of fear; but no sooner did he per-
ceive the jackal than he rushed into the farthest corner of the tent,
and buried himself in one of the beds of moss so completely, that
he entirely disappeared from our sight, excepting the tip of his
nose. '

Many opinions were offered by the boys about the strange
animal. Ernest said it was a fox, Jack a wolf, and Frank called it
a yellow dog.

', " Ho, ho ! " cried Fritz ; " my learned Doctor Ernest, you
recognized the agouti, but you are mistaken now. A'fox indeed ? "

" Come, come, my children, do not quarrel about the animal,"
I said; "you are all right in one respect. The jackal is said by
naturalists to belong to the 'same family as the fox, the wolf, and
the dog." _

My words produced peace. Then we assembled once more for
our morning prayer, and asked God to guide and protect us during
the day. '

_At breakfast we were obliged to content ourselves with biscuits,
which were so hard, that our teeth could scarcely break them. Fritz
asked for cheese, and went behind the tent to procure some from
the cask. Ernest followed him, and presently returned with a
bright face and exclaimed.

" Oh, papa, if. we could only open that other cask !"

'5 What cask, and why?" .

"Well, there is a large cask just outside, and through a little
crack, some grease runs out; and I am sure it looks exactly like
butter." ,

 

.. _. -- W_.\_mmsr.mmmSHOOTING m SHARK.

:'wammwmwwwmmvmm
".If what you say is true, my. boy," I exclaimed, "you shall
have the first slice of bread and butter, as a reward for your dis--
covery. " - . .

We all sallied out to examine this wonderful cask, and very '
quickly proved that the boy was right.

In alfew minutes we obtained a cocoanut cup full of beautiful
'saltbutter. We softened the biscuits easily now, by covering them
with butter and holding them to the fire till it melted, so that, after
all, we had a delicious breakfast. During our meal, the dogs lay
quietly by our side, and did not seem 'at all anxious for their share
of our breakfast. I examined the poor animals, and found that
they had been bitten and wounded in several places, especially
about the neck. My wife washed some butter: then giving it to
Jack, she desired him to_anoint their wounds with it.

_ The animals very shortly commenced licking their wounds,
and in a few days were completely healed. ' '

" If we could find some spiked collars on the ship," said Fritz,
"-it would be aprotection to our brave dogs. " - .

"Oh!" cried Jack, "I can make-some spiked collars, and .
good one: too, if mamma will help me." -

_ " I can promise you that, little boaster,"- replied his mother;
"and we shall see what powers of invention you possess "

' " But it is time for us to commence our work," I said. " Get
ready, Fritz ;_ your mother and I have decided that you shall
accompany me to the vessel, and you, my dears, must stay with
your mother. '-' v >>

_ We took only our guns and ammunition with us, for we knew
that sufficient provisions could be found on the wreck. And as I
was about to step into our tub boat, Fritz appeared with the little
monkey on his shoulder, being anxious, as soon as possible, to

- obtain' for the poor creature fresh milk. _

We arrived safely at last, and moored our little boat alongside
the vessel, which we entered at the pening already made when we
escaped. . . v ='

Fritz, with the little monkey in his arms, ran towards the
place in which we had left the animals.' """'"""T:1"'"".'7-";V"E"'N'IWL

 

   

A SUCCESSFUL VOYAGE. , 37

He placed the monkey near the goat, and in a very few
minutes 'Master Monkey, with many grimaces, was enjoying a
delicious feast of goat 5 milk

Afte; we had supplied the animals with fresh food and water,
we commenced a search for provisions for ourselves.

l'hen Fritz proposed that we should have a sail for our little
boat.

"For, " he said, " when we return, the current will not help

'us, but the wind would, if we had a sail "

This idea of Fritz about a sail appeared so excellent, that I
determined to take his advice. A sailyard was quickly found, of
which to make a mast, and another, thinner, by which I could

'regulate the sail. I went to the sail room and cut off a piece of

cloth, then, with the assistance of Fritz, I fixed it in our little
boat. Fritz brought me a little coloured silk kerchief to fasten to

the 'top of the mast, as a pennant.

To complete the equi-,pment I attached to each end of the boat
two thick cords, to one of which was adapted an oar, and I found
I could work it myself with as much ease as the tiller.

All this occupied a long time, and I found that we could not
possibly reach the shore before night. We had arranged, as a sig-
mi] of our intention to remain on the wreck all night, to raise a
flag, and we hastened to do so while daylight continued.

The remainder of the day was employed 1n removing from our
boat the stones and other useless things we had thrown in as ballast,
replacing them with articles of more importance.

As night came on I was delighted to see the blaze of a large
fire on the rocks, which our dear ones had lighted to prove that all
was well. In return we attached four ship' 5 glanterns to the wreck
as a signal that we were safe.'

After our evening prayer to Heaven for protection to them and
ourselves, we laid ourselves down to rest; and although our posi-
tion in the little tub-boat was not quite comfortable, we slept
s'oundly from fatigue till morning.-leasing-u -

CHAPTER ' VI.

A LIVING FREIGHT.

Early the next morning I was up on deck directing my tele- ..

scope towards the tent which sheltered my family.

Meanwhile Fritz prepared a good breakfast, and very soon I
saw with joy my wife leave the tent and look earnestly towards the
ship. Instantly we hoisted a piece of white linen in the air, and
received in reply a triple salute from the flag which we had placed
on the shore. As soon as we had finished breakfast, I said,

" Now, Fritz, I think we ought to 105e no time in getting away
from the vessel; but how are we to save the poor animals?"

" If we construct a raft, we might take them all," said Fritz.

" A raftis not so easy to make as you imagine, Fritz," I re-
plied ; " especially without proper materials." -

After a slight pause, Fritz exclaimed.

" Could we not fasten round the smaller animals the cork
girdles that we made for ourselves?"

But these girdles were too weak to support the larger animals,
and another plan suggested itself.

Four empty casks were found, which we fastened together with
a piece of. sail-cloth, not close to each other, but far enough apart
for the cloth to pass under the animal and support it, while the
casks hung on each side like panniers. These were placed under
the cow and the donkey, and the sail-cloth and the tubs fastened
by straps across their backs.

Round the horns of the cow and the neck of the ass was placed
a cord, with a piece of wood at the end, so that we might guide
them in the water.

For the sheep and the goat the cork girdles were found suffi-
cient. At last our task was completed ; and then came the difficulty
of launching our living freight into the sea;

 

- :...-W 5mm" ' . .u .
A LIVING FREIGHr: ' '39

We led them to the lower part of the ship, and made the first

- experiment by giving the donkey a push into the water. He fell

with great force, but recovered himself quickly, and began to swim
between his two casks with grace and ease.

The cow's turn came next, and as she was of far more value to
me than the ass, I confess I felt very anxious; but I pushed her in
gently, and with equal suceess.

We managed the smaller animals easily, excepting .ahe 60w,
who resisted furiously; and when at last she was forced into the
water, she swam so,quickly away from the boat, that to reach the
guiding string would have been impossible, so we were obliged to
leave her to her fate. i

After this we did not lose a moment, but detached our cables,
jumped into 'our boat, and commenced our voyage; towards the
shore with a favourable wind, which filled the little sail and carried

. us forward pleasantly. In fact, we found the assistance of the wind

of great service for the animals weighed heavily upon our little
skiff; and without the sail, rowing would have been hard work.

But our exertions in saving the poor animals from the wreck
would have been useless if the sharp cyes of Fritz had not discov--
ered in time a threatened danger.

" Good Heavens l" he exclaimed, all at once, " we are lost!
A monster fish is coming towards us 1" '

" Lost! How P" I cried, half angry, half alarmed.

But as Fritz seized his gun and loaded it, I saw the creature
approaching, and followed his example. .

" Be ready to fire," I said quickly, as the monster with light-
ning speed drew nearer, as if about to seize the nearest sheep. At
the same instant Fritz, who is a good marksman, fired, and both
balls entered the head of the monstrous shark, which immediately
plunged and disappeared. From time to time he rose to the sur-
face, while a. long track of blood on the water marked his course,
and convinced us that the shots had taken effect. .

I again seized the rudder, and as the wind blew favourably to--
wards the bay, I guided the little ship in that direction, and, after
a few turnings and windings, arrived at a spot from whence the
animals might beable to land easily. I set them free from the

ropes; and while I lowered the sail they scrambled on to the beach.

' No one was there to welcome us, which made me feel anxious.

But we had scarcely stepped on shore, when soundsof joy rang

, in our ears, 'and presently a little band came jumping and dancing
towards us, followed by their mother. '

 

THE SPIKE!) COLLARS.

After the first transports of joy at this happy reunion had
passed and we became calm, I began to describe some of our ex-
ploits and the success of our expedition. But to my wife the
greatest wonder appeared to be that we had managed to bring the '
animals.

" Fritz suggested the plan of bringing them on floats," I said.
-'>>' I must give him the credit .of that, '1'

I
Fritz and I had only been' able to release the cow from the
casks, therefore Jack found plenty of employment in taking off the
swimming-belts from the sheep and the goats. Presently, how-
ever, he spied the donkey with his tub panniers. These he tried
in vain to rename ; and finding it beyond his power, he jumped
upon the donkey's back in spite of the casks, and rode to meet us
in grand style, forcing the animal forward with his hands and heels.

. It was impossible .to help laughing at the singular spectacle ;
but'as I lifted the little man down, I felt still more amused. He
wore a belt covered with hair, in which was stuck a. pair of small
pistols. . '

" Where on earth did you find that smuggler's costume ?" I
asked, - '

" I made it myself, papa," he replied. " And look at the '
dogs." '
' I turned at the words, and-saw to my surprise that each of

them were a collar stuck full of nails with the points outward, and
forming an excellent shield against the attacks of wild beasts.

" Well," I said, " this is a clever invention, by boy. Is it
all your own?",

" Yes,~papa," said Jack. . " Mamma only helped me when
there-was something to sew."

" But where did you get the skin and the needle and thread P"

"I brought needles and thread in my bag from the ship,"
Said his mother ; " and the collars are made of the jackal's skin as
well as Jack's girdle."

Fritz felt rather annoyed at hearing that jack had cut up the
jackal's skin, but he concealed his displeasure as well as he could.

I then gave them another object of interest. I perceived that
my wife was making preparations for supper, and I whispered to
Fritz to fetch one of the Westphalia hams which still lay' in the tub.
I saw by the looks of the boys that they longed to ask questions ;
but as Fritz in a few minutes returned, there was a, general cry,

"Oh, what a. treat! A. ham! mamma, a ham! How nice it
looks !' '
" Ah 1" exclaimed my wife, " you must restrain your longing
till to-r'norrow ; it will be so much nicer when it is cooked. Besides,
Ihave a dozen eggs for supper which we found on our travels today,
_and Ernest thinks they are the eggs of a turtle.

"I am sure they are turtles' eggs," said Ernest, " for we
found them among the sands on the seashore."

"You are quite right, my boy," I said; as he placed them
before me.

" While your mother prepares our supper, we will go and look
after the animals. " _

At these words I rose, and the boys all followed me gladly.
Jack had succeeded in setting them all free, excepting the sow.
Ernest, however, called the dogs, and they seized her ears while we
removed the swimming girdle ; then we fetched a few knives, forks,
spoons, and plates, from the boat, and Returned to the tent.

Our repast proved delicious. Fried ham, cheese, biscuits, and
' a good omelette formed a splendid feast, and there was plenty to'
spare for the dogs, the sheep and goats, the chickens and pigeons,
who quickly assembled near us, to gather up what remained.

After supper, I sent Fritz to the boat for a bottle of canary
wine, from the case we had found in the captain's cabin ; and then
. I asked my wife to relate the adventures and discoveries made by
herself and the boys during the day.

" I need not say much about the occurrences of the first day of
your absence," said she, "for, in truth, I was too uneasy to com~
mence any undertaking with the boys, or to' leave our landing-
place. . _'
" This morning, however, I was on the beach early, and

noticed your signal that all was safe."

" All at once I thought, While my husband and son are work-
ing on the ship, cannot I and the boys try and explore the country?
and perhaps find a. more pleasant and shady spot on which to dwell.
I recalled your description of the beautiful fields and meadows
through which you had passed, and thought we could find the way

. by crossing the brook at the falls, as you had done.
fi'Having decided on this undertaking,'I told the boys, and
without delay we prepared for our journey. The boys collected and
prepared their guns; and provided themselves with ammunition, a.
cutlass, and an axe. I carried the provisions and watepflasks, as
well as a light gun. Thus armed, we started on our journey,
accompanied by the two dogs, and hopeful of success. Turk, who
had been with you, appeared to consider himself our guide, and in
a very short time we, reached the spot at which you crossed the
brook, and succeeded, though not without trouble, in reaching the
oppOsite bank.

" As we proceeded, I could not help reflecting that our safety
- rested in a great measure on two young boys, because they under--
stood the use of firearms.

" Presently we came upon a most beautiful and fertile spot.
The prospect on every side was glorious, and at a distance I could
discern what appeared to be a little wood, to which the way seemed
easy and straight before us ; but we presently found ourselves in the
midst of tall grass, as high as the boys' heads, through which it was
hard to pass.

' ' Suddenly a strange noise frightened us all, and in a moment
a large bird rose from the grass, and flew over our heads. But be-
fore the boys could' fire the bird was far away. .

" 'Oh, what a pity l' cried Ernest: 'if I had only had my
light gun, or if the bird had not flown so quickly, I would soon
have had him down.'

" ' Ah, yes,' I said; ' but a good marksman is always ready at
a moment's warning.' .

" .' It must have been an eagle, I think,' said little Frank ; " it
was so large.' .

" ' As if all large birds were eagles l' remarked Ernest, ' but
wemay as well examine the place from which the bird rose, and
discover what he was doing there. I think they are bustards.'

"Jack ran quickly to the spot, when suddenly another and
larger bird rose, with rustling wings, almost in his face, startling the
boy with its unexpected appearance. He looked so completely
struck dumb, *hat I could not help laughing. However, he quickly
recovered himself, and we all went together to the place. Here we
found a kind of large nest, made apparently of thick dry grass ; it
was empty, excepting a few broken egg-shells, from which, no
doubt, the young birds had not- long before escaped, and from the
agitation of the grass I had every reason to believe that the broou
were close at hand.

"While talking, we reached the grove of trees to which we
had directed our steps. A crowd of unknown birds seemed-to wel--
come us with their song, or flew round us gaily.

"But what wonderful trees they were in this grove! I have
never in my life seen such tall trees, and, far from being a wood, as '
I supposed, there were scarcely more than a dozen trees, but so leafy
at their summits, that at a distance they appeared like a forest.

" What astonished me, also, was that the trunks seemed to be
supported by a kind of buttress. Enormous roots appeared to have

' driven the thick stern out of the earth, and raised it to the skies.
However, it was firmly fixed in the ground, and where the roots
left it the thickness was immense.

" Jack climbed up one of the outer roots, and measured the
stem with-a piece of string; Its circumference was about eighteen
feet , the height of the tree, from the ground to the summit, might
be about sixty yards. The leaves were large and full, and the
spreading branches formed a delightful shade.

 

"The form of the leaf was like that of .our nut~tr'ees, but I . _

could discover no fruit. The grass growing round the roots is thick
and green, and there are no signs of thorns or underwood, so that
altogether this grove of trees forms a. delightful resting--place. So
much did it please us, that we determined to stay there in the cool
shade, and rest in this palace of the greenwood, while we enjoyed _
our midday meal. .

" I could not comtemplate the richness and beauty of this
lovely spot without the idea arising in my mind, that if we were -
able-to establish ourselves on one of these trees, we should be in
perfect safetyf . '

~ . "On our way home, I discovered by what means the hunger
of the dogs had been appeased 5 they were catching terabs in the11m Mum: TH E RRIDGR.
46 - _ - SWISS-FAWIIZI' ROBINSON.

shallow water near the shore, and separating the shells with their
paws, while they eagerly devoured their contents.

. " Presently, we saw Floss scratching out from the sand some--
thing round, and swallowing it with avidity. Ernest, who was
nearer to the dog, guessed what it was in a moment. -

" ' It is the egg of a turtle,' he exclaimed; 'and I dare say
there are 1nore.-' '

" It cost some trouble to drive away the animal, but we suc-

' ceeded at last in rescuing a. dozen eggs, which we placed carefully
in our provision bag. .

"At this moment I glanced towards the sea, and saw a little
sail rapidly approaching the shore. Ernest said it was his father
and Fritz in the boat. _

" Frank was afraid it would contain savages, who might land
and eat us up. At last I perceived that Ernest was right, and then
we all turned to run round the rocks hastily, and soon found ourselves
in each other's arms."

While listening to this recital'night came on, and it was time
for us to seek repose in sleep, after the fatigues of the day.

We arranged ourselves once more in our places as usual, but
with much greater comfort, upon the mattresses, and under the soft
woollen coverlers, I had brought from the wreck.

CHAPTER v11.
BRIDG Isl-BUILDING.

Next morning my wife and I rose early to talk over the changes
we were about to make. In fact, I hesitated to decide, for to make
a dwelling upon a high tree in a grove seemed impossible.

" I think there is nothing absurd in my idea," she said. " At
all events, may we are not safe at night from the visits of the jackals,
or other similar customers; and I know that in our Fatherland I
once saw a linden tree, on which persons c0u1d ascend by a stair-
case to a pretty little bower, with a suitable floor between the
branches. Why could we not have something of the same sort, and
make a sleeping place in the trees of the grove? "

"I begin to think you are right, dear wife, for if all that now
remains of the wreck should be lost by the destruction of the vessel,
we might at least have a convenient place to reside in, and fertile
ground to cultivate. The rocks which surround it will serve as a
protection. . But let us wait, at least till we have brought from the
wreck all the useful things we can."

" I do not think it is necessary to wait for that, " said my wife ;
" you do not know what we suffer here from the heat of the sun,
while you are on the sea."

" Your earnestness makes you eloquent, dear 'wife," I said,
" but you forget that we cannot take our cattle and our possessions
to the opposite shore, without building a. bridge. "

" Then we must wait for ever," she replied, " if we wait for
that. I thought it would be easy for the ass and the cow to carry
what we most needed across the river, and bring the other things
by degrees."

f' We should have to do this even with a bridge," I remarked. -
" land the boys, however, will commence at once to construct a
wooden bridge if you will prepare bags and packing-cases for our
expedition. ' '

The boys were quickly aroused,- and on hearing the plan of
bridge-building, were full of eager delight.

Meanwhile I prepared our boat for ayoyage to the ship, to
obtain planks and beams for building the bridge.

On reaching the shore, I saw with joy that a number of planks
and beams had been loosened from the wreck, and cast on the sands
by the waves, which would spare me the trouble I anticipated of
seeking them on the vessel. I immediately determined to choose _
those most'suitable for building our bridge, haul them in by means of
a boat-hook, and attach them to our little skiff in the form of a float
by ropes. Q

We again put to sea with our floating cargo, and with the wind
in our favour.
We were now approaching the shore ; I lowered the sail, and
presently we lay alongside the old spot, having returned in less than
four hours from the time we started. We were not expected, there-
fore none of our dear ones were there to welcome us. However,
we raised our voices, and the sound was echoed back from the rocks
in every direction. Very soon the mother and her two boys came
running towards us in surprise at our speedy return. They each
carried a large and well-filled pocket handkerchief, and Frank
dragged after him a fishing net attached to a long wooden rod. '

When they reached us, Jack opened his handkerchief, allowing
to {all on the ground before our eyes a number of magnificent fresh-
water crabs. ' '

The mother and Frank followed his example, and there they
lay in a sprawling heap. '

- " Who discovered them ?" I asked; "jack, I suppose it was
you ?' '

" No, papa, it was our little Frank that performed this eXploit.
I will tell you how it happened. While mamma was sewing, he
A discovered them in the water. Mamma brought a fishing net, but
we took as many in our hands as by the net, without any difficulty,
and if you had not called us we could have taken many more."_

"There are quite enough, Jack," I replied. " Let us thank
God that He has not only given us what is necessary, but enough
and to spare. " -

After relating our own adventures, I and the elder boys went
to the shore to bring away the floating planks and beams.

I suddenly remembered the plan adopted by the Laplanders.
with the reindeer who draw the sledges, and- I was determined to
try it. I placed a cord round the horns of the cow and the neck
of the ass, and then passed it between their legs, and fastened the
end to a beam firmly. In this way we not only brought piece after.
piece on shore, but were able also to drag them to the spot chosen
by Jack as the mast suitable for the bridge, and, indeed, so it ap-
peared.

While examining the spot, a question suggested itself.

" Boys," I said, '.' suppose our beams should not be longfinance--B UILDING. . 49

enough to reach to the other side--the eye cannot measure the dis--
tance exactly--what shall we do ?"

" Could we not tie a. stone to one end of a string, and thr0w
it across the river?" said Ernest.

"An excellent idea, Ernest," I replied,- "run, jack, and
{etch the packthread." .

Jack quickly returned, and by the contrivance suggested by
Ernest, we soon discovered that'the distance from one side of the
river to the other was eighteen feet.

It appeared, therefore, quite necessary that the beams should
have three additional feet resting on each shore, and this would
require the under one, at least, to meaSnre twenty--four feet. Hal>>
*'pily, we found more than one which exceeded this length, and fully
answered Our expectations.

_ ' ' But how could we throw such long and heavy pieces of wood
across the Water ?"

While considering the subject the dinner hour arrived, and
finding nothing more could be clone, we returned to the tent.

Our good housekeeper had prepared for us a dish of crabs,
which was very tempting. But before we commenced dinner, she
wished to show me the needlework which had employed her the
whole morning. ' '

She produced two immense bags, which she had made out of a
piece of sail>>cloth, and sewn with packthread.

" I had no needle large enough to hold the thread," said the
mother, "so I contrived to sew with a nail, and by patience and
perseverance I have finished these travelling bags. They will hang
across the donkey's back like panniers, and contain a great". quantity
of articles, when we change our home."

I praised my dear wife for her ingenuity, and then we all
seated ourselves to partake of the dinner.

It was passed over as quickly as usual, for we had no- time to
lose, and then I and the b0y5 returned to work. As we approached
the spot, a plan suggested itself which got us out of all our diffi--
culties. -

4
, I first placed a beam behind the trunk of a tree, to which I
fastened it at about four or five feet above the ground with a strong
cord ; tothe other end of the cord I tied a stone, and throwing it
across the river, I- waded through the water after it. To a tree on
the opposite bank I adjusted a pulley, over which I threw the cord,
and returned with the end in my hand. \

To this end I tied the ropes which were round the necks
of the cow and the ass, then passing the beam round to the
front of the tree, I led the animals away from the water. As they
moved slowly forward the beam rose gently, and then sank gradu-
ally, guided by the pulley, till the end rested on the opposite bank.

No sooner was this accomplished, than Fritz and jack sprang
boldly on the beam, and danced lightly and rapidly across the new
bridge. I trembled as I saw them, but I refrained from uttering a
word of caution, lest they should fall from sudden fear.

Now the first beam was laid, the difficulties of the work were
greatly removed. The second and third, and fourth soon follmved,
and the foundation of our bridge lay ready befOre our eyes. ..

We then cut a number of planks, of about eight or nine feet '
long, to place across the breadth of the bridge, but I did not nail
them down firmly, as I wished to be able to remove them from the
bridge quickly in case of danger, to prevent the passageof enemies,
whether men or wild beasts.

It now seemed in every point perfect : the supports were firm,
and the passage across complete. I brought my wife to see it, and
she was astonished that we had accomplished the difficult piece of
work so rapidly.

But the great exertion necessary had exhausted our strength,
and as evening approached, we were glad to return to the tent and
seek the refreshment and repose which we so greatly needed. Once
more we knelt to offer our evening prayer, and to thank God for
His merciful care of us during the day. '
THE IOURNEY TO THE WONDERFUL TREES.

0n waking the next morning my first thought was to warn my
children of the danger they w0uld incur if they crossed the bridge
carelessly, as they had done on the preceding night. ' '

" And you must remember," I said, "it is necessary to be on
our guard, and keep close tOgether in case of danger or attack "

      

3'; N. "-

,
"wizsaaw. ; 2:>>-

THE PORCUPINE.

Our firstact was to load the ass and the cow with the travelling
bags containing our provisions, our tools, cooking utensils, and
other-useful things. At last I was-about to add some hammocks
and bed coverings to the donkey's load, when I was suddenly
checked by my wife, who said,
" We must not leave the chickens and pigeons alone here al.
night, or there will be an end of them. Besides, I hoped that you
would find room for little Frank on the donkey's back." ,

Fortunately I had left a Space between the two sacks which the '
ass carried, so I placed him on the donkey.

In the meantime the boys had been endeavouring to collect the

fowls and thepigeons by driving them into one spot. But all in

vain.
" Leave them to me! " exclaimed the mother ; " I will show

' you what to do. " -

- At these words she called the chickens to her in coaxing tones,
throwing from" her apron a few grains of peas and crumbs of bis-
cuits. They all came round her quickly; and still scattering peas
and barley, she attracted them nearer the tent. The rest of the
corn she threw into the entrance ; and as they rushed in, it was easy
work to close the tent and make them prisoners. _

Fritz and Itied their legs together and placed them in pan-
niers on the back of the cow.

All the articles we left were placed within the tent and the en--
trance carefully closed. .

To make it more secure we barricaded it with the full and
empty casks that remained.

I then arranged our little party for the journey. We were all
well armed, young and old, and full of spirits. '

Fritz marched at the head of our procession with his mother,'
followed by the cow and the ass and his cavalier, little Frank. T he
goats, led by Jack, formed the third detachment, the little monkey
looking droll on the back of his foster mother. Ernest followed
with the sheep, and Iwalked last as the rear guard. The dogs
rushed here and there as our adjutants.

As the procession moved on slowly, Ernest remarked, .

" Papa, I think this is a delightful way of travelling, and it is
new to us. Are there not peOple who always travel in this manner ?'

"Yes," I replied ;. " even now the people of Tartary, Arabia,
and other tribes follow this sort of life, and are called nomadic races.
But for my part, I shall be glad when our wanderings are over."\

 

A FORMID$BLE ENEMY.'
Thus conversing, we arrived at the bridge, and at this point
the sow joined our procession, and we all happily crossed the bridge
together without accident.

We had scarcely proceeded any distance when the dogs sud~
denly started forward and disappeared in .the thick- grass ; and
presently their furious barking became mixed with howls of pain,

as if they were wounded and struggling with some wild beast.
' Fritz hastily advanced. to the spot with his gun raised and his

finger on the trigger; Jack followed him fearlessly, carrying his
' pocket pistol in his hand ; while Ernest, who was nervous and timid,
rah behind his mother, yet making ready to fire in case of danger.
I felt the necessity of being cautious, and followed the boys anx-
iously with my gun in readiness. The boys reached the spot before
me, and the next moment Jack cried out,

" Papa, come quick! It is a. large porcupine ! Such an enor-
' mous beast ! Make haste l" . - >

I saw as I hastily approached that he was right, and that the
dogs still continued the attack. .

Jack, without thought of consequences, at once drew his pocket

pistol from his belt, took aim at the head so correctly, that the

creature fell dead at our feet.

A shout of joy from the boys at this removal of their alarming
enemy followed Jack's exploit, and, tying his pocket handkerchief
round the neck of the dead porcupine,-he dragged it by the ends to
his mother. . .

" Look, mamma l" he cried; " isn't this a beautiful'prize? I
killed it myself with my pocket pistol; and it will be useful, for
papa says the flesh is'good to eat."

After this we collected the animals and proceeded again on
our journey. .

- We arrived at last without further incident in safety at the
" Promised Land," as the boys called it.

" " Oh, what magnificent trees 1'.' exclaimed Ernest. '_' And look

at their height 1" . _

" Indeed, they are magnificent !" I cried. " Ihave never
even imagined the existence of such trees ! I own, dear wife, that-CAT'
\

in

mg no
this is a wonderful place. If we can climb these trees, and estab-
lish ourselves upon them, we may feel perfectly secure against any
wild animals. _ -

We immediately commenced releasing the animals of their
load, and setting them free, to feed with the sheep and goats. Their
fo'relegs were tied loosely together with cords, that they might not
wander far from the spot. The sow we left to do as she pleased. ._

As to the fowls and pigeons, they were at once set at liberty,
to their great relief. We then seated ourselves to rest on the soft
green turf, and to consult on our future dwelling--place.

While discussing the subject with my wife, Fritz had wandered
out of sight, and suddenly we heard the report of a gun just behind us,

then a second report, and, in a few moments he reappeared, carry- .

ing by its hind legs an enormous tiger-cat, which he held up before
us all proudly. . '

' , " Bravo, Master Sportsman l" I cried; " you have rendered
good service to our {owls and pigeons: your friend there Would
have made sad havoc in our farm-yard this night, if you had 'not
demolished him.

But, Fritz, now tell me how you managed to kill this beast of
prey, and where you found him." '

"I saw a movement first among the foliage of a tree. I went
quietly and stood at the foot, and there, on a branch, Isaw this
monster. The first shot brought him to my feet, but he was not
dead, and as he tried to rise I fired a second time, and he moved
no more." '

"You may think yourself fortunate," I said; " that the crea--
ture did not fly at you after the first shot. ' I think the one you
just killed is a species of tiger--cat very common at the Cape
of Good Hope and in' South America, and so voracious, that
even our sheep and goats would not be safe against such a formid--
able enemy.". , --

"Well, papa," said Fritz, "can we not make use of this
beautiful skin ?"

" Indeed you can," I replied,- " if you strip off the skin care--
fully, excepting from the legs; of these you can make cases for._..,....<-....._...,...-.. my..." _,....

 

   

A 'NIGHT'S LODGING.' ' ' 57

knives, forks, and spoons, and of the tail a hunting-belt to carry
your pistols." '

After this the young people gave me no test till I had shown.
them how to remove the skin from the wild cat and the porcupine
without injuring it. '

Meanwhile Ernest and little Frank were busily employed, one
in gathering stones to make a cooking place for their mother, and
the other in collecting dry branches of trees for a fire.

I had divided the porcupine into halves ; one to be eaten
fresh, the other salted. The flesh of the tiger--cat we gave to the
dogs. Until dinner time I employed myself in planning our future
dwelling. I tied stones to the ends of pieces of rape, and tried to
throw them over the lower branches. The boys also exerted them- .
selves, but we were too tired to succeed. It seemed impossible,
therefore, to establish our dwelling in the tree on that day, and,
after marking the spot with a heap of stones, gave up the idea.
Very soon my wife called 'us to dinner. We truly enjoyed the ex-
cellent soup, and the flesh of the porcupine she had boiled for us,
with biscuits as a substitute for bread.

CHAPTER IX.

A mom's LODGING.

After dinner I asked my wife to make a harness for the ani-
mals, that they might bring wood and beams from the beach the
next day.

She set herself to work immediately, with the needles I had
fashioned from the porcupine's quills, to make what I required.
Meanwhile I fastened the hammocks to the arched roots of the tree
I had chosen, and stretched over them a large piece of sail-cloth, to
protect us from the night dews. And then, satisfied that we should
at least have a shelter for the night, I hastened with Fritz and58 - SWISS fiAMJLV ROBAVS'OM '_ ' ' . ,

Ernest t6 the beach, hoping to discover some suitable materials with
which to construct a rope ladder.

 

FLAMINGOES.

5' . The shore was strewn with beams and planks fromthe wreck ;
but these were too large and heavy fo'r my purpose. Ernest sud-
denly'discovered a number of bamboo canes, half buried in mud
and sand. _ -

With the help of the boys Ijoyfully disinterred the useful reeds,
and after scraping and cleaning them, found to my great satisfaction
that they would fully anSWer my purpose. .

I then cut them into lengths of about four or five feet each, and
tied them into three bundles of equalthickness, for myself and the
boys to carry. I chose also a. few thinner canes, of which I intended
to make arrows for another purpose.

_ At a little distance .from this spot I saw a thick bush of green
reeds, which was what I wanted. '

As we approached the marsh, Floss suddenly started forward
as if she were mad, barkingfuriously amid the reeds. The next
moment a flock of superb flamingoes, which Floss had put to flight,
rose in the air with rushing wings above our heads.

Fritz, always alert and on his guard, instantly raised his gun and'
fired, bringing down two of the hindmost. One of them fell dead
at a little distance, but the other, which was only slightly wounded
in the wing, rose quickly, and used his long legs as if he were on
stilts with the greatest swiftness. '

I followed the wounded bird softly but as quickly as possible ;
yet I' should have failedto overtake him had not Floss rushed for-
ward, and seizing the bird by the wing, held it firmly till I came up
to them. ' '

The flamingo fought bravely for his life, beating me with his
wings with great force ; and it was only after a struggle that I sue-
ceeding in mastering him. . '

1 took him gently under my. arm, and returned to the place
where I had left the boys. .

thile gathering the reeds, I remembered that the savage nations
used them particularly for pointed arrows ; yet the larger ones might
prove useful in another way. I therefore cut a few of the longest
I could find, saying, .

" We shall be able to measure the height of the trees with these,
my boys."

Presently we arrived at our resting place, laden with the canes
and our booty, and were received by Jack and Frank with outcries '
of delight, especially when they espied the living flamingo The
mother only did not share in their' Joy.

" I fear," she said,' 'that with so many living animals we shall
find our supply of food for them quickly disappear."

I did not reply, for I was anxious to examine the wounds of
the poor flamingo.

I managed to anoint the wounds with butter, and after binding
them carefully with pieces of old linen, I fixed a stake firmly' 111' the
ground near the river, and tied the bird's leg to it by a rope long
enough for him to reach the water, then I left him to his fate.

By this time the boys were impatient for me to commence my
measurement of the tree, even while with youthful jokes they
laughed at the idea of my success.

I seated myself on the grass, and hastily formed a bow with one
of the bamboo canes and a strong cord, and half a dozen arrows
from the pointed reeds. As they appeared too light, I filled the
hollow canes with wet sand, and attached feathers of the flamingo
. to the lower end, so that the arrow might fly straight in the air.
When this was ready, I felt with satisfaction that my purpose was
accomplished.

The appearance of the bow and arrow brought all the young
people round me, exclaiming in joyful accents,

"Oh! abowl abow and arrows! What are you going to
do, papa? Oh! let me shoot,'and me, and me!"

" Patience, my children 1" I cried ; "this time I must take the
precedence; besides, it is work, and not intended for amusement,
but use. Ask your mother if she has a strong coaise string to give
us."

In a few moments my wife appeared with a whole skein of
strong thread. I took an arrow and fastened it to one end of the
skein of thread, which the boys unwound, and, placing it on the
how, after one or two trials I sent it towards the tree in such a
direction that the arrow passed over one of the branches and fell on
the other side, carrying the string with it, and leaving it suspended
in the air. '
Carefully holding the end of the string, I fastened a rope to it
and passed it over the branch. The two ends I nailed to the trunk,
to keep it from slipping off while we constructed our rope ladder.

First I cut off a. length of about a hundred feet from the rope,
and divided it into portions of fifty feet each. These I laid side by
side on the ground at about six inches apart, the boys eagerly assisting
me. Fritz cut the bamboo canes into equal lengths of two feet

 

PIGEON.

each,'Ern%t brought them to me, I placed them between the two
ropes, fastened them tightly at each end, and then drove a mi;
through the fastening, to keep them from slipping; and thus we
completed a rope ladder.

I then attached it to one end of the cord which hung over the
branch, and drew it up till the top of the ladder reached the bough
and hung suspended from the tree.
c,

 

 

Each of them wished to mount first,. but I- chose Jack, as
being the lightest of the three elder ones, and the most agile.

The youngster scrambled up as swiftly as a cat, and reached
the top in safety. -

_1 now believed that Fritz might venture; and when he also
reached the top and made the ladder fast to the tree, I resolved to
follow him myself and arrange what was still necessary. I took
with me a pulley, and, by means of a strong cord, I fastened it to
the highest branch I could reach. 'lh1s I knew would enable me
next day to draw up the beams and planks which I might require.
1 descended the ladder, satisfied with my success and full of confi-
dence in the future. -

Presently I called Fritz and Jack to come down and help me
collect the animals and to gather wood for the fire to burn all night
and protect us from the wild beasts.

They descended quickly; and after I had fastened the lower end
or the ladder to one ot the roots, we attended to the wants of the
animals and the poultry, who were assembled xound us asking for _
food. After they had eaten a good suppe1,1 was pleased to see the
poultry and pigeons perch themselves to roost on the rungs of our
ladder, and the four footed beasts creep under the arched roots of
the tree, near our hammocks, and lay themselves down, peifectly
free from care.

' By the time all this was finished my wife announced that sup-
_per was ready.

The bOys brought in a supply of figs, which they had Picked '
'up during the day, and these lormed an excellent dessert.

At last, after a short prayer, I sent my wife and the children
to their hammocks, which hung from the arched roots.

Then I lighted the wood which lay around us, and prepared to
watch the fire all night. Presently fromthe hammocks came sounds'
of murmuring and woe. I inquired the cause, and was told that to
lie in a hammock was like being in a sack--they could neither move

hand nor foot, and that it was dreadful.

I laughed at their complaints, and told them how to place
themselvesD m01e comfortably..-
)
1
r'
1'
'1
a,

 

A NIGHTS LODGING. - 63

Towards morning, sleep overpowered me so completely, that I
did not awake till late' in the day, and found that my ivife and the
boys were busily employed in preparing breakfast.
_ On descending from my hammock, I found that my wife had
harnessed the ass with the straps she had made the day previous, as
she intended to fetch the planks and beams for erecting our house

in the tree.

She propOSed to take the younger boys, Ernest, jack, and
Frank with her for this purpose. '

' Fritz- and I ascended the tree, and found that the centre of the
trunk from which the curving branches sprang, was in every way
suitable for our purpose. These branches were strong, thick, and
close together, and near the trunk, before they bent downwards, al--
most horizontal for a considerable length ;'I decided, therefore, to

use these as beams for a flooring. .
On the upper branches, at about five or six feet above us, I"

determined to hang our hammocks, and 0\ er these a little higher -
up to stretch a large piece of sail-- cloth as a ceiling and roof for our '
aerial castle.

The space between the sail-cloth and the floor I cleared by cut-
ting away branches that grew across it, and by the time my wife and
the boys returned with their first load, everything was in readiness.

By means of a pulley and a rope which .I had fastened to a
branchy the night before, we were able to draw up piece by piece the
wood Suitableo for our flooring.

To make it secure I placed double planks, and when this Was
completed, Fritz. and I erected, with pieces of wood of abOut three.
feet long, a hand- rail all round it, forming an enclosure which al-
ready appemed like a room, though is ithout as yet walls or ceiling,
excepting those formed by the foliage of the tree

The whole morning was occupied in this work; my Wife and

the boys having 111 theb meantime brought up three loads of "planks

   

and beams from the beach.
After a. slight repast we returned to our work 111- the tree, and,
slinging up the hammocks on the branches, prepared to raise the
sail- cloth over all as a ceiling. 'Ihis was a far more difficult task,THE HOUSE DI TEE Tm-5

 

 

A MGHT'S ZODGING. 65'

and but for. the help of the pulley, which we had to move for the
purpose, would never have been accomplished.

' At length, to our great joy, we succeeded, and managed to
draw it over the upper branches ; and then, by fastening the corners
to our hand-rail on three sides, we were able to leave the fourth side
uncovered as a means of entrance and'light ; and thus before sunset
this wonderful resting-place in the tree was completed to our great
satisfaction. , .

. We found several small planks which I thought would be suit-
able for a table and two benches, and I at once set to work, and by
nailing the planks on the highest parts of the roots for a table, and
on the lower curves for benches, I succeeded in forming a most
useful addition to our arrangements.

When we had finished our supper, the boys lighted a fire
round our tree, to protect not only ourselves, but the animals, who
again sought shelter under the roots. Indeed, We were all ready
for sleep and rest. The elder boys ascended the ladder with light-
ning speed. Their mother followed slowly and not without some
fear, but she arrived safely at last.

Little Frank still remained ; and after unfastening the lower end
of the rope ladder from the roots, that I might draw it up after me,
I ,took the little one on my back and prepared to ascend.

Our double weight caused the unfastened ladder to swing
slightly in the air, and rendered the ascent difficult. '

I laid myself to! rest in peace; indeed, we were all so fatigued,
that in a very few minutes we were sleeping sweetly in our ham-
mocks, and did not wake till the sun was high in the heavens.

(After such a. night of refreshing sleep the boys arose full of

' spirits, and inquired eagerly,

"What are we going to do to-day, papa?" ,

" Nothing, my boys; not a single stroke of work."

"Ah, dear papa, you are joking!" cried one. "You are
making fun of us I"

"No, children," I replied, "I am not joking; it is Sunday
to--day, and we will keep it properly. And now let us consider

' seriously what we are about to do. First we,will sing a hymn and

5
ofier our morning prayers, and then I will relate to you a parable."

" A parable l Oh, a parable from the Bible, papa ?"

" My boys, we have not a Bible, yet : but I hope in my next
visit to the ship to bring- away a box of books from the captain's
cabin, and no doubt a Bible is among them.' '

As I knelt to offer our prayers and thanksgivings to God for
His merciful .care, the boys followed my example in silence.

Then we sang one or two hymns which we all knew by heart ;
and my wife and the boys seating themselves on the ground beneath
our tree, I related to' them my parable.

I paused as I finished my parable, and a short earnest prayer,
I closed the services of this our new Sunday worship.

. " I soon noticed that the young people were unsettted, and at
a loss for employment; I called them round me, and told them they
might employ the rest of the day in innocent recreations. They
were at liberty, therefore, to choose their own favourite occupa-
tions. Little Frank came to me at once with a request that, as he
was not allowed to have a gun, he might try to sheet with a bow
and arrow, and asked me to make a little one for him.

I could not refuse him, but first I had to grant Jack permis-
sion to let him try to use my large bow, and also to fix on the tips
of the arrows some porcupinc's quills and points.

While thus employed I reflected on the advantage it would be
to my sons if they were able while young to use weapons, for sooner
or later our powder might fail, and then our means of obtaining
food in one way would be lost.

_ CHAPTER X.
rm: VISIT '1'0.TENT nousaw--rna SLEDGE.

While waiting for dinner, Jack was eagerly trying his bow and
arrows, and shooting in every direction. I had already completed V
a-small bow and arrows for little Frank, but when I hoped to be.(\

THE VISIT T0 TENT'HUUSE--THE SLEDGE. 67

able to rest, he came to. me with an earnest request that I would
also make him a. quiver.
"You know, papa," said the little man, " it is quite as proper

to have a quiver for the anews, as a. powder and shot-pouch for a.
gun."

   

\,

JACK \VAS EAGERLY TRYING HIS BO"! AND ARROWS.

I gave way to his wish, and stripping some flexible bark from
the branch of a tree, Iglued it together in the form of a quiver,
which I hung across his shoulder, to his great delight.

When I had finished this, Fritz appeared with his tiger--cat's
skin and another inquiry 5 but at this moment the mother called us
to dinner, the boys gladly threw aside their various employments,
to seat themselves at the table. During the meal I made a propo~
sition which I thought would be quite to their taste. " My boys,"
I said, '-' after dinner is over would it not be very convenient if
we were to give names suitable to the diHererit spots we have visited
since we landed here? And in time, we may fancy ourselves in
a country well inhabited, and in places which we have known for a
long time. "

" Oh I' ' cried Jack, " what a capital plan ! where shall we
begin? at the bay in which we first landed ?"

"That should be named 'Oyster Bay,' " cried Fritz : " don't
you remember the quantity of oysters we found P"

" No," said Jack, ' Crab's Bay' would be the best, because
one caught hold of my leg while we were there." '

" I think," said his mother, " we ought to prove our thankful-
ness to God for saving us by calling it Deliverance Bay."

This name was highly approved of by all, and then I proposed
that our first resting-place should be called Tent Home. The isle
at the entrance to the bay was to be named Shane's lrlwzd; and the
marsh where Fritz had killed a flamingo Flamingo Marsh.

"' And now," I asked, " what title shall we give to our aerial
castle P ' '

Many names were proposed, but mine at last set all others
aside. I decided that Falmn': Next was far the most appropriate,
as well as being a poetical name.

It was easy to give names to the remaining places after this.
The promontory on which Fritz and I looked in vain for our fellow
passengers we named False 110;): Point, and the river near our tent
home jar/5:11 River.

After this arrangement was completed, dinner being ended, we
each returned to our work. While Fritz proceeded to finish his
skin case, Jack came to ask my assistance in making a coat of mail
for Turk out of the skin of the porcupine.

- I first showed him how to clean it with sand and ashes, then I
assisted him in cutting out and forming bands of the prickly skin.
The inner side, while only half dry, was placed on the back of the
patient Turk, and fastened round his body 3 and in such armour 'it
seemed as if not even a hyaena would be able to overpower him.

jack decided. to make a. cap for himself out of the porcupine's
skin, as well as Floss's coat of mail ,- so be stretched the remainder
over the roots of the tree to dry, that it might be ready when he
had leisure to use it in making these articles.

Meanwhile Ernest and Frank were busy with their bows and
arrows, and becoming quite expert, sometimes assisted by Fritz and
Jack ,- but as the afternoon passed away, and the heat became less
oppressive, I invited my family to accompany me in a walk.

' " Which road shall we take ?" I asked.

"To Tent House, I think," said my wife, "for we need a
fresh stock of provisions." _ '

' 'Ah, yes! " said Ernest ; " and if we could manage-to bring
over a few ducks and geese from the brook, that would be capital l"

" Your reasons are of importance," I said, " so we will turn
our steps towards Tent House ; not by the beach, however: we
must try to find a new route in the shadow ,of the ridge of rocks
which borders our river. We shall then be shaded from the sun
till we reach the point at which the Jackal Brook falls over the
pebbles in its course, and that is not far from Tent House. Itwill be
nearly sunset on our return, and we can cross the bridge and come
back by the old road on the beach. .

Our walk by the brook proved most unusually agreeable. Dur-
ing the whole route we enjoyed the pleasant shade from large trees
in full foliage, or from the ridge of rocks which extended for a long
distance between the beach and the stream. The soft grass under
our feet formed a far more pleasant path than the pebbles and sand
of the shore. Altogether the place was so attractive, that my wife
and I did not hurry ourselves, but sauntered along at our ease,
while the boys rambled hither and thither in search of new discov-
eries. Before long I saw them approaching at full gallop, Ernest
arrived first, but gasping for breath and unable to utter a word for
a few moments.

" Papa l" he cried at last, when he reco'vered his voice,
" look ! potatoes! potatoes 1" "
" What ! what, my 'boy ?" I exclaimed: " that is too goon;
news to be true, I fear."

"I know they are potatOes, papa," said Fritz confidently;
" and Ernest has been very lucky to discover such a valuable plant
for us. "

" Let us go to the spot in which Ernest has found these bulbs, "
I said. - -

And with eager haste the boys led us to the place. A few
_ moments served to convince me of the joyful fact that a little forest
of potato plants in full flower lay at our feet. - -

" Oh I" cried Jack, "I knew they were potatoes ! Oh l what
a treat for us !"

And as he spoke he rushed forward, and kneeling down, began
to scrape away the earth and dig the roots up with his hands.
Master Monkey instantly sprang upon the ground and followed his
example ,4 but he scraped and dug more quickly and cleverly than
Jack, for he picked out the most beautiful and the ripest, and after
smelling each he threw it aside, so that in a very short time quite a
large heap of potatoes had been gathered up, and our sack and
game bag were as full as possible of the valuable vegetable.

_ Ernest proposed that we shOuld at once return to Falcon's _
Nest, for two reasons: first, because the potatoes were a heavy load;
and secondly, that we might cook them for supper, and have a. feast.
But I reminded him that there existed stillstronger reasons that we
should go on. So we continued our walk pleasantly and in good
spirits, in spite of the heavy load. ' _ '

We walked on and at last a beautiful prospect lay before us,
very different from anything we had hitherto seen"

There were tropical plants of all descriptions, prickly shrubs '
and flowers of every hue, which could only be reared in hothouses _
at home: the Indian fig, the aloe, crested with white blossoms, the
tall stately cactus, with its prickly leaf and amber flowers, the creep-
ing plants winding their tendrils over every stem, and spreading
perfume around us from their many-coloured blossoms.

But above all we were delighted to find fruit trees, and amongz-"

._ . THE VISIT 7'0 TENT "011515-- 71113 SLEDGE. 7:

others, to our great joy, the royal anana or pineapple, which has
been named the king of fruits.

- " Presently I discovered among the various prieltly-leaved plants
.a karatas, a kind of aloe, partly in bloom, but chiefly covered uith
young shoots. The plant was to me a welcome sight.

" See, boys," I called out; "this is a much more valuable
discovery than the pineapple. The under foliage of this plant re-
sembles it, but the stem is far more elegant: observe how slender
and upright it grows, and then what a beautiful blossom ! "

" I am glad to be able toinform your mother that when she
wishes to mend our clothes, I can supply her with thread."

" Ah! indeed that will be a treasure to me," said my wife.

 

CDCHINEAL INSECTS.

"Your trouble will be over now," I said, " for in the leaf of
the karata is found all that you require."

With this I split a leaf in her presence, and drew out a quan-
tity of very strong yet beautifully fine thread ; certainly not longer
than the leaf, yet still long enough to form a necdleful. " You see,
children, it is not safe to judge by appearances. The aloe, which
you despised, proves far more useful than the dainty pineapples,
which only tickle the palate." '

" Yes," cried Ernest, " I'll own that now ; but what is the use
of all the other prickly plants that grow here in such abundance P"

" They are all useful in some Way, no doubt." I replied, "al-
though we may not understand how. ,T hat plantain is a. most
valuable tree. It bears a species of fig, which in climates like this
is very wholesome and refreshing. "
Meanwhile Jack, who held a. fig on the point of his knife, was
turning it round in every direction and examining it attentively.

" Papa," he said at last, " there are such a lot of little insects
crawling about on this fig, quite at their case, and they are as red
as bl.ood "

" Let me look at them," I exclaimed. "Why, my boy, they
are cochineal, most truly and surely."

" But what are cochineal ?" he asked.

" Insects that live on the leaf of this plant, which contains red
sap, or on the blood-red berries, from which it obtains that bright
red colour. They are collected principally in America, where
people shake them from the trees into a cloth; they are then dried,
packed together, and form a very important part of the colour trade,
as from these insects is produced the richest and most beautiful

. scarlet.

' While thus talking we reached the shallow part of Jackal River,
and stepping cautiously over the pebbles, soon arrived at our tent

Everything remained as we had left it, and in a Very few minutes
we set about the 'biIsinees which had brought us to the spot.

A whistle and a call from me quickly assembled our party, and
we tool: the road to Falcon's Nest.

As soon as we arrived the mother, without delay, prepared to
light a fire and cook the longed-for potatoes.

At length the much--praised and delicious potato supper was
ready, and we enjoyed it quite as much as we had anticipated.
After supper, not without heartfelt thanks to God for His mercies,
we retired, fatigued and sleepy, to our airy castle, and enjoyed
refreshing rest and repose till the morning.

-- I had noticed on the way home many things lying or; the
strand which had been washed in from the wreck, especially some
pieces of curved wood, which appeared to me suitable to form a
sledge, which would enable us to bring the butter-cask and other
articles>> to Falcon's Nest with ease. I immediately resolved to rise
early next morning, proceed to the shore, and bring away whatever
appeared useful for that purpose. .

At dawn I awoke, and roused Ernest, who rose hastily , and
in a very short time we descended from the tree, unnoticed by the
happy sleepers whom we left behind.

I decided to take the ass with us; so I cut down a strong
branch of a tree and fastened it to him by ropes, and we set ofi"
toward the shore.

We soon came upon the spot on which lay the curved wood. '
Very quickly-these boards were laid on the branch of the tree
brought by the ass, while the smaller twigs which grew from it
served to prevent the wood from slipping. -

As another means for this purpose we placed upon it a sea-
ehest, which lay half-buried in the sand, and then turned our steps-
towards F alcon's Nest.

The journey home was long and tedious. We had to help the
willing animal by the aid of two long poles,_whieh we employed as
levers now and then to raise the load and send it forward.

My wife at first gently reproached me for leaving her and the
three boys without warning or farewell; but when she saw the wood,
and heard that I hoped to make of it a sledge for the purpose of
bringing the butter-cask and other articles to Falcon's Nest, she was
soon appeased. ' ,

The chest was eagerly opened and examined, but found to
contain nothing of importance. It was simply a sailor's locker,
and-the clothes and linen it held had been completely saturated and
spoilt by sea-water.

In our absence the two boys had shot about five dozen grebes
and ortolans.

At the same time they had used so much ammunition, that
when they wished to commence shooting again, their mother inter-
fered and represented to them that at such a rate their store of
pov'vder and shot would soon fail, and that for the present she had
birds enough. .

I fully agreed with this sensible>> advice, and promised the boys
I would show them how to catch them in a trap that would kill
them at once, without causing them to linger in pain, and save our
powder and shot.

At this moment a great commotion arose among our poultry. -
They screamed and cackled and fluttered about in such alarm, that
I could only imagine a fox was in the midst of them. We ran with
all speed to the spot, the mother accompanying us, under the im-
pression that a. hen had laid an egg.

Ernest by chance caught sight of the monkey, and saw him

rush under one of the arched roots with a new ly-laid egg in his pew;
_ andas Ernest approached he disappeared behind the tree, for he
was longing to make a meal of his stolen prize ; but Ernest was too
quick for him, and at length in the grass found the egg, hidden with
three others. Eagerly he carried the four eggs to-his mother, who
received them with joy and thankfulness.

We resolved to prevent this freebooter from any future plunder

by depriving him of his liberty while the hens were laying, till we
had found a safe place of concealment for the eggs.
. After this disturbance I hoped to be able to commence opera-
tions on my sledge, but I Was again interrupted. Jack, who had
mounted our rope ladder to search for a suitable spot on which to
place the bird-traps, came down hastily with the agreeable news
that a pair of our pigeons were building a nest among the branches
above.

I at once gave strict orders that there shOuld be no shootingin
the trees, and that the idea of placing traps for the birds must for
the present be set aside; and at last I found myself free to com-
mence making my sledge. The boys followed me to the spot at
which I had left the wood. As we walked, little Frank said,

"Papa, why can't we sow gunpowder instead of those seeds
to feed the animals? it would be much more useful than fodder to
us. "

His brothers laughed heartily at the little one's fancy, and
Ernest exclaimed,

" Why, Frariky, gunpowder is not a seed , it will not grow like
oats. l"

" Quite right, Ernest," I said; " but how then is it obtained?"

" I know,' 'he replied; "it is made of saltpetre, sulphur, and
charcoal, mixed together."

I at once commenced the construction of my sledge. The
performance was very simple and quickly finished. I united the
two curved pieces of wood by three piecesacross, one in front and
one behind, with a third in the middle 3 these were so placed that
the curve of the side-pieces stood highest in front. .

I then fastened the drawing-rapes to the outer points, and my
sledge stood complete.

As I now for the first time raised my eyes from my work, and

 

SALMON.

was about to join the rest, I saw my wife and the boys occupied in
plucking the birds, while at least two dozen were roasting before the
fire on the blade of a Spanish sword belonging to one of the ship's
officers, as a spit.

The contrivance appeared to me very ingenious, but I could not
help remarking that it was extravagant to cook so many birds at once.

."_But," said my wife; "we do not intend to make a feast fit
for company to-day 3 but as I am expecting you to fetch the cask of
butter forme, I am half cooking some of the birds, that they may
be in readiness to be wrapped in butter and preserved, according to
y0ur instructions. "

fl I prepared to start for Tent House with my sledge directly
alter dinner. The mother proposed during my absence to have a
regular wash-up of the clothes and linen, while the boys were taking
a bath. [promised that Ernest should bathe on the journey, as 1
preferred to take him with me instead of Fritz, who was more able .
to protect those who remained behind. '

After dinner we set out on our expedition, and in addition to

'arms, each carried not only a hunting-knife, but a beautiful case,
most ingeniously made by Fritz, containing a knife, fork, and
spoon, in our girdles of shark's skin.

We harnessed both the cow and the ass to the sledge, invited
Floss to accompany. us, but sent Turk back as a protection to those
at home.

As I knew the sledge would slide more easily on the sandy
shore. than through the high thick grass, I'dr0ve along the coast,
and arrived without adventure at our store house. We unharnessed
the animals, and left them to find pasture, while we loaded the
sledge, not only with the butter-cask, but also with the powder-
barrel, the other cask of cheese, the bullets, and small shot.

. We were so absorbed in this work, that we did not at first
notice the absence of our animals, who, attracted by the fresh green
turf, had wandered away across the bridge over the Jackal Brook to
the opposite shore, and had quite disappeared. I desired Ernest to _
go in search of them with the dog, while I endeavoured to find a
convenient spot in which to bathe.

On arriving at Deliverance Bay, I for the first time noticed a
little creek, enclosed on one side by a marsh full of splendid
Spanish canes, and on the other by a chain of rocks stretching far
into the sea, and forming a most secluded bathing--place.

I called Ernest, but as he did not make his appearance, I be-
came anxious and went to look for him. What was my surprise at .
discovering the youngster lying at full length in a shady spot behind '
our tent, as sound asleep as a dormouse ; while the two animals -1l-
l
1;
.r
l
i.-

 

 

THE VISIT T0 TENT HOUSE--THE SLEDGE. 77

\

.had sent him to find were cOmfortany grazing unwatched, near him.

"Up, up! you lazy fellow!" I exclaimed, "why, these animals
might have crossed the bridge, and given us a pretty chase !"

" Oh, let them alone, papa, for that," he replied, as he lazily
roused himself. " I have taken away a few planks from the bridge,
and it's not likel}r such timid fellows would venture over it now."

 

THE KANGAROO.

I

" While I take my bath, go and gather the store of salt," I

_ continued, seeing he looked ashamed at my reproof.

I found the sea bath most cool and refreshing, and hastened as
quickly as pos'sible after coming out of the water to search for the
boy, that he might not lose thiSS Opportunity, when I suddenly heard

his voice exelaimmg,\ .

78 ' ' SWISS FAIVILVROBlA-S'OM

" Papa, papa, come quick ! A fish, an enormous fish! I can
scarcely hold him ; he is tearing away my line !"

I ran hastily in the direction of the voice, and found the boy
on the borders of the river, stretched upon the grass, and struggling
with all his might to retain a fish whose efforts threatened to draw
him into the water, line, .rod, and all.

I quickly rendered him assistance, took the fishing-rod from
his hand, and lengthened the line to give the fish a little freedom 5
and then gradually drew it into shallow water, Where it was unable
to escape. Ernest immediately stepped into the water, and put an
end to its struggles with a blow of his hatchet.

I then drew the fish to shore, and found it was a. magnificent
salmon of about fifteen pounds weight, which would form a most
excellent addition to our. store of provision, and very much please
the mother.

I determined to clean and prepare our booty, and sprinkle it
with salt, that we might carry it home in good condition.

While I performed this operation, and harnessed the cattle to
the sledge, I sent Ernest to have a bath. He did not keep me
waiting for long, and we very soon crossed the bridge on the way _
back to Falcon's Nest. '

Just as we reached the high grass, Floss rushed forward, bark-
ing loudly, and disappeared. '

I followed her quickly, and saw a most singulahlooking animal
flying from the dog with most astonishing leaps.

Ernest, carefully keeping his eye on the spot, moved nearer
with silent footsteps, and raising his gun, shot the animal dead.

We hastily ran with great curiosity to the scene of combat, and
with wonder and surprise discovered that Ernest had killed a. female
kangaroo.

We drew our booty to the sledge, and after placing it carefully
with the other treasures, continued our journey towards Facon's.
Nest.

" Can you tell me anything about V these animals, papa ?"

sked Ernest, as we walked'on slowly.

" I have read accounts from the. books written by travellers,"'A V0 YAGE TO 7711? -WRECX--THE RAFT. 79

I replied; "but'in a state of nature very little is'ltnown of their
habits, beyond what I have already told you. But by the hind
legs, which are three times as long as those in PSront, they are able
to take most astonishing leaps, not quite so high in proportion to
their size as the flea or the grasshopper, but equally surprising.
Should there be any appearance of danger, they are able, by using
the tail, which is remarkable for its muscular strength, to spring
from the ground and mislead their pursuers, as the creature you
have shot misled and baflied the dog. Deprived of its tail, the
kangaroo would be a helpless creature, and quite unable to defend
itself."

We arrived at home safely and received a joyful welcome,
especially after a glimpse at the contents of the sledge, which my
wife and the boys proceeded to examine with wondering eyes.

The butter and cheese--casks, the canes, salt, salmon, and at
last, to crown the whole, the dead kangaroo; and I felt it a due to
Ernest to explain his share in procuring these additions to our store.

We closed this day with our usual occupation.

After unloading the sledge, I distributed salt to the animals,
which was to them a delicious feast.

We then sat down to a famous supper of the small fish caught
by Ernest, and some beautiful baked potatoes. Supper was very
soon finished, for we were tired out, and longing for rest and sleep,
which soon gatherd us in its arms. 1*

CHAPTER XI.
A VOYAGE 'ro TUE_WRECK--TUE RAFT.

Early next morning, I decided on a. voyage to the wreck ; and
after giving Fritz orders to prepare everything in readiness for the
voyage, I called for Ernest and Jack, to give them my instructions
how to act during the absence of Fritz and myself; but they were
not to be found.so" : ' - 311/155 FAMILY Roaijvsozil. '

Their mother conjectured that- they might be gone to dig up
some more potatoes, which we again required.

Without delay we hastened forward, and had crossed the bridge _
over Jackal River, when suddenly, to our great astonishment, Ernest
and Jack, with a shrill Joyous cry, sprang upon us from behind, evi--
dently thinking it a good joke that they had taken their dear father
and brother by surprise _.

I refused to take them with me as they wished, for their assist-- '
ance on the wreck was not required; but principally I was anxious

for them to return to Falcon' 5- Nest, because their absence would ' I

make their mother uneasy.

I was glad of this opportunity, also, to send- a message to my
wife, that we should be obliged to remain longer than usual on the
vessel, for the raft I wished to construct- w0uld most likely occupy
the whole day. '

We steered our little boat into the current which flowed into
Deliverance Bay, and arrived very Quickly at the wreck.

My first care was to find material for constructing a raft ; for
the tub boat was neither large enough nor of sufiicient strength to
carry a heavy load .

In a very short time we found a number of water-casks, which
were emptied and tied together' in rows to form a square, and then, .
with nails and strong cords, we fastened upon them--mot without -
trouble, however--several planks, as a flooring to the raft. '

We succeeded at length in constructing a firm and solid float,

_ . capable of carrying three times as many articles as our little boat of
_ tubs, and with far more safety -

Yet, although we had worked most diligently the whole day,
the afternoon was far advanced before our task was completed.

I resolved, therefore, to remain on board all night; we at. last
found time to search for a. supper among the articles still remaining
on the ship.

The night's rest in the cabin was altogether delightful, and we
slept soundly till sunrise. ~

We arose next morning, and at once commenced actively the
task of loading our boats. -

rFRITZ AND THE WALRUS.LANDING THE SEA-CERSTS.
 

'32 SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.

After plundering the cabins we took the leeks from the doors,
the bolts from the shutters, and added all these to our cargoes.

The contents of a couple of sea- -ehests, belonging to the ship's
officers, were to us a great treasure, but still greater were those of
the ship's carpenter and the gunsmith

The captain' s trunk was full of all sorts of things, some of them
so costly that we were quite dazzled. There lay gold and silver
watches, chains, buckles, studs, and a snuff-box ; most probably
intended as presents, or as steel: for a profitable trade which might
be commenced in a new colony. Besides these, a well-lined cash-
box full of money. '

In addition to this, were two dozen beautiful young European
fruit-trees, which had been most carefully packed for the voyage. I
reeogniz'edamong them the pear, apple, Orange, almond, peach,
chestnut, and vine, the fruit which in our dear native home we had
so often enjoyed.

Presently we discovered a number. of iron bars of immense
' strength, then a grindstone, wagon and cart~wheels, a complete set
of smith's tools, hatchets and shovels; chains, iron and copper wire,
a ploughshare, a hand-mill, and last, but not least, sacks full of
maize, peas, oats, and other grain; in aword, a seemingly inex-
haustible store of articles, evidently destined for the support-of a
European colony to be established In distant lands

There we're even parts of a sawmill, which it was evident
might be fitted together with a little trouble, if we had strength
enough to lift it.

And now the question arose, What should we take with us of
all these valuable things, and what leave behind P

I decided at last to choose what appeared the most useful, par-
ticularly powder and shot, iron, lead, grain, the fruit-trees, and
several tools, and of these to place on the raft and in our tub-boat
as much as we could possibly carry.

Among other things we found a large magnetic needle and a
mariner' s compass._ '

0n seeing two harpoons used in whale fishing, with a quantity
of strong cordage quite new attached to them, Fritz begged me to
fasten one of the harpoons to the bow of our little boat.

We were not ready to start with our cargoes till noon, for both
the crafts were heavily laden. The raft was fastened to our tub-
boat by ropes firmly attached to each corner, and then, not without
fear of some disaster, we directed our course towards the shore.

The wind lightened our work, and we proceeded for a consid-
erable distance without meeting with the least impediment.

While thus pleasantly approaching the shore, Fritz observed in
the distance a large and strange-looking body floating on the waves,
and asked me to examine it through the telescope.

I discovered at once that it was a turtle sleeping on the surface
of the water very comfortably, and totally unconscious of our
approach. .

Fritz begged me to steer towards it, and I made straight to-
wards the sleeping animal.

. All at once a violent shock caused the boat to turn and thrill,
while the noise as of rope running through a reel was followed by a
second shock and a rapid rushing forward of the boat.

" In Heaven's name l" I cried, " what are you about, Fritz?

"Caught! caught!" cried the youth eagerly. "I took him
by surprise."

I saw at once that my boy had really struck the turtle with the
harpoon, and that the wounded animal was swimming away rapidly,
and drawing the boat after him ; for the harpoon was fastened by a
rope to the Windlass.

I hastily lowered the sail, and rushed to the forepart of the
boat in order to cut the cord with my hunting-knife and set the
turtle free. But Fritz implored me to wait, assuring me there was
no danger. '

" I can cut the rope instantly, if it is necessary," he said ; and
at last I gave way, and, with earnest injunctions to him to be care-
ful, I returned to the helm.

But, drawn by the turtle, we advanced with great rapidity, and
I noticed also that the turtle was endeavouring to reach the open
sea against the wind, which blew towards land.' I immediately84 SWISS FAMILY roamsozv.

hoisted the sail, and at last reached a soft sloping shore, where hap-
pily there was no danger of being driven against the rocks, and not
far from Falcon's Nest. .

Fritz, raising his gun, fired in the air a shot, which so excited
the surprise and curiosity of our little colony that they all came run-
ning to the spot.

The taking of the turtle was proudly described, and we were
all thankful to God that this adventure had ended happily, without
fatal consequences to us or our boats.

I requested my wife to go with the boys and fetch from. Fala'
con's Nest the animals and the sledge, that we might place at least
a part of our cargo in safety. ,

In the meantime the tide, having nearly reached the ebb,
retreated, and left our boat and the raft quite on dry ground.

The first article to be placed upon it was the turtle, which was
of an enormous size, and weighed at least three hundred pounds,
for with all our united strength it was as much as we could do to
place it on the sledge, and to keep it in its place we were obliged
to pile up the'mattrcsses and other lighter articles round it.

It became necessary for us also to assist the two animals in
drawing their heavy load to Falcon's Nest, and for this purpose we
each exerted all our strength, some pushing, others pulling 5 and so
we marched in joyous procession towards home.

' 0n arriving, our first care was to unload the turtle, and to lay
the animal on his back, as otherwise we could not remove the shell
or make use of the delicate flesh. _ I seized a hatchet, and with one
blow on the breast of the animal I separated a part from the shell, _
and cut off as much of the flesh as would serve for our supper. . I
advised the mother to cook this rich food in the piece of shell, and
to add only a very little salt. '

"The head, the paws, and the entrails we will give to the dogs. "

" And the shell," cried Fritz, " could we not make it into a
water trough ? It would be so pleasant to have clean fresh water
for our bath, or to wash our hands.' '

"That would indeed be useful," I replied, "if your' plan

' O
A VOYAGE TO THE WRECK--TH5 RAFT. 85'

could be carried out ; but we should want loam or clay to cement
Our stones."

"Oh! I can supply you with clay, then," exclaimed Jack,
putting in his word. " There is a splendid heap under the roots of
our tree."

' ' I brought it home this morning from the banks of the river,"

" When you have decided ahOut the water-trough," said
Ernest, " I will show you same roots, papa, thatI have discovered;
Our old sow eats them up as if they were delicious. It appears to
me a sort of radish--root."

After examining the roots carefully, I exclaimed,

" If I am not mistaken, my son, you have made a valuable
discovery. I believe this is the plant of which beautiful cakes,
called cassava cakes, are made in the East Indies. But it must be
carefully prepared, for it contains a dangerous poison. However,
you must show me the spot on which you found the roots, and if
there are any left we can try at least to make bread of it 3 andI
think we shall succeed. "

While talking, we had been still busily engaged in unloading
the sledge, and that task being now completed, I again set of? with
the three elder boys to fetch anotner load from the boat before

supper.
' On reaching the shore, we hastily loaded the sledge with as
much .as it would carry: the two chests, the wagon-wheels, and the
hand-mill, which the discovery of the manihot rendered doubly im-
portant and precious to us,----and as many smaller things as we could
find room. for. '

_ The supper of turtle which their kind mother had prepared for
us proved simply delicious. It was not, therefore, surprising, that
when we ascended to our sleepingqooms in the tree, and laid our--
selves down on the mattresses we had brought from the ship, we
quickly sank into a sweet and refreshing sleep.

AAt daybreak I rose without awakening my sleeping family, for
I was anxious also to visit our vessels on the beach as quickly as

p055ible. ,
Harnessing the ass to the sledge I summoned the dogs to follow
86 SPVISS FAMIL Y ROBIJVSOM

me, and then we took our way to the beach. I found the boat and.
the raft still safe: althOugh the tide during the night had risen, the
pieces of lead and non bars kept them from drifting away.
Without delay I placed upon the sledge a load, and returned
to Falcon' 5 Nest in time for breakfast. _
When I reached the tree, my family were still sleeping pro-
foundly. _
I made as much clatter and. noise as if a besieging army was
approaching, to arouse the sleepers. My wife was the first to ap-
pear, and was not a little surprised to find the day so far advanced.
After a hasty breakfast, we repaired again to the shore, for I
was anxious to have both the boat and the raft unloaded before
noon, that they might be ready to float as soon as the tide served.
By the time we reached FalcOn's Nest with our last load the

' tide had risen, and I with Fritz hastily took leave of my wife and

the three younger boys; but Jack seemed so anxious to go that I
gave him permission, to his great delight.

I steei ed at once for Deliverance Bay, for the beautiful weather
and the calm sea tempted me to venture on another voyage to the
'wreck.

By the time we reached the vessel it was too late to carry away
anything of importance, so I merely collected together what: could
be packed quickly and without much trouble. Jack found a wheel-
barrow, and Fritz came to tell us that he had discovered something
far more useful than a wheelbarrow--the ship's pinnacc, packed
carefully 1n the cent1eof an enclosure, every part complete, although
separated, and even supplied with two small cannon.

To raise the boat from its presentposition, and to get it prO'
perly fitted together and launched On the sea, would not only be a
work of time, but require a large amount of strength, exertion, and
skill. . .
This, however, was not the time to commence such an under-
taking; so I overlooked the boys as they loaded the raft, and
advised them to choose the most useful articles Among others a
copper kettle, a grindstorie, two large iron plates, a powder flask a
box of flint stones, several tobacco- graters, and two more wheel-THE PENGUINS'
barrows besides Jack's. We again set sail, for I was anxious to
avoid the land breeze which generally rose after sunset

As we neared the shore we observed with astonishment a group
'of figures standing in a long row, and regarding us with great
curiosity.

" They are birds called penguins," I exclaimed.

While I thus spoke we were cautiously approaching the land ;
but no sooner had the boat reached a spot where the water was
shallow, than Jack sprang out of his tub and waded to the shore.
Before the penguins had noticed him he was amongst them, and in
a. very few moments had knocked down five or six of the birds.

My wife was delighted with our barrows and their contents,
excepting that she looked rather doubtfully at the 1ron plates and
the tobacco-grates.

She pointed out to me a splendid store of potatoes, which she
and the two boys had collected during our absence, and also a large
number of roots similar to those which Ernest had discovered on
the day prex ious. .

The tobacco graters were lying on the ground near us, and my
wifetpointing to them, inquired, '

" What use are those tobacco~raspers, dear husband?"

" A little new bread will be a great treat to us, and to obtain
it these tobacco-raspers are indispensable. I hope, therefore, you _
will no longer look upon them with such disdainful eyes." I re-

lied.
p " Well i " she exclaimed, ' 'what tobacco-gutters have to do
with new bread I cannot imagine. Besides, where is the baking
oven, even if you had flour? " '

" Upon these iron plates," I replied, " flat cakes can' be
baked. And as for flour, that can be obtained from the cassava-
roots discovered by Ernest. If you will make--a small strong bag of
sail- cloth, we will try an'experiment with'our new pastry before _
we sleep to- -night "

My wife agreed to get the bag ready, but I could see that she
_ doubted my judgment for she filled the newly-arrived copper kettle
with potatoes, which she placed on the fire, to be ready for our
supper in case the bread--baking should be a failure.

In the meantime I took a large piece of sail--cloth, and spread
it on the ground ; and then, assembling my young folks, com-
menced at once without delay to instruct them in the art of making
bread from the cassava-root. In the hands of each I placed one of
the tobacco--graters and a root, and in a very- short time it was
covered with what resembled moist sawdust.

When we had scraped a sufficient quantity Of the cassava-root,
I filled the bag and tied- the mouth of it tightly together, so that
when pressed the poisonous sap might flow out between the threads
of the cloth. ' -

To obtain the means of pressing, I laid two or three smoot
planks on one of the roots of the fig--tree, and placing the bag of
flour upon them, covered it with another plank. Across this plank
I laid one of our levers, with one end under the arched root, and
heaping up on the other. end lead, iron bars, stones, and every
heavy article I could find. And very soon the sap was seen flowing
to the ground.

" Papa," exclaimed Fritz, " I think we eculd commence
bread-making at once; not a drop of sap is falling from the bag
now." ' . ' '
" I am quite willing," I replied ; " but before we attempt to

make bread for ourselves, a cake must be baked for the chickens and
the ape, and if they eat it without harm we can very safely follow
- their example.' '

The bag was opened and the meal Spread out to dry. I then
moistoned a small quantity with water, and made a small cake.
This cake was then laid on one of the iron plates over a clear fire,
made, as usual, betWeen large stones on the earth, and as soon as
the under side was brown, it was turned, and when sufficiently
baked, taken out to cool. -

The cake exhaled such a delicious odour that the boys looked
with envy at the piece I gave to the ape, and I believe, had I not
firmly opposed their longing, they would also have helped them-
selves to a portion.

v.
Inoticcd with satisfaction that the fowls were eagerly eating
up the crumbs, and Master Nip devouring his piece of the cake with
great rapidity.

"See, my dear," I said, addressing my wife, " the animals
have eaten it all, and we must begin our baking performances early
to~morrow morning, if we find that Our cassava--tasters are not the
worse for what they have eaten."

We seated ourselves to partake of supper. We found the po-
tatoes excellent. And we could once more thank God for His
benefitsas-we retired, with appeased appetites, to the longed-for
rest in our castle on the tree. '

CHAPTER XII.
THE PINNACE AND THE PETARD.

The following morning our first care was to visit the fowls and
the monkey; but they were all as lively as ever ; we therefore set
to work eagerly to bake for ourselves. '

The boys were so proud of their performances, that each ate
his own cakes for breakfast ; and certainly, with butter, I could
almost fancy I was eating hot rolls in our own dear country. A
large bowl of new milk added to our meal made it a repast fit for a
kin . '

g AsI scattered the crumbs of this costly feast among our feathered
folk, 1 was surprised to observe that the penguin, which we had made
:1 prisoner, and tied to a tree, near the ducks and geese, seemed quite
at home, and followed their example in picking up the crumbs with--
out the least shyness. I decided, therefore, to release him from
confinement, and give him his liberty, to his great satisfaction.

While enjoying our breakfast, I expressed my strong desire to
pay another visit to the wreck with the boys, and by our united
efforts endeavour to manage the pinnace which we had discovered
on the previous day.
The good mother at first was not to be convinced that anything
could make it necessary for me to v enture again on the treacherous
sea. But she at length unwillingly consented, and then only on
- condition that I would give my word to return the same evening,
and on no account remain another night on the wreck.

I reluctantly gave the promise she required, but her fears made
me uneasy, and I left her and Frank alone at last with many sighs
and a heavy heart. -

The boys were delighted as usual at the prospect of anything
new. We packed up a good store of provisions, including cassava
cakes and potatoes, and buckled on our cork belts. Our way led
us to Deliverance Bay, at which we arrived without adventure, and
there we entered the tub-boat, and with the raft in tow, proceeded
on our way.

Immediately on arriving at the wreck, I advised the boys to
load the raft and the boat with the first things that came to hand, so
that at least we might not return empty, and then I hastened to hav 0
one more look at the pinnace

I discovered to my great satisfaction that each piece of the
vessel was carefully laid in its proper place, and, above all, num-
bered, and could therefore be matched together with ease and cor-
ICCIDCSS.

The evening. arrived before anything could be done to the pin-
naee, and we therefore without delay prepared to return home with
our load What was our surprise and pleasure on reaching Deliver -
ance Bay to see the mother and little Frank on the shore waiting to
receive us.

"We are going to remain at Tent House,"'said my wife, " till
you have cleared the wreck and finished all your business on board.
It will be a shorter voyage for you, and we shall be constantly within
sight of each other."

I could scarcely thank my brave wife sufiiciently for this pre-
caution, niore especially as I knew how little she liked residing at
'lent House: and I was glad to be able to reward her seli- denial by
placing before her eyes tu-o casks of butter, three of flour, a case of
corn and rice, with a number of useful articles, which were to her .
of the greatest value.

Our voyages to the wreck until the pinnace was completed
occupied a week. We started early every morning regularly, and

 

' THE PINNACE. ,

returned home in the evening, heavily laden from the wreck, to
my wife's great satisfaction.

_ During our absence she and little Frank visited Falcon's Nest
almost daily, to look after the poultry and give them plenty of pro-
vender, as well as to fetch away potatoes from the field close by.7H5 PINNACE'AND THE 199714190. 93

When we met together in the evening, we had plenty to talk about
while we enjoyed the delicious suppers which the mother had pro~
vided for us from her stores. _

All this time we had been earnestly employed in reconstructing
the pinnace, which was at last ready to be set free from her prison.
Her appearance was neat and elegant. She had a tiller at her prow,
and a small quarter-deck on which to raise a mast and a sail like a
cutter, and, being of a light build, would not draw much water.
We had carefully caulked all the joints and openings, and then cov-
ered them with pitch or ship's tar. On the quarter-deck we placed
the two little cannon and secured them with chains in the usual
manner on board ship. .

And, after all, there sat the beautiful thing, immovable in its
prison ,4 and before we could set the pinnace free, a storm might

arise and destroy it with the wreck. The thought. of such a dis-'

aster made me at \length determined upon a plan which was cer-
tainly a. great risk.

I found in the steward's room an iron mortar, such as are
sometimes used for cooking, and fastened it upon a thick oaken
board with hooks. Then with a. chisel I cut a groove in the board.
In this groove I laid a train of gunpowder, of such a. length that it
would take more than an hour to reach the mOrtat' when lighted at
the end by a match. I filled the mortar with powder, again fas-
tened the plank upon it, caulked every crevice with tar, and bound
the whole together with chains.

This terrible instrument I suspended in the enclosure occupied
by the pinnace, on the side from which I calculated that the recoil
of the explosion would not injure our little craft. Giving the boys
the order to go on board our little tub-boat quickly, I returned,
' lighted the fusee, and then, hastily embarking myself, steered away
speedily from the wreck. .

' We had arrived at Tent House, and were unloading the raft,

when a sudden and frightful noise on the sea, like the roar of
cannon,_so alarmed my wife and the boys that they turned to run
away. My voice recalled them, but they still kept at a distance,
until my wife came towards me and said, t
" The sound came from the sea! and look at the smoke! Oh,
dear husband, I hope you have been careful not to leave fire near
. the powder E"

"There is nothing to fear," I said, "boys, I must go back
and see what has happened : who will go with me ?"

Without aword the boys sprang into the heat, while I re~
mained fora few moments on the'beach, to explain to my wife and
calm her fears.

We arrived at the wreck in a very short time, for curiosity
made the boys row quickly, and at the first glance I saw with satis-
faction that the form and position of the vessel remained unchanged.
With a light heart 1 steered round the wreck to the other side, and
there discovered the destruction caused by my petard. A large
portion of the ship's side had been shattered, and the fragments
floated on the water , while through the opening we could see the
pinnace standing unhurt.

" It is won !" cried I: "the beautiful pinnace is ours now ! "

We climbed through the opening, and found to our great
delight that it would be easy with the aid of a pulley and lever to
push the pinnace on the water, {or I had taken the precaution to
place rollers under the keel. I did not forget, however, to attach a
long rope to the inner end, to prevent it from going out of our reach
when once in the water.

We threw our united strength into the performance, and at
last, though not without some difficulty, we saw her glide slowly
down into the sea, and ride gracefully on the undulating waters,
yet held in check by the rope which moored her alongside the
wreck

Leaving her safely in this position, we returned to Tent House
to relate our conquest to the mother.

Our stately barque, however, could not be completely rigged
and freighted without two days of hard work. We still kept it on
the side of the wreck farthest from the shore, for we wished to sur--
prise the mother and little Frank with its wonderful appearance,
and therefore they were not to see it till it was complete.

At last all was in readiness 3 the guns were loaded, Fritz assum-
ing the position of captain near the mainmast ; his brothers placed
themselves by the guns, each holding a match, which they were
eager to light ,- while I hastened to spread the sail and adjust the
rigging in readiness for our voyage. At last I seated myself at the
. helm, and, 'we unmoored the little vessel and turned towards
home. >>
We reached Deliverance Bay, however, without accident ; and
as we came in sight of Tent House I lowered the largest sail of our
new vessel, and then gave permission to the boys to salute.

As the'boat touched the shore, my wife was able to nod to me
a friendly welcome, but she held little Frank close to her as she
stood, with wide-open eyes, not knowing'whether to laugh or cry.

As soon as we could find a convenient spot on which to land,
Fritz exclaimed, " Come on board now, mammal and we can
show you how comfortable and complete the vessel is."

My wife and Frank stepped on the little deck of the vessel,
and after examining it were much delighted.

" Frank and I have not been idle during your absence," said
my wife. Come with me now, and I will show you the result of
Our work. "

After mooring the boat in safety, we walked to the cascade in
' an open space of ground, we saw, a garden, considerably advanced
in growth, and divided by paths in all directions.

" This is my work and Frank's I" exclaimed my wife. "We
found the earth soft enough for us to dig and prepare. "

" Here," she continued, "I have planted potatoes ; yonder
are fresh cassava--roots ; on the other side I have sown lettuce and

salad-seeds, and near them I have left a space for you to plant reeds
' and bamboo canes." '

, Leading us farther on, she continued, pointing to another divi~
sion : " This will be our fruit garden. The earth is ready to receive
cuttings from the young trees at Falcon's Nest ; and farther on 1-
have sown a quantity of each sort of the grain you brought from
the vessel. " Water," she added," can be easily brought from the
neighbouring waterfall ; so there is no doubt that the plants will
grow and thrive wonderfully." ' - '
" You have performed wonders, dear wife !" I exclaimed, alter
we had examined the fruitful spot carefully ; and then, as the-sun- '
set was approaching, I and the boys returned to the shore.

The pinnace was moored by a rope from the bow to a strong
post on shore.

We then loaded ourselves as well as the animals with as much
as we each could carry of the articles we considered the most useful,
and took the road to Falcon's Nest.

 

CHAPTER XIII.
THE WALK TO THE CALABASH woop.

' During our residence at Tent House, the second Sunday of our
stay in the island had Occurred, and had been celebrated and hon-
oured with as much devotion. _

After our midday meal I felt the necessity for giving the boys
some employment, similar to that which they enjoyed so much on
a former occasion. - >>

They were at once ready to commence practising with their
bows and arrows, and in leaping, running, and climbing. which I -
considered of great importance for their bodily strength, and also
to give them confidence in a moment of threatened danger.

Nothing makes a man so timid and fearful as a want of physical
strength and confidence in himself.

In addition to these exercises I advised my boys to practise
running up and down the rope ladder which led to our sleeping; '
room in the tree, and also to learn to raisethemselves by a loose
rope, which I suspended from the balcony, as the sailors do on
board ship. - -

: At first I made knots here and there in the rape 5 but after a
little practice they managed to climb and descend with very few
knots, and at last hand over hand and with legs crossed, as sailors
do, on a smooth rope and without any assistance.-THE AMERICAN SAILORS AND THE PIGS.._. 37H}; [IVA/12K zq fin/a" .C'ALABASH W600. 97

I next prepared another well known weapon for their use, by
tying abullet to each end of a piece of rope about six feet long.

I explained to them in answer to their inquiries that I was
trying to make a weapon which is much used by hunters in many
' lands. "It is named the lasso, and is now in use among the Mexi-
cans and other settlers in South America. Theycan swing the end
of the lasso, in which astone is :tied, round or over their heads,

 

.THE 50W AND THE DOGS-

while they hold the other end in one hand, with such power and
Swifiness, that the animal they wish to capture is caught by the
flying rope, which twists mind its body and limbs and renders it
unable to move. The Mexicans are so skilful with the lasso, that
they will throw it while on horseback at'full- gallop after their prey,'
and seldom fail to succeed in securing the animal alive, orkilling it. "
I made a trial of the new weapon on the stump of a not far

- 7
distant tree, and the rope wrapped itself round the tree so securely,
that the boys were more eager than ever to try the new weapon.

Fritz, after a little practice, became entirely master of the art.
I was not surprised at his dexterity, for he was the most active of '
the four boys, and possessed a fearless spirit.

The following morning I noticed that the sea. was much agi-
tated. I congratulated myself, therefore, on being at Falcon' 5
Nest, and decided to remain here and find employment in peaceful
agriculture.

1 at once, therefore, readily placed myself under my wife's '
orders. And first she showed me how she had occupied herself in
her visits to Falcon's Nest during our daily absence on the wreck.
I planted the fruit trees, and, as we were very anxious to continue
our wanderings, we set to work with so much activity, that we had
finished our task even earlier than I had expected.

At daybreak next morning we were all ready to start. The ass
and the sledge were to accompany us to carry our stock of provi-
sions_and to bring back to Falcon's Nest a store of gourds for our
use.

Turk, as usual, took the lead. Behind him followed the boys,
carrying arms. The mother and I came next with the sledge ; and
lingering hindmost, and 'not at all pleased, crept Floss with Master
Nip on her back.

Our road lay through the Flamingo Marsh. My wife and the
younger boys, who had not seen the place before, could do nothing
but exclaim in admiration at every turn.

Fritz, however, eager for a hunting adventure; left the strand,
and enticing Turk to join him, very soon disappeared from our eyes
in the tall grass. Presently we were startled by the dog's noisy
bark, and at the same moment an enormous bird rose in the air,
followed by a shot from Fritz, which brought it to the ground.
The creature was not dead, and with incredible strength it beat its
wings in its rage, scattering the dust as it ran, with Turk after it.

' Fritz followed, panting, and Floss threw her little rider from
her back to join in the chase
' Being anxious to secure the bird, which was a fine bustard,- ...~.
I

\ . '

THE WALK" TO THE CALABASH woof). 99

without killing_it, I threw my pocket-handkerchief over the crea-
ture's head, and then hastened to tie those. vigorous legs together,
and released the wounded wing
from the jaws of Floss. l consid-
ered this prey an excellent addition
to our farmyard, and wished, there-
fore to preserve it alive, in the hope
of taming it.

I placed the wounded bird
carefully on the sledge, and we re-
sumed our journey to the cocoanut
wood 'in which Fritz had met such
a tragic-comic adventure with the
monkeys. -

Ernest stopped suddenly at
the foot of a cocoanut-palm as he
cspied the beautiful clusters of nuts
which hung from the higher -
branches.

" Oh, how terribly high the
nuts are! I wish I had one."

Hardly had he uttered these
words when suddenly a magnificent
nut fell heavily to the ground at his
feet; a second nut followed the first,
as much to my astonishment as his.

' ' Why, papa ! " cried the boy,
" this is just like a fairy tale. No
sooner is a wish formed in the mind
than it is granted}? .

Cautiously the boy picked up
the nuts and brought them to me;
and presently, to our surprise, two
more nuts fell at our feet.

At this moment Fritz cried
out, "Ah! ah! I have discovered WAX-BEARING PLANT.
loo SWISS FAMIL 1/ ROBINSON.

him, papal Such a horribly hideous animal. .Ah 1 he is coming
down/the tree."

Slowly and steadily the creature glided down the tree on the
trunk ; but before it could reach the ground Jack struck at it with
the butt-end of his gun, but failing to injure it, the animal sprang to
the ground, and, with gaping claws, marched towards his assailant.

The little fellow defended himself bravely, but all his strokes
failed to reach the animal. At last the boy stood still, took off his
jacket, held it extended in both hands, advanced cautiously to-
wards his adversary, and suddenly threw it over the animal ; then'
wrapped the jacket completely round the creature's body ; immedi-
ately I seized the hatchet, and, with a few strokes, put an end to the
monster. _ '

' " This bold gentleman is," I explained, "named the cocoanut
crab, and lives upon the nuts, the shells of which he opens as much
by skill as strength; and is no mean adversary for a boy to meet
with and conquer." . ' _

I now placed the dead crab on the sledge ; and for some time
we proceeded on our journey very slowly, on account of 'a thick
growth of underwood and the tendrils of creeping plants. Several
times we had to stop and cut with an axe a way for the sledge to pass.

After marching on for some distance through the thicket, we
came at last to a clearing, and saw at a little distance before us,
near the sea-shore, the beautiful calabash-trees, forming a sheltering
wood.

The splendid trees and their singular fruit excited great wonder
and surprise, and I hastened to explain the varied forms and sizes
of the gourds, and also how easily we could make from them a good
supply of the vessels and different articles we needed.

In a short time a large number were collected, and I and the '
boys at once commenced cutting and forming whatever we con-
sidered most necessary. _

Ernest had not been successful in cutting out the gourds for
our porcelain manufacture : he broke all that he'took in his hand g,
he therefore asked me to allow him to go. and seek for water. I
gladly gave him the opportunity. - -'7'le WALK TO THE CALABASH W001). .101

' But he had scarcely been absent two minutes, when he returned '
hastily! crying out with panting breath, " Papa ! papa ! a wild

 

DUCKS AND GEESE.

boar ! a wild boar l" I called the dogs, and Ernest led the, way to
:he spot where the animal had so alarmed him.
As we approached, we heard amidst the barking and yelping
of our dogs a terrible grunting, and there before us stood our own
respectable sow, her ears held firmly by the two dogs.

'" We could not resist a burst of laughter, even while we hastened
to release the'poor ill--used animal from the teeth of the dogs.

At this moment I discovered a number of what appeared to be
apples lying on the ground near us. On looking up at the bushes
which grew on the spot, we saw a large number also hanging from
the branches. Those which had fallen on the grass we gave to Our
sow, assome compensation for the pain and fright she had endured ;
and as she swallowed them greedily, I concluded that she. was not
much hurt.

The boys gathered a. quantity of these apples to carry home,
yet Fritz expressed a fear that they might belong to the poisonous
fruit of which I had warned them. ,

Istill decided not to allow the boys to eat this fruit'until I
had given one to Master Nip, and if the ape ate it and incurred no
danger, then they should be at liberty to do the same in modera-
tion. -

But all this made us forget that we had promised to find water
for the cooking perfOrmanccs, and we were only at last reminded
of this promise by feeling thirsty. I and the boys, therefore, went
forward hastily to seaich for water with greater diligence.

Jack, who was in advance of us, had scrambled up a rocky
mound at a little distance ; but no sooner had he reached the sum-
mit than he stood still with a horror-stricken face, as if unable to
move, and exclaimed,

" Papa, papa, a crocodile l a crocodile !"

" A crocodile I" Ireplied ; "what, so far from the water as
this? That would indeed be singular." _

As Ispoke, however, we all with eager expectation rushed to
the spot ; and I immediately recognized in Jack's frightful wild
beam a kind of large lizard, named the iguana, much esteemed as
delicate eating in the West Indies, and sleeping quietly.

Fritz raised his gun to fire, but I checked him hastily.

" Steady, my boy," I said. " You must not be so. rash.MONKEYS AT MISCHIEF.
These creatures have a wonderful tenacity of life. We must use
other means to capture our booty."

I immediately cut a strong switch, and fastened to the end of
it 'a string with a slip-knot. In my left hand I carried a large dry
- branch of a tree, and slowly approached the sleeping animal. As
1 drew nearer, I commenced whistling softly.

The sleeper presently awoke, and appeared so enchanted, that
he raised his head to listen. I approached with caution, to avoid
alarming the animal, near enough for me to pass myslip-knot round
his neck, still continuing to whistle, and made him my captive
with case.

We could not think of leaving such a valuable booty behind
us, and as our sledge was along way off, I resolved to carry the
creature on my back, the boys following to support the tail, for the
weight was enormous.

However we chose the shortest way to the mother and Frank,
but long before we reached them we heard our names called in tones
of anxiety and alarm Our long absence had alarmed them. But
all trouble was soon forgotten. Many questions were asked, and so
much had to be related, that we began to feel more hungry and
thirsty than ever and to long for dinner.

All this occupied so much time, that I knew it would be im-
possible to prepare a portion of the iguana for dinner, so we were
obliged to content ourselves with the cold provisions we had
brought from Falcon' 5 Nest.

I readily gave the boys permission to eat some of the apples ;
and never, I believe, was fruit so thoroughly enjoyed.

I came to the conclusion at last that we had discovered a West
Indian fruit named guava, for it was so full of juice, that it supplied
the place of water, and our thirst was greatly relieved.

Altogether, the frugal meal harl greatly refreshed and strength-
ened us, and as the day was very far advanced, my wife proposed
that we should prepare to turn 0er steps homewards.

We started at once for Falcon's Nest, and leaving the guat--a
wood behind us, we passed through large plantations of inanihat or
cassava and potatoes, which interrupted our progress not a little.
At a little distance farther on, we came upon a new grove of
trees of a singular form, while from the branches hung a great num-
7 her of curious clusters of berries, exactly like wax. We plucked
. several of them, and found that the warmth of our hands made

them stick to our fingers.

I remembered then having read that a kind of wax'bearing
plant grows in America, known in botany as the .Mym'ca cenfem.
I was, therefore greatly pleased with the discovery ,- and Fritz, ob-
serving my satisfaction, enquired, '

 

SILKWORM AND COCOON-

" Are these berries of any use, papa? they do not appear good
to eat."

" They are not useful as food, certainly, Fritz," I replied;
" but we shall no doubt be able to make wax candles of them fer
the winter evenings, which will be of great service to us; for if_
properly made they will burn for a long time, and not only give
forth a bright light, but an agreeable smell also."

The prospect of candle~making, audplight during the winter
evenings, greatly pleased Fritz, and he gladly assisted me in gath--
ering as many berries as we could cram into a sack for the ass to
carry; and we then continued our jOumey.
' roe,' SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.

We reached Falcon's Nest, however, in good time and without
further adventure.

I had at this time a difficult undertaking on my mind, which
for a long time seemed impracticable. I had noticed that the
sledge was not only inconvenient, but also very heavy for our ani-
mals to draw; and as we had brought four cart-wheels from the
wreck, I had long wished to construct a little cart.

After some trouble and difficulty, I succeeded in constructing
a sort of carriage, which, though not very elegant in appearance,
would, I knew, be very useful.

In the meantime, my folks at Tent House were employed daily
in transplanting the European fruit trees which I had brought from
the wreck.

I wished also to make the rocks at Tent House a kind of forti--
fication, as all our ammunition lay there. I resolved, therefore, to
choose two little elevationsnear the river, on which to-fix the two
cannons from the pinnace, and also to plant a thick edge of thorns
around the whole spot

These engagements employed us entirely for six weeks. But
the hard work of six weeks had completely worn out our clothes.
and this, with other important reasons, made me consider it necessary
to return once more to the wreck. I also wished if possible to bring
away one or two more of the cannon, to place on the heights of our
fortification. '

On the first fine day, therefore, I set out in the pinnace for the

wreck, with the-three elder boys. We found everything just as we
had left it ; but the wind and waves had loosened the beams and
damaged the powder--casks. The sailors' chests were in tolerably
good condition, and these we placed on board the pinnace, as well as
a box containing a quantity of ball and shot, and two small cannon.

On the second trip, we towed our tub-boat behind the pin-
nace, and quickly loaded it with planks, doors, window-shutters,
locks and bolts, and as many other precious' things as we could
possibly carry. At last, when it seemed as if we had plundered
the wreck of every useful article, I resolved to blow it up with gun-
pmvder, in-the hope that the wind and the wave: would cast on _
shore wood and beams, as well as other articles suitable for house-
building, which were too heavy for us to bring away in our boats.

Before leaving the wreck, however, I had discovered a large
heavy copper cauldron, used for refining sugar, which I thought
might be saved. I_therefore attached it to two empty casks, strong
enough to support it, and launched them all into the sea.

When ready to start, I discovered a powder-barrel that we
were obliged to leave behind: this I rolled into the hold of the
ship, and fastened to it carefully the end of .a fusee. Then, light-
ing it, I sprang into the boat, where the boys were already seated,
and, with outspread sail, hastened towards the shore.

We had scarcely reached the bay, when a roar of majestic
th mder resounded from the rocks, and at the same moment a bril-

 

BUMBLE BEES, MALE, FEMALE AND WORKER.

liant column of fire rising into the air, announced thatmy plan had
been completed.

A feeling of sadness came over me: it seemed as if the last tie
that bound .us to our dear home was broken. It was as if we had
lost in the ship an old and dear friend.

A night's rest enabled us to shake off all feelings of regret,
especially when we saw the consequences on the shore. The wreck
had disappeared, but the beach was strewn with wooden planks and
beams, while on the sea near the shore floated broken fragments of
all descriptions, and amongst them the copper cauldron, floating
between the two easks to which I had fastened it. '
Many days were employed in collecting all these useful articles,
and piling them 'on the shore. We placed the powder casks for
safety behind a rock till we could add them to our store of ammu-
nition at Tent House. We also covered them with earth and moss.
My wife coming to make sure there was no danger, brought us good
news

Two of the ducks and a goose had just brought off broods of
ducklings and goslings, "110 we1e swimming about on the brook in
in all the delights of freedom. This agreeable news awoke such a
longing desire to see once more all our feathered folk at Falcon's
Nest, that we decided to return there on the following day.

011 our road to Falcon's Nest in the morning, Inoticed that
the two rows of newly-planted fruit-trees had grown so rapidly,
that the slender stems seemed to bend with weakness; I resolved,
therefore, as soon . as possible, to procure a number of bamboo
canes, to be planted near our trees, that the young stems might be
tied to them, as a support in case of a storm or strong wind.

On arriving we found that during our absence the place had
been invaded by a troop of monkeys, which had so damaged it that
we were more than an hour employed' 1n repairing it.

Fritz, however, with much pride, b1ought me his chief booty
perched on his hand, a beautiful young eagle but half fledged
which he had taken from a nest on the rocks at False Hope Point
during the absence of the parent birds.

'lhe next morning I rose early, with the intention of carrying
out the project so long decided upon, namely, to plant bamboo
canes as a support to the young trees.

Our work began, almost as soon as we left Falcon's Nest, with
the walnut, chestnut, and cherry-trees.

'While thus engaged, the conversation naturally turned to the
best manner of raising trees, and the boys overwhelmed me with
questions, to w hich I could not always give correct answers.

" What 15 grafting, papa. 1" asked F11tz

" Grafting," I replied,_ "' is performed by inserting a little twig
of a superior sort on the stem of a tree that grous wild."

"But, papa," exclaimed Jack, "what about apples? They
seem to be natives of Germany and Switzerland. I've eaten lots
of sweet apples at home.

" I can well believe that, " I replied, laughing; " but they also
came originally from foreign lands, and apple- -trees are found even
in the cold climates of Northern Europe and Asia: Mulberries
grow in Asia and the islands of Greece. Silkworms, who spin that
beautiful web of silk from which silk dresses are made, feed upon
the leaves- or the mulberry-- tree, and these leaves appear, indeed, to
be their natural food. "

During our absence my wife had discovered a hole 1n the trunk
of the tree, through which bees were passing in and out, to and
from a nest inside.

Jack, who with his usual daring had been the first to reach the
hole, was terribly stung, and his swelled and inflamed face was a
piteous sight

Ernest, on the contrary, always slow in his mo>> enients, had
only received one wound, for he had been the last to mount, and
the first to descend in haste when the conflict commenced.

And so every day brought its work ; we had no time to be idle,
nor to lament over our separation from our old home in Switzerland
7 and the society of mankind Each night we lay down to nest after
our evening meal, and slept in peaceful contentment, after the toils
of the day, that sleep which only health and active employment can
secure.-

CHAPTER XIV.
Garzzm's NEW FRIEND.

One morning early a strange and unusual sound was heard at a
distance, something resembling a wild beast, yet I could form. no
opinion as to the animal from which the sounds issued. -

We immediately set ourselves on the defensive, and at once
mounting to our castle in the tree, loaded our guns ready for the
charge; Our faithful dogs kept close at hand.GRIZZLE'S NE W FRIEND. In

Suddenly Fritz, casting aside his gun, rushed forward, and
bursting into aloud laugh, exclaimed, '

"Papa! papa! it is the donkey come back! poor old
Grizzle !"

I felt almost at first inclined to be angry; but following the
direction taken by Fritz, I came upon the truant, who was, how-

~

 

CAPTURING THE "'ILD ASS.

ever, not alone. And the next moment I observed at a short dis-
tance a wild ass, and immediately various means were suggested to
my mind to enable me to make it my prisoner.

At last I Succeeded with great difficulty in getting a slip--knot
over his head, but the creature started back with such a bound, that
the jerk threw him on the ground, where he lay panting for breath,
his tongue protruding, and nearly strangled. I loosened the string,
and instead threw' over his head the halter belonging to old Grizzle.

.
_I fastened him by two long ropes to the nearest tree-roots, and left
him to see whether anything more was necessary to tame him.

He at last became so quiet, that I ventured to lead him gently
beneath the sheltered tree--roots. -

I also tied by a halter old Gn'zzle, that they might become.
accustomed to each other. ~ . '

In -a few weeks our yisitor was so far conquered, that he could
be ridden with tolerable safety. We named him Lightfoot, on
account of his swiftness, and considered him a valuable addition.
I managed to contrive a kind of nose-band with reins, by which
the rider could himself guide his steed, right or left, as he pleased.

About this time three of our hens presented us with broods of
chickens, so that a swarm of nearly forty little chicks were running
and chirping around us in all directions. . --

This increase to- our farmyard reminded me again of the neces-
sity for contriving a more convenient place to shelter our animals
and feathered folk. I felt more than ever anxious on this point,
because I expected the approach of the rainy season and the winter
in this region. We therefore set to work, and before long had
suitable winter quarters for our live stock.

We were already warned of the approaching rainy season by.
frequent showers; the sky was covered with clouds, and the weather
had changed and become cold and stormy.

Our first care was to gather in a store of potatoes and manihot'
or cassava-roots, as plants which would keep easily, and afford us
the most agreeable food. Cocoanuts and acorns also were not to be
despised, nor the cassava cakes, which could be easily made, al--
though we missed the bread made of the Wheaten flour which grows
in our Fatherland ,- indeed, this had always been a terrible privation
to us all. However, all the seeds of European corn that remained
from the store in the mother's bag had been sown, in the hope that
the rainy season would cause them to germinate quickly, andpro--
dnce an abundant crop by the spring. '

The first storm came upon us before we had completed our
arrangements: the wind roared, and the rain fell fitter-rents.

These heavy rains-made it impossible to remain in our sleeping-
apartment,~and we were all obliged to take refuge in the hollow

trunk, with whatever provisions we could find that Werenot already
spoiled.
- This homely dwelling was indeed so crowded, that it was

 

AN UNTAMED AIKERICAN HORSE.

scarcely posible to move ; and the smell from the stables, the low-
ing and ducking of the animals, and the horrible smoke when we
attempted to light a fire, made Our situation at first almost unbearable. -
All these difficulties, however, Were by degrees overcome: the
8
animals were removed to a greater distance, and by piling up a '
number of articles on the winding staircase, we made room enough
for us to work during the day, and lie down at night with comfort.

Cooking was dispensed with as much as possible, to spare us
the tormenting smoke, and to save our dried wood in case of colder
weather. ,

I determined to discover some other means of passing through
the winter in comfort, if the weather would clear up for a few days
to enable me to venture out.

But no_change took place for nearly a week, and during that
time we could only subsist on the acorns, eocoanuts, cold meat and
potatoes, that we had brought to our retreat.

At present we had hay enough for the animals, and a stock of
grain for the poultry 3 but when we were unable to supply them with
sufficient food, they must be turned adrift to forage for themselves.

During our stay in this hollow tree as a refuge from the weather,
we were still actively employed. My wife employed herself with her
needle, while I commenced a journal of the events which had 0c~
curred since the shipwreck, and the story of our lives in this foreign
land. '

My wife and the boys readily helped me when my memory
failed, and the questions and discussions that arose on the subject
created great amusement. Fritz and Jack also taught little Frank
to read. .

CHAPTER XIV.
SPRING DAYS AND THE SALT CAVERN.

It is impossible to describe our. joy when, after many long
.weeks of confinement and privation, we again gazed on the clear
sky and the bright sunshine. .

The sorrows of the winter were all forgotten, and the work .
which lay before us in the summer hours seemed, in our gladness,
- ,but as child's play.
Our tree plantation was in excellent condition. The seeds we
had sown' were springing up. The trees were putting forth their
young leaves of delicate green. The grOund was covered with
flowers of every hue, and their sweet fragrance was borne to us upon
the balmy air ; while birds of the most brilliant plumage made the
woods resound with song to welcome the laughing spring.

' We soon diswvered that our work would begin at our castle in
the tree, for the rain had greatly damaged the sail-cloth roof, and
dried leaves had drifted into our sleeping-apartment.

My wife reminded me of the flax, which required beating, card-
ing, and combing, before it could be woven or spun into thread.

' ' There will be many things for you to do at Tent--home," she
. said. " And while you and the three boys are absent at the work,
I can stay here with little Frank and spin the flax, for you are all
- terribly in want of clothes."

We commenced proceedings by placing the bundles of steeped
flax in the sun to dry. Then followed the work of beating, strip-
ping, and carding.

I then set about constructing a spinning-wheel or distal? with
great energy. '

I chose the lightest of the wheels I had brought from the wreck.
Fritz prepared straps from the skin of the dead buffalo; and, after
some difficulty, I succeeded in forming a spinning-wheel, and
spindle, and reel, Which although rather clumsy in appearance, were
received by my wife with great satisfaction, for it seemed to her all
she could wish.

We found that the damage done at Falcon's Nest could not be
compared to the terrible destruction at Tent House.

Storm and rain had overthrown the tent, tom the sail<<cloth
covering, and so completely soaked the stores of provisions we had
left there under shelter, that most of them would have proved per-
fectly useless had we not quickly placed them in the sun to dry. .

Fortunately, the pinnace had suffered no damage, although the
tub-boat was completely broken up.

Two or" the powder casks were entirely filled with water, and
the contents so thorOughly soaked, that they were obliged to beTHE CAVE.!

 

 

.u

 

spmrva n4 rs AM) THE SALT C'A VIE/9N. 1r7

thrown away This loss led me at once to consider in what way I

could contrive some more convenient winter quarters, where such
disasters could not possibly occur. ,

M y first idea on the subject, which was to hew out a cave or a
dwelling in the rocks, seemed, with our limited strength, to be
impossible, at least so as to have it ready in less than three or four
summers. '

At last I determined to hew out at least a cellar to contain our

powder-flasks, that this valuable treasure might for the future be
preserved from injury,

l started one morning with Fritz and Jack, fully determined to
carry out my intentions. .

At last I made choice of 3. Spot where the face of the rock ap--
peared smooth, steep, and almost perpendicular, and from the top
of which could be seen a. most extensive view of Deliverance Bay,
together with the shore of the Jackal River.

, Upon this I marked with charcoal the outline of an opening,
and then I and the two boys undertook the office of stone-breakers.

On the first day we made so little progress that I despaired of

. being able to complete even a common cellar, before the rainy sea-

son again arrived. But on the following day we set to work with
renewed vigour.
We had penetrated into the rock to a. distance of about seven

feet, when Jack, who was trying to bore _a hole through with a large
handspike, suddenly cried out joyfully,

" I am through, papa! I am through I"

"Through! Through where?" I replied ; " certainly not
through the whole mountain ?f'

" Through into the mountain, of course, papa," replied the
boy. " Hurrah ! hurrah l"- '

" Indeed he is right," cried Fritz. " The iron spike has gone
right through the rock into an open space, for I can turn it round
and round just as I like." '

I seized the handspike, and worked it about in the hole with
such force, that I very soon made an opening large enough for one
of the boys to slip through. When I approached nearer to the
opening to look through, a puff of foul air rushed into my face, and
caused me to feel, for a-momcnt, quite sick and giddy.

" Do not attempt to enter that dreadful cave,'--' I cried, " for
the atmosphere inside is deadly."

I then explained to them that atmospheric air consisted of two
gases, oxygen and nitrogen, and that if one, or part of one, was re-
moved, the air became impure and unfit to be breathed by the lungs.

" The simplest and safest test is to place fire, or a lighted can-

 

'ULE TURTLEr

dle, in the Suspected air, and if they continue to burn, we know it
is pure enough for a. man to breathe it ; but in impure air fire and
lights are instantly extinguished. Now fetch a quantity of dried
grass, and we will try the experiment. "

Ithrew some of it into the opening- and set fire to it; but in
an instant it was extinguished, proving at once the air in the cave
to be in the highest degree dangerous. We had brought from the
wreck, among other things, a sea--chest containing rockets and
bomb-shells, to be used on board ship as signals at night or in case
of danger.

I fetched one of the rockets, and placed it on a mortar, just
within the portal of this nether world, in the hope that by the ex--
plosion the malignant air spirit might be driven from the spot.

The rocket whizzed round the cave like a flaming dragon.

I waited for a little while, and then a second time made trial
of the dried hay. It continued burning till it was all consumed,
proving that we might enter, without danger.

I hesitated to explore the cave in darkness, therefore sent our
active'little Jack for a number of our wax lights, that we might
enter the wonderful vault. -

During Jack's absence, Fritz and I worked hard at the open-
mg.

The appearance of the grotto startled us by its wonderful
beauty. The candles we carried were reflected on the walls in
golden light and the columns which rose from the floor to the
vaulted roof sparkled and pglittered in all the colours of the rainbow.

Crystals also hung from the roof in fantasic forms, which rep-
resented the vaulted arches of a cathedral or the delicate tracery of
gothic architecture. '

The floor was covered with soft firm sand, which showed not
the least sign of being damp.

I recalled the descriptions I had read of the salt--mines in P0-
land. I approached the wall, and breaking oil" a small piece, tasted
it with the tip of my tongue, and found, to my unspeakable joy,
that we were in a cavern of crystallized rock salt.

The discovery of this salt pleased me greatly, as it would pro-
vide us with a never-failing store. for ourselves and our cattle, with
only the trouble of breaking it oil", and therefore would save the
fatigue of bringing heavy loads from the sea-shore.

Plan after plan was proposed as the best to make the beautiful
cave useful, and all our industry and inventive powers were excited
in this fresh opportunity of constructiong an incomparable place,
which would recompense us for any exertions. Q;

It was decided that Falcou's Nest should still continue to be
our summer residence, and our sleeping-quarters at night; but the
whole day was to be spent at Tent House, while we were so busily
at work in preparing and fitting up our rock castle to make it hab-
itable as'a winter house.

Very little was now done at Falcon's Nest beyond what was
absolutely necessary

The first things to be thought of in our reek house were light
and air, and for that purpose the openings of a row of windows in
front were hewn out of the rock. The openings were made to suit
the size of the windows in the officers' cabins which we had brought
from the wreck.

 

HERRING.

The entrance to the cave was also made to admit the door,
now fixed in the hollow tree-trunk at Falcon's Nest.

The immense space within the cave made it easy to divide it
into two parts. "l'he largest in front, into which the door opened,
was to contain our dwelling- room and sleeping-chambers on the
right, and'thc kitchen, workshop, and stables on the left.

The smaller division behind, and so deep in the cave that no
windows could be>> made in it, I determined to use as cellars,'store-.

' house, and magazines ; and by degrees I hoped to supply, with the
help of m y boys, the necessary doors and Openings in the partition,
as well as other needful additions for a comfortable dwelling-house.

The previous work of nature had accomplished for us the greatIv" 5;.

SPRING DAYS AND THE SALT CA VERN: 121

undertaking of a. large building, with strong walls and lofty roof; it
remained, therefore, for us only to provide light and air, and the
fitting up of the interior. We applied ourselves earnestly to the
work, and in this, as Well as other undertakings during our stay on
this lonely coast, proved what can be done by activity and perse-
verance.

At Tent House, while engaged in this work, another advan-
tage presented itself, which had not yet been made known to us.

Now and then, on the shore, large numbers of turtles made
their appearance. 'l'hey, h0wever, were troublesome to capture,
although we were not sorry to be able to obtain such delicaces as
their flesh provided, as well as the eggs. In order to secure some
of them alive, I bored a hole in the hinder part of the shell of one
we had caught, passed one end of a long string through the hole,
tied it firmly, and fastened the other end to a t>post fixed near the
water's edge. In this way we succeeded in capturing several turtles
for future use; but another surprise, of equal value, awaited us.

One morning, we were startled by a most wonderful spectacle._
The sea at some distance appeared to be in a strange commotion,
while the agitated and foaming waves sparkled in the early morn--
ing light. Above this shining surface hovered numerous aquatic birds
of every description--the sea--gull, the albatross, and many others
g--their screams and cries reaching our ears even at such a distance.

Presently the feathered flock, still hovering and agitated, dived
dawn to the surface of the water and ruse again.

The shining mass now rolled forward towards us in a direct
line across the Deliverance Bay, followed by the flock of birds.

After due consideration I felt convinced - that a shoal or bank
of herrings was approaching our shores.

We had no leisure time, however, to admire this charming sight,
while it was necessary to catch as many fish as possible, n0w we had
the opportunity.

Fritz was to gather the fish in nets, and throw them into bas--
kets on the shore,----easily done, on account of the immense num-
bers swimming about ; Ernest and Jack were to prepare and clean
them, while the mother sprinkled salt over each.
I placed them in casks, a layer of salt and a layer of herrings
alternately. . .

The barrels were then carried to the cool vaults at the back of
our rock house, to be preserved for our use with the greatest safety.

This work occupied four days, and by working early and late,
we managed to fill seven or eight barrels.

Scarcely had this work of catching and salting herrings been
completed,'when other importantbusiness presented itself.

I found an empty sailor's chest, in the sides of which I bored
holes, and, putting into it a number of heavy stones, sank it to the
bottom of the stream ; and in this chest at number of crabs and lob-
sters were caught and secured by attractive bait. '

The contrivance obtained and preserved for us a constant sup-
ply of these shell-fish; indeed,' the brook became a complete reser-
voir for them, the chest being secured to the shore by a chain
fastened to a. post.

We now found it necessary to continue the fitting of our rock
castle home, lest a change in the weather should occur before we
expected it.

CHAPTER XV.
THE WINTER HOUSE IN THE GRO'I'TO.

On examining the cavern more attentively, I noticed that the
cryStallized salt had for its base a species of gypsum.

I broke off several portions with a pickaxe, and, carrying them
to our fireplace at Tent House, made several pieces red hot in the
fire. When these were cold, I easily reduced them to powder,
which, when mixed with water, made a beautiful white plaster.

I therefore, with the help of the boys, constructed a hut of
reeds and branches of trees closely twisted together.

Across the interior of this hut, and very high up, were placed
ledges, in rows one above another, and on these the herrings were
laid. Under them we lighted a fire of brushwood'and damp moss,
which threw out a dense smoke. The but was then closed, to make
it as much as possible air-tight. ' '

After repeating this process for several days, our herrings be-
came dry and'firm, and of a beautiful golden-brown colour. These
we gladly laid up in our storehouse.

These undertakings being accomplished, I was able to examine
my wife's kitchen garden. --It was agreeable to discorer that the
plants in this climate had no particular or fixed period of the year
for becoming ripe, but that, during the whole summer, peas, beans,
and other agreeable vegetables continued to grow and ripen. The
moisture caused by the heavy rains had. no doubt produced this
result.

Besides kitchen vegetables, our garden contained cucumbers,
gherkins, melons, as well as a quantity of Indian corn or maize, in
great abundance.

The success of the plants near Tent 'House filled me with a
pleasing hope that another experiment we had made at Falcon's
Nest would be equally successful, and one morning we started to

visit the spot. .
' _ On our way to Falcon's Nest we passed a large field, in which
the mother had sown awhole bushel of European corn, after the
potatoes had been dug up.

Here we found seeds of all descriptions growing into plants,
and some quite ripe. In one part was barley, in another wheat;
farther on we saw rye, peas, millet, and field-beans in profusion,
nearly all of them ready for cutting. '

"I think the harvest has commenced already," I said, and as
we approached nearer we heard a sudden flapping of rushing wings,
and at the same moment about half a dozen Canadian fowl, who had
evidently been enjoying themselves, rose in the air, and took to
Hi ht. -

g Fritz "released his eagle, which he always carried behind him,
perched on his game-bag. He uncovered the bird's eyes, and
threw him a10ft from his fist after one of the fugitives.

'He then sprang quickly on the back of the onager, and fol-
lowed his pupil with the swiftness of an arrow. We watched this
performance in the air with the-greatest curiosity. The eagle was
not long in discovering his prey.

He pounced upon him in a moment, as he was sinking earth-
ward, and would no doubt have made an end of him. But Fritz
was close at hand, and freed the claws of the eagle from the bird's
feathers.

'lhe rest of the day we employed in shelling and laying by the
seeds which we had brought n 1th us, and also made the necessary
arrangements to start on the next morning at. daybleak to cairy out
a new undertaking -

We chose especially a Canadian cock and two hcns, which we
intended should establish a colony in the wilderness, and increase
_ in numbers, and seek their supply of food for themselves. I de<<
cided also to take four of the little pigs, and two pairs of goats, for
the number of our flocks and herds had become very considerable,
and how to procure food for them all was a cause of no little
anxiety.

In the morning we started from Falcon's Nest. Fritz rode
foremost to discover if the way was clear, and no danger presented
itself.

We struck again upon a new path, between the strand and the
river.

By--and--bye, we found no little diFliculty in passing through the
high grass, and reaching the wood beyond it. It was necessary to
cut our way through with axe and hatchet.

This difficult march, however, came to the end at last, and we
reached the opposite edge of the wood, and saw before us an open
plain, on which grew a number of small bushes, which looked as if
they'werc covered with snmv~flakes. I discovered that these bushes
were a kind of dwarf cotton tree. '

The joy expressed on_this discovery was loud and universal,
particularly by the mother, who was in ecstasies over the number of
articles with which this wool would supply us.

While we were conversing, the boys were gathering up and
plucking quantities of the wool, till all our sacks were full.

At last we arrived at the foot of a little hill, up which we
125 SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON.

climbed, and from the top discovered a most delightful prospect.
Trees of every kind decked the hillsides, and beneath flowed a clear
rivulet, which in a verdant plain, evidently fertilized by it, was lost
to our view.

After descending the hill, my proposal to establish our farm on
this fertile plain received universal approval. The tent was, there-
fore, quickly raised, and large stones collected to form a fireplace,
that dinner might be prepared. .

'The trees I had chosen stood in the form of a parallelogram,
or longsided square. The longest side, facing the sea. Inside the
trunks of these trees, at about ten feet from the ground, I out notches,

' as also in the three at the back, which grew almost opposite.

I then placed beams across in a sloping position, frorn front to
back, to form a roof. These beams were fastened firmly with nails
to the trees at the side.

To make the roof secure,.we covered it with pieces of bark
already dried in the sun, in the form of tiles, and, fitting one over
the other 3 these were all firmly nailed to the beams on which they
rested.

While clearing up the rubbish and the broken pieces of bark '
we had used, I noticed a peculiar smell, and took up one or two of
the chips to examine them. I then discovered that they were pieces
of' the bark of the terebinth-tree, and contained turpentine. I
hoped, therefore, to make even these broken pieces of still greater
use than merely supplying us with fuel. _

' The acacia species, or mimosa-tree, which we found at a little
distance, had thorny branches, and these thorns were useful to us -
as nails.

We had to thank the goats for the next wonderful discovery,
which was indeed welcome. They were seen to scrape among the
fallen bark chips for certain pieces, which they evidently considered

'35 delicious morsels, for they devoured them greedily. The boys,
whose curiosity was excited in the highest degree by the perform-
ance of the goats, took up pieces of the bark and tasted them. So
aromatic and delicious was the flavour, that Fritz at once pro-
nounced the bark to be cinnamon. ,rum"

 

TIJE I/VI/VTER HOUSE IN THE 6120770. 127

_During our midday meal, the boys made many inquiries re~
Uspecting these new discoveries, turpentine and cinnamon 5 they
could think of nothing else.

Respecting the two first, I explained that turpentine and tar
could be produced from the fir--tree, and this fact was known by
the ancient Greeks, and from them it came to Venice, and is now
an article of valuable commerce, especially with Norway, in which
are large forests of firs. Tar, when mixed with train oil, forms
pitch, which is also very useful ; and when fat is added, it makes a
kind of grease for carriage and cart-wheels.

" We shall now be able to prepare pitch for our yacht," I said,
"which will be a great improvement on caoutchouc, and render it
stronger and firmer.

After dinner we again proceeded to the building of the farm--
house, which I knew would 'require many industrious days before '
it was completed.

A partition, the length of the building from front to back,
divided the interior into two unequal parts. The larger contained
the principal entrance-door to the cattle-stalls ; the smaller was to
'form sleeping-apartments for ourselves whenever we paid a visit to
the farm.

Within the larger partition we erected a smaller one, with
wooden palings, so arranged that, while the poultry could easily slip
through to the principal door, the animals were quite separated, and
unable to intrude upon them.

In both places we made proper troughs for their food, and be-
tween the cattle-stalls and our sleeping-chamber a secure door was
placed. _ '

As this undertaking took longer than I had calculated our stock
of provisions was nearly exhausted. I sent Fritz and Jack to Fal-
con's Nest to obtain a fresh supply of necessary provisions.

The animals and poultry at Falcon's Nest would also need more
fodder, and I desired the boys to give them enough to last for ten
or twelve days. They took the ass to draw the cart, in which to
pack the store of provisions.

During their absence I set out, with Ernest, to explore the
surrounding country, from a wish to become better acquainted with
it. Crossing 2. little brook, we reached a large marsh, covered with
the rice-plant, evidently growing wild in great luxuriance.

On proceeding farther, Master Nip made a welcome discovery
'for, as usual, be accompanied us. Suddenly he rushed forward into
the thicket. Ernest and I followed him, and discovered that he
was eating, beautiful and sweet strawberries. We refreshed our

 

FIR-CONES 011 THE PITCH PINE.

parched lips with the delicious fruit, and gathered enough to fill
Nip's basket to the very top. _

I did not forget, also, to carry with me a few specimens of the
ripe rice-seeds for the mother, so that we might ascertain whether '
'we had made a useful discovery.

" . Continuing our walk, we presently came to a tiny lake, which. .
We had already so much admired from a distance. We calledysit' ,'
 

Swan Lake on account of the number of beautiful swans, which were
gliding in stately tranquility on the surface.

On the following morning, after supplying the sheep, goats,
and poultry, which we intended to leave behind, with sufficient.
fodder, we departed from the new farm, which had been named
Wood Grange, and took the road to the promontory of False Hope.

When we emerged from the wood, I had noticed a. rising
ground, from the summit of which I felt sure we should discover a
delightful prospect. ' ' .

It was indeed so beautiful, that I at once decided to make also "-
here another establishment.

This work was far easier to us now, in consequence of our
practice and experience at Wood Grange ; and it proceeded so rap-
idly, that in six days the cottage was finished. We gave to this
new settlement, at Ernest's suggestion, the high--sounding title of
Prospect [1'27].

' But this expedition had been undertaken by me principally that
I might search for a tree suitable to make a small boat of. Hith-
erto my search had been fruitless, but, in spite of this, my hopes of
finding the right tree were not lost.

After trying the bark of many trees, we discovered two>> tall
fine trees, resembling oaks. _ .

This bark, however, appeared to me to be a species of cork,
and, merely from its great toughness, would have been suitable to
my purpose, especially as it was also easy to cut.

The shell of bark we removed carefully and laid on the grass
unhurt. The first thing advisable to be done appeared to me the
formation of the boat while the bark was by nature still moist and
flexible, and would therefore be more easily brought into the shape
of a vessel. - _

My first act, therefore, was to cut through each end of the

. piece of bark to the length of about three feet, and then fold the
pieces over to form the stem and stem of my boat. In this position

, .I nailed them firmly together, so that they might not become
7" loosened by the influence of water. This performance, however,
armada my little ship too flat. I therefore bound it round the sides

_--' ,-. 9
with strong ropes while the bark was moist, that it might remain in
a proper shape when dry.

At this point I felt that my boat-- building could not be finis bed
without the necessary tools I therefore sent Fritz and Jack to
Tent House for the sledge, to which I had fastened two little
wheels, brought from the wreck, and belonging to the ship's cannon,

so that the unfinished boat might be carried to a more convenient
place to be completed

During the absence of the boys, I searched the neighbouring
woods and groves for pliable wood that would bend easily and form
the ribs of my little ship.

It was late in the evening when the young people returned
with the sledge. We were by that time only too glad to retire to
rest, and leave the completion of our undertaking till the morning.

We rose early on the following morning ,and were soon busily
engaged in eo'lecting the timber, curved wood, and other articles
necessary to the completion of the boat, which were laid on the
sledge. After breakfast the smaller articles, with our provisions,
were placed on the cart drawn by old Grizzle, and then we started
on our way. '

Tent House, however, was not reached till late, and we were
so completely tired and overworked, that, after taking some refresh--
. ment and unharnessing the animals from the cart and sledge, we
were glad to retire to rest.

On the following morningl set to work in earnest, with the

help of the boys, to finish my boat- building. The first important
undertaking was to form the ribs, with the curved and pliant wood
we had ',bro11ght and also to fix underneath, from end to end, a
thin plank {or a keel. On the upper parts rings were placed, to
receive the cordage and tackle of the rigging.
, As ballast I threw into the hollow of the boat anumber of
pebbles, which I cemented together by pouring upon them a mixt-
ure of lime and clay, Over these pebbles planks were laid, side by
side. Across the boat hung movable planks, for seats, and in the
Centre of the lower deck or floor a large hole was cut, to receive
the bamboo mast, to which a triangular sail had been attached.7H5 ' STRANDED WHALE. -- 13:

Themdder I fixed at the stern with two strong door--hinges.
My boat when finished promised to be very useful, and although of
little cost was to us of the greatest value.

For greater security, I finally thought of another arrangement.
I requested the mother to make for me two air-tight leather bags of
the (log fish's skin: these I covered carefully with a thin wash of
pitch, filled them with air, and fastened them by well-tarred ropes on
each side of the centre of the boat, just low enough to touch the water.

By this means it would, I knew, he almost impossible for any
accident to upset the boat, unless it were too heavily laden.

For two months after this we worked daily at our salt cavern,
fixing our partitions more firmly, or patching up the walls; but our
chief work now consisted in arranging the inner rooms and the
stalls for the animals, that they might be comfortable during the
long rainy season and the winter. -

The floor of our dwelling-room we covered with lime and clay,
in which we placed small pebbles, and stamped them down, filling
up the spaces between with gypsum plaster. I also began to see
the importance of using the wool and hair of our sheep and goats to
make carpets for our sleeping-chambers and living-room.

I wetted a piece of saiLcloth with fish-glue, and spread it on
the ground. ' Over this we scattered hair and wool as evenly as
possible, and then rolled up the cloth, beat it with sticks, stamped
on it with our feet, and worked at it with all our strength till the
hair was thoroughly mixed.

When dry, we had the satisfaction of knowing that our rooms

. would be rendered warmer by a contrivance which, though not a.
carpet, would be equally useful to us.

 

CHAPTER XVI.
THE STRANDED WHALE.

For some time I and the boys continued our work in the cave,_
with very little incident to vary our daily duties, until Jack met
with an adventure which broke the monotony. One morning,E STORM;

TH
after being absent for two or three hours, he presented himself
before us in a most deplorable condition, covered from head to
foot with thick green mud. He carried, however, in his arms a
large bundle of Spanish canes, but he had lost one of his shoes,
and looked ready to cry when his brothers laughed at his appear--
ance. . .

. "What have you been about P" I asked, checking the laughter
of the boys.

"Gathering reeds in the marsh," he replied. "I wanted to
make some baskets and cages, and l saw such beauties growing on
the edge of the marsh, that I couldn't help trying to get at them.
I'jumped from one tuft of firm earth to the other quite safely till I
got near the reeds, and then my foot slipped and in I went, first up
to my ankles, and then to my knees, and there I stuck, and begm
to scream with all my might, but no one came to help me, except-
' ing my poor little jackal."

" Did he come to you i" asked Ernest.

" Yes, indeed," replied the boy; "and set up such a barking
and howling. that the sound echoed round the rocks awfully. But
he couldn't help me, and no one heard our cries. At last, in my
terror, I thought of the reeds: I could just reach them with my
hunting-knife. So I cut down this bundle and laid it on the
marshy pool, to form a kind of bank, and while I rested my body
upon it, I was able to set my legs free, but I left one of my shoes
-behind. -

"I got astride the bundle of reeds, and caught hold of the
jackal's tail. Of course he' ran back to the dry ground quickly
enough, but I held last, and so he dragged me and the reeds to the
bank in no time, But I never had such a fright in my life as when

I felt myself sinking in the marsh. I thought it was all over with
me."

"Thank God for saving you, my boy," I said; "and also
that you had the courage and presence of mind to act as you did."

I examined the reeds, and found they would be useful for
many things, : :id particularly in preparing parts of a loom for my

wife. '
By splitting two of the largest reeds I formed a frame for the
warp, and the boys cutsome of the more slender into small pieces,
and sharpened them, for the teeth of a comb.

The curiosity of the'boys made them ask all manner of ques--
tions, especially aseach part was hidden when finished. . .

At last I told them not to be surprised if they found I had made
a musical instrument called a " tum-tum," such as the Hottentots
use, which could play a tune when their mother beat time with her
foot. They knew I was in joke, and laughed merrily; but when at
length the weaving-loom was finished and presented to their mother,
they quickly understood its value, and watched her with the greatest
interest while she practised the different movements.

Her great joy at this unexpected appearance of the loom was
sufficient reward to me for my trouble.

>> For several days after I had finished the loom we employed
ourselves in completing the preparation for winter in the interior of
. our grotto. .

As we now each day expected the commencement of the second
rainy season, it became necessary, while the weather remained favour-
able, to gather in from our gardens and plantations a store of fruits, .
vegetables, and roots.

We all, therefore, employed ourselves in this work, and very
soon a good supply of potatoes, rice, guavas, sweet acorns, pine-
cones, anise-roots, and as many of the royal ananas or pineapples
as were ripe enough to pluck:

' A quantity of seeds, both native and European, were also sown
in the ground we cleared, as I expected that the rain during'the
winter would cause them to spring up rapidly.

To preserve the various articles in our rock storehouse required
a larger number of vessels than we had to spare, I therefore broke up
the raft, that we might make use of the casks on which the flooring
had rested, for our store of roots and dried fruit. --

Winter approached rapidly, ushered in by heavy clouds, whic
spread over the horizon, and were followed by pelting showers.
Then the wind arose and blew violently from the sea, the waves -
dashed in foam against the rocks, till at length frightful storms of
thunder and lightning drove us to our shelter in the cave.

 

'ALCYON CORAL.

I calculated that this change commenced on the first day of
June, and it appeared certain that we should be confin'xi to our
winter quarters for at least twelve weeks.
Notwithstanding Our previous work in the cave, we still found
a great deal to be done to render it really comfortable. One great
inconvenience arose from the darkness. The cave had only four
openings for light--the door, and three windows, one for our sit-
ting-room, another in the workshop, and one which lighted the three
sleeping--chambers. With the entrance-door closed, the stables,
and other parts of the cave at the back, were in total darkness.

For this purpose I fixed one end 01 a long and thick bamboo
cane firmly in the ground, near the centre of the cave, the upper
end reaching the roof. Jack thenclimbed this pole, carrying with
him a pulley and stake which he fastened into a cleft of the rock.
A long string was passed through the pulley, and to it I fastened a
large lantern which we had brought from the wreck.

This lantern, being filled with oil and containing {our wicks,
_ burnt brightly ; and when I drew it up to the roof at the top of the

bamboo cane, the crystal walls sparkled in its light, and we could
see to the deepest part of the cave.

We could continue our work now with greater ease ; and on the
next day Ernest and Frank busied themselves in fitting up shelves
against the' wall of the inner dwelling-room, to hold our books.
Meanwhile the mother and Jack placed the various articles used for
cooking on a kind'of dresser, which I_ had formed of planks, while
Fritz assisted me in fitting up the workshop, and fixing in one'oorner
his turning lathe. . ' .

The carpenter's bench stood in the centre of our workshop,
and the tools and other articles of all Sizes and shapes were hung on
the Walls.

I was surprised to find what a number of books, we had saved
from the wreck. Voyages and Travels, Natural Histories with
coloured engravings, and many other learned and interesting books,
besides a box of mathematical and astronomical instruments, maps
and charts, and an excellent terrestrial globe. _

I noticed also grammars and dictionaries of various languages.

We talked over this wonderful library, and it was decided that
we should all study Gemian and French. English and Duch were
to be carried on by the mother and elder boys.
At length the sky began to clear, and as by degrees the wind
and storm subsided, the rain ceased, and when the sun appeared,
we ventured again out into the free air, and observed with delight
thesigns of vegetation around us. We walked towards the chain of
rocks near Jackal Bay, and presently discovered something large
and round lying on the little island near Flamingo Marsh.

I examined the object through my telescope, but even then felt
unable to distinguish what it could possibly be. Having been so
long shut up in the house, we were all ready to embark on board
our boat and. sail out at once to the spot. ..

We were ready very soon after breakfast the next morning.

As we approached, our various conjectures were very amusing.

_ Presently joyful shouts made me turn to the point at which lay
a stranded whale ; but the boys, who had not yet reached the
monster fish, were standing at the foot of the rocks near the shore,
and calling to me.

" Papa, papal please just stop a minute: we have found such a
quantity of shell-fish, and some pieces of rock that look like coral;
do come and look."

I descended to the shore, and discovered that the violence of
the storm and the force of the waves had thrown up quantities of
shell-fish and broken off portions of a coral rock. '

" What an immense beast it is l" said Fritz, as we approached
the whale; "1 wish it could be useful to us. "

"Well," I replied, " after dinner the sea will have become
calmer, and we can return and see whether the stranded whale
cannot be found as useful as any other of our discoveries."

This work occupied the whole day, and. we were beginning to
feel beth hungry and thirsty, for we had not been able to eat much
while working. Before sunset, however, I'felt satisfied with what
we had obtained from the whale. We therefore returned with our
spoils to the boat, and after a refreshing bath, during which we
found some large sea-shells, we hastened on board and rowed to--

' wards home.

It- was my intention at the end of the rainy reason to set apart
about an acre of land,'in which to sow the various kinds of seeds
my wife had so carefully preserved; but many other necessary duties
had presented themselves, so that the summer was too close at hand
for me to carry out my purpose.

My animals were also still unused to the yoke. I resolved,
therefore, to set aside the field work till just before the next rainy
season, and in the meantime, with the help of Ernest, fulfil my
'_ promise of finishing the loom for my wife. -

 

\VHALE.

My first efforts had produced but a rough machine, which.
however, had answered pretty well for a time, but was now almost
useless.

In my young days I had visited the workshops of weavers, and
knew something of other trades, which knowledge helped me greatly
in our present position. To complete this task, however, I still re-
quired the particular paste or weaver's glue with which they c0ver
the thread to prevent it from slipping.
In default of this necessary paste, I determined to try if fish
glue would answer the same purpose. I had already contrived to
make this gum clear and firm enough to be used as window panes,
which had the appearance of thin horn, and as these windows were

placed very deep in the rocky wall to keep out the rain, they served
the purpose admirably.

' Among other examples of my handiwork, of which I was rather

proud, were two saddles and bridl es which I had made at the oft-

repeated request of my boys, and the yoke The saddletree and
the yoke I constructed of light wood, and covered them with the

skin of the kangaroo and the fur of the seal~ski11. 'lo stuff them I

used the long moss of the old trees which we discov cred while the

pigeons were building their nests.

The leather for the bridles I made soft and flexible by soaking

it in oil.

' This work occupied some days, and for a second time we w ere
visited by ashoal of herriugs, of which we gathered a large number.
These were followed by other fishes. We caught a good many, and
although their flesh was too oily to be eaten as food, we baited traps
with it for the crabs'at the entrance of the Jackal River, and found
the skin, the fur, the' bladder," and the 'oil of the greatest use.

The boys had several times petitioned me to take them on a

V hunting or rather shooting expedition to different parts of the island.

I felt it necessary to make two large baskets or panniers, to
carry grain, fruits, or roots from the field. For this purpose we
gathered a quantity of rushes, which grew in abundance on the
borders of the Jackal River, for a first attempt at basket-making.

' When finished, our baskets were not very. shapely, but the trial
taughtus experience, and I decided to make two larger and better
ones of the Spanish canes.

In this we were quite succeSSful.THE DREMSFUL VISITOR--POOR cuizzm's DEATH.

I was sitting next day with my wife and Fritz in the shadow
of some trees on high ground overlooking the Jackal RiVer, and
talking of the improvements I hoped to make in the palanquin
basket.

Suddenly Fritz rose, and advanCed a few steps, fixed his keen
eyes on the road. Presently he cried out, "Papa, what in the
world is this creature I can see in the distance? It looks like a.
thick cable--rope, and seems to be Coming nearer."

I rose at once, and saw, to my horror, an enormous serpent
rolling towards us on the sand, and sometimes raising itself, like
the mast'of a ship, and looking round as if for .prey.

My wife, who noticed my alarm, although I did not' speak,
rushed into our rock dwelling, while I called out to the younger
boys to follow her and shut themselves in.

" What do you think it is, papa?" asked Fritz, as we stood
together. '

" I believe it is a' serpent of a frightful size," I replied. " You
had better join your brothers in the house, and hold my largest gun
in readiness, in case it is required. I will soon return foryou
when I decide upon what is best to be done."

I went cautiously forward to discover, if possible, to which of
the serpent race the horrid creature belonged. In a few moments
I-recognized the most dreadful of Serpents--a boa--constrictor--
which was wriggling with rapid movements towards the bridge over
the river. ' - '

I rushed back to our cavern home, entered quickly, and close
the deer carefully and without noise. -

' On entering the house,I found my young folks in warlike
attitude, and fully armed.>> THE DREADFUI: l'lS/TOlf--GRIZZLE'S FATE. :4!

Fritz offered me his gun. Itook it in silence, and we then
placed ourselves at an open window,_from which we could see for

 

TEE SERPENT KILLING GRIZZLE.

a. great distance without being seen. The monster had already left
the bridge behind him, when he suddenly. paused and appeared
'startled, as if he for the first time had discovered the track of
human beings.

On he came, sometimes rolling in rings on the earth, and at

others raising himself erect, as if instinct told him that he was near
his enemies. At all events, the huge worm placed his enormous
body just outside our cavern home, and appeared about to wait for
his prey to show themselves.
' Suddenly Ernest, most probably from an impulse of fear, fired
his gun. Jack and Frank followed his example. But these shots,
although not one touched the creature, at least frightened him a
little, for he rolled away with great rapidity. At all hazards, Fritz
and I fired after him, but neither shot appeared to have taken
effect, for the monster very soon disappeared from our eyes.

For myself, I regretted this failure bitterly. I strictly forbade
either of the boys to leave the grotto for the next few days without
my express permission. . - .

For three long terrible days fear of our dreadful visitor kept
us in our rock castle. ' _

Our enemy, however, gave not the least sign of his presence,
and we began to hope he had departed from the marsh by a way
unknown to us. But the half-wild ducks and geese were evidently
aware of the presence of the serpent, for they seemed in a constant
state of agitation.

My anxiety increased daily. The creature was no doubt hid-
den among the rushes, and at any moment might spring out and
attack us or the animals if we ventured to leave the cave. And to
beashut up day after day, and see our provisions continually de-
creasing, was indeed a painful position.

From this situation we were at last relieved by a sad and dis-
tressing loss. Our useful old Grizzle, the ass, saved the garrison
now as completely as the geese saved the Capitol at 'Rome in olden;
times, and deserved equal honours.

We had but a small. quantity of hay left to last till the hay-
making-time arrived, and the store at the cavern was all gone by

the third day. I determined, therefore, to. turn out the animals to
find food for themselves.
~ . Istood giving my injunctions to the boys, and my wife was
entreating Fritz and myself to be cautious, when unfortunately she
opened the door a little too "wide, in her earnestness, and old
Grizzle, who had been shut up and well fed for three days, rushed
from his stall, and was galloping away towards the Flamingo Marsh
before I could stop him. We all called him back earnestly by
name, but to no purpose.

In a moment we saw the serpent rear his head from the rushes,
spring with one bound upon our poor ass, and enclose him quickly
in the folds of his snaky body. ' '

"' Shoot him, papa! shoot him i" screamed the bOys. " Oh 5
do save our poor Grizzle l" ' .

"It would be useless now, boys," I replied; " nothing can
_ save the ass,'and firing would irritate the creature, and perhaps
draw him on to attack us. It will soon be over and while the
monster sleeps after this full meal, I shall do my best to destroy
him."

" Papa, will theiserpent swallow his prey whole?" asked Fritz,
"Oh! it is too horrible to look at!"

" These serpents have strong teeth," I replied, " which enable
them to seize their prey, which they crush to death with the folds
of their body. Even the bones are broken by this pressure, and
they then lick it all over with the tongue, which contains a peculiar
kind of moisture, to soften every part and make it easy to swallow.

Iallmved a few hours to pass before I attempted to interfere
with our terrible enemy, and then, accompanied by Fritz, I directed
my steps towards the border of the marsh. Jack, still half afraid,
followed cautiously behind, while Ernest kept us in sight, though
at a considerable distance. '

At a distance of about eighteen or twenty feet, I fired and
Fritz instantly followed my example. Our two shots seemed to
have taken effect, for the upper half of the body and the jaws'
remained immowable, but the lower part of the tail moved convul--
sively, and struck out blindly in all directions. I approached
nearer to finish the matter with two pistol-shots, and in a few
moments the whole body lay at rest, without signs of life.
144 SWISS FAMIL Y ROBINSON. r.

Jack now drew near, and being anxious to share in the honour
of killing the animal, fired into his body. In a. moment, as by a
galvanic influence, the monster moved, and a convulsive stroke of ,
the tail knocked the young sportsman over, and sent him rolling on
the ground.

This, however, was the last performance of the terrible mon-
ster, for although the boy sprang up and stood with an air of
defiance before it, there was no movement. Death, to which the
boa had given so many, had at last made the serpent his prey.

We returned to our home in the rock with joyful shouts of.
victory, so clearly heard in the distance, that Ernest joined us at
once on the battle-field, and the mother and Frank came out to
meet us, scarcely believing that our terrible visitor was really dead.

" I have released the poor animals," she said, "and I think I
heard cries of victory."

- " Yes, mamma," Isaid, " the mighty enemy lies at our feet
now, and we must be thankful to God, not only for His help in the
battle, but. also for enabling us to make a safe home in the rocks."

" I am glad the horrible monster is dead," said Jack.

" Can we eat serpents ?" asked little Frank."

. " No," replied the mother, " the flesh of asnake is poisonous." -

' ' Not always," I remarked ; " and I believe in some countries
the flash is eaten. Even in Europe the flesh of the boa. and the
rattlesnake has been made into what is called viper broth, which, it '
is said, has a flavour asagreeable as chicken broth. This prepara--
tion has been used by Europeans in cases where the bites of serpents
have caused great exhaustion, and has been found of the greatest
benefit in preventing death. 01' course, the head, of the serpent,
which contains the poison, has been removed. But, I have heard
that animals exist who can eat serpents without being injured by
the poison." .

" Oh, papa! what animals can they be ?" exclaimed Jack.

" Pigs, my boy ; and'I once read a. story on this subject which
greatly amused me." '

" Oh i do tell it us, papa," they all exclaimed. " Is it abOut

Pigs?) r
" Yes," I replied; and as they eagerly followed closely to
listen, I commenced my story.

"On one of the large lakes of America there was once a '
pretty little island, but no human being could dwell upon it on
amount of the immense number of rattlesnakes with which it was
infested. It happened at one time that a vessel, with a large cargo'

   

RATTLESNAKE.

of living pigs, was wrecked ear the island. The crew, however,
contrived to reach the shore. and land their living cargo and them-
selves in safety. But it was impossible for them to remain on such
a dangerous island; as quickly as possible, therefore, after the storm'
ceased, they repaired their little vessel, and leaving the pigs on
shore to their fate, made their escape with all speed.

" The forsaken animals diSpersed themselves on the island, and

ID

 

 

 

.9.>>
in time their owner came with another ship to look after them him-
self. What was his astonishment to findnthe pigs in good condition,
fat and well fed. They had eaten up all the rattlesnakes, and com-
pletely cleared the island of the terrible creatures." -

_" Why, papa," said Ernest, " then a few swarms of the secre-
tary birds would soon exterminate these serpents if they were taken
to countries where these creatures live P"

"You are under a little mistake, Ernest," I said; "partly
right and partly wrong about the secretary bird. "
" Papa," said Frank, "what sort of a creature is a secretary

bird? Ithoughtaseeretary was a gentleman who writes; birds
cannot write."

" Not with a. pen, Frank," I. replied, laughing; f' but they,
make strange scrawls with their feet in thc'snnd, which, of course,
we cannot read. But, joking apart, these birds have been so named
because they have two long feathers at the sides- of their heads,
which gives them the appearance of a gentleman secretary with pens
stuck behind his ears."

" How was I mistaken about these birds, papa?" asked Ernest.
" They do eat snakes, I know."

" Yes, my boy," I replied ; " and on that account the bird is
sometimes known as the serpent-hawk. But they are natives of
Africa, especially at the Cape, yet they have been found in the-
Philippine Islands. It w0uld also be impossible to send swarms
into other countries, even if they could bear the climate, for these
birds do not live in flocks, one or two pairs only being found
together in one place."

" How can people know the' difference between the poisonous
and the harmless serpents?" asked Fritz.

" Chiefly by the fangs," I replied, " which they protrude when
"alarmed or in danger. At such times the creature rears its body to
a great height in proportion to its size, opens the glowing red upper
jaw so frightfully, that the lower remains fixed, and displays two
threatening fangs, which at other times lie concealed behind the
- gums in akind of bag. These fangs are hollow, but so hardand
sharp, that they can easily penetrate the thick leather of aboot.
Under these fangs lies a little bladder containing the poison, 11h1cl1,
when the creature uses the fang, is pressed, and a. little drop enters
the wound and quickly spreads through the veins and ovex the
11 hole blood- vessels. Sometimes. if taken in time, a cure may be
efl'ct ted but 111 most cases the sting of a serpent is followed by
speedy death."

" V 11'1t poisonous serpents are natives of hot climates, like this
where "e dwell now P" asked Ernest.

" lhey are so 1111111010113 in hot countries, such as Africa and
India," Ireplied, " that I could not possibly name them all; but
the most noted-are the rattlesnake and the spectacled serpent, so
called because the marks on the skin of the face resemble apair of
spectacles. The skin of the neck, throat, and breast is so flexible.
that the creature, when angry, rears its head and inflates the skin till
it stands out like a collar wand its threat And yet these snakes
are very li1cl.) creatures, and. are exceedingly fond of dancing."

" 1)ch 111g, papa!' ' cried jack, increduously. " How can
they dance without feet? You are joking us, papa. "

" Not in the leas_,t my son," l said; "but by dancing 111 this
case is understood light and 11131111111 11101 ements in time to music ,
which Indian jugglers have cleverly taught thospcctacled snake to
perfor111.' The creature raises itself on the small rings of its tail to '
the height of two-thirds of its own length, spreads out its skin collar
round the spectacled head as much as possible, and then moves its
head and the upper part of the body gracefully in time with the
mournful music. .. Its eyes are fixed on the hand of the snake-
charmer as it is waved backwards and forwards in time with the
music. These jugglers make a secret of their art, yet they acknowl-
edge that, to a certain extent, the snakes are under the influence Of
a stupefying drug. It is not positively known whether the poison-
ous fangs have been removed from these creatures, yet some travellers
affirm that they have seen them still in the jaws of several dancing
snakes in India."

s " Is it believed that these snake-charmers really conquer them
by sorcery, or are they cheating us, papa ?" asked Fritz.BIRDS OP PARADISE.
" I do not suppose any civilized person would believe in con-
juring, Fritz ; yet these men are children of nature, and know that
serpents have the power of fascinating their victims and rendering
. them unable to escape. They perhaps, therefore, imitate, as far as
'they can, these wonderful actions of nature. I have even heard
that in South America the natives have a little instrument which-
has thesound, when shaken, of a rattlesnake, and that by this
sound they allure small animals, such as squirrels. and rabbits, to
their snares. But we have talked long enough, my boys, and we
must not leave our (lead enemy till the morning, for the birds will
be only too glad to eat the flesh, and spoil the skin, which I should
like to stuff."

" That will be beautiful, papa !" said Ernest, while Fritz and
Jack ran quickly to get the buffalo and ox, Ernest and Frank
remaining with me, to keep off the birds of prey from the serpent.

Our poor Grizzle had only been half swallowed by the mon-
ster, and I thought it might be possible to remove the dead body
from the serpent by yoking Storm and Grumbler to a rope fastened
round its legs. This was soon arranged, and at the touch of the
whip the animals started forward suddenly, and drew forth from the
serpent's body the scarcely--recognizable remains of our poor servant.

His deep grave was dug quickly, and after laying his mangled
bodyin it, we threw in the earth, and covered the top with pieces
of broken rock. ._ , '

" Some of you should compose an epitaph on poor Grizzle," I
said, after we had buried him.

" Oh, papa! Ernest must do that," exclaimed his brothers.

" Yes," said Fritz, " he wrote one called a ' New Year's Wish,'
when we were in our own country, and it had eight lines."

But Ernest shook his head, and looked uncomfortable, so Ileft
him to himself, and presently saw him seated alone, with his head
-on his hand and his elbow on his knee for ten minutes, without
moving, and looking as serious as a great philosopher over a mathe-
matical discovery. "

Inavery short time he approached me with a look of great
content, and said,150 ' $111119? 724.1771. 1/ Icon/11:10.12

" Papa, I have written the epitaph; but you won't laugh if I
let you read it, will you 9' '

" No, certainly not my boy,' ' I said, as I took the paper from
him and read as follows :

" Here lies an honest, industrious ass,
Who once disobeyed his master's call,
Which caused him a dreadful death, alas!
Yet made him a hero; for by' his {all
He saved a family with children four,
And father and mother, on this lonely shore."

" So," I exclaimed, " here are six stanzas. and the ideas and
the rhyme are very good, but the two last lines have not the right
number of feet. Try again, my boy," I said; " I am sure you
can improve it. ' ~

He took my advice and presently returned with the lines c01-
lected thus:

" He saved from death, on this lonely shore,
Father and mother, and children four."

The lines were not bad {01 a bov of thi1teen, and he looked
much gratified when I took out of my pocket :1 large red pencil,
which I always used for ma1k1nrr wood, and wrote the verses on the
rock. My next performance taking off the skin of the boa to be
stuffed, required also the aid of Our two useful animals, Storm and
Grumbler , but my wife, who came to 1ead poor Grizzle's epitaph,
told us dinner was ready, and, after the events or the morning -cw
were obliged to be content with cold pr01 isions.

After dinner the boys were very anxious to know how the se
pent could be skinned.

" It seems a very difficult thing to manage," said Fritz.

" There is but one way in which it is likely to be successful,"
I said, " and I intend to adopt it."

I commenced by cuttingt he skin entirely round the throat, and
after separating it from the flesh. ca1efully turned it back The
ox and the buffalo \1e1e then attached by their harness to the trunk
of the serpent, just shame the neck -I then shOwed I-'ritz and Jack.'./

THE DREADFUL VlSlTOR--GRIZZLE'S FATE. 151

how to draw back the skin carefully while I led the animals gently
forward, and the body of the snake gradually freed itself from the
skin as the boys loosened it.

It was ratheraslow process, but we siicceedcd so well, that the
beautiful skin of the boa- const1ietor 11 AS 1emoved almost without
injury. It was then steeped in salt Water, and, after being cleaned
with sand and ashes, carefully stuffed with horse-- hair and wool,
and placed in the sun to d1y.-

 

A great deal of fun occurred while stuffing the serpent, which
we were not able to attempt till the (lay after taking off the skin.
It was then hung to the branch of a. tree, and as there was a diffi-
culty in reaching the lower part near the tail, Jack volunteered to
get insidein his bathing-dress, and to fill the skin with the moss and
wool supplied to him by his brothers; and stamp it down with his
.feet. When he arrived near the neck, he put out his head in a.
frolicsome manner and exclaimed, "I'm not the worse for being
5" allowed by a boa, am I, papa? " .

Before evening our 11 ork was finished. We made two globes
of gypsum paste, varnished with fish glue, for the eyes. We sub-
stituted for the tongue a piece of iron wire, painted red with cochi--
neal. And now arose the question, where should we place such an
enormous creature to dry? and in what position in our museum to
suit his character. ?

After a. little thought, I decided first to erect a strong pole in
the ground firmly, on a slight elevation, and place the stuffed ser~
pent in coils round it. The boys entered into this arrangement

- warmly. The'chest was fixed to the pole in such a manner that the
head, with the mouth wide open, stretched forward with an aspect
so fierce, that the monster appeared about to spring at us, while the
glassy eyes glared (rightfully.

In fact, the figure of the creature was so natural and lifelike,
that the dogs growled at it, and Storm and Grumbler fled from it in
terror. I determined, therefore, when it was thoroughly dry, to
make room for the frightful creature in.our cave. The boys had
already fastened a label over the mouth, on which was written these
words---

"no DONKEYS ADMI'ITED HERE."

The words had, as I knew, a double meaning, as the figure was
to stand at the entrance to our library. The great danger to which
we had been exposed by the appearance of the serpent was-over, yet
I could not rest satisfied until I had searched the island to discover
whether any other of these creatures were to be found upon it.

I decided, therefore, upon two excursions, one to the marsh
and the duck-pond, the other to Falcon's Nest. Jack and Eniest
expressed a strong wish to remain at the grotto.

I overcame their fears, however, by a little persuasion,-for I
wished my boys to be brave and courageous in times of danger. I
explained to them also that, after exploring the island and finding.
no traces of these creatures, we should feel much safer and more at
ease than now, when we were in fear of another from day to day.4

THE DREADFLCL VISITOR--GRIZZLE'S_ FATE. 153

_ After this the-boys plucked up courage, and we started early
one morning on our expedition to the marsh. In addition to our
arms, we carried with us bamboo canes and wooden planks.

- We found many traces of the boa in the reeds and rushes,
which. he had crushed down in lying upon them, but no signs of
eggs or young ones.

We returned, after a strict search, by the chain of rocks, one
end of which joined the marsh, and there, to our surprise, came
upon another grotto or cave, from which flowed a little stream of
clear sparkling water. I and Fritz stepped in on a broad path
beside the stream, and found that the ceiling and walls of this grotto
were formed of glittering stalactite.

The ground was composed of soft earth as white as snow, and
I found, to my great satisfaction, that it was fullers' earth.

" It will be of great use to your mother in washing our clothes,"
I said; " for fullers' earth is used by fullers to cleanse wool before
it is woven, and is also one of the ingredients in making soup."

As we advanced I noticed that the stream got narrower, and
issued from a fissure in the rock at the back of the cave. As the
stones around this point were soft, it was easy to remove them, and

'make an opening. '

Leaving Ernest and jack outside, we crept through the hole,
and found ourselves in total darkness. Fritz therefore produced his
tinder-box and two wax candles, which were quickly lighted, and
stuck them on our bamboo canes. At once appeared before us a
large lofty hall with a vaulted roof, and I knew, by the clear burn-
ing of the candles, that the air was pure, and we could advance

' Without danger.

"' Oh, papa! " exclaimed Fritz, joyfully, " here is another salt
cavern. Look at the crystals."

"I do not think they are salt crystals," I replied, " or the
water of the brook would taste of it; but I am of opinion that this
is a cave .of rock crystals."

" Rook crystals, papa ! " exclaimed the boy; " then we have
made a valuable discovery."
" Not more valuable here," I replied, "than the bar of gold
found by Robinson Crusoe. " .

By this time our candleslwere burning low, and we hastened to
return to the outer grotto, after having- fired off a pistol to notice its
effect on the crystals. On reaching the outside, Jack startled me
by throwing himself into my arms, and sobbing and laughing to--
gether, as he exclaimed,

" Oh, papa, I'm so glad you are come ! " '

"I heard a noise like thunder in the cave twice, and I' thought
the care had fallen in and crushed you both to death. "

" My dear boy, it was only the report of my gun, which I fired. '
But why did not Ernest remain'with you? "

" Oh, he's gone to that bed of rushes, so he did not hear the
noise thatfrightcned me." -

Iwent hastily to look for the boy, followed by his brothers,
and found him among the reeds, plaiting a kind of basket with
striped and pointed rushes. -

' " And where are the fish for your basket? " I asked.

"I have not been fishing," he replied, " but I've shot a young
boa, I think. There he lies over yonder, near my gun."

Rather alarmed, I hastened to examine the creature, forI knew
that if this was a young serpent there must be more on the marsh.
One glance relieved me.

" My boy," I exclaimed, laughing, " your boa is nothing but
a fine {at 00], which will provide us with- a splendid supper.

But we may as well return home and show the mother the eel
you have killed, Ernest, thinking it was a young boa.

CHAPTER XVIII.
ANOTHER EXCURSION--FRH'Z AND THE RATS.

I proposed next day to my family to accompany me on a second
excursxon to Wood Grange.

This proposal was received with joy, and preparations were
commenced, which occupied us nearly a week. .l.'rovisions were
placed in the cart sufficient to last four weeks, together with our
travelling-tent, cooking utensils, tools, candles, torches to keep off
wild beasts at night, and plenty of arms and ammunition.

'l'hus equipped and provided, we started. We discovered traces
of the serpent at some points ; but before we reached Falcon's Nest
these traces had completely disappeared.

We found the live stock in good condition, and had greatly
increased in number. We threw to them a good store of 'fodder,
and then pushed on to Wood Grange. I decided to make this our
first halting--place, and to remain all night.

After dinner we started again to explore the neighbouring
country, and, for the first time, little Frank accompanied us, armed
with a small gun. I turned to the left of Black Swan Lake. with
Frank, Jack and Fritz took the opposite direction, while Ernest re--
mained to assist his mother in gathering rice from the rice--field by
the lake. '

We kept to the shores of the lake as closely as possible, and
several times started many aquatic birds, and amongst them herons,
woodcocks, and wild ducks, who flew to the lake and sported on its
- surface, or soared above it with fluttering wings.

Suddenly we \vere startled at hearing at strange noise from
amidst the rushes, almost resembling the braying of an ass. We
stood still and listenened attentively, and then Frank exclaimed
quickly,

" Papa, I believe it is our little onager, Swift."

" No,_ my boy," I replied, "it is too strong a voice for such
a young animal ; besides, he could not have followed us so quickly
from Rock House, and without our seeing him. No, Frank, I be--
lieve it is a bird called the bittern." ,

"How can a little bird have such a dreadful voice, papa ?"
asked Frank. .

"The lowing, crying, or whistling of animals or birds does not
depend on their size, Frank, but on the form of the throat, the size
of the lungs, and, above all, on the power of the muscles of the
chest. ~ You know that the nightingale and the canary are small
birds, but they can sing very loudly. It is said, however, that the
bittern increases the sound of its voice by thrusting its beak parti-
ally in marshy ground, and thus produces a deep hollow sound

' resembling the lowing of an ox."
Frank scarcely listened to my account of the birds and their

 

THE OSTRICB..

voices, his anxiety was so great to bring down a bittern by his first
shot.

'I whistled to the dogs and sent them to beat the rushes, while
F rank stood ready and listened, with his gun pointed and his finger
on the trigger.
In a few moments there was a rustle among the reeds, followed
by the report of a gun, then a cry of joy, as the little sportsman
rushed in to seize his prey. On hastening to the spot I discovered
that Frank had shot a guinea-pig.

When we reached the tent I saw on the groand a large number
of dead rats, the massacre of which Ernest had just completed. I
inquired the meaning of what I saw, in great astonishment, and also
where these disgusting animals had been found

"My mother and I were gathering rice in the field, " said

' Ernest, "and presently I noticed one or two elevations rising a
few inches from the marshy ground, like molehills Master Nip
ventured near one of these hills, and in a few moments I saw him
struggling with a large rat, and trying to draw it from a hole.

" I ran to help him, and after killing the rat, poked my stick
into what was cvidently a rat's nest. Out rushed at least a dozen
rats: some of them I knocked down with my stick ; but the cries of
the animals brought the whole colony upon me, and they began to
attack my legs in a most savage manner. I killed several, but the
furious animals returned to the attack.

" I cried out for help, and Floss presented herself, and, dash-
ing in among the enemy, with one grip of the neck laid many of
them dead at her feet, and scattered the rest. "

"My opinion is confirmed .about these animals," I said to
Ernest, after a close examination; " they are musk rats. They re--
semble the beaver in many respects, especially in the cleverness
with which they build their houses, and in having a bushy tail and
webbed feet."

_ By this time Fritz and Jack returned from their excursion.
_ Jack carried in his hat about a dozen beautiful eggs, wrapped in a

kind of skin, and Fritz brought two heath fowls, a cock and hen, in

his game--bag; These fresh supplies were at once taken care of.

I noticed after awhile that the boys looked tired ; we therefore
laid ourselves down in the old Wood Grange hut which had shel-
tered us on former occasions, and with the bags stuffed with the
cotton-wood for pillows, slept peacefully till morning:

We rose at daybreak, and after an early breakfast started to
continue the journey to the sugar--cane gmve, where we had already,
on a former visit, erected a kind of arbour of branches of trees
closely interlaced. This arhoiir was still in good condition, and
therefore, instead of pitching our tent, we threw the sail-cloth over
the top of the hut, rendering it in this mild climate quite com-3
fortal)le.

As I intended only to remain here till dinner-time, there was
plenty of work to be done in a few hours.

Fritz, Jack. and Frank at once started with me to the sugar-

cane grove, and I felt thankful to observe that no traces of the
serpent were visible in this direction. As we walked, several canes
were broken off, and the sugar sticker] from them with great relish
by us all. Not for long, however, could we enjoy this refreshing
occupation. for the dogs. commenced barking, and a strange rustling
noise was heard among the'eancs.
' We could not see while in the thicket ; I therefore led the way
out cautiously into an Open space. We were Scarcely clear of the
canes, when what appeared to be a whole herd of little pigs passed
before us; and I at first supposed they belonged to our old sow
which had-long been at liberty. But the number, and the greyskin
of the animals, told me I was mistaken; their structure also, and
the perfect order in which they followed the leader of their flight,
were most remarkable, and convinced me that the)" were not
Europeanpigs, but. fair game; yet Iicould not help regretting when
the two shots from my double--barrelled gun brought two of them to
the ground. . v

Strange to say, the procession did not pause, but actually
passed the dead bodies of their comrades with steady steps, and
without breaking their ranks. Fritz and Jack, following my ex-'
ample, fired also, and while the troop passed on, unmindful of their
fallen companions, we shot down about a dozen of them, while they
were within reach.

011 examining the dead, I recognized in the animal a creature
of the beaver tribe, called a peccary, and as the flesh is considered _
A very palatable, Fritz and I at once carefully removed the musk-bag
from each without breaking it. By this means the fleshwas pre-
Alli-OTHER EXCURSION--FRITZ AND THE RA TS. 159

served from a flavour )that would have been very disagreeable.

All. at once we heard the sound of two pistol-shots from the
direction of our arbour, and as I knew they must have been fired by
Ernest and his mother, I sent Jack to tell them we had plenty of
game, and desired him also to bring the cart to fetch it.

During his absence, finding our load rather heavy, I proposed
to Fritz that we should remove the insides of the animals at once.
Presently Ernest appeared, and asked me the name of the creature,
and, on hearing that I believed it was a peccary, he explained the
cause of the two shots we had heard.

"The troop passed near our arbour, papa," he said, "and
mamma and 1 shot two,- just by the bamboo thicket. I hope pec--
ceiries are good to eat."

By this time Jaekhad arrived with the cart, and after placing
the little pigs upon it, the boys covered them with branches of trees
and flowers. Frank and jack took their accustomed places on
Grumbler and Storm, while Ernest and Fritz seated themselves on
the cart, and I followed with the dogs. This procession arrived at

.last in triumph at the harbour, where the mother was waiting so
impatiently for us.

Perhaps we were almost as impatient, for the dinner-hour had
long passed, and we had only been able to appease our hunger and
thirst by the juice of the sugar-cane. ,

After a hasty but substantial meal, we commenced the prepara-
tion of these little animals, which not only resemble pigs in form,
but also in the flavour of the flesh. The legs and the sides we cut
oh' and salted ; they were then placed in sacks, and hung upon the
branches of a tree, with ealabash vessels underneath, to catch the
drippings of the salt and water, which we frequently threw over
them.

On the following day the boys arranged our arbour to form a
smoke-house, similar to that at Tent House for smoking the her- .
rings, and in this the salted joints were hung. The heads and other
refuse were thrown to the dogs and the jackal. I then proposed to

' the boys that a Whole pig, one of the youngest, should be cooked
for dinner after the fashion adopted in Otaheite.
- As the-smoke inthe hut required attention for two days longer
before the hams would be ready, my wife and one of the boys
decided to remain near and attend to it, while the rest of us again

explored the neighbourhood.

On our way to Prespect Hill one morning we passed through -
Wood Grange, and I found, to my dismay, that the monkeys had
again attacked the farm buildings. The goats and sheep had
wandered away, the. fowls had become quite wild, and the stalls and
_ poultry-houses were so broken and destroyed, that I knew it would
. occupy several days to repair the damage. I put this work off,
however, for another Opportunity, as, the hams being now sufficiently
smaked, we wished to continued our excursion.

We took only one "ham with us to add to our stock of provi--
sions, leaving the'rest hanging in the hut, and-to preserved them
from the. attacks of wild beasts and birds of prey, 'we piled up earth
and sand to a. great height round the place, and stuck it full of thorns
and thistles,' thus forming a complete barricadeagainst robbers.

During the two days of our stay near the arbour, while the
hams were being smoked, the boys and I cut down several bushes
in the cane thicket, to make a pathway, for I knew we should other--
wise be unable to pass with our loaded vehicles. Early one morn-
ing, therefore, our little 'caravan set out gall y to continue the
journey to unexplored parts of the island, and, with patriarchal trust
in Providence, proceeded on our way, and passed through the cane>>
thicket on the road we had made with ease and comfort.

After walking about two hours, we reached the proposed limit
of our wanderings, at the outskirts of a small wood, and here '1
determined to halt. ' _

The spot was tolerably cool and sheltered, the wood being
bounded on the right by an overhanging rock, while to the left the .
outflow of a. river emptied itself into a large bay. The place
appeared to present every advantage of safety and convenience,
and we at 'once began the necessary arrangements for a. long stay.

' I decided to take the three elder boys with me, that we might
have a strong force in case of danger. Mywife and Frank were to
remain at the tent, well armed, with the wagons, the animals, and

II' '\

162' SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON

the various articles the long-intended stay had made necessary to
bring-with us. _ ' . ' '

We started for the unknown land, and, taking the narrow pass
between the river and the rocks, arrived at a spot from which could
be seen the immense plain stretched out before us.

Behind it rose a chain of steep barren mountains, piled one
above the other, while their summits reached the clouds and were
clearly defined against the sky.

Continuing our way towards the mountain range, and leaving
the verdant plains behind, wefound, as we advanced, that the con~
trast became more perceptible. The grass was burnt up, and the
land appeared dry, barren, and unfruitful. '

The soil was evidently rocky and sterile, and therefore required
a great quantity of rain to soften it and produce vegetation.

We continued to walk on. however, amid the sighs and com--
plaints of the boys, who -now and then opened their parched lips to.
find fault witlmhe country. - -

At last, when overcome with heat and fatigue, we reached a
pleasant spot at the foot of a projecting rock, and threw ourselves
down to rest in its welcome shadow, and to gaze in silence on the
scene before us.

We had not been resting long, and had just produced our pro-
vision store, when Fritz, who had his eyes fixed on the distance,
saw something that surprised hirn. Starting up, he exclaimed,

" Papa, whatever is that yonder in the valley? It appears to
me like a man on horseback ; and there is another, and a thir ,"
he added ; " and now they are all in full gallop. Can they really
be the Arabs of the desert ?" _

"No,_ certainly not," I replied with a laugh; but take my
telescope, and tell me what you can make of this wonderful sight."

" It is stranger than ever, papa," said the boy. "The mov-
ing objects look like herds of cattle, high~loaded wagons, or wan-
dering haystacks. Ha, ha! what can it all be ?"

I then took the telescope myself, and discovered that the
figures were nothing but a few gigantic ostriehes. ,

The birds were evidently approaching nearer to us, and I
   

ANOTHER EXCURSION ---FR1TZ AND THE RAT5.163

therefore desired 1* ntz and Jack to call in the dogs and search for
the monkey, while I and Ernest concealed ourselves in a bush,
from which we could watch the 11101 ements of the birds.

After a long absence, Fritz and Jack returned with the dogs
and the ape Master Nip had scented water, and the whole party,
the boys included, had refreshed themselves with a bath, and refilled
theit water flasks.

All this time the ostrichcs were approaching nearer.

"lhere were five, one of them a male bird, as the large and
beautiful tail feathers plainly shou e<1.

"We must not startle them," I said, "for if they begin to

_11111,we could nev or expect to or ertake birds of such fleetness. "-

" How do the Arabs catch them. i'" asked lritz.

"011 horseback. sometimes; but oftener by stratagem," I
replied. "The ostrich, when he finds himself pursued, uill run
for hours in a circle of an immense circumference. The hunter
keeps within the circle, but still follows, till the creature flags from

. fatigue He then crosses the circle, and the capture is made'

" But, hush! do not move, the birds are near us.'

Cominu upon us so suddenly, they appeared startled and
uneasy

Unfortunately, the impatient dogs at this moment escaped
from our hold, and rushed yelping and barking upon the ost1iches.
Away they flew like the wind, and seemed scarcely to touch the
ground with their feet.

Fritz had uncovered the eyes of his eagle when the birds were
first alarmed, and set him free to follow them.

The beautiful male bird was quickly pounced upon by the
eagle, who, with one blow of his beak, brought the creature to the
ground. -

W e were too late to save the animal's life, for the jackal and
the dogs were quickly upon him and no a1rix ed at the spot only in
time to gather up a few of the most beautiful feathers.

"What a pity to kill such a beautiful creature l" said Fritz ;
"w,hy he must be six feet high, at least' and his neck would

measure three feet more !"A'rncmmi rm: mama
' ANO 711L121? EXCURSION~FRITZ AND 'THE M TS. 165

"What can these creatures get to 'live upon in the desert, I
wonder?" said Ernest;

" It is said that the ostrich digests anything--even stones," I
replied, "but his usual food consists of plants and shrubs 3 yet
most animals who inhabit the barren regions of a desert can live for
days without food." -

While thus conversing, we were continuing our walk towards a
beautiful valley which I had seen in the distance, and presently
t Ernest and Jack turned aside to follow the movements of the dogs.

All at once they stood still by some withered shrubs, and beckoned
to ..us to join them. '

"Qstriches' eggs! ostriches' eggs!" cried the boys joyfully,
as we overtook them; and there in a hole in the sand exposed to
the sun, lay twenty eggs as large as a child's head.

" That is a glorious discovery 1" I said ; " but do not disturb
the order in which the eggs are laid, or perhaps the mother will
forsake them."

The boys begged me to let them take home two eggs to show
their mother. I therefore cautiously lifted two from the top, and
we also'set up in the sand 3. cross made of two pieces of the heath-
stem, that we might easily find the nest when we came again.

In less than half an hour we found ourselves near the place
where Fritz had caught the young jackal.

Ernest crept on in front of the party too rocky cave, which
appeared in the distance. Suddenly a cry of terror, the barking of
the dogs, and a low growl startled us. 'The next moment Ernest,
pale as death and without his hat, rushed from the cave and threw
himself into my arms; exclaiming, '

" Papa, papa, don't go in! There's a bear in the cave; and _
look, he's coming out 3 he is indeed l" '

To my horror we were met at the entrance by an enormous'
bear, which the dogs were attacking furiously, and I could see'
another within the'cave.

Our first shots, although they wounded the bears, were not
mortal. '

Making a sign to Fritz to follow, I wentforward cautiously; I166 ' - S 11/15.? FAA/[L Y K'OIBINSOAII.

shot one of them through the head, while the 'ball fired by Fritz
passed through the heart of the other.
- It was impossible, on this occasion, to carry home our booty ;'
I therefore at once decided to leave it in the cave. -
With some difficulty, therefore, the dead bears were dragged
farther into the cave, and covered with branches of trees. .
We did not reach the tent till after sunset, and were received
by the mother and Frank with a. glad Welcome.

CHAPTER XIX.
AN OS'I'RICII HUNT.

I aroused my children early the' next morning, as I intended
that there should be at least one more excursion before returning to
Rock House, where many arrangements had to be made in prepara-
tion for the rainy season, which was approaching.

I wished also to discover whether the ostrich had deserted the
eggs we had left in the sand.-

' Ernest remained at home to help his mother, for the Quiet, in~
dolent boy took. very little interest in these fatiguing excursions.
Frank gladly joined us: he was a spirited little fellow, and as fond
of enterprise as Jack. ~

We set out with the two old dogs, leaving Fawn and Brownie
as a body-guard to those who remained at the tent. We proceeded
at once towards the green valley,-and this time took the direction
we had followed on our first visit to Wood Grange, and presently
arrived at the rising ground from which we had seen the ostriches.

At this point I allowed Jack and Frank to press forward, as
they wanted a gallop, on condition that they should not allow me
to lose sight of them. '

We now trotted on quickly after our cavaliers, and found that
they had halted within sight of a number of ostriches.

Four magnificent birds were seen approaching us at almost in~AN OSTRICH HUNT. ' . 167

.crcdible swiftness; followed by the two young riders, who were
driving the poor animals towards us, accompanied by the dogs.
They were close within gunshot before they perceived us, and at
this moment Fritz sent up his eagle, which at once pounced upon
the head of the nearest ostrich, but, in consequence of his bound
beak, he could only beat his wings on the creature's back, without
hurting him.

The eagle, however, so confused and alarmed the bird, that he
'could not defend himself not continue his flight. Lack quickly
threw the lasso, but instead of catching only the legs, as he in-
tended, the string becamc also entangled in the wings. The bird.
at once fell to the ground, while the boys set up shouts of joy as
they ran to the spot. Fritz called off his eagle and drove away the
dogs. and I lost no time in endeavouring to set the wings free and
tie the legs. But the struggles of the bird were fearful, and the
violence with which he kicked right and left with his entangled
legs made us fear to approach him.

Ihad begun to despair of making him a prisoner, when hap-
pily I thought of covering his eyes by throwing my handkerchief
over his head. The moment I did so the struggles ceased, and l
rushed up quickly to tie it reund the neck. After this we had no
further trouble, all resistance ceased, and I was able to fasten round
his body a broad piece of dog-fish skin, with two openings for the
tips of the wing, and .on each side of this a piece of Strong cord was
attached, that we might lead him easily. I also tied the two legs _
together loosely, with a cord of sufficient length to allow him to
run fast, but not to make his escape.

" Do you remember having read of the manner in which the
natives of India secure the newly-captui-ed elephants?" I asked the
boys.

" Oh, yes," cried Fritz. " they bind the wild animals with
strong leading--reins between two tame elephants, and also fetter its

- trunk."

" All right," replied 'Jack, laughing; "but we ought to have
two tame ostrichcs to lead this one. "168 '5 W153 FAMIL V ROBIA'SO'IV.

 

.-\_ - ' " True, my boy," I repled, also with a laugh; " but must they
" be ostriches? Have we not Storm and Gmmbler P"

, "Oh, papa," cried all the'boys, joyfully, " that is a famous
. plan! it is sure not to fail 1"

 

 

   

' THE BODY=-GUARD LEET BEHIND.

. I led Storm and Gmmbler one on each side of the animal, who-

still lay on the ground. I then added to the strings which I had

; fastened to the skin of the (log--fish, two leading-reins, one of
' which I attached to the bridle 'of Storm, and the other to the horns\ ' AN 05mm}! Hon-'2': _ - ' 169

"of Grumbler'. Then Jack and Frank, mounted to their saddles,
and sat firmly waiting for what would f0110w.

I removed the handkerchief from the bird's eyes, and placed
myself at a. little distance to see the result. For some moments he
remained without moving, as if sulky; then with a sudden spring
rose to his feet, and seeing no obstacle in his way, darted forward
so quickly that the sudden jerk of the reins brought him on his _
knees. He was soon up again, and began to struggle violently,
and rush right andleft, in vain attempts to escape. But after one
more-attempt to beat his confined wings, he gave way and sank
again to the ground.

After a few minute's rest, a slight touch of the whip. brought
the captiveito his feet, and as Stomi and Grumbler at the same
moment moved forward, he seemed inclined to accommodate him-
selfl to their steps, and was completely subdued.

After along run, I told them to draw rein and walk on slowly.
- Fritz and I then turned our steps to the spot in which we had left
the eggs of the ostrich. On reaching the place, we found evident
signs that the hen bird 'had been sitting on her eggs, and it raised
joyfnl hopes in our minds that 'we might very soon find little ostrich
chicks running about.

We took possession of a. few, leaving the rest to the mother's
care; and after packing our fragile treasures in the cotton-wool and
placing them in the bag, we started to rejoin the boys and their
captive. From thence we at once proceeded homcward, and
passing through Green Valley on our way, we arrived safely,
rather'earlier than we were expected.

The admiration expressed by my wife when she saw the new
arrival was quickly turned to anxiety.

. "How do you suppose we are to feed that enormous creature?
and where is he to live? Besides, I cannot see that he will be of
any possible use," said she.

" Mamma, I will teach him to carry me on his back," ex-
claimed ]ack, " And some day, if we find that our island is joined
.to Africa. or South- America, I shall be able to get to these places in
a few days, and bring back all sorts of news. He flies like the
wind, mamma, and his name ought to be Hurricane."

As each of the boys wanted the bird, -I settled the matter in -
this way:

"If Jack succeeds in taming the creature, and teaching him to
receive a rider on his back, and to answer the movements of'the ..
bridle and the knee like a horse, then I am sure he will deserve to
consider the animal his own, as a reward for his exertions. 'From this
time, therefore, he is 1esponsible for the training of the ostric "

It was now late in the day, so 1 untied the leading reins and
with the assistance of the boys, I firmly fastened the leading reins
round the stems of two trees, between which the ostrich could stand
or lie down as he wished, but not escape.

The rest of the day we employed in packing up, ready to
take to the rock house the many valuable things we had discovered
during these excursions. '

We rose early next morning to proceed on our way, but the
ostrich was still so untamed, that we were obliged again to fasten
him between Storm and Grumblcr.

Altogether, our caravan presented a picturesque appearance. -

On arriving with the animals and Our various acquisitions
which formed the cart--load, about noon, my wife's first perform-
:nce was to open the doors and windows, and admit the fresh air.

The ostrich was set free from his leaders, and again tied be-
tween two bamboo canes in front of the dwelling, and there I de-
termined he should remain till he became quite tamed.

The ostrich-eggs were placed in warm water, and those which
' we fancied contained young birds were laid,' wrapped in wool, in
the drying stove, raised to a. certain heat by the aid of a thermome-
ter, in the hope that they might be hatched.

These arrangements employed us two days, and now several
duties presented themselves, all apparently of equal importance ;
the cultivation of an acre of land to receive wheat, barley, and
maize, the taming of the ostrich, the management of the ostrich's '
eggs, and the preparation of the skins of the bears we had cap-
tured on our last expedition.
We decided that the field cultivation was the most important.

The animals, being now accustomed to the yoke, were very
useful 'in drawing the plough; but the ploughshare was a light one,
and did not turn up the earth deep enough, and we had, therefore,
to dig, hoe, and work with all our strength.

It was not possible to follow this laborious employment during
the heat of the day; we therefore Worked for two hours in the
morning, and two in the evening.
. . During the intervals of rest from this heavy labour I had
' noticed that our poor captive, the ostrich, appeared untamable. I
was therefore obliged at last to use the means adopted in taming
the eagle, and to stupefy him with the fumes of tobacco.
The powerful effect it had rather alarmed me, for he fell to the
earth, and remained for some time motionless. When at last he
raised his head, I lengthened the string, that he might get up and
. walk round the bamboo canes to which he was tied. My wife then

- brought all kinds of nourishment which she thought the creature
would eat, but, although subdued the poor captive refused every-
thing thnt was offered him for three whole days, and became so
feeble and weak, that we feared he would die.

_At length my wife made balls of crushed maize mixed with
butter, one of which she placed inside his beak. It was imme-
'diatelv- swallowed with ease, and a second and third eagerly looked
for. From that moment his appetite returned, and he ate what-
.ever was offered to him, and soon recovered his strength.

We began to doubt whether we should find encugh to feed him.

The boys were surprised one day to find the creature swallow-
ing small pebbles, but I explained to them that the ostrich requires
these to enable it to digest its food, as other small birds need gravel.

Whirlwind, as Jack had named him, lived principally on vege~
tables, maize, and acorns, and became so tame, that we could do
aswe- liked with him. _ _

'In less than a month the ostrich had been tamed by Jack to
walk and run with the boy on his back so cleverly, that I began to
consider how far we might make him useful as a riding-horse.CLEANING ma smas' sums.
ZHE Q'ANOE AND THE CRUSHING MACHINE. 173

_I could easily contrive a saddle, but how could a bit be made
to suit a bird's beak, or reins to guide an ostrich?

' I was almost inclined to give it up, when 1 suddenly remem--
bered that the change from light to darkness, or the contrary,
greatly influenced the creature.

I determined, therefore, to construct a leathern hood, some-
thing like that worn by the eagle, but of course larger. It was to
reach from the back of the head to the commencement of the beak
in front, and to have holes cut in it for the eyes and ears. Having
fitted this--to 'the bird's head, I fastened a ring on each side, and
my wife sewed on strings to tie it under his throat. .

Over the eye-holes two square flaps were sewn, to be raised or
let fall by a connection with the bridle, which was formed of a strap
" fastened at each end to the rings at the beak. I hoped by this
. arrangement to guide our feathered courser. My plan was this:

- If the rider wished to go straight forward, both eye-holes ,
w0uld remain uncovered; then to make the creature turn to the left,
_ he must let down the little curtain over the right eye, or if to the
_ right, the left eye must be covered; and to stop him, the light must

be shut out from both eyes.

The tormented animal at last submitted, and in a very short

time learned to obey the movement of the bridle.

CHAPTER XX.
-' 5 . THE CANOE AND THE can-same MACHINE.

Climate as well as other causes often produces a languor or
.disinclination for active exertion, and this was the case with us'after
the first few weeks of the rainy season had passed away.

The time seemed to drag on heavily, and restless inactivity

was the result. At last Fritz roused himself, and said to me,
' " Papa, could we not make a real Greenlander's canoe? We
have a swift post--horse for travelling by land; why should we not
make a. boat to cut through the water with equal speed? We might
extend our .563. voyages perhaps to other countries, and make so
many new discoveries."

The proposition pleased us all greatly, excepting the mother, . '

who alwaysfelt anxious when we were on the water _: but when I
explained to her that a myrtle, or Greenlander's canoe, was a very
safe boat, covered with the skin of the dog--fish, and almost as
buoyant as a life-boat, she said no more. '

When at length the little skiff was launched on the water, it
bounded like a leather ball, and floated so lightly that it scarcely-
'drew an inch of water.

But before Fritz, whom I considered the rightful owner, could
be trusted out to sea alone in this fragile boat, his mother declared
that she would try her ingenuity in making him a swimming dress;
I advised her to construct it like a double sack, with openings {or
the head, arms, and feet. The material was to he soaked in a
solution of indianrubbcr, the double portions, or rather the outside
and the lining being closely sewn together round the edge, with .
only :1 little opening, through which the space between could be
inflated with air like a balloon. The material having been made
air--tight, and the opening firmly stopped up with cork, the air
would cause the dress to float, and support anyone on the water
who wore it. - '

At length one fine morning it was settled that Fritz should
attire himself in his swimming dress, which he had purposely in-

' Hated with air to prove it. When he appeared he was welcomed

with shouts of laughter. The bathing dress stuck out before and
behind in a most ridiculous manner, and made him look like a
'hunehback.

_ With the greatest gravity he marched forward without seeming
to notice the laughter, entered the water, and paddled like a duck
across the creek to the shore of Shark's Island, and then, with a
shout of triumph, turned and swam back to us. .

W e all hastened on board the yacht, and rowed lustily to meet
our brave young water-stepper, and congratulate him'on his suc-
cess. -

'Fritz now equipped himself for his first canoe voyage.71/1; KLEZ'TER- (.'ARRIERS. ' . 175

To please her I prepared the yacht, that his mother might
. follow him with me and the boys.

- In a few moments we caught sight of Our sailor and presmtly
. joined him, amidst loud acclamations and shouts of welcome. But
our astonishment was great on observing a large, yet not full-grown
- walrus lying dead on a fragment of rock, which our young hero of '
the sea had killed with a harpoonmtoo large for him to carry home

' on his canoe, but not too large for our boat. '

CHAPfl'ER XXI.
rm: LETTER-CARRIERS.

About this time I discovered that the boys were anxious to
make another excursion. As_I could find'no reasonable objection I
gave my consent. '

At last the longed--for morning dawned, breakfast was dis-
patched hastily, and on the wheeled sledge was placed Fritz's
canoe, the travelling-tent, provisions both for food and warfare,
and a number of other things.

, While they were loading the cart, I' remarked unseen that Jack
was carefully yet secretly placing two pairs of our European pigeons
in one of the baskets. They were large, dark, handsome birds,
with a red circle round the eyes."

. "~' NOW," I thought to myself, " the youngster has provided a
substitute for his dinner, in case our store of pemmican should not
be to our taste. The old pigeons, however, will not be a very tit--
bit, with their tough flesh." .

The mother, who needed rest, wished for this time to remain
behind, and Ernest, who had been for a long time Whispering and
tittering mysteriously with Fritz and Jack, on hearing his mother's
remark, also expressed his wish to remain at home with her. To

' settle the dispute which arose, I at once decided to remain at
home," and, with the help of Ernest, prepare a sugar-press which I .
had long promised to my wife. 'HYRNA'

n
mTHE LETTER-- CARRIERS. ' :77>> -

It was settled, therefore, that the eldest and the two younger
boys should go alone, and they at once set off in great glee.

The making of my sugar-mill oceupied all my spare time,
although Ernest and his mother both assisted. But I need not de-
scribe my attempts, as they differed very little fyom what I had
used in making former mills, but relate the results of the boys' ex-
cursion, which are much more amusing.

' The evening of the first day had arrived, and I was seated in
the veranda with my wife, who was engaged in sewing, and Ernest
to enjoy the rest and the cool evening air. Our conversation
turned upon our young exeursionists, and we wondered what ad

- ventures they would have to relate. I could see, however, that the
mother looked anxious, and when at length retired to rest, she ex-
pressed her wish that the three boys were safe at home. '

" 0h, mamma, they are all right," said Ernest, and as he
spoke I noticed a twinkle in his eyes, that made me feel convinced
there was some secret arrangement with his brothers, known only
to himself. - '

I heard Ernest m0ving about next morning at an unusually
early hour, but he did not make his appearance .till breakfast time,
when he entered with a grave step, hat in hand, and bowing low,
yet with a pretended air of dignity ,' he presented me with a letter,
and said,

. " The postmaster of the Rock district presents his humble
respects to the nobly-born ladies and gentlemenof this house, and

hopes he shall be pardoned for not being able to forward the de-

spatches from Sydney Cove and Jackson's Day before this morn-
ing, owing to the post having arrived too late last night."

' , As I took the paper he bowed again, and stood waiting for me

to read it. _

I was for a moment rather bewildered by this strange address,
and the paper placed in my hands. I observed also that my wife
looked pale, so I asked,

" What does this mean, my boy? "

" Papa," 'exclaimed Ernest, '_' it's all right, only fun ; you

:2 - '
read it, and then you will understand the joke, and I'll have my.
nreakt'ast meanwhile, mamma, please."

I began to have some idea now of the secret which the boys
had so cleverly carried 'out; but I concealed my suspicions, and
opening the packet, read aloud as follows :

"THE GOVERNOR-GENERAL OF New SOUTH WALES To HIS EXCELLENCY
THE GOVERNOR 01'" Rock CASTLE, FALCON'S NEST, W001) GRANGE.
SUGARCANE GROVE, AND Exost'EC'i' HILL. GREETING.

' " Most noble, well-beloved. and trusted Ally--We have heard with some dis-
pleasure a report that on this day three disreputable young men have set
out from your co'. any with the intention of proceeding here and living by
poaching, hunting. and other dishonorable practices, which are sure to be
injurious to the game in this province, and cause great damage.

" Information has also been received. from which it appears that you have the
terribly destructive and fearfui hycna in the woods of your colony, and that-
one of these wild animals has broken into a sheepfold at a place called

. Wood Grange.

" In consequence of these reports, we pray your Excellency to give up these
dreadful young men to justice. and use every means to destroy the wild

_ animals which still exist in your colony. t

"Accept most noble Ally. my best wishes.

" Given at Sidney Cove, in jacksou's Bay. the tWeth 'day of the current
month. and the thirty-fourth year of the colony.

' . "(Signcd) "The Governor, PHILIP PHILXPSON."

As I ceased reading Ernest burst into a loud' fit of laughter,
and at last: rushing from the table, began dancing about so wildly
that a. little letter fell from his pocket. I was about to pick it up,
but he was too quick for me ; and, holding it firmly, he exclaimed,

" This is a private letter from Wood Grange, but more likely,
_ however, to be true than the despatch from good Sir Philip, who
appears too ready to believe all he hears."

" You are really puzzling me, Ernest," I said, gravely. " Did
Fritz leave this letter for you, to be given to me after he left, or
has he indeed discovered the traces of a hyena! " -

" No and yes. papa,' 'said Ernest " A cariier pigeon brought
- me the letter you have read this etening, but he arrived at the
pigeon-- --h0use too late for me to get at it. Another pigeon brought
this letter, tied under his wing, early this morning I will read. it
to you word {or word.VFR'IYZ RELA 755 THEIR AD VENURES. :79

." ' Wood Grange, the 15th ofthe present month.

" ' Dearest Parents and Brother--A frightful hycua has killed two lambs and a'.
mm at Wood Grange. Our dogs caught it. and little Frank shot at it so cleverly,
that it fell dead immediately. It has taken us the whole day to remove the skin.

" ' Love to all from your Son and Brother, " ' FRITZ.' "

" Ha, ha! " laughed I: " that is a regular hunter's letter.
God be praised that the affair with the hycna- ended so favorably as
appears. He must have newly arrived by the river at Wood
Grange. Had he been long there, he would have made fine havoc
with our sheep and goats."

" I hope the boys will be careful," said the mother. " I only
wish we could call them home, or fetch them quickly."

.That evening, at an earlier hour, we saw a carrier pigeon ar~
rive at the pigeon-house. Ernest climb up, and found, tied loosely
under its wing, the following letter. It was certainly quite laconic.

" A peaceful night--this morning very hot--cruise on the Wood Grange lake----
captured black swan. a royal heron, cranes--unknown animal escaped--Prospect
Hill to-morrow. Best love to all. . " FRITZ.

" JACK.
" FRANK."

This concise letter eased the mother's mind not a little, as it
led us to conclude that no second hyena. could be in the neighbor~
hood. The despatch, however, still remained unexplained; and
we' felt it was necessary to wait, and hear from the boys at full ac-
count of their movements on their return home.

 

CHAPTER XXII.
FRITZ RELATES THE ADVENTURES or THEIR EXCURSION.

The evening chosen for this narrative was calm and peaceful,
and we had progressed so rapidly with a summer-house, which we
were building, that we were able to seat ourselves on the new floor
and listen to our case.

"I wanted," began Fritz, "to take some black swans alive,'* 'and almost on Starting in the canoe, I came upon two old birds

with their young ones. I had some trouble to catch even one, for

'the old birds beat me with their wings, and triedvto upset the canoe. ' - --

 

HERON. - -.>> -

A few minutes after securing the young swans we saw a beauti-

ful-bird standing on the shore, with long legs, a. purple breast, and

, a crest of crimson--tipped feathers on its head. I threw a lasso of
fine string round its neck, and although it struggled very much, I " -CONCLUSION. - I 18: '

 

made it my prisoner. I think it- is the royal heron, papa, and I do
hope it will live and become tame.

" We intended to pay a visit next day to Prospect I-Iil.,l " he
said, "but on reaching the pine--wood, we found a whole troop of
monkeys seated on the branches. They howled and chattered and
gnashed their teeth at us, pouring down upon us at the same time a.

- hailstorm-- of pine cones. We had to run from side to side to avoid
.them. At last I fired a few small shots among the rebels, which
sent them flying, and we continued the rest of our journey in peace

Finally we reached Prospect Hill, and enjoy ed a good night's
rest. -- _ >>

While talking over the boy's adventures, I found that they had
made some valuable discoveries. Fritz brought home two sorts of

_ fruit, differing in size, but not in appearance. One of them I dis-
covered to be bananas, and the other the valuable cacaonut from
the seeds of which chocolate is made

After a few day s rest, my wife begged me to plan a last excur-
sion for the summer to Falcon's Nest, and employ our energies in
restoring and finishing the inside of our old summer palace. 1 MIL
ingly agreed to her wishes, and in two days we all started off

"eagerly on our expedition to Falcon's Nest.

CHAPTER XXIII.
I CONCLUSION.

Chapter after chapter of this story has been added during the
years that have rolled by since I and my family were cast ship~
wrecked and alone on the sea-girt shores of this island.

During the ten years which have elapsed I have endeavoured to
retord, step by step, our doings, Whether in hunting, ship-building,
or making discoveries which, by intelligence and thought, could be
' turned to account.

But instead of pausing in my narrative, as a rushing stream
Suddenlyiarrested in its course, I will glance back, and give a short
sketch of our ,work and its results during the ten years that we have >
remained on the island. '

At Falcon' 5 Nest, as well as at Rock Castle and Wood Gran ge,
the kitchen gardens and potato- -fields have flourished wonderfully. _

The shoals of herrings have never failed to visit us yearly , and
with our large and increasing farm stock, a supply of game has not
been so necessary; the store of giuis and ammunition, therefore,
, has lately been seldom invaded.

. In fact, I found myself, at the end of ten years, the owner of

fields and meadows, orchards and plantations, and three different
. residences, and as rich in farm stock as a wealthy farmer in the
dear .old country. '

'We had all learnt experience in our industry. My boys had
grown from youth to manhood, and gained both mental and physi-
cal strength.

Fritz, now in his twenty- -fou.rth year, is of middle size, but
' muscular, high-spirited, and rather hasty

Ernest, two years younger, is tall and slight, cool and indolent, _
but far superior to his brother in intellectual power and refined"
tastes

Jack, at twenty, is nearly as tall as Fritz, and very like him in
many respects, but of a larger; build, and possessing smartness, with
activity of mind and body, and great stability of character.

Frank, the youngest, is different in character to all his brothers.
' The influence of Jack, however, has been very great over the boy
four years younger than himself, and he often exerts that power.
All of thempossess a candid straightforwardness of character, ~'a
_ respect and adherence to religious duties, and so many of those
good impulses which spring from manly feelings, that I can still
easily influence them.

Such 15 our little colony at the end of ten years, during which
we have seen no human being excepting each other, yet we still
maintain the hope 0t mixing once more in the companionship of
man. If at timesI have felt a sinking at the heart when I con-
sidered our isolated condition, I have concealed my trouble from
my dear ones, and turned my thoughts 'with a prayer to the
Almighty that He Would keep me always strong in my homeland
trust in Him.

 

MONKEYS-

; We had again been made prisoners by the appearance of the
' rainy season ; and when at last the sunshine of spring chased away--' :84. _' swiss 'Fxmz 1' ROBINSON.

' theolouds, and the rain suddenly cleared, we could scarcely believe
that so many weeks had elapsed since we had been first made
prisoners. . ' ' ,
But the beautiful spring and the duties it brought in field,
orchard, and garden, aroused us to activity. '
_ We now began to prepare for an excursion to some of the
places discovered by Fritz during his canoe voyage. We started
one day when'the wind was in our favour and encouraged by the,
good wishes of the mother and Frank who remained at home.-
Fritz took the lead in his canoe to show us the way. At length
' we arrived in a. broad beautiful bay to which Fritz had given the
name of Pearl Bay. Here we decided to pass the night.
' , We were preparing our supper on shore, and Our watch-fires
were already lighted, when we heard the most fearful, low roar '
which echoed among the rocks like thunder. .
We were not long in suspense. A huge beast approached at
' three bounds, but was stopped by a stream which flowed between
the shore and the inland country. '
I saw in a moment that it was a huge lion. At finding this

 

 

 

stop in his progress, the creature seated himself on his haun'ches . ' '

like a cat and glared at us with his fierce eyes.

-Presently'the lion rose on his four legs and began pacing up
and down as if searching for a convenient place to cross the stream.
Again the deep low growl sounded in our ears.

Before I could decide whether it was best to fire, or to return
to the boat, the sound of a shotApassing through the air in the '
' grmving darkness, so startled us, that Ernest exclaimed in terror, -'
' " Father, Fritz has tired from his canoe! " >

At the same mornent the lion sprang into the air, gave an
awful roar and groan, stood still for a few-seconds, staggered, fell
on his knees, and remained without movement. .

"We are saved! " I cried, "the lion is shot to the heart!

. He will not move again, thanks to Fritz ! " ' ' '

As I approached the spot where the dead lion lay, a second,
smaller, but not less formidable, beast came from the wood, and '
with one bound reached the spot where the monarch 'of the forest
 

Elay.' It was ev-idex'gdy the lioness in search of her royal niate'
Puff: another shot ,- and the lioness uttered a. cry of pain.

 

 

THE LION.

She had been-wounded in the right foot; but she was still danger-- >
ous. I fired my shot also, breaking her jaw, and causing her to
fall and utter howls of pain and rage. Our d'dgs now took courage
 

-

136 ' ' sin/155 FAMILY- geozrhvSom ' '

and rushed upon the prostrate animal. The monster, with'one - .
stroke of her uninjured paw, crushed out the life of poor Floss.

I was new able to venture ,near, and thrust my hunting-knife
into the breast of the lioness. The terrible beast lay dead, but it,
had cost the life of one of our dear, old, brave champions. '_ '

We sailed next morning at an early hour, and arrived without
accident in Deliverance Bay, to the joy of the mother and Frank.
Part of our adventures were hastily related, but we were so oyer-- . '
come with fatigue, that fuller particulars were deferred till next day._

Fritz and Jack expressed a wish one morning to proceed to the -
heights of 'Shark's Island, to examine the coast from our guai'd--
hduse. '

~The young men proceeded at once to the heights of Shark's
Island to carryout their wishes. _ '

Their astonished excitement may therefore be understood when'
they fired two signal--guns, and the reports were answered from a '
distance westward by three distinct shots.

The young men were at once overcome with a tumult of feel-- -
ings--joy and anxiety, doubt and hepe.

At last Fritz found words, and exclaimed, .

"There are human beings close at hand, Jack! God has at
last sent us the means of returning to our fatherland. Let us at
once g0 and tell our father." ' _ '

They reached the shore by the shortest way, and, jumping on _
board the canoe, rowed with all their strength-to the beach, Where'_ -'
I stood. ' _ - " -

"What is it? what has happened?" I asked, as I noticed their
excitement. . .-.

" 0h, father, father! have you not heard 9" was the reply, as
they rushed into my arms. . ' .

I had not heard a sound, and I could not at all comprehend

' the meaning of this agitation. .

" We heard three cannon-shot in answer to ours i" cried Fritz,
rousing himself. -

" The echo of your own," I replied 5 for I could not imagine

_ anything else possible, 'THE ENGLISH SHIP.at -' ' ' -: "snags FAMILY-ROBINSOM-

"No, father," he said; "we have often heard the echo from
our own firing, but not like this. The third report was "too long;
after ours to be an echo.' _ _- .
' I knew not what to think of this information. I had never

considered what I should do in the event of the arrival of a Euro-"J - 3;". I

pean ship. But was this a. European ship, or Malay pirates? .
A storm arose about midnight, and for two days and nights the '-

storm raged, and not till the third morning broke, clear and bright, -- '

could I venture to our guard house.

We reached the fort and fired, leaving an interval of two

minutes bettveen each shot.

We then listened attentively, and presently through the air. ':' ' :

came the boom of a distant cannon , a pause of two minutes, and
then a' second and a third. Seven shots altogether sounded in our 1 "
ears. '

announced my intention of going in the boat with Fritz to explore
the coast, and, if possible, discover the vessel. .-

On reaching the extreme end of this point or cape, we found
ourselves at the entrance of a little bay, and, cautiously advancing,
we espied a large ship, evidently European, with the English flag

flying at the masthead. Our hearts rose in earnest thankfulne'ss to' ' -'

~God- at this discovery, but I still felt the necessity of caution. ' '. ' _
I however decided to venture nearer, and find out to whom the

_ vessel really belonged. "

We rowed slowly forward, close within shore, examining the
stranger curiously. It appeared to. me to be a small frigate, lightly

laden, and with eight or ten tolerably large guns on each side; She - "

lay at anchor at a distance from the land, as if for repairs, and on

the shore we saw three tents, from which smoke arose, making us. -..' ,

suppose it was the dinner--hour of the crew Precentlyxon deck ap-

peared an_ officer in the uniform of the English navy, whom sharp . ' '-

sighted Fritz considered must be the captain. _.-_
We turned away, and rowed quickly round the point. ,We had '

 

 

I instantly re-charged the guns, and, telling Jack to remain as '
' sentinel, hastened back to Rock Castle.
I explained the shots we had heard in reply, and then .' "discdvered that they, the strangers, were English; that the vessel
- was aman-oflwar frigate; and that now we_could visit them on
" .n'iore equal terms, and offer them hospitality. '
. We decided to get the pinnace in readiness, and go in state to
. visit the English ship, and net as adventurers in a' poor little canoe.
. ' "_ g. This proposal was received with great acclamations. Indeed,
. __ We were-scarcely able to sleep all night ~for thinking of the morrorv's
-' voyage, when We should meet so many of our fellow-creatures, and
', perhaps learn news of the home we had lost for so rgany years.
. .' The pinnace was quickly prepared next morning, and bedecked
_ .with flags as for a-joyful occasion; and before noon we were all on

:q beard, neatly. attired, and with a fair wind steering towards the
.' point (beyond which was the bay in which the frigate lay at anchor.

j '_ As we approached 'within a short distance, we hoisted the
' '_ English flag. '

' Great was the astonishment of the ship's company as our pretty
vessel proceeded proudly up the bay; and when within gunshot of
-.the frigate we dropped anchor, and greeted them from our deck
- with loud cheers. . -

, . Fritz and _I then stepped on board. the boat of the pinnace, and-
: >>- rowed to ._the ship to pay bur respects to the. captain. He received
"- tispwith great politeness

; ._ I briefly explained the circumstances which had brought me to '
' a neighbouring island; and how for ten years I had struggled, with
_>>my wife and four sons, against difficulties which were happily over-
come"
' Before leaving I invited the captain to visit my yacht, which he
'- _ readily promised todo on the following day. _ ,,

'. Accordingly, the next morning a man-of-war's boat arrived

' With Captain Littlestone. He brought with him an invalid gentle-
men named Wolston, who, with his wife and two little daughters,
aged ten and twelve, had been saved from a wreck and carried on
' board the frigate. '- . _ '
' v Their surprise at all they saw on the island, as well as at the
prosperous condition of our flocks and herds, was only equalled by
_' . the wonder they expressed at our dwellings, especially Rock Castle. _
.,

Mr. Woiston, indeed, expresseda wish to remain with 115.01: _
the island, if we could also receive his wife and two daughteis; To _ ._ '
this arrangement we both readily agreed. ' '-

 

' . MR. WOLSTON.

- \ Jack and Fritz had been longing for an opportunity of return-
ing to Europe for years. ..
" Talk it Over, my friends--talk it over,' 'said the captain,
"and let me know your decision nefore I sail, which will beno
doubt in about a week." , . . . ,COINCL US" I 01V. *' 1 9 1

" ' > It'was at last decided that my tv'vo sons should accbmpany the

' - Acaptain to Eng land.

Next dayg all was bustle and activity , the sailors 'chests were
brought out and packed with everything the mother considered
- necessary for the travellers. The spirit of activity appeared to rule
in the houSehold, while many gifts were exchanged between the
. young people, to be preserved as tokens of remembrance.

I gave the two young men a. share of my possessions with which
. to begin the world, and as a means of commerce ,--among other -
things, pearls, coral, precious stones, and other valuable productions

' i>> - of the island, which I knew would be most precious in Europe.

I also gave them earnest advice, which was founded on trust
and confidence" 111 God and my own experience I reminded them
of my teachings during their childhood and youth, and begged them
never to wander {10111 the paths of virtue, 01 forget the duty they
owed to our HeaVenly rather, who had preservedb them in so many
dangers during our stay on the island. .
. The young people were expected to be on board next day at
' four 0 'cloek. I had, the1efore, muted the captain and the ship' s'

officers to a farewell dinner.
. ' They a1rived in the boat wli1ch was to take the luggage on
' board, and I was glad of the opportunity to place in the hands of
the captain several articles' 111 my possession belonging to the captain
01 the ship in which we had been wrecked, in the hope that possibly
he might 1be still liVing.

I had placed them in a casket, found in the captain's cabin,
with the goldp ieces and money, as well as a paper containing an
account of the pshipwreck, which I had compiled, and also a list of
the officers and crew of the ship, which was found in the casket.

The captain promised to make every inquiry, and to place the

_ casket in safe keeping. He uas also glad to supply me with guns

' and ammunition in exchange for provisions. 1 had, therefore, sent .
on board cattle, sheep, and poult1_v, as well as salted meat, dried
fish, vegetables and fruit of every kind, which were of the greatest
value to him and the passengers

At dinne1 we endeavoured to be cheerful and in good spirits,7-192 I SWISSS FZMIZXROBINSONQ "_- _ _

_ for. the sake of our travellers, and the agreeoble' good humour oi" the

visitors made this' task less difficult. At last, after two toasts, one ' i "i '
to the prosperity of the new colonyiwhich we called New Switzeh - '
land, and the other to the safe passage of our ship, the leave-taking '

time came. ,

We watched the progress of the boat, saw our dear ones em.-

bark on bOard the vessel, and did not move from the spot till the -,- _ A:

' ; good ship had rounded the point and was out of sight.
' It is late in the night. On the morrow my dear ones will be
-- far away. .
_ . My story is told. May God be with us and our absent ones..
-I ' greet thee, Europe ; I greet thee, old Switzerland. May New
_ _ ' Switzerland in the future be strong and flourishing, pious and happy
__in herself as thou. '

THE END."

 

1x.23 25265;?