x;LIFE AND SURPRISING ADVENTURES

OF

\

iROBINSON CRUSOE.

ILLUSTRATED WITH 28 DESIGNS BY GEORGE G. WHITE.

NEW YORK-z -
BEADLE AND COMPANY, GENERAL DIME BOOK PUBLISHERS,
No. 118- WILLIAM STREET. -LIFE AND A

DVENTURES

01'

ROBINSON GRUSOE.

 

 

lwzts born in the year "'32. in the city of York. of a
good family. though not of that country. mv father being
a foreigner of Bremen. who settled llrst at. Hull. lie got
a good estate I) ' merchandise. and. leaving off his trade.
lived afterwa at York; from whence he had married
my mother. whose relations were named Robinson. a very
good famllv in that country. and from whom I was called

Iobinson Krutznaer: but. by the usual corruption of
words in England. we are now called. nay. we call our
selves and write our name. Crusoe; and so my compan-
ions a ways called me.

I had twu elder brothers; one of whom was lieutenant-
colonel to an Eu lish regiment of foot in Flanders. for-
merly commando by the famous ('oloucl Lochhart. and
was llled at the battle near Dunkirk against the Span-
iards. What became of my second brother 1 never knew.
any more than my father or mother did know what was
become of me.

Being the third son of the family. and not bred to any
trade. my head b u to be tilled very early with rami>>
ling thoughts. y father. who was very ancient. had
given me a competent share of leaning. as far as house
education and a country free-school generally goes. and
desl ued me for the law; but I won d be satisiied with
noth ug but going to sea: and my inclination to this led
me so strongly against the will. nay. commands of m
father. and against all the entrcatics and persuasions o
my mother and other friends. that there seemed to be
something fatal in that propenslon of nature. tending
directly to the life of misery which was to befall me.

My father. a wise and grave man. gave me serious and
excellent counsel against what he foresaw was in de
sign. lie called e one morning into his chamber. w ere
he was contlnc by the goat and expostulated very
warmly with me upon the subject. lie asked me what
reasons. more than a wandering inclination. I had for
leaving my father's house and my native country. where
I mi '1" be well introduced. and had a prospect of raisin
my ortune by application and industry. with a life 0
ease and pleasure. He told me that it was men of des-
perate fortunes on one hand. or of aspiring superior (or-
tunes on the other. who went abroad upon adventures to
rise by enter rise. and make themselves famous in un-
dertakings o a nature out of the common road- that
those things were all too far above me. or too far below:
ms; that mine was the middle state. or what might be

- . in: .

called the upper station of low life. which he had found.
by long experience. was the best in the world. the most
suited to human bargains. not ex used to the miseries
and hurdshi is. the a r and suffer ugs of the mechanic.
and not em armssed with the ride. luxury. and envy
of the upper part of mankind. l e told me I might judge
of the happiness of this state by this one thing. viz.:
that this was the state of life which all other people
envied; that kings have frequently lamented the miser-
able consequences of being born to great things. and
wished they had been placed in the middle of the two
extremes. between the mean and the rent; that the
wise man ave his testimony to this. as t to just standard
of true fel cltv. when he prayed neither to have poverty
nor riches. lie bade me observe it. and I should aim s
and that the calamities of life were shared amon t e
upper and lower irt of mankind: but that the middle
stations had the ewcst disasters. and were not exposed
to so many vicissitudes as the higher or lower part of
mankind; nay. they Were not subjected to so many dis-
tempers and uneasinesscs. either of body or mind. as
those were. who. by vicious living. luxury. and extrava-
ganees. on one hand. or by hard labor. want of necessa-
ries. and mean or insuflieieut diet. on the other hand.
bring distemper-i upon themselves by the natural conse-
quences of their wa of iivin-v; that the middle station
of life was calculate for all kind of virtues. and all kind
ul' enjoyments- that peace and ph-nl'y were the hand-
iuaids ofa middle fortune; that temperance. moderation
quietness. health. society. all agreeable diversions. and
all desirable pleasures. were the blessings attending
the middle station oi" life; that this way men went
silently and smoothly through the world. and comforta-
bly out of it; not embarrassed with the labors of the
hand>>.I or of the head; not sold to the life of slavery for
daily bread. or harassed with perplexed circumstances.
which rob the soul of peace and the body of rest; not
ctmiged with the passion of envy, or the secret burning
lust of ambition for great things; but in ca circum-
stances. sliding gentl ' through the world an enslbly
tasting the sweetso living without the bitter. feeling
that t icy are happy. and learning by every day's expe-
rience to know it more sensibly.

After this. be pressed me earnestly. and in the most
uil'uciiouute manner. not to precipitate myself into misc-
ries which nature. and the station of life I was born in.
seemed to have provided against; that I was under no

.ncccssity of seeking my bread; that he would do well
for me. and endeavor to enter me fairly into the station
of life which he bad Just. been recommending to me - and
that if I were not very easy and happy in the world it
must be my mere fate. or fault. that must hinder it;
and that he should have nothing to answer for. having
thus discharged his duty in warning me against meas-
ures which he knew would be to my hurt. In a wor
that as he would do very kind things for me. if I woul
stay and settle at home as he directed. so he would not
have so much hand in my misfortunes as to give me any
encouragement to go away; and. to close all. he told me
I had my older brother for an example. to whom he had
used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from

oing into the Low Country wars. but could not prevail.

is young desires promptiu him to run into the army
where he was killed; and t on h be said he would not
cease to pray for ma yet be we d venture tosay to me.
that if I did take t s foolish step. God would not bless
me- and I would have leisure hereafter to reflect upon
having neglected his counsel. when there might be none
to ass at in my recovery.

I observed in this last part ofdlscourss. which was trnl
prophetic. then I suppose my father did not know t
to be so himscl -I so . I observed the tears run down
his face very plentith i . especially when he spokcpf
my brother who was hit ed. and that when he spoke of,
my having leisure to repeat and none to assist m be

{was so moved that he broke oi the discourse .. 4

nmshlshasrtwss sotbll hccouldssy "99995999!" ,3 ,,
.. . , , .. ,.. .

  
    
  

and id.6 LIFE AN..- ADVENTURES OF

I was sincerely affect ed with this discourse. as. indeed.
who could be otherwise? And I resolved not to think
of going abroad any more. but to settle at home accord-
ing to my father's desire. But. alas. a few days wore it
all off: and. in short. to prevent an of my father's
further importunities. in a few weeks resolved to run
quite away from him. However. I tlid not act so hastily.
neither. as the first heat of my resolution prompted. but
I took my mother at a time when I thought her a little.
pleasanter than ordinary. and told her that my thoughts
were so entirely bent upon set-in" the world. that I
should never settle to any thing witlt resolution enough
to go through with it. and my father had better give me
his consent. than force me to r'o without it; that I was
now eighteen years old. which was too late to go up-
prentice to a trade. or clerk to an attotney; that i was
sure. if Idld.I should never serve out my time. but I
should certainly run away from my lllnslt'r before my
time was out. and go to sea; and if she would speak to
my father to let me go one vovage abroad. if I calm-
home again. and did not like it. l'would go no more. and
I wouitf promise, by a double diligence. to recover the
time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion. She told me
she knew it Would be to no purpose to speak to mv
father upon any such subject; that he know too well
what. was my interest to give his consent to anvlhin"
so much for my hurt: and that she wondered how I
could think of any such thing. tll'lcrdhc discourse I had
with my father. and such kind and tender expressions as
she knew my father had used to me: ami that. in short.
if I would ruin myself. there was no help for me. but I
might depend I should never have their consent to it:
that. for tcr part. she would not have so much hand in
my destruction. and I should never have it to say that
myrmother was willing when my father was not.

hough my mother refused to move it to m ' father.
yet I heard afterwards that she reported all the d scourse
to him. and that my father. after showing a great cou-
ceru at it. said to her. with a sigh: "That the boy might.

be happ . if_he would stay at home; but if he goes
abroat . e will be the most mlserable wretch that ever
was. I can give no consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose. though in the mean time I continued ohstinately
deaf to all proposals of settling to business. and fro-

ueutly expostuluting with my father and mother about
t teir being so positively determined against what they
knew at nclination Prompted me to. But being one
day at I all. whither went casually. aml without any

nrposc of making an elupemeat that time--hut. I say.
going there. and one of my cum anions being going by
sea to London. in his father's s ip. and prompting me
to go with them. with the common allarement of a sea-
furtng man. that it should cost me nothing for my pas-
sage.l consulted neither father nor mother any more.
nor so much as sent them word of it; but having them
to hear of it as they might. without asking God's bless-
ing. or my father's. without any consideration of circula-
stances or consequences. and in an ill hour. God knows.
on the first of September. mil. I went on board a ship
bound for London. Never any young adventurer's mis-
fortunes. I believe. began sooner or continued longer
than tnlno. The shi was no sooner ot out of the
Iiumber. bttt the win begun to blow on the sea to rise.
in a most frightful manner; and as I had never been at
sea before. 1 was most lnexpressibly sick in body. and
terrified in mind. I began now seriously to reflect upon
what I had done. and how justly l was overtaken by the
udgment of Heaven for my wickedness in leaving my
ather's house. and abandoning my duty. All the 'mod
counsel of my parents. my father's tears and niv mother's
cutreaties. came new fresh into into mv mind; and n3
conscience. which was not 'et come to the inch of ha -
ness to which it has been 3 nee. teproaehet me with the
contempt of advice. and the breach of my duty to God and
my father.

All this while the storm increased. and the sea went
very high. though nothin like what 1 have seen many
times since-no. nor what saw a few days after. But It.
was enough to affect me then. who was but a young seller.
and had never known anything of the matter. I expected
every wave would have swallowed as n . and that eve
time the ship fell down. as I thought it id. in the troug
or hollow o the sea. we should never rise more. In this
agony of mind. I made many vows and resolutions. that
if' it pleased God to spare my life in this one voyaac. if
ever got once my foot upon dry land again. I \vonId go
directly home to my father. and never set it into a sh ii
again while I lived: that I would take his advice. an
never ma m'self into such miseries as these any more.
Now I saw pfsinly the oodncss of his observations about
the middle station of l to. how easy. how comfortable he
had lived all his days. and never been exported to tern cats
at sea or troubles on shore; and. in short. I resolv that
Lgould. like a true repenting prodigal. go home to my

or.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the while
the storm continued. and indeed some time after; but the
next day the wind was abated. and the sea calmer. and I
began to be a little inured to it. Iiowever. I was very

rave all that (Lay. being also a little sea-sick still; but
ownrds night the weather cleared up. the wind was quite
over. and a charmiu flue evening followed; the sun
went down perfectly c ear. and rose so the next moming;
and having little or no wind. and a smooth sea. the sun
shining upon it. the night was. as I thought. the most
delightful that i ever saw.

1 lad slept well in the night. and was new no more sea-
sick. but very checrfhl. looking with wonder upon the
sea. that was so rough anti terrible the day before. and
could be so calm and so pleasant in so little 3 time after.
And now. lest my resolution should contintte. my com-
panion. who indeed had cntlccd me away. comes to me.

" \i'eli. Bob." says he. ciatiping me tlpou the shoulder.
" how do you do after it ? warrant you were frighted.
wa'n't you. last night. when it blew but a ea iful of mad 2"

'v .\ eapfhl do you call it?" said I. "' was a terrible
smrm;

"A storm. you fool you!" replies be. "Do you call
that a storm? Why. it was nothing at all. Givens but
a good shi and sea-room. and we think nothing of such
a squall 0 wind as that. But you're but a flesh--water
sailor. Bob. (tome. let us make a bowl of punch. and
we'll forget all that. D'you see what charming weather
'ti'I now 1'"

To make short. this sad part of my story. we went the
way of all sailors: the punch was matte. and I was made
half drunk with it. and in that one night's wickedness I
drowned all my repentance. all my reflections upon my
past conduct. and a i my resolutions for the future. In a
word. as the sea was returned to its smoothness of sur-
face and settled calmness. by the abatement of that storm
so the hurry of m thoughts being over. my fears an
apprehensions of lug swallowed up h ' the sea bein
forgotten. and the current of former des res returned.
entirely forgot the vows and promises that i made. in my
distress. rfotttld. indeed. some intervals of reflection.
and the serious thoughts did. as it were. endeavor to
return again sometimes: but I shook them otl'. and roused
myself from them. as it were from s distemper; and
alpplylng myself to drinking and companv. soon mastered
I re rctum of these fits (for so I called them); and i had.
in five or six days. got as complete a victory over con-
science as any young fellow that resolved not to he trott-
bicd with it could desire. But I was to have another
trial for it still; and Providence. as in such cases generally
it does. resolved to ieaveme entirely without excuse; for
if I would not take this for a deliverance. the next was to
be such a one as the worst and most hardened wretch
among us would confess both the danger and the mercy.

The sixth day of our being at sea. we cayuc into Inr-
mouth Itoads; the wind havinrr been contrary and the
weather calm. we had made but little way since the storm.
Ilcrc we were obliged to come to an auc tor: and here we
lay. the wind continuing contrary; viz.. st southwest. for
seven or eight days: during w lclt time a great many
ships from .'cweastle came into the same roads. as the
common harbor where the ships might wait for n wind
for the river.

We had not. however. rid here so long. but we should
have tided it. up the river but that the wind blew too
fresh; and. after we had lulu fottr or five days. blew very
hard. However. the roads bein reckoned as good as:
harbor. the anchorage good. am our ground-tackle very
strong. our men were unconcerned. and not in the least
apprehensive of danger. but spent the time in rest and
mirth. alter the manner of the sea: but the eighth dn in
the morning the wind increased. and we had all bun s at
work to strike our topmasts. and make everything snug
and close. that the ship might ride as easy as ossible.
By noon. the sea went very high indeed. and our s ip rode
forecastle in. shi ped several seas. and we thought once
or twice our one or had come home: upon which our
master entered out the sheet anchor. so that we rode with
two anchors ahead. and the cables veered out to the
better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed; and now
I began to see terror and amazement in the faces even of
the seamen themselves. The master. though vigilant in
the business of preservln the ship. yet. as he went in and
out of his cabin b me. could hear him. softly to him-
self. say several tmcs: " Lord. be merciful to us! We
shall be all lost--we shall be all undone!" and the like.
During these first hurries I was stupid. lying still in my
cabin. which was in tho steerage. and can not demribc
mgntemper. I could ill resume my first finite-nee. which
I d so a patently tmmpled upon. and rdened myself
against. thought the bitterness of death had been past.
and that this would be nothin . too. like the first. But
when the master himself came y me. as I said just now.
sud said we should be all lost. I was dreadfully frighted.
I got up out of my cabin. and looked out: but such a dis-
mal sight I never saw. The sec went menutnins high.
b ken nnsev three orfonr minutes. When!
33314330>>: spigot Ioon d see nothing but distress around
us. Two shl a that rid near us. we found had cut their

acts b the rd bein deepladen- and onrmea cried
glut. thai'a shi . which rifii about a mile ahead of as. was
foundered. o more ships. being driven from their

aucho . were run out of the roads to sea. at all adven-
tnresjlnd that not withamast standing. The light ships
fared the bee as not so much laboring in the sea; but
two or threeo them drove. and came close b as. running
away. with only their sprit-saii out. before t 0 wind.

Towards the evening. the mate and boatswaln be
the master of our shipto let them cutaway the foreman.
which he was very unwilling to do; but the boatswain

rotestiug to him. that if he did not. the ship would
oundcr. he consented ; and when they had cutawa the
foremnst. the mainmsst stood so loose. and shoe the
shl so much. the were obliged to cut that away also.
an makeaclcar eck.

 

[in one may judge what a condition I must be in at
all th it. who was but a 'oung sailor. and who had been
in such a fright before a but a little. But. if I can ex-
press at this distance the thoughts I had about me at that

ime. I was in tenfold more horror of mind upon account
of my former convictions. and the having returned from
them to the resolutions I had u ickedly taken at first.
than I was at death itself; and these. added to the terror
of the storm. put me into such a condition that I can by
no words describe it. But the worst was not come yet;
the storm continued wilh such fury. that the seamen
themselves acknowledged they had never seen a worse.
We had a ood ship. but she was deep laden. and so
swallowed n the sea. that the seamen every now and
then cried out she would founder. It was my advent o
in one respect. that I did not know what they meant y
founder. till I inquired. Iiowever. the storm was so
violent, that I saw what is not often seen. the master. the
hoatswaln. and some others more sensible than the res
at their raycrs. and expectin every moment that the
shi won d 'o to the bottom. n the middle of the night.
an nndera l the rest of our distresscs. one of the men
that had been down on purpose to see. cried out we had
sprunga leak- another said. there were four feet water
in the hold. Then all hands were called to the pump.
At that ver word my heart. as I thought. died witlun
me; and I ell backward upon the side of the bed where
I sat. in the cabin. However. the men roused me. and told
me that I. that was able to do nothing before. was as well
able to pump as another- at which I stirred u . and went
tothe pump. and worked very heartily. \i'h Is this was
doing. the master. who. seeing some light colliers. which.
not able to ride out the storm. were obliged to slip and
run away to sea. and would come near as. ordered to tire
a gun as a signal of distress. I. who knew nothing what
that meant. was so a rised. that I thought the ship had
broken, or some drea fnl thing happened. In a word. I
was so surprised that I fell own it a swoon. As this
was a time when everybod had his own life to think of.
nobody minded me or wha was become of me: but an-
other man ste pod up to the amp. and thrusting me
aside with his cat, let me lie. ink ng I had been dead;
and it was a (great while before I came to myself.

We works on. but the water increasing in the hold. it
was apparent that the ship would founder; and though
the storm an to abate a littlehyet as it was not possi-
ble she can! swim till we mig t run into any port. so
the master continued tiring uni for help; and a light
ship. who had rid it out Justa ead of us. ventured a boat
out to help us. It was with the utmost hazard the boat
came near us: but it was impossible for as toget on

rd. or for the boat to lie near the shipaide. till at last
the men rowing very heartily. and venturing their lives

to save ours, our men cast them a rope over the stern
with a buoy to it and then veered it out a great leu h,
which they. after much labor and hazard. took hol of;
and we hauled them close under our stern. and got into
their boat. It was to no urpose for them or us. after
we were in the boat. to th nk of reaching to their own
ship; so all agreed to let her drive. and only to pull her
in towards shore as much as we could; and our master
Bromised them. that if the boat was staved upon shore.

a would make it good to their master. So partly row-
ing. and partly driving. our boat went away to the north-

ggod ward. sloping towards the shore almost as far as Winter

tonness.

We were not much more than a quarter of an 11011140!"
of our ship. but we saw her sink; and then I understood,
for the first time. what was meant hyia ship fonndering
in the sea. I must acknowledge. I ad hardly eyes to
look up. when the seamen told me she was sinking; for.
from that moment. they rather put me into the boat. than
that I might be said to go in : my heart was. as it were
dead within me. partly with fright, partly with horror of
mind. and the thoughts of what was before me.

While we were in this condition. the men yet laboring
at the ear to bring the boat near the shore. we could see
(when our boat mounted the waves. we were able to see
the shore) a great many peoJJe running along the strand
to assist us when we shoul come near. But we made
but slow wa towards the shore. nor were we able to
reach the s ore. till. bei ' past the light-house at
Wintcrton. the shore falls 0 to the westward towards
Cronrcr- and so the land broke at! a little the vio-
lence of the wind. Iiere we got in; and. though not
without much diliiculty.1;ot all safe on shore. and walked
afterwards on foot to iarmouth. where. as unfortunate
men. we were used with great Immunity. as well by the
ma-Iistrates of the town. who assigned us good quarters
as y particular merchants and owners of ships; and had
money given us sutlicicnt to carry us either to London,
or back to liull. as we thought tit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hall.
and have gone home. I had been happy. and my father.
an emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable. had even
killed the fattcd calf for me; for. heariu" the shi ) I went
away in was cast away in anmouth Itoads. t was a
great u-(lliile before he had any assurances that I was not

rownc .

But at ' ill fate (rushed me on now with an obstiuacy
that not ling coul resist; andthough I had several times
loud culls lrom my reason. and my more com osed ndg-
ment. to go home. yet I had no ower to do t. l ' ow
not what to call this; nor will urge. that it isa secret
overruling decree. that hurries us on to be the instru-
ments of our own destruction. even though it be before
us. and that we rush upon it with our eyes open. Cer-
tainly. nothing but some such decreed unavoidable
misery attending. and which it was impossible for me to
escape. could have pushed me forward against the calm
reasoning and pcrsuasions of my most retired thoughts.
and against two such visible instructions as I had met
with in my tirst attempt.

My comrade. who had helped to harden me before. and
who was the master's son. was now less forward than I.

t. The first time he spoke to me after we were in anmouth,

which was not till two or three days. for we "ere sepa-
rated in the town to several uarlers; I say. the tint
time he saw me. it a peered h s tone was altered: and.
looking very melancioly. and shakin his head. asked
me how I did: and telling his father w 10 I was. and how
I had come this voyage only for atrial. in order to go
further abroad; his father, turning to are with a very
grave and concerned tone:

" Young man." says he. " you on ht never to go to sea
any more: you ought to take this or a plain and visible
token that 'on are not to be a seafaring man."

.. Why. s r." said I. "will you go to sea no more i"

"That is another case." said he; " it is In calling.
and. therefore. my duty; but. as you made th s voyage
for a trial. you see what a taste Iieaven has given on of
what you are to expect if you persist: per-ha s a i this
has befallen us on your account. like Jonah. n the ship
of Tarshish. I'm ." continued he. " what are you t and
on what account id you go to sea 1'" ,

Upon that I told him some of my story- at the end of
which he burst out with a strange kind 0 assion.

"What had I done." says he. "that an an unhappy
wretch should come into my ship? I would not set my
foot 5n the same ship with thee again for a thousand

an s.
1"This indeed was. as I said. an excursion of his spirits,
which were yet agitated by the sense of his loss. and was
farther than he could have authority to go. However.
he afterwards talked very vely to me. sxhorting me
to go back to m father. an not tempt Providence to my
rain; to" me might see the visible hand of Heaven

as me:

"RAIN, youn man." said he. "depend upon it. if you
do not go bac wherever you go. you will meet with
nothing but disasters and disappointments. till your
father's words are thltllled upon you."

We parted soon after; for I made him little answer.
and I saw him no more: which way he went. I knew not.
As for me. having some money in my ocirct. I traveled
to London by land; and there. as wel as on the road.
bad man{ stru-vgles with myself. what course of life I
shoule ta e. and whether I a cult! go home. or go to sea.

As to going home. shame osposed the best motions
that offered to my tliounhts: an it immediately occuer
to me how I should be'iaughed at among the neighbors.
and should be ashamed to see. not my father and mother
only. but even evervboily else. From whence I have
since observed how incongruous and irrational the com-
mon temper of mankind is. especially of yoitth. to that
reason that ought to guide them in such cases. viz.: that
they are not ashamed to sin. and yet are ashamed to re-

nti not ashamed of the actions for which the ought
ustl to be esteemed fools. htit are ashamed o the re-

tu rig. which only can make them esteemed wise men.

In this state of] to. however. I remained sometime.
uncertain what measures to take. and what course of life
to lead. Au irresistible reluctance continued to going
home; and. as i stn ed awhile. the remembrance of the
distress i had been n wore 05': and as that abated. the
little motion 1 had in my desires were off with it. till at
last I quite laid aside the thoughts of it. and looked out
for a voyage.

That evi influence which carried me first away item m
father's house. which hurried me into the wild and ind -
fluted notion of raisin-v my fortune. and that impressed

use concelts so forcibly upon me. as to make me deaf
to all good advice. and to the eutreatlcs and even the
commands of my father: I say. the same influence. what-
ever it was. presented the most unfortunate of all enter-
prises to my view: and I went on board a vessel bound
to the coast of Africa. or. as our sailors vulgarly call it. a
vo 'ago to Guinea.

t was my great misfortune. that in all these adventure:
I did not shig myself as a sailor: whereby, though I
might indeed ave worked a little harder than ordinary
yet at the same time I had learned the duty and office oi
a foremost man. and in time might have qualified myself
for mate or lieutenant. if not for a master. But as it was
always my fate to choose for the worse. so I did here: for.
having money in my pocket. and good clothes to m back.
I won d always 0 on board in the habit of a gem emau:
andi so I neither dauy business in the ship. nor learned

0 0 any.

It was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good com-

ny in London. which does not always happen to such
eose and unguided 'oung fellows as I then was; the

devil not omitting to ay some snare for them very early:
but it was not so with me. i first fell acquainted with
the master of the ship. who had been on the coast of
Guinea. and who. hav ug very good success there. was
resolved to go a-valn. Th as captain. taking a fancy to my
conversation. which was not disagrcmhle at that time.
hearing me say I had a mind to see the world. told me. if
I wont go the voy with him. I should beat no ex-
pense; I should be iia messntate and his corn nion:
and if I could carry anything with me I should ve all
the advantage of it that the trade would admit; and per>>
ha s I might meet with some enceu cement.

embraced the odor. and enterin ate a strict friend-
ship with this captain. who was an onest. lain~dcaliuv
man. went the veyavc with him; and carric a small ad'-
venture with me. whi by the disinterested honesty of
my friend. the captain. increased ver considerably; for
I carried about MO. in such trltlea as t e ca lain directed
me to buy. This PSi0 i had mustered togct er by the as
sistance of some of my relations whom I corresponded
with. and who. i believe. got my father. or. at least. in
mother. to contribute so much as that to my first a -
you are.

This was the only voyage which I may say was success
fat in all my adventures. and which I owe to the integ-
rity and honesty of my friend. the captain; under whom
I also got a competent knowledge of the mathematics.
and the rules of navigation; learned how to keep an ac
count of the ship's course. take an observation. and. in
short. to understand some thin that were needfhl to be
understood b a sailor; for. as e took dell ht to instruct
me I took de ight to learn: and. in a wo . this voyage
made me both a sailor and a merchant; for I brought
home nve oands nine ounces of goldvdust for my adven-
turo.-whic yielded me in London. at my returnpalmoat
PS3>>; and this tilled me with those aspiring thoughts
which have since so completed In ruin.

Yet. even in this voyme. I ha my misfortunes. too;
articularly that I was continually sick. being thrown
ate a violent calentnre by the excessive heat of the ell-

mate. our principal tra being upon the coast. item
the latitude of its d .. even to the line itself.

I was now set up or a Guinea trader; and my frleu
to my t misfortune. dying soon anor his arrival.
:esolv to gothe same voyage again; and I embarked

in the same vessel with one who was his mate in the
former vo . and had now got the command of the ship.
This was the unhappieet voyage that ever man made-
for though I did notes quite PS100 of in new in
wealth. so that I had .5 left. and which lod with
my Mend's widow. who was very just to me yeti fell
into terrible misfortunes in this voyage; and the first
was thi? viz. : our ship. making her course towards the
Canary slands. or rather between those islands and the
African shore. was aurgr'iscd in the gray of the mornin
b a Moorish rover of llee. who gave chase to us wit
a the sail she could make. We crowded also as much
canvas as our yards would spread. or our masts carry. to
have got clear: but. tlndlng the pirate gained upon us.
and would certainly come up with us in a few hours. we
prepared to fight; our ship having twelve guns. and the
rogue eighteen. About three in the attemoon he came
up with us. and bringing to. by mistake. utt athwart our
quarter. instead of athwart our stern. as c intended. we
bron 'ht eight of our guns to bear on that side. and llpoured l
in a roads dc upon lilm. which made him sheer 0 again
after returning our fire and pouring in also his small
shot from near two bun red men which he had on board.
liowever we had not a man touched all our men kce in
close. lie repared to attack us again. and we to do on
ourselves; ut. lavlng us on board the next time upon
the other qnarter.'he entered ninety men upon our decks.
who immediately fell to cutting and back ng the decks
and rigging. We lied them w th small shot. half-pikes
powder-chests. an such like. and cleared our decks 0
them twice. However. to cut short this melancholy part
of our story. our ship being disabled. and three of our
men killed. and eight wounded. we were obliged to yield ;
and were carried all prisoners into Sallce. a port belong-
ing to the Moors.

'i'he usage I had there was not so dreadful as at tirst I
apprehended; nor was I carried up the country. to the
emperor's court. as the rest of our men were. but was
kept by the captain of the rover as his roper prize. and
made his slave. being young and nimb e. and lit for his
business. At this surprising change of my circumstances.
from a merchant to a miserable slave. I was perfectly
overwhelmed: and new [looked back upon my father's
prophetic discourse to me. that I should be miserable.
and have none to relieve me. which I thought was new so
effectually brought to lpass. that I could not be worse-
that new the hand of eaven had overtaken me. and i
was undone without redemption. But alas! this was but
a taste of the misery l was to go through. as will appear
in the sequel of this story.

As my new patron or master had taken me home to his
house. so I was in hopes that he would take me with him
when he went to sea a In. believing that it would be
some time or other his ate to be taken by a Spanish or
lfortugueao man of war: and that then I should be set at
liberty. But this hope of mine was soon taken away;
for when he went to sea. he left me on shore to look after
his little garden. and do the common drudge of slaves
about his house: and when he came home ago n from his
cruise. he ordered me to lie in the cabin. to look after the

shl .

\{20 were fre ucntly out with this boat a-tishlng; and
as I was most extcrons to catch iiah for him he never
went without me. It happened one da . after Iliad been i
with him about two years. that be its up inted to go
out in this boat. either for leaaure or for sh. with two
or three Moors of some dist nctlon. and for whom he had

rovided extraordinarily. and had therefore sent on

rd the boat over night a larger store of revisions
than usual; and had ordered me to get ready t roe fuslls
with powder and shot. which were on board his ship;
for that they designed some sport of fowling as well as

fishi .

Iglefi all things read . as he had directed; and waited
the next morning w th the boat washed clean. her
ancient and pendants out. and everything to accommo-
date his guests; when. by and by. my tron came on
board alone. and told me his guests ha at oil' goin v.
upon some business that. fell out. and o cred me wit
the man and boy. as usual. to 0 out with the boat. and
catch them some deli. for that is friends were to tug) at
his house. He commanded the too, that as soon as! ha et
some fish. I should bring it. All whichi reputed to o.

This moment my former notions of del veranee darted
into m thoughts. for now I found 1 was like to have a
little 3 tip at my command - and my master being gone. i
prepare to furnish myseif. not for i'lsbin . but for a
voyage: though I knew not. neither did somuch as
consider whither I would steer; for anywhere to get out
of that piece was my way.

It tlrst centrivance was to make a pretence to speak
tot is Moor. to get something for our subsistence on
board: for I told in we must not presume to eat of our

tron'a bread. ile said that was true; so he brou ht a

urge basket of rank or biscuit of their kind. and hreo
jars with fresh water. into the boat.

I knew where my patron's case of bottles stood. whichROBINSON 'O'R U805. 9

it was evident by the make. were taken out of some Eng-
lish prize. and I conveyed them into the boat. while the
floor was on shore. as if they had been there before for
our master. I conveyed also a t lump of beeswax into
the boat. which weighed about a half a hundred weigh
with a parcel of twine or thread. a hatchet. a saw. and a
hammer. all of which were of great use to us afterwards-
especialiy the wax to make candies. Another trick I tried
upon him. which he innocently came into also. His name
was Ishmael. whom they cal ed Mnlcy. or Moley; so I
called to him: ".\ioley.' said 1. "our patron's guns are
all on board the boat. Can you not gets little powder
and shot! It may be we may kill some alcomies (a fowl
like our curlews) for ourselves. for I know he kee s the
gunner's stores in the ship." " Yes " says he. " l'l brin
some." Accordingly. he brought a'leather pouch. whi
held about a pound and a half of powder. or rather more;
and another with shot. that had five or six nude. with
some bullets. and put all Into the boat. At e same time
I had found some powder of my master's in the great
cabin. with which I filled one of the large bottles in the
case. which was almost cm t .'gonring what was in it
into another; and thus furn s c with everything need-
fnl. we sailed out of the port to iish. The castle. which is
at the entrance of the port. knew who we were. and took
no notice of us - and we were not above a mile out of the
rt. before we hauled in our sail. and sat us down to fish.
he wind blew item the N. N. 1-2.. which was contrary to
my desire; for bad it blown southerly. I had been sure to
have made the coast of Spain. and at least reached to the
buy of Cadiz; but my resolutions were. blow which w
it would. I would be gone Item that horrid place where
was. and leave the rest to fate.

Alter we had tishcd some time and catched nothing
(for when i had fish on my hook. i would not ull them
upfhthat he might not see them} I said to t to Moor:
" is will not do; our master w ll not be thus served.
We must stand farther ofl'." lie. thinking no harm.
agreed; and beln in the head of the bout. set the sails.
and. as I had the elm. I run the boat out near alcague
farther. and then brouvvht her to. as if I would fish; when.
giving the bov the helm. I stepped forward to where the
. tour was. and makl " as if I stooped for something be-
hind him. i took him y surprise with my arm under his
twist and tossed him clear overboard into the sea. iie
rose immediately. for he swam like a cork. and called to
me. begged to be taken in. told me he would go all over
the world with me. lie swam so strong after the boat.
that he would have reached me very quickly. there bein
but little wind; upon which I stepped into the cabin. an
fetching one of the fou'lin pieces. 1 presented it at him.
and tol him I had done h in no hurt. and if he would be
quiet. I would do him none. " But.' said I. " you swim
wril enough to reach the shore. and the sea is calm;
make the best of your way to shore. and I will do you no
harm; but if you come near the boat. 1'" shoot you
through the head. for I am resolved to have my liberty."
So he turned himself about. and swam for the shore. and
i make no doubt but he reached it with ease. for he was
an excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor with
me. and have drowned the boy. but there was no ventur-
ing totrust him. When he was one itumcd to the boy.
whom the ' called Xury. and sai to him: "Xury. if you
will be In thfnl to me. I'll make on a great man; but if
you will not stroke your face to true to me." that is.
swear by Mahomct. and his father's heard. "1 must throw
you into the sea too." The ho ' smiled in my face. and
spoke so innocentl that I coul not mistrust him: and
swohre to be faith ul to me. and go all over the world
I: t me.

While I was in view efthe Moor that was swimmin . I
stood out directly to sea with the boat. rather stretch rig
to windward. that the might think me one towards the
Strait's month (as in eed any one that d been in their
wits must have been sup sed to do): for who would
have supposed we were sai ed on to the southward. to the
truly Barbarian coast. where whole nations of Negroes
were sure to surround us with their canoes. and dunno
us : where we could never once go on shore. but we shoui
be devoured by savage beasts. or more merciless savages
of human kind f

But. as soon as it grew dusk in the evening. I changed
my course. and steered directly south and b east. bend-
ing mv course a little towards the can that might kec
in with the shore; and havin a fair h e of win
and a smooth quiet sea. I ma e such sail. tI believe.
by the next day at three o'clock in the afternoon. when I
first made the lan I could not be less than 150 miles
south of Sallee. ui e beyond the emperor of Morocco's
dominions. or in eed of any other king thereabouta. for
we saw no such people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the floors. and
the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into their
hands. tiat I would not stop. or an on shore. or come to
an anchor. the wind continuing ir. till I had sailed in
that manner live days; and then the wind shining to the

southward. I concluded also. that if any of our result.
were in chase alter-me. they also would now give over:
so I ventured to make to the coast. and came to an anchor
in the mouth of a little river. I knew not what or where.

t. neither what latitude. what country. what nation. or what

river. I neither saw nor desired to see anvpeople: the
principal thin I wanted was fresh water. We came into
this creek in t e evening. resolving to swim on shore as
soon as it was dar and discover the country: but as
soon as it was quite k. we heard such dreadful noises
of the barking. rearing. and howling of wild creatures. of
we knew not what kinds. and the poor boy was ready to
die with fear and ed of me not to on shore till
day. " Well. 'Xury." as d I. "then I won' : but it may be
we ma see men by day who will be as bad to us as those
lions.' "Then we may give them the shoot gun." says
Igury. lan hing; "make em run wa ." Sue English
kury spo e by conversing among us s ves. However. i
was glad to see the boy so cheerful, and i gave him a dram
(out of our patron's case of bottles) to cheer him up. After
all. Xury's advice was good. and I took it. We dropped
our little anchor and lay still all night; I say still. for we
slept none; for in two or three hours we saw vast great
creatures. we knew not what to call them. of many sorta.
come down to the sea-shore. and run into the wager. wal-
lowing and washin themselves for the pleasure of cooiiu
themselves: and t icy made such hideous howliugs
yellings. that I never heard the like.

Xury was dreadfully fri hted. and indeed so was I. too:
but we were both worse rightcd when we heard one of
the mighty creatures come swimming towards our boat;
we con d not see him. but we might hear him by his blow-
ing to be a monstrous hu and furious beast. Xury said
it was a lion. and that t might be for aught I know.
i'oor Xurv cried out to me to weigh the anchor. and row
away. " '0." says I. "Xury. we can all our cable with
a buoy to it. and go to sea: the ' can no follow us far."
1 had no sooner said so. but perceived the creature
(whatever it was) within two oar s lencth. which some-
thing surprised me. However. I immediately stepped to
the cabin door. and taking us mgogun. tired at him. upon
which he immediately turne a ut. and swam towards
the shore again.

 

But it was not
and hideous cries and howlings that were raised. as well

possible to describe the horrible noises

upon the edge of the shore as higher within the country.
upon the noise or report of a gun; a thing I have some
reason to believe. these creatures had neverheard before.
This convinced me that there was no oing on shore for
us in the night upon that coast. and ow to venture on
shore in the da . was another question. too - for to have
fallen into the ads of an of the savages. had been as
bad as to have inllen into t e paws of lions and tigers--at
least we were equall apprehensive of the danger 0! it.
Be that as it we we were obliged to go on shore
somewhere or other or water. for we had note pint iu
the boat; when or where to get it was the point. Xury
said if I would let him go on shore with one of the jars.
he would find if there was an water. and bri some to
me. I asked him why he we d go. why I shon d not go.
and he stag'in the boat. The boy answered with so much
atl'eetion t t made me love him ever after. Says he: " If_
wild mans come. they eat me; youdgo way. ' "Well.
Xury." said I. "we will both go. an if the wild mans
come. we will kill them - the shall eat neither of us."
Sol ve Xuryapiece of ms -bread to eat. audadram
out 0 our patron's use of bottles. which I mentioned be-
fore. and we hauled the boat in as near the shore as we
thought was proper. and waded on shore. carrying noth-
but our arms. and two jars for water.
did not care to go out of sight of the boat. (earl the
coming of canoes with savages down the river; b the10

boy seeing a low place. about a mile up the country. ram-
bled to it. and b and by I saw him come running towards
me. I thought e was pursued by some savage. or fri ht-
od with some wild beast. and I ran forward towards im
to help him; but when I came nearer to him. I saw some-
thin hanging over his shoulders. which was a creature
that e had 3 ct. like a bare. but different in color. and
longer legs. However we were ver glad of it. attd it
was ver good meat: but the great {0y that poor Xury
tame w th, was to tell me he had found good water. and
seen no wild mans.

But we found afterwards that we need not take such
pains for water for a little higher up the creek where we
we we found the water fresh when the tide was out.

whic iiowa but a little way up. So we filled our jars.
and fasted on the bare we had killed. and prepared to go
on our way. IIIVII'I" seen no footsteps of any human crca-
ture in that part ofthe country.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before. I knew
very well that the islands of the Canaries. and the Cape
de erd islands also. Iay not far off from the coast. But
as I had no instruments to take an observation to know
what latitude we were in. and did not exactly know. or at
least not remember what latitude they were in. I knew
not where _to look for them. or when to stand oit' to sea
towards them. otherwise I might now casil ' ltave found
some of these islands. But my hope was. t at if I stood
along this coast till I came to t at part where the English
traded. I should find some of their vessels upon their usual
design of trade. that would relieve and take us in.

By the best of my calculation. that place where I now
was must be that countr which lying between the em-
peror of Morocco's dentin ons and the i e rocs. lies waste
and uninhabited. except by wild beasts. t n: Nc'rrocs huv.
Ing abandoned i and gone further south. for {Gar of the
Moore; and the ioors not thinkin" it worth inltabitiu '.
by reason of its barrenness. and indeed both forsaking it
because of the prodigious numbers of tigfirs. lions. loop
ards. and other furious creatures which rbor there. so
that the Moors use it for their hunting only. where they
go like an army. two or three thousand ntcn at n time;
and indeed for near a htntdrcd miles together ttpon this
coast. we saw nothin but a waste. uninhabited country
by da . and heard not ing but ltowlings and roaring: of
wild asts b night.

Once or tw co in the daytime. I thought I saw the I'ico
of Teneriil'e. being the high top of the mountain 'I'cneritl'e
in the Canaries. and had a west mind to venture out in
hopes of reaching thither: at having tried twice. I was
forced in again by contrary winds. the sea also going too
high for at little vessel; so I resolved to pursue my first
design. an keep along the snore. .

Several times we \verc obliged to land for fresh water.
after we had left this place; and once in rticular. being
early in the mornln-t. we canto to an anc tor under a little
point of water. tvhlelt was pretty hi-vh. and the tide begin-
ning to how. we lay still to go further in. Xury. whose
eyes were more about him than it seems mine were. calls
softly to me. and tells me that we had best "0 further oil'
the shore. " For " says he. " look. ryonder lie<< a dreadful
monster on the side of that hillock. ast asleep." I looked
where he pointed. and saw a dreadful monster indeed;
for it was a terrible real lion. that lay on the side of the
shore. under the aha e of a piece of the hill. that hung. as
it were. a little over him. " Kurt'." said I. " 'ou shall go
on shore and kill him." Xury'Iook frightc . and said:
" Me kill! IIc eat me at one mouth 2" one mouthful he
meant. However. I said no more to the boy. at bade
him be still. and took our biggest gun which was almost
musket-bore. and loaded it with a good charge of wder.
and with two sings. and laid it down; then loaded
another gun with two bullets. and the third (for we had
three pieces) I loaded with five smaller bullets. I took
the best aim I could with the first piece. to have shot him
into the head; bttt he lay so with his leg raised a little
above his nose. that the slug hit his leg about the kttce.
and broke the bone. He started up growlin'7 at tlrst. but
tindin'r hie leg broke. fell down a sin. and then got upon
three Iegs. and ve the most h deous roar that evcrI
heard. I was a ttle so riscd that I had not hit him on
the head; however. I too up the second piece immedi-
ately - and. the "h he began to move off. fired again. and
shot him in the end. and had the pleasure to see him

drop. and making but little noise. he lay stru ,linw for
life. Then Xury took heart. and would let me taveohlm
'0 on shore. " Well 0." said I. So the boy amped

into the water. and talt n a little n in one han . swam
to shore with the other and. an coming close to the
creature. put the muzzle of the piece to his ear. and shot
him in the head rain. which dispatched him quite.

This was game indeed to us. bttt thls'was no food; and
I was very sorry to lost. three charges of wder and shot.
upon a creature that was good for noth ug to us. How-
ever. Xury said he would have some of him; so he comes
on board. and asked me to give him the hatchet. " For
what. Xu 3" said I. " Mo cut of his head." said he.
However. ury could not cut on' his head; but he cut off

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF

a foot. and brought it with him. and it was a monstrous
at one.

"I; bethonght myself. however. that perha a the skin of
him might one way or other be of some vs no to us; and
I resolved to take off the skin if I could. So Xury and I
went to work with him. but liar ' was mttch the better
workman at it. for I knew very ii how to do it. Indeed.
it took us up the whole do : but at last we got oft' the
hide of him and. spreading t on the top of our cabin. the
sun efl'ectually dried it in two days' time. and it afterwards
eened me to lie upon.

After this stop. we made on to the southward contin-
ually. for ten or twelve days. living very sparingly on our
provisions. which began to abate very much. and going
no oftcner in to the shore than we were obliged to for
fresh water. My design in this was to make the river
Gambia or Scue-ntl. that is to say. anywhere about the
Cape de Verd. where I was in ho a to meet with some
European shi . attd if I did not I new not what course I
had to take at to seek for the islands. or perish there
among the hi 'roes. Iknew that all the ships from lin-
ro -. which sat ed either to the coast of Guinea. or to lira-
zi . or to the East Indies. made this cape or those islands.
attd. in a word. I pttt the whole of tny fortune upon this
single point. either that I must meet with some ship or
must perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer. as I have said. I began to see that the land was
inhabited; and in two or three places. as we sailed by. we
saw people stand ttpott the shore to look at us: we could
also perceive they were quite black. and stark naked. I
was once inclined to have gone on shore to them. httt
any was my better counsellor. and said to me: " No '0.
no '0." However. I hauled itt nearer the shore. hat
I m ght talk to theta. and I fouttd they run along the
shore by me a good way. I obscrvcd they had no weapons
itt their hands. except one. who had a long slender stick.
which .\'nr_v said was a lance. and that they would throw
them a great way with good aim; so I kc )t at a distance
but talked with them by signs as well as could. and par-
ticularly made signs for something to cut. They beck-
oned to me to stop my boat. uttd they would fetch me
some meat.

We made signs of thanks to them. for wc.h:id nothing
to make thcnt amends; but an opportunity oil'erod that
instant to oblige thcnt \vondcrfh ly; for while we were
lying by the shore. came two minhty creatures. one pur-
suing t. e other (as we took It) with great fury. from the
mountains towards tlte sea; at last one of them begun to
cotne nearer our host titan at tlrst I expected: bttt I lay
ready for him. for I had loaded my gun with all possible
expedition. and bade Xury load built the others. As soon
as he canto fairly within my reach. I tired. and shot him
directly into the head. Immediately he sunk down into
the water. bttt he rose instantly. and plunged up and
down as if he was struggling forlifc; and so indeed he
was. lie immediately made to the shore; but. between
the wound. which was his mortal hurt. and the strangling
of the water. he died just before he reached the shore.

It is impossible to ex'trcss tltc astonishment of these
poor creatures at iltc noise and tire of my gun: some of
them were ready even to die for fear. and fell down as
dead with the very terror. Ilut when they saw the crea-
tttre dead. and sunk in the water. had that I made signs
to them to come to the shore. they took hurt and came
to the shore. and began to search for the creature. I
fottnd hint by his blood staining the water. and by the
help of a rope. which I tiung round hint. and gave the
Negroes to haul. tltcydrztggtfl him on shore. and found
that it was a most curious leopard. spotmd and tine to an
admirable degree; and the .\cj.:mcs held up their hands
with admiration. to think what it was I killed him with.

The other creature. frightod with the flash of tire. and
the noise of tltc gun. swunt to the shore. and run up
directl ' to the mountains front whence they came: nor
could . at. that distance. know wlntt it was. I found
quickly the Negroes were for eating the Ilt'i'h of this
creature. so I was willing to have thent take it as :t fuvor
front me. which. when I made si-vus to thent that tho;
might take him. they were very filzlllkrul for. Immedi-
utely they fell to work with them: and lil0ll"li they had
no knife. yet. wttlt a slurpcncd icce of woot . they took
oil' his skin as rcadtly--nav. mm: more rendil '--tlntxt we
would have done With a knife. 'I'ltcy ofI'erc me some
of the flesh. which I declined. making us if I would give
it them: but made signs for the Hill). which they gave
me vcr ' freely and brought me a great deal more of their
provis one. which. though I did not understand. yet I
acce ted. Then I made signs to them for some water.
and old out one of my Jars to them. turning its bottom
upward. to show that it was empt '. and that I wanted to
have it filled. They called imntt. iatcly to some of their
friends. and there came two women. and brought a great
vessel. made of earth. and burnt. as I suppose. in the
sun; this they act down for me. as before. and I sent
Xury on shore with my are. and tilled them all three.
The women were as star naked as the men.
I was now furnished with roots and co
was. and water; an leaving my friendly
made forward about e even days mo
to go near the shore. till I saw the tan run out a grea
length into the sea. at about the distance of four or five
leagues before me. and the sea bei ve calm I kept a
is 'c oiiin to make this point; at engt doublin the
no at sta at two I es item the land. I saw aluly

ad on the other side to seaward; then I concln ed--as
it was most certain. indeed--that this was the Cape do
Verd. and those the islands. called from thence Cape do
Verd islands. However. thev were at a t distance
and I could not tell what 1 use best to do- for u i should
be high with a fresh wind. I might neither reach one
nor 0 er.

In this dilemma. as I was very naive. I ate pcd into
the mbin and sat me down. Xury aving the he to. when.
on a sudden. the boy cried out: " Master. master. a ship
with a sail l" and the foolish boy was frighted out of his
wits. thinking it must needs be some of his master's
ships sent to ursuc us. when I knew we were otten far
euou h onto their reach. I jam out of t e cabin.
and mediately saw. not onl t e ship. but what she
was. viz.: that it was a Po gaese ship and. as I
thought. was bound to the coast of Guinea or Negroes.
But. when I observed the course she steered. I was soon
convinced they were bound some other way. and dtd not
design to go any nearer to the shore. upon which I
stretched out to sea as much as I could. resolving to
speak with them if possible.

With all the trail I could make. I found I should not be
able to come in their way. but that they would be one
by before I could make any signal to them; but a or I
had crowded to the utmost. and began to despair. they. it
seems. saw me by the help of their perspective gleam.
and that it was some European boat. which they any
posed must belong to some ship that was lost; so the
shortened sail to let me come up. I was encouraged wit
this. and as I had my patron's ancient on board I made
a waft of it to them for a signal of distress. and tired a
gun, both of which they saw - for they told me the saw
the smoke. though they did not hear the gun. 'pon
these signals. they ve kindly brought to. and lay b
fgr me; and in about rec hours' time I came up wit
t em.

They asked me what I was. in Portuguese. and in Span-
ish. and in French - but I understood none of them; but
at last a Scots sailor. who was on board. called to me.
and I answered him. and told him I was an En 'lishman.
that I had made my escape out of slavery item I e Moors.
at Saliec. Then they bade me come on board. and very
kindly took me in. and all my goods.

It "as an inexpressible oy to me. as any one will
believe. that I was thus del \'ered as I esteemcdi from
such a miserable and almost hopeless condition as was
in. I immediately od'cred all I had to the captain of the
shi . as a return for my deliverance; but he generously
tol me he would take nothing from me. but that all
had should be delivered safe to me when I came to the
Brazils. " For." savs he. "I have saved your life on no
other terms than as I would be filed to be saved myself;
and it may. one time or other. my lot to be taken up
in the same condition. Besides." says he. " when I carry
you to the Brazlls. so great a way from your own coun-
try. if I should take from you what little you have. you
w ll be starved there. and then I only take away that life
I have given. No no." says he. " Signor Inglese (Mr.
Englishman). I will carry you thither in charity. and
these things will help you to buy your subsistence there.
and your passage home again."

As he was charitable in this proposal. so he was just
in the performance to a tittle: for he ordered the seamen
that none should oti'er to touch anythin I had; then he
took everything into his own' possess on. and gave me
back an exact inventory of them. that I might have them
again. even so much as my three earthen jars.

As to my best. it was avery good one. and that he saw
and told me he would began of me for the shi 's use. an
asked me what I would ve for it. I toldt im he had
been so generous to me in everythln . that I could not
offer to make "h rice of the boat. bu left it entirely to
hitn; upon whic e told me he would give me a. note of
his hand to pay me to icces of oi ht for it at Brazil. and
when it came there.i any one o ered to give more. he
would make it up. lie otlercd me also 60 leces of eight
more for my boy. Xury. which I was lost to take: not
that! Was not willin to let the captain have him. but I
was very loath to set the poor boy's liberty. who had as-
sisted me so faithfully in procuring my own. However.
when I let him know In reason. he owned it to bejust.
and offered me this In um. that he would give the be
an obligation to set him thee in ten years. if he turn
Christian. U n this. Xury sa lug he was willing to go
w'n'imddlet sump" an" ltenth B il d rri ed

e ave voage erazsana v
in the Bay ter'I'odos loa'Santos. or all Baints' Bay. in
about twenty-two days after. And now I was once more.

such as it
cgrocs
without oh'erl'u

ll

delivered hem the most miserable of all conditions of
life - and what to do next with myself. I was to consider

The generous treatment the ca taln gave me I can
never enough remember he woul take nothing of me
for asasge. gave the $0 ducats for the leopard a skin.
and or the lion's skin. which I had in the boat. and
caused everything I had in the ship to be punctually de-
livered to me; and what I was willing to sell he be ht.
such as the case of bottles two of my nus. and a p see
of the lump of bees'-wax. or I had ma e candles of the
rest: in a word. I made about 2:20 pieces of eight of all
fly cargo: and with this stock I went on shore in the

raz s.

I had not been long here. but. being recommended to
the house of a nod. honest man. like himself. who had
an ineenio. as hey call it--that is. a plantation and a
sugarfixouse--I lived with him some time. and acquainted
myself. by that means. with the manner of their planting
and making of sugar: and. seeing how well the planters
livedi and how they grew rich suddenly. I resolved. if I
coul get license to settle there. I would turn planter
among them; rewiring. in the meantime. to find out
some way to get my money which I had left in London
remitted to me. To this pu so. getting a kind of letter
of naturalization. I purchas as much land that was un-
cured as m ' mone would reach. and formed a plan for
my plants on an settlement. and such a one as might
be suitable to the stock which I proposed to myself to re-
ceive from Eafiland.

I had a net;' bor. a Portuguese of Lisbon. hut born of
English parents. whose name was Wells. and in much
one I circumstances as I was. I call him neighbor. be-
cause his plantation lay next to mine. and we went on
very socia l ' tooether; in stock was but low. as well as
his. and we rath'er plant for food than anything else.
for about two years. However. we began to increase.
and our land began to come tnte order. so that the third

war we planted some tobacco. and made one of us a
urge piece of ground rcde for plantln can in the

ear to come: but we bm wanted he p: and now I

ound. more than before. I had done wrong in parting
with my boy any.

But. alas! for me to do wrong. that never did right
was no great wonder. I had no remedy but to e on. I
had gotten into an employment nite remote o my go-
nius. and directly eontrar to the lfe I delighted in. and
for which i forsook my fat ler's house. and broke through
all his good advice; nay. I was coming into the very
middle station. or uggcr degree of low life. which my
father advised me to fore. and which. if I resolved to
go on with. I might as well have staid at home. and
never fatigued myself in the world. as I have done: and
I used often to say to myself. I could have done this as
well in England. among my friends. as have gone 5.000
miles efl' to do it. among strangers and savages in a wil-
derness. and at such a distance as never to hear from any
part of the world that had the least knowledge of me.

In this manner I used to look upon my condition with
the utmost regret. I had nobody to converse with. but
now and then this neighbor deg no work to be done. but by
the labor of my hands; and I used to say. I live Just like
a man cast awa upon some desolate island. that had no-
body there but imself. But howjust has it been. and
how should all men retlcct. that when they compare their
present condition with others that are worse. Heaven ms
oblige them to make the exchange. and be convinced
their former felicity. by their ex cricncel I say. how
iiltltst has it been. that the trul sol tary life I reflected on

an island of mere desolat on should be my lot. who-
had sooi'ten a nail compared it with the life which I
then led: in wh ch. 1 continued. I had in all proba-
bility. been exceedineg prosperous and rich!

I was in some de settled in my measures for -
ing on the plantation. before my kind friend. the capta n
of the shi that took me up at sea went back; for the}
shi rema ued there. in providing her loadin . and re-
hm ng for her voys 'e near three months; w entel ing

lm what little stoc I had left behind me in London. he
gave me his friendly and sincere advice: "SI nor Inv
gloss." says be. (for so he always called me.) "i you will
give me letters. and a procuration here in form to me.
with orders to the person who has your money in London
to send your effects to Lisbon. to such persons as I shall.
direct. and in such goods as are proper for this country.
I will bring you the produce or them. God willing at my
return ; but. since human au'alrs are all subject to c n as
and disasters. 1 would have you give orders for PSl00 9 er-
ltng. which you ssfly. is half our stock. and let the has-
ard be run for the rst; so t at if it come safe. you may
order the rest in the same way: and if it miscarry. on
have the other half to have recourse to for your supp y."

This was such wholesome advice. and looked so.
friendly. that I could not but beeonvineed it was the
best eourseI could take; so I awordiu ly repared lot--
ters to thegentleweman with whom Iha e t my money..

and: proenration to the Portuguue captain. as he de-
s .
I wrote the English captain' a widow a full account of
all my adventures. my slavery. escape. and how I had
met with the Portuguese caJttain at sea. the humanity of
his behavior. and w at con ition I was now in. with all
other necessary directions for mg auppl ; and when this
honest captain came to Lisbon. e fonn means. by some
of the English merchants there. to send over. not the or-
der only. but a mu account of my story. to a merchant in
London. who presented it effectually to her; whereupon
she not only delivered the money. but out of her own
pocket sent the Portuguese captain a very handsome
present for his humanity and charity to me.

The merchant in London vested this 2100 in English
goods. such as the captain had written for. sent them di-
rectly to him at Lisbon. and he brought them all safe to
me to the Brazils; among which. without my directions.
(for I was too youurbin my business to think of them.)
he had taken care t have all sorts of tools. iron-work.

and utensils necessary for my plantation. and which were
of great use to me.

When this cargo arrived. I thought my fortune made.
I was surprised with the joy of it: and my good steward.
the capta . had laid out the PS5 which my friend had
sent him for a present for himself. to purchase and bring
me over a servant. under bond for six years' service. and
would not accept of any consideration. except a little
tobacco. which I would have him accept. being of my
own produce.

Ne titer was this all; but my goods being all English
manufactures. such as cloth. stuff baize and thinfls par-
ticularly valuable and desirable in the country. ffouud
means to sell them to a rgreat advantage: so that I may
say. I had more than our times the value of my first
cargo. and was now infinitely beyond my poor neighbor
--I mean in the advancement of my plantation : for the
first thing I did. I bought me a Negro slave. and a Euro-
pean servant also: I mean another besides that which
the cap in brought me from Lisbon. .

Bnta abused prosperity is oftentimes made the ve
means of our greatest adversity. so it was with me.
went on the next year with great success in my planta-
tifty great rolls of tobacco on my own
ground. more than had disposed of for necessaries
among 111 ' neighbors; and these tifly rolla belly; each of
above 1 lbs. woiaht. were well cured. au laid by
against the return 0? the fleet from Lisbon. And now
increasing in business and wealth.my head began to be full
of projects and undertakings beyond my reach--such as
are indeed. ohen the ruin of the best heads in business.
iisd I continued in the station I was now in. I had
room for all the happy things to have yet befallen me.
for which my father so earnestly recommended a niet.
retired life. and which he had so sensibly describet the
middle station of life to be full of; but other things at-
tended me. and I was still tobe the wilful agent of all in
own miseries: and particularly to increase my fault. an
double the reflections upon myself. which. in my future
sorrows. I should have eisure to make. All these mis-
carriages were procured by my ap rent obstinate ad-
hering to my foolish inclination o wandering abroad.
and pursuing that inclination. in contradiction to the
clearest views of doing myself good in a fair and lplain
pursuit of those Jurospects. and those pleasures 0 life.
which Nature an Providence concurred to present me
with. and to make my duty.

As I had once done thus in breaking away from my
parents. so I could not be content now; but I must go
and leave the happy view I had of being a rich and thriv-
ing man in In ' new plantation. only to pursue a rash and
immoderate esire of rising faster than the nature of the
thin" admitted: and thus I cast in self down again into
the deepest gulf of human misery t at ever man fell into.
or perhaps could be consistent with life and a state of

health in the world.

To come. then. by just degrees to the articulars of this
part of my story: Sou may suppose t at. havl new
. ived almost four years in the Brazlls. and beginn n: to
thrive and prespcr vertv well upon m plantation. I had
not only learned the auguage. but ad contracted ac-
quaintance and friendship among my fellow-planters. as
well as among the merchants of ht. &lvadore. which was
.our port; and that, in my discourse among them. I had
frequently ven them an account of to two voyages to
.the coast 0 Guinea. the manner of tra in with the Ne-
groesthere. and how easy it was to pure Iase upon the
coast. for trides. such as beads. toys. knives. scissors.
hatchets. bits of via". and the like. not only gold-dust.
Guinea grains. e e hanta' teeth. the. but Negroes for the
service of the Bra: is. in great numbers.

They listened always very attentively to m discourses
on these heads; but especially to that partw ich minted
to the buying hegroea. which was a trade. at that time
not only not far entered into. but, as far as it was. had
been carried on b the asslentoea. or permission of the

of S in an Portugal. and engrossed in the public
so t few Negroes were bought, and those excess-

ivaiy dear. .

tion; I raised

LIFE AND .U) VENTURE? 0F

It ha ed. being in company one day with some
merchag't'afiud planters of my acquaintance. and talking
of those things very earneatl . three of them came to me
the next morning and to] me they had been musing
ve much upon what I had discoursed of with them the
las?nlght. and they came to make a secret proposal to
me- and. after ertiolnlug on me secrecy. they told me
that they had a mind to fit out a ship togo to Guinea;
that they had all plantations as well as I. and were strait-
ened for nothing so much as servants; that as it was a
trade that could not be carried on. because they could not

ublic sell the Negroes when they came home. so they
Kcsir to make but one voyage. to bring the hegroes on
shore privately. and divide them among their own lan-
tations; and. in a word. the question was. whet er I
would go their aupcrcsrgo in the ship. to manage the
trading tart u n the coast of Guinea: and they offered
me that she d have my equal share of Negroes. with-
out rovldlng any part of the stock.

Tifls was a fair proposal. it must he confessed. had it
been made to any one that had not had a settlement and
plantation of his own to look after. which was in a fair
way of coming to be very considerable. and with a :hood
stock it n it. But for me. who was thus establl ed.
and hanothing to do but to go on as I had begun for
three or four ymrs more. and to have sent for the other
PS11!) from England. and who. in that time. and with that
little addition. could scarce have failed of being worth
some or PSt.000 sterling. and that increasing too; for me
to think of such a voyage. was the most preposterous
thlirltg that ever man. in such circumstances. could be

u t o .

g Buf I. that was born to be my own destroyer. could no
more resist the offer. than I could restrain my tlrst ram-
bling designs. when my father's ood counsel was lost
upon me. In a word. I told them would go with all my
heart. if they would undertake to look after my plants-
tion in my absence. and would dispose of it to such as I
should direct. ifI miscarried. This they all engaged to
do. and entered into writings. or covenants to do so; and
I made a formal will. disposine of my plantation and
effects in case of my death--making the ca lain of the
ship that had saved my life. as before. my nn versai heir.
but obliging him to dispose of my etl'ccts as I had di-
rected in my will; one-half of the produce being to him-
self. and the other to be ahi ped to hngland.

In short. I took all possib e caution to reserve m ef-
fects. and to keep up my plantation. Ila I used ha as
much prudence to have looked into my own interest. and
have made a u out of what i ought to have done. and
not to have one. I had certainly never gone away from
so pros rous an undertaking; leaving all the probable
views 0 a thriving circumstance. and one u n avoyage
to sea. attended with all its common .a s. to so no-
thing of the reasons I had to expect particular In afor-
tunes to myself.

But I was hurried on. and obeyed blindly the dictates
of to fancy. rather than in reason; and. accordingly
the ip being fitted out. an the cargo furnished. and all
things done as my agreement by my partners in the
voyage. I went on board in an evil hour again. the lat of
September. 1669 being the same day oi ht cars that I
went from my father and mother at I ull. n order to
act the rebel to their authority. and the fool to my own
interest.

Our ship was about 120 tons burden carried six guns
and fourteen meu.besidea the master. his boy and my-
self. We had on board no large cargo of oods. except
of such toys as were lit for our trade with he hcgroes;
such as beads bits of lass. shells. aud_odd trilles--es~
pecllalllylllilt'tle looking-g sacs. knives. scissors. hatchet:
an t e e.

The same day I went on board we set sail standing
away to the northward u on our own coast. with a design
to stretch over for the A rican coast. when they came into
about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude. which.
it seems. was the manner of their course in those days.
We had var] good weather. only excessively hot all the
way upon our own coast. till we came to t e height of
Cape ht. August ino. from whence. keeping farther of! at
see, we lost at vht of inn and steered as if we were bound
for the Isle o Fernand e Norouba; holding our course
X. E. by N.. and leaving those isles on the east. In this
course we passed the line in about twelve days' time. and
were. by our last observation? in 1' degrees, 22 minutes.
northern latitude. when a vio ent tornado. or hurricane.
took as quite out of our knowledfi; it began {tom the
south-eas came about to the no wrest. and then set-
tled into e north-east -from whence it blew in such a
terrible manner that for twelve days together. we could
do nothing but drive. and. scuddi awe before i let it
carry us wherever fate. and the my 0 the win a, di-
rected: and during these twelve days I need not say that
I expected every day to be swallowed up: nor did any in
the chi expect to save their lives.

In th s distress we had. besides the terror of the atom
one of our men died of the caienturo. and one man an
the boy washed overboard. About the twelfth day. the
weather abattng a little. the master made an observation
as well as he could. and found that he was in about it
degrees of north latitude but that he was 23 d of
longitude diflerence west item Cape St. August no; so
that he found he had gotten upon the coast of Guiana.
or the north part of Brazil. beyond the river Amazons.
towards that of the river Oronoqns. commonly called the
Great River; and now he an toconsult with me what
course he should take; for t e ship was leak . and very
much diasbled. and he was for going directly ck to the
coast of Brazil. -

I was sitlvcly against that; and looking over the
charts 0 the sea-coast of 'America with him. we con-
cluded there was no inhabited country for us to have
recourse to. till we came within the circle of the Caribce
Islands; and. therefore. resolved to stand away for Bar-
badoes. which. bfiakceping of! at sea. to avoid the in-
draught of the y or Gulf of Mexico. we might very
easily perform. as we hoped. in about fifteen days' sail;
whereas. we could not possibly make our voyage to the
coast of Africa. without some assistance. both to our
ship and to ourselves.

ith this dcsl n. we changed our course and steered
away N. W. by i .. in order to reach some of our English
islands where I hoped for relief; but our voyage was
otherwise determined; for being in the latitude of 12
degrees. 18 minutes. a second storm came a n as. which
carried us away with the same impetuos ty westward.
and drove us so out of the very way of all human com-
merce. that. had all our lives been saved as to the see.
we were rather in danger of being devoured by savages.
than ever returning to our own countr .

In this distress. the wind still blow it very hard. one
of our men. early one morning. cried on . "Land i" and
we had no sooner run out of the cabin to look out in
hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we were. but
the ship struck upon a sand. and. in a moment. her mo-
tion bein so stopped. the sea broke over her in such a
manner. t tat we expected we should all have perished
immediately; and we were even driven into close quar-
ters. to shelter us from the ver foam and spray ofthe sea.

It is not easy for any one. w 0 has not been in the like
condition. to describe or conceive the consternation of
men in such circumstances. We knew nothin where
we were. or upon what land it was we were riven--
whether an island or the main. whether inhabited or not
inhabited; and as the rage of the wind was still event.
though rather less than at first. we could not so much as
hope to have the ship bold man minutes without break-
ing in pieces. unless the win . by a kind of miracle.
should turn immediately about. In a word. we sat look-
ing one upon another. and expecting death every mo-
ment. and ever man acting accordingly. as preparing
for another wor d; for there was little or nothing more
for us to do in this: that which was our present comfort.
and all the comfort we had. was. that. contrary to our
expectation. the ship did not break yet. and that the
master said the wind began to abate.

New. though we thought that the wind did a little
abate. yet the .ehip. having tints struck upon the sand.
and sticking too fast for us to expect her etting off. we
were in a dreadful condition indeed. and d nothing to
do but to think of saving our lives as well as we could.
We hadabout at our stern just before the storm- but
she was first staved by dashing against the ship's rudder.
and. in the next lace. she broke away. and e ther sunk.
or was driven o to sea; so there was no hope for her.
We had another host on board; but how to get her oi!
into the sea'was adonbtful thi . However. there was
no room to debate. for we fanci the ship would break
in pieces every minute; and some told us she was actu-
ellly broken already.

a this distress. the mate of our vessel lays hold of the
boat and. with the help of the rest of the men. they got
her dung over the ship a side; and getting all into her.
let 0. and committed ourselves. being eleven in number.
to od's mercy. and the wild sea; for though the storm
was abated considerably. yet the sea wentdresdiully high
tpon the shore. and might well be called. "Der wild see."
as the Dutch cell the see in a storm.

And now our case was very dismal indeed; for we all
saw plainly that the sea went so high. that the boat could
not esca and that we should be inevitably drowned.
As to mak ng sell. we had none; nor. if we had. could
we have done an thing with it; so we worked at the ear
towards the lan though with heavy hearts. like men
going to execution; for we all knew. that when the boat
came near the shore. she would be dashed into a thousand
pieces by the breach of the sea. However. we committed
our eonlsto G in the most earnest manner: and the
mdgrivin "as lwards $2.25," we hastened" our do-

cenw on own ulllng,eaw asws
could. towards land. 1)

What the shore was. whether rock or sand. whether
steep or shoal. we knew not: the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation. was.

18

if we happen to into some hay or gulf. or the month

of some ver. w are by t chance. we might have run

our boat in. or got under the lee of the land. and perhaps

made smooth water. But there was nothing of this ap-

geared; but as we made nearer end nearer the shore. the
ad looked more frightful than the sea.

After we had rowed. or rather driven. about a league
and a half. as we reckoned it. a raging wave. mountain-
like. came rolling astern of us. an plainly beds as ex-
pect the con do areas. In a word. it took us with such
a fury. that t overset the boat at once. and. separating as
as well from the boat as from one another. ve us not

time hardly to say. " 0 God i" for we werea swallowed
up in a moment.

'
"Q4. 1' x
- 9

    

"-ulz.-- ~

'--

'Nothlng can describe the confusion of thonrvht which I
felt when l sunk into the water; for thou 'h fswam very
well. yet I could not deliver at if item he waves so as
to draw breath. till that wave vln driven me. or rather
carried me. a vast we on towards t e shore. and haviu v
spent itself. went bee and ieit me upon the land elmoa
dry. but itqu dead with the water i took in. I had so
much rcsence of mind as well as breath lelt. that seeing
mysel nearer the main land than I expected. I got u n
my feet. and endeavored to make towards the hind "if;
as i could. before another wave should return and take
me up strain. But I soon found it was impossible to avoid
it : for fsaw the sea come after me as high as a great hill.
and as furious as an enemy. which I had no means or
strength to contend with: my business was. to hold mv
breat . and raise myself upon the water. if I could. and
so. by swimming. to preserve nifibreathing. and pilot my-
self towards the shore. if posri le: m greatest concern
now being. that the wave. as it woul carry me a
way towards the shore when it came on. might carry me
back again with it. when it gave back towards the sea.

The wave then came upon me again. buried meat once
twenty or thirty feet in its own body and I could feel my-
self carried. with a mighty force and swiftuess. tows
the shore a ve great way: but I held my breath. and
assisted myself 0 swim still forward with all my might.
I was rear}; to burst with holding my breet when as i
felt mysel rising n . so. to my immediate re ief. [found
my head and ban a shoot out above the surface of the
water: and thou h it was not two seconds of time that I
could kee myse rso. yet it relieved me greatly-gave me
breath an new courage. I was covered again 'wit water
a good while. but notso long but I held it out ; and and-
lag the water had spent itself. and began to retum I
struck forward against the return of the waves. and felt

nnd again with my feet. I stood still a few moments
0 recover breath. and till the water went from me. and
then I took to my heels. and ran with what strength i
had. farther towards the shore. But neither would this
deliver me from the fury of the sea. which came pouring
in after me again: and twice more I was lifted up by the
were: tand carried forwards as before, the shore being
ver a

The last time of these two had wall near been fatal to
me; for the sea having hurried me along as before. landed
the or rather dashed me. against a piece ofroc and that
with such force that it left me senseless. an . indeed.
helpless. note my own deliverance; for the blow. taki
m? side and breast. beat the breath. as it were. hits on
o my bed ; and had it returned again imm lately. I
must have n strangled in the water; but I recovered
a little before the return of the waves. and. seal 1
should be covered in with the water I resolv to
hold fast bye loco o ther and so to holdm breath.
if possible. til the wave went k. Now. as t s waves
were not so high as at first. being near land. I held my
hold till the wave abated. and then fetched another run.
which brought me so near the shore. that the next wave.
though it went over me. yet did not so swallow me up as-I4

to c me away; and the next run I took. I got to the
main and. where. to my great comfort. I clambered up
the clifi's of the shore. and sat me down u the grass.
free fi-om danger. and quite out of the none of the water.

I was now landed. and safe on shore. and began to look
up and thank God that my life was saved. in a case
wherein there was. some minutes before, scarce an room
to hope. I believe it is impossible to express to t e life.
what the ecstacies and transports of the soul are when it
is so saved. as I may say. out of the grave; and I do not
wonder now at that custom. viz.. that when a malefactor.
who has the halter abottt his neck. is tied up. and just
going to be turned off. and has a reprieve brought to him.
I say. I do not wonder that they bring a surgeon with it.
to let him blood that very moment they tell him of it.
that the surprise ma ' not drive the animal spirits from
the heart. and overw elm him:

For sudden joys. like grids, confound at first.

I walked about on the shore. lifting up my hands. and
my whole being. as I might say. wrapped up in the cou-
templation of my deliverance. makings thousand gestures
and motions which I cannot describe--reflecting upon all
my comrades that were drowned. and that there should
not be one soul saved but myself; for. as for them, I
never saw them afterwards. nor any sin of them. except
grace of their hats. one cup. and two shoes that were not

owe. .

I cast my eyles to the stranded vessel. when. the breach
and froth of t e sea bein" so hi . I could hardly see it--lt
lry so far oll' : and considered. rdl how was it possible
I could get on shore t

After had solaccd my mind with the comfortable part
of my condition. I began to look around me. to see what
kind of place I was in. and what was next to be done. and
I soon found my comfortsabate. and that in a word i had
a dreadful deliverance; for I was wet. had no clothes
to shift me. nor an 'thing. either to eat or drink. to com-
fort me ; neither d (i I see any prospect lu-{ure me. but
that of perishlng with hunger. or helm; tlt".'tittrctl by wild
beasts ; and that which was particularly :iiizi- tin: to me
was. that I had no weapon either to hunt or kill any
creature for my sustenance. or to defend myself a inst
any other creature that miuht deaire to kill me for teirs.
In a. word. I had nothing about me but a knife. a tobacco-
plpe. and a little tobacco in a box: this was _ali my ro.
vision. and this threw me into terrible agoutee of n_i nd.
the for a while I run about like a madman. Light
com ug upon me. I began. with a heavy heart. to consider
what would be my lot. if there were any ravenous beasts
in that country. seeing at night they always come abroad
for their prey.

 

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that time
was. to get. up into a thick bushy tree like a fir. but
thorny. which grew near me. and where I resolved to sit
all night. and consider the next day what death I should
die: for. as yet I saw no prospect of life. I walked
about a furlong from the shore to see if I could find an
fresh water to drink. which I did. to In great joy: and
havink drunk. and pttt a little tobacco n my mouth. to

reveut hunger. I went to the tree. and getting up into

endeavored to place myself so as that if I should sleep.
I might not fall; and hav pg cut me a short stick. like a
truncheon. for my defence. I took a my lodging; and
having been excessively fatigued. I fc l sslcc . and slept
as comfortably as I believe few could have one in my
condition; and found myself the more refreshed with it
nan I think I ever was on such an occasion.

When I waked. it was broad day. the weather clear.

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 0F

and the storm abated. so that the seadid not rage and
swell as before; but that which surprised me most

that the ship was lifted off. in the nifht. from the and
where she lay. by the swellln of the t tie. and was driven
up) almost as far as the rec which I first mentioned.
w ere I had been so bruised by the dashing me against
it. This bein within about a mile flom the shore where
I was. and t e ship seeming to stand upright still. I
wished myself on board. that. at least, I might save some
necessary things for my use.

When came down from m apartment in the tree. I
looked about me again: and t e first thing I found was
the boat. which lay as the wind and the sea had thrown
her upon the land. about two miles on my right hand. I
walked as far as I could upon the shore. to get, to her. but
found a neck or inlet of water between me and the boat.
which was about half a mile broad: so Icama back for
the present. being more intent upon getting at the ship.
where I hoped to'tlnd something for my present. subsist-
once.

A little after noon I found the see very calm: and the
tide ebhed so far ottt. that I could come within a quarter
of a mile of the ship: and hero I found a fresh renewing
of my grit-f; for I saw evidently that if we had kc ton
board we had all been safe. that is to re . we had a l at
safe on shore. and I had not been so m scrable as to
left entirely destitute of all comfort and company. as I
now was. This forced tears frotn my eyes again; httt as
titers was little relief in that. I resolved. it possible to
get to the ship: so i Pulled ofl' myclothcs. for the weal er
was hot to extreml y. and took the water; but when I
came to the ship). mv dltliculty was still greater to know
how to get on card; for as she lay a ouud. and hi h
out ofthe water. there was nothing wit in my reach 0
lay hold of. I swam round her twice. and the second
tune I capicd a small piece of rope which I wondered I
did not see at first. banning down hy the fore chains. so
low as that with great difficulty I t hold of it. and. by
the help ofthat rope. got up in the orccastle of the ship.
Here i found that the ship was bulged. and had a great
deal of water in her hold. but that she lay so on the side
of a bank of hard sand or rather earth. that her stern lay
lifted up upon the bank. and her head low almost to the
water: by this means all her uarter was free. and all
that was n that part was dry: or you may be sure my
first work was to search anti see what was spoiled and
what was free: and first lfouud that all the ship's pro.
visions were dry and untouched by the water: and hein
very well disposed to eat. I wentto the bread-room. an
filled my poc ms with biscuit. and ate it as I went about
other things. for I had no time to lose. I also found some
rum in the great cabin. of which I took a large dram. and
which I ha indeed need enough of. to spirit me for what
was before me. \'ow I wanted nothing )III a boat to fur-
nish myself with many things which I foresaw would be
necessary to me.

It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not to
be had; and this extremity roused my application. We
had several quire yards. and two lane s usrt-s of wood
and a spare to mast or two in the ship; resolved to fall
to work with t cue and flung as many of them overboard
as i could manage for their wel ht; tying every one with
a rope. that they might not dr ve away. When this was
done. I wentdown the ship's side. and pulllnr' them to
rue. l tied four of them fast together at both ends. as well
as i could. in the form of a ran: and laying two or three
short nieces of lank crossways. I found I could walk
upon t very we but that it was not able to bear any
great weight. the pieces being too light; so I went to
work with a carpenter's saw. and cut a spare to mast into
three lengths. and added them to my raft. w th agreat
deal of labor and ins; but the hope of furnishing my-
self with necessar es encouraged me to go beyond what
I should have been able to have done upon another oc--
cas on.

My raft wasnew strong enough to hear an reasonable
weight. My next care was what to load it w th. and how
to preserve what I had laid upon it item the surface of the
see: but I was not long considerin this: I first laid all
the planks or boards upon it I coul get. and having con-
sidered well what I most wanted. I first got three of the
seameu's chests. which I had broken open and emptied.
and lowered them down upon m raft. The first of these
I filled with revisions. viz.. read. rice three Dutch
cheeses. five p eees of dried goat's tier-h. which we lived
much upon and a little remainder of European corn
which had laeen laid by for some fowls which we had
bro ht to sea with us: but the fowls were killed: there
had een some barley and wheat t ether. but to to
great disappointment. I found afterwa that the rats h
eaten or spoiled it all. As for it here. I found several
cases of bottles belongin to our s ipper. in which were
some cordial waters. an in all above five or six gallons
of smelt: these I stowed by themselves. there bein no
need to put them into the ehes nor any room for t em.
WhileI was doing thi I fouu the tide began tofiow.
though very calm. and had the mortifieatiou to see my------T-- ~ --_-

coat. shirt. and waistcoat. which I had left on shore upon
the sand. swim awa ; as for my brooches. which were
only linen and o n- oee'd. I swam on board in them and
my stockings. lowever. this put me on rummaging for
clothes. of which i found euou h. but took no more than
I wanted for present it for I other things which my
eye was more upon; as rs tools to work With on shore.
and it was after long sea log I found out the carpen-
ter's chest. which was indeed a ver useful prize to me
and much more valuable than a ship- oading ofgold would
have been at that time. I at it down to my raft. even
whole as it was. without los "F time to look into it. for I
knew in general what it conta ned.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms.
There were two ver good fowling-pleces in the great
cabin. and two pisto s: these i secured first. with some
powderuhorns. a small bag of shot. anti two old rusty
swords. i knew there were three barrels of powder in
the ship. but knew not where our gunner had stowed
them. but with much search I found them. two of them
dry and good. the third had taken water- those two I got
to my nut with the arms. And now i thought myself
pretty well trei hted. and began to think howl should
get to shore wit them. having neither sail. oar. or rudder,
and the least capful of wind would have oversct all my
navigation.

1 had three encoura'vemcnts. " First. a smooth and calm
sea. Secondly. the tide rising and setting into the shore.
'l'birdly what little wind there was. blew me towards the
land. nd thus. having found two or three broken oars
belonging to the boat. and besides the tools which were
in the chest. I found two saw an ex and a hammer. and
with this cargo i put to sea. 'ora mile. or thereabouts.
my mil. went very well. only that Ifound it drive a little
distant from the place where I had landed before. by
which I perceived there was some indraught of the water.
and conse ucntl l hoped to lind sortie creek or river
there. whic I m ght make use of as a port to get to land
with m carno.

Asl magiited. so it was- there appeared before me a
little opening of the land. I found a strou-r current of the
tide set into it. so I guided my raft as \vofi as I could. to
keep in the middle of the stream. But here I had liked
to have sutl'ered a second shipwreck. which if I had. I
think verily would have broken my heart; for. knowin
nothing of the coast. my raft run aground. at one end 0
it. upona shoal - not being aground at the other end. it
wanted but a little that. my cargo had slipped otl' towards
that end that was atioat. and so fallen into the water: I
did my utmost by setting my back a~aiust the chests. to
keep them in their places. but couit not thrust oil'the
raft with all my siren-4th: neither duratI stir from the
posture l was in. but. holding up the chests with all m '
might. stood in that manner near half an hour in whic
time the rising of the water brought me a little more
upon a level; and at little after. the water still risinn In
raft tioatcd again. and l thrust her off with the our file .
into the channel. and then driving up higher. I at length
found myself in the mouth of a little river. with land on
both sides. and a strong current of title runnln up. I
looked on both sides for a pro r place to gist to s ore. for
I was not willing to be dr ven too hlg up the river.
helping in time to see some ship at sea. and therefore re~
so ved to place myself as near the coast as i could.

At length I s led a little cove on the rt oht shore of the
creek. to whicgi with great pain and dill eulty. I guided
my raft. and at ast not so near. as that. reach ng git-ound
with my ear I could thrust her directly in: but ere I
had liked to rave dipped all my cargo iu the sea again ;
for that shore lying pretty steep. that is to say. sloping.
there was no place 0 land. but where one end of the dust.
if it ran on shore. would be so hi 'h. and the other sink
lower. as before. that it would eu nger my cargo again.
All that lcould do. was to wait till the t do was at the
highest. keo ting the raft with my oar. like an anchor.
to hold the :- de of it fast to the shore. near a flat piece
of ground. which I expected the water would now over;
and so it did. As soon as Ifound water enough (for my
raft drew about a foot of water). I thrust her upon that
flat piece of ground. and there fastened and moored her.
by sticking my two broken oars into the ground. ""0
on one side near one end. and one on the other side
near the other end; and thus I held it until the tide
ebbed away and left my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country. and seek a
proper place for m habitation. and where to stow my

oods. secure t em from whatever might ha pen.

hers I was. I get knew not: whether on the cont nent
or on an islau ; whether inhabited or not inhabited;
whether in danger of wild beasts or not. There was a
hill not above a mile from me. which rose up very steep
and high. and which seemed to overtop some other hills
which iayas in aridgs from it. northward. I took out
one of the fowllngxneeea. and one of the istols. and a
horn of powder an . thus armed. I travele for discovery
up to the top of that hill. where. after I had with great
labor and ditlicnity got up. I immediately saw my fate. to

ROBINSON 0R USOE'.

15

my great affliction. viz.: that I was in an island. envi-
roned every way with the sea; no land to be seen. ex
cept some rocks. which lay a cat way otf. and two
small islands less than this. whic lay about three leagues
to the west.

I found also that the island that I was in was barren.
and. as 1 saw good reason to believe. uninhabited. except
by wild beasts. of which. however. I saw none; yet I saw
a undance of fowls. but knew not their kinds. neither.
when I klileti them. could i tell what was fit for food and
whatnot. At m coming back I shot at a great bird.
which I saw sltt it upon a tree. on the side of a large
wood. I believe i was the tirst gun that had been tired
there. since the creation of the world. I had no sooner
tired. but Rom all parts of the wood there arose an extra-
ordinary number of fowls. of many sorts. making a con-
fused screaming and crying eve one accordin to his
usual note; but not one of them 0 any kindthat knew.
As for thecrcatnrel killed. 1 took ltto be a kind ofhawk.
its color and beak resemblinv' it. but it had no tnlons or
claws more than common; it: flesh was carrion. and lit
for nothing.

Contented with this discovery. I came back to my raft.
and fell to work to brinv my cargo on shore. which took
me upthe rest of thetay. What to do with myself at
night. I knew not. nor nd'eed where to rest. for [was
afraid to lie down on the ground. not knowing but what
some wild beast mlvhtdevonr me. though i afterwards
found there was reali'y no need of those tests.

However. as weil as i could. I barricaded myself round
with the chests and boards that I had brought on shore.
and made a kind of but for that night's lodging. As for
food. l yet saw not which way to sup ii myself. except
that I had seen twoor three creatures. i c hares. run out
of the wood where I shot the fowl.

lnowbegan to consider thatI might et get a cat
malty things out of the ship. which won it be use hi to
me. and particularly some or the ringln and soils. and
such other things as might come to an . and I resolved
to make another voyage on board the vessel. if possible;
and us i knew the lirst storm that blew must necessarily
break her all in pieces. I resolved to set all other things
apart. till i got every thing out of the ship thatI could
get; then i calleda council. that is to any. in my thoughts
whether I should take back the raft. but this appeared
impracticable. sol resolved to go as before. when the tide
was down. and i did so. only that I stripped before I
Went front In? hut. having nothing on but a checked
:hirl. a pair 0 linen drawers. and a pair of pumps on my

cot.

Igol on board the ship nshefore. and pmind a second
raft; and having had experience of the rs . I neither
made this so unwieldy. nor loaded it so hard; but yet I
brought away several things very useful to me : us hrs
in the carpenter's store I found two or three bags full 0
nails and spikes. a great screw-jack. a dozen or two of
hatchels. and. above all. that meat useful thin: called a

rind~toue; all these I secured. in other with several
filings iwiongin" to the gunner. rt enlarl two or three
iron crows. and two barrels , musket iuliets. seven
muskeits amt! agothcr fowling-ple'c'sg fiithrsomensrlnail
quant ty 0 pow or more: a 0 mm s o
and u vrcat roll of sheet lm but this last was so
ilfit'wy. could not hoist it up to get, it over the ship's
s e. ..

Besides these things. I took all the men's clothes that
I could find. and n s are fore-topsall. hammock. and
some bedding; and w th this I loaded my second to
and {brought them also safe on shore. to myyerygrea
com ort.

I was under some apprehensions during my absence
from the land. that at least my provisions might be de-
voursd on shore: but when I came back. I found no sign
of anyvisitor. only there sat a creature like a wild-cat
upon one of the chests. which when I canto towards it ran
away to a little distance. and then stood still. bhe sat
very com sed and unconcerned. and looked run in my
face. as i she had a mind to be acquainted with me.

mentcd my on at her; but as she did not understand
ii. she was pe ectly unconcerned at it. nor did she offer .
to stir away: upon which Itossed her a bit of biscuit.
though by the witty I was not very free of it. for my store
was not great. owever I spared hers bit. I so . and
she went to it. smelled it. and ate it. and looks as if
pleased. for more. bnt I thanked her. and could spareno
more: so she marched of.

Having got my second cargo on shore though I was
fain to open the barrels of powder. and ring them b
parcels. for they were too heavy. bsi largo casks).
went to work to make a little tent with s all and some

ice whiehI cut for the nrpoes; and into this tent I
monght every thing that I new would agoll. either with
rain or sun- and I lied all the easy c eats and cooks
up in a circle roun the tent. to fo t from any sudden
attempt. either from manor beast.

When I had done this. I blocked up the door of the
tent with some boards within, and an empty chest set up
on one end without. and spreadlu one of the beds upon
the ground. layin my two pisto s just at my head. and
my gun at length y me. I went to bed. for the first time.
and slept very n etly all ni ht. being very wea an
heav ; for the u ght before I d slept ittle. and la red
very rd all day. as well to fetch those things from the
shl as to get them on shore.

I ad the biggest in ine of all kinds now that ever
was laid up. I believe. or one man: but! was not satlso
fied still for while the ship sat upright in that posture. I
thought ought to get ever thing out of her that I could:
so every day at low water went on board. and brought
away something or other. But particularly the third
time I went. I brought away so mtich of the rigging as I
could. as also all the small ropes. and rope-twine I could
get. with a piece of spare canvas. which was to mend the
sails u on occasion. and a barrel of wet gunpowder. In
a we . I brought awn all the sails. first and last. onl
that I was fain to ctit t em in pieces. and bring as muc
at a time as I could ; for they were no more useful to me
for sails. but as mere canvas only.

    

But that which comforted me more still. was that at
.ast ofall after I had made five or six stich vo 'ages as
these. and thoughtlhad uothin more to expect mm the
ship that was worth my mcdd ing with. I say after all
this, I fonu a great h ahead of bread. three large. run-
iets of rum spirits. a x of sugar. and a barrel of fine
flour: this was surprising to me. because I had given

over ex lng any more provisions. except what \vmt
"rolled the water. I soon em tied the hOgshead of
t at brea . and wrapt it up. parce by parcel. in pieces of

the sails. which I cutout: and. in a word. I got all this
safe on shore. also. though at several times.

The next day I made another voyage: and now. having
plundered the ships? what was portable. and at to hand
out. I began with cables: and cutting the cat cahle
into pieces. siteh aa-I could move. I got two ca les attd a
hawser on shore. with all the iron-work I could get; and
having cut down the apritsail-ynrd. and the mizzen-yard.
and everything I cool to make a large raft. I loaded it
with all those heavy good:' and came away. But my gmid
luck began to leave me. for this raft was so unwieldy.
and so overt-den. that after I had entered the little cove.
where I had landed the rest of my goods. not being able
to guide it so handily as I did the other. it overset. and
threw me and all my cargo into the water. As for myself it
was no great harm. forI was near the shore: but as to
mg cargo it was agreat part of it lost. especially the iron.
w ich ex iected would have been of great tee to me.
However. w en the title was out. I got most of the pieces
of cable ashore. and some of the iron. though with infinite
labor. for I was fain to dip for it into the water. a work
which fatigued me very much. After this I went every
daiv on board. and brought away what I could not.

had been new thirteen days on shore. and been eleven
times on board the. ship. in which time I had brought
away all that one pair of hands could well be supposed
capable to brin . thouch I believe. verily. had the calm
weather held. I s onld ave bro ht awa the whole ship.
pace by Piece. But preparing t e twel h time to c on

rd. ound the w ud n to rise: however. a low
water. I went on board: ant thou hl thou vht I had rum-

ed the cabin so effectually. as t t noth ng more could
be ound. et I discovered a locker. with drawers in it. in
one of wh eh I found two or three razors. and one pair of
large scissors. with ten oradozen good knives and forks:
in another. I found about thirty-six unds value in
money. some European coin. some Braz l. some pieces of
s ht. some gold. some silver.

n I was gotten hometo my little tent. I lay with all
my wealth about me very secure; it blew ve hard all
that night: and in the mornin . when I loolrc out. he-
held. no more ship was to seen i I was a little

surprised. but recovering myself with this satisfactory
reflection. viz.: that I had lost no time nor abated any
diligence. to t every thing out of her that could be use-

d ful to me; an that indeed there was little left in her that

I was able to bring away. "I had had more time. I now
gave over any more thought of the ship. or of anything
of her exec t what might drive on shore from her wreck.
as indeed ivcrs pieces of her afterwards did; but those
things were of small use to me.

Some days after this. after I had been on board the
ship. and had got all I could out of her. I could not for-
bear getting up to the top of a little mountain. and look-
ing out to sea. in he of seeing a ship; then-fancy]. at a
vast distance. I apl a sail: please myself with the opes
of it - and then. after looking steadll . till I was almost
blind. lose it quite. and sit own an weep like a child.
and thus increase my misery by my folly.

But having gotten over these things. it some measure.
and having settled my household stuff and habitation.
made me a table and a chair. and all as handsome about
me as I could. I began. I say. to keep aJournal. of which
I shall here give you the copy. (though in it will be told
all these particulars over again.) as long as It lasted; for
at last. having no more ink. I was forced to leave it of.

THE JOURNAL.

Smlllln 30. 1&59. I. poor miserable Robinson Crusoe.
being shi wrecked during a dreadful storm in the oiling.
crime on s ore on this dismal. unfortunate island. which
I called the Island of Despair. all the rest of the ship's
coin any being drowned and m selfalmost dead.

Al the rest of the day I a cut a amictlng myselfat the
dismal circumstance I was rought to. viz.: I had neither
food. house. clothes. weapon. nor lace to it to. and in
despair of any relief. saw nothing ut death clot-e me
either that I should be devoured by wild beasts. murdervd
by sav "ea. or starved to death for want of food. At tlto
appreac of night. I slept in a tree. for fear of wild crea-
tures. but slept soundly. though it mined all night.

October I. In the morning. I saw to my great an rise.
the ship had floated with the high tide. and was rivr-n
on shore avain. much nearer the island. which. as it was
some comfort on the one hand. (for seeing her all nprl ht
and not broken in It'ccli. limped. it the wind abat i
might get on boa and get some food and ncccssa es
out of icr for m relief.) so. on the other hatid. it renewed
my "ricf at the ties of my comrades. who. I itnn ed. if
we had all stayed on heard. all 'ht have saved t o ship.
or at least that they would not have been all drowned. as
the were; and that. had tlte men been saved. we ml ht
per ps have built its a boat ottt of the ruins of the sh p.
to have carried us to some other part of the world. I
s ctit rent part of this day in pcrplexin myself on
t cool tings; bill at length. seeing the shi a most dry. I
went upon the stand as near as I could. ant then swam on
board. This day also continued raining. though with no
wind at all.

From the let of October to the 24th. All these da 1
entirely spent in makitig sevcrai voyages to get all icon d
out of the ship. which brought on s ore. cvety tide of
flood. uponratls. Much ruin also in these days. though
with some intervals of fair weather; but it seems. this
was the rainy season.

October 24. I ovcrset my raft. and all the code I had
got upon it: and being in shoul water. an the things

i-ing chiefly heavy. I recovered many of them when the
tide was out.

October '25. It rained all night. and all day. with some

slit of wind. during which time the ship broke in pieces.

he wind blowing aIittic harder than before. and was no
more to be seen except the wreck of her. and that only
at low water. fspent this day in coverin and sccuriu
{if goods which I saved. that the rain in ght not spofi
em.

October 28. I walked about the shore almost all da to
find out a place to fix my habitation. gmtly concerned to
secure myself from an attack. in the night. either from
wild beasts or men. owards night I fixed upon a protier
place under a rock and marked out a semicircle for my
encam ment. which I resolved to strengthen \vltha war
or we . or fortification. made of double piles. iin
within with cable. and without with turf.

From the 26th to the 80m. I worked very hard in carry-
ing all my goods to my new habitation. though some part
ofdegthe time it rained exceedin ly hard.

The 31st. in the morning. went out into the island
with my gun. to see for some food and discover the coun-
try: when I killcda she-goat. and her kid followed me
homfawhlch I afterwards killed. also. because it would
no l' .

November 1. I set up my tent under a rock. and is
there for the first night. making it as In as I coal
with stakes. driven in to swing my hummoc upon.

November: I set it all my chests and boards. and
the pieces of timber wh ch made my rails. and with them
formed a fence round me. a little within the place I had
marked out for my fortification.November 8. I went out with my go and killed two
fowls like ducks. which were very good ood. In the af-
ternoon. I went to work to make me a table.

Novembeu. This morning I to order my time
of war of going out with my gun. time of sleep. and
time of [version--vim. every morning stlked out with
my 11. for two or three hours. if it did not rain; then
crup eyed myself to work till about eleven o'clock; then
eat what I had to live on: and [tom twelve to two. I in
down to sleep. the weather being excessivel hot. an
then in the evening to work again. The work ng part of
this do and the next. were wholly employed in making
my ta to. for I was yet but a very sorry workman
though time and necessity made me a complete natural
:liechnnic. soon after. as I believe it woul do any one

so.

November ii. This day I went abroad with my gun and
my dog. and killed a wild-cat: her skin prett soft. but
her flesh good for nothing. Every creature I kt led.I took
on" the skins and preserved them. Coming back. b the
sea-shore. I saw many sorts of sea-{owls which I di not
understand; but was sur irised and almost fri htcd. with
two or three turtles. wh ch. while I was ng a not
well knowing what they were. got into e sea. an es-
cn me for that time.

'ovemher ti. After m morning walk. I went to work
with my table again. an finishing it. though not to my
liking; nor was it long before I learned to mend it.

November 7. N ow it an to be settled fair weather.
The 7th. 81h. ilth. i0th. an part of the 12th (for the iith
was Sunday. according to my reckoninlt.) i look wholl'y
up to make me a chair. and. with much ado. brought t
to a tolerable shape. but never to please me; and even in

the making I pulled it to pieces several times. Note. I be

soon neglected keeping my Sundays; for.omittin my
mark for them on my post. forgot which was whic I.

November i8. This day it rained which refreshed mc
exceedingly. and cooled the earth; 'but it was accompa-
nied with terrible thunder and lightning. which frighted
me dreadfully. for fear of my powder. As soon as it
was over. I resolved to separate my stock of powder
by? as" many little parcels as possible. that it might not

it nger.

November i4. i5. 16. These three days I spent in mak-
ing little square chests or boxes. which might hold about
a pound. or two pounds at most. of powder; and so put-
ting the powder in. I stowed it in places as secure and
remote from one another as sib c. On one of these
three days i killed a int c bi that was good to eat. but
I knew not what to cull t.

NchmIier it. This day I began to di behind at tent
into the rock. to make room for my furt er convcn enc .
Note. three things I wanted exceedingly. for this wor .
viz.: a lick-ax. a shovel. and u wheel-barrow or basket;
so I tics stcd lrom my work. and began to consider how
to supply that want. and make me some tools. As for
the p cit-ax. I made use of the iron crows. which were
proper enough. then in heavy; but the next thing was a
shovel or spade; th e was so absolutely necessary that
indeed I could do nothi eii'cctuaily without it; but
what kind of one to make. knew not.

November is. The next day. in searchin the woods.
I found a tree of that wood. or like it. whic . in the Bra-
zils. they call the iron-tree. for its exceeding hardness:
of this. with great labor. and almost spoiling m&ax. I
cut a piece. and brought it home. too. with di culty
enough. for it was exceeding heavy.

The cxcemlve hardness of the wood and having no
other we . made me a long while u n this machine ' for
Iworkt itcil'cctually. b little an little. into the form
of a shovel-or 5 dc. the die exactly shaped like ours
in Eur-land. on y that the broad ran having no iron shod
upon It at bottom. it would no last me so lon : how-
ever," served well enough for the uses which had oc-
casion to put it to: but never was a shovel. I believe.
made after that fashion. or so long a making.

I was still dellcleat. for I wanted a basket. or a wheel-
barrow: a basket I could not make. by any means. hav-
in no such things as twigs that would bend. to make
w cker-ware. or. at lea-t. none yet found out; and. as to
the wheel-burrow. I fancied I could make all but the
wheel: but that I had no notion of. neither did I know
how to go about it: besides. I had no possible way to
make tron gudgcons. for the spindle or the axis of the
wheel to run in. so I gave over: and. for carrying away
the earth which I dug out of the cave. I made me a thing
like a hod. which the laborers carry mortar in. when they
serve the bricklayers.

This was not so difficult to me as the making the sho-
vel: and yet this. and the shovel and the attempt which
I made in vain to make a wheel- rrow. took me up no
less than four days: I men always exce tin my morn-
ing walk with my gun. wh h I seldom aile and very
seldom failed also of bringing home something lit to eat.

hovember 25. My other work having stood still be-
cause of my making these tools. when they were ilnlshed
I went on; and. working every day as much as my

ROBINSON 01217805.

'17

strength and time allowed. I spent eighteen days entireli
in widening and deepening my cave. that it might hoi
mygoods commodiouslr.

'ote. durin all this t me I worked to make this room.
or cave. spac ous enough to accommodate the as a ware-
house. or magazine. a kitchen. a dining-room. and a col-
lar: as for a lodging. I kept to the tent. exce that some-
times in the wet season of the year it rain so hard that
I could not keep myself dry; which caused me after-
wnrds to cover all In place within my pale. with long
poles. in the form 0 rafters. leaning against the rock

:gdmlgad them with flags and large leaves of trees. like a
I .

December 10. I began now to think my care or vault
finished. when. on a sudden. (it accrue I had made it too
large.) a great quantity of earth fell down from the top
and one side. so much the in short. it frighted m
and not without reason. for i I had been under i I
never wanted a grave-digger. Upon this disaster hada
great deal of work to do over again: for I had the loose
earth to earr ' out. and. which was of more im rtance. I

had the cell ng to prop up. so that I might sure no
more would come down.

December ii. This day I went to work with it accord-
imly. and got two shores or posts. pitched upright to the
top. with two pieces of board across over each
This I finished the next day - and setting more poa a up
with boards. in about a wee more I had the roof so-
curcd: and the oats. standing in rows. served me for
partitions to pa off my house.

December 17. From this day to the filth I placed
shelves. and knocked it nails on the posts. to hang eve-
ry thiug up that could hang up; and now I began to

in some order within doors.

December 20. Now I carried evegthing into the cave.
and began to furnish my house. an set up some pieces
of board. like a dresser. to order my victuuls upon ' but
bonnie n to be very scarce with me. Ialso ome

anotherta is.

December 2i. Much rain all night and all day; no
stirring out.

December 25. Rain all day.

December M. No rain. and the earth much coolerthanr
before. and picasanter.

 

e.
Killed a oung goat. and lnnzcd anoth

December 27.
so that I caught it. and] it home. in a string: when I
got it home I bound and splintered up its leg. which was

roken. and I took such care of it that it lived. and the
leg grew well. and as strong as ever; but by nursing it
so long it grew tame. and fed upon the little green at my
door. and would not 0 away. This was the first time
that I had entertain a thought of breeding up some
tame creatures. that I might have food when my powder
and shot were all spent.

December as. 29 80. Grestheats and no breeze. so that
there was no stirring: abroad. except in the evening. for
food. This time I spent inputting all my things in orda-
within doors.

January 1. Very hot still; but I went abroad early
and late. with at gun. and is still in the middle of the
day. This even v. oin fa or into the valle a. which
In to the center 0 t o is and. I found there w as plenty
o goats. though oxeeodingillv shy. and hard tocome at;
however. I resolved to try I could not bring my dog to
hunt them down.

January 2. Accordingly the next day. I went out with
my dog. and set him upon the goats - but I was mistaken.
for they all faced about upon the dog. and he knew his
danger too well for he would not come near them.

Janna 8. Ibegan my fenceor wall. which. being still
Jealous o mh being attacked by somebod . I resolved to
make very t lck and strong. I was no see time than
from the 3d of January to the 14th of April. working.

. _....'-m
finishing. and perfecting this wall. thou h it was no more
than about twenty-four yards in leugh. ing at half-cir-
cl from one place in the rock to another place about
six b'e |"(llsmii'om it. the door of the cave being in the cen-
tre It

All this time I worked very hard. the rains hindering
me many days. nay. sometimes. weeks together- butI
tho ht never should be perfectly secure till this wall
was nished; and it is scarccl credible what inexpres-
slble labor everythin was one with. especially the
bringing piles out of t e woods. and drivinr' them into
themgrou't'td; for I made them much bigger than I needed
to ve one.

When this wall was finished. and the outside double
fenced with a turf wall raised up close to it. I persuaded
myself: that if any people were to come on shore the
they would not perceive anything like a habitat ion; an
it was very well I did so. as may be observed hereafter.
upon a ver remarkable occasion.

During t is time. I made my rounds in the woods for

me ever day. when the rain permitted me. and made
sequent d sect-cries in these walks ofsonletllln" or other
to my advanta ve- particularly. I found a kind of wild
pigeon. which boil not as wood-pigeons. in a tree. but
rather as house-pigeons. in the holes of the rocks: and
taking some can one I endeavored to breed them up
tame. and dl so; at w ten the ' grew older. the 'all ilew
away. which rha s was at rst for want 0 feeding
them. for I he not ing to give them: however. I fre-
quently found their nests. and got their young ones.
which were very good meat.

And now in the managing my household affairs. I
found myself wantin in many things. which I thought
at first it was impose ble for me to make. as indeed as to
some of them it was - for instance. I could never make a
cash to be hoo cd. I had a small ruulet or two. as l ob-
served before. nt I could never arrive at the capacity of
making one b them. though I spent many wee 1 about
it: I could no thcr at in l e heads. nor join the slaves
so true to one snot or as to make them hold water; so I
gave that over also.

In the next place. I was at a great loss for candles; so
that as soon as it. was dark, which was nerall ' by seven
o'clock. I was obliged to go to bed. remcm red the
lump of becs'-wax, with which I made candles in my A f-
rlcan adventure: I had none of that now. The only
reme ' I had was. that when I had killed a oat. i saved
the tal ow. and with a little dish added a w ck of some
oakum. and made mea lamp; and this gave the light.
then h not a clear steady lght. like a candle. In the
mid e of all my labors it ha pencd that. rumma lngmy
things I found a little bag. w ch. as! hinted be ore. had
been tilled with corn. for the feeding of poultry not tor
this voyag but before. as I suppose. when the rillp
came il'om .lsbon; what little remainder of corn had
been in the bag; was all devoured by the rats. and I saw
nothing in the ag but husksanddust; and being willing
to have the bag for coins other use. (I think it was to put
powder in. when I divided it for fear of the lightning. or
some such use.) I shook the backs of corn out of it. on
one side of my fortification. under the rock.

It was a little before the t rains just now men-
tioned. that I throw this am away. taking no notice of
anything. and not so much as remembering that I had
thrown anything there; when. about a month after. or
there-bouts. I saw some few stalks of something fircen
shooting up on the ground. which I fancied m z: t be
some plant had not seen : but I was surprised. and per-
fectly astonished when. after a little lower time. I saw
aboutten or twelve cars come out. whic were perfect
green barley of the same kind as our Europmn. nay. as
our En lish barley.

It is mpossiblu to express the astonishment and con.
fusion of my thoughts on this occasion: I had hitherto
acted upon no religious foundation at all; indeed. I had
very few notions of religion in my head. nor had I enter-
talucd any sense of anything that had befallen me. other.
wise than as a chance. or. as we lightly say. what leases
God- but now I thought these the pure product cos of
'Providcnce. for my support.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn. you may be sure.
in their season, which was about the end of June; and.
laying up every corn. I resolved to sow them all again.
hoping in time to have some quantity sufilclent to snppl
me with broad: but it was not till the fourth year that

would allow myselfthe least grain of this corn to out. and
even then but a ringly.

Besides this arley. there were. as above. twenty or
thirty stalks of rice. which I reserved with the same
are. and whose use was of 0 same kind. or to the
aamerpurpose. viz.: to make the bread. or. rather. food:
for] ound ways to cook it up without baking. though
I'dldthat also. after some time. But to return to my

I worked exweslvcly hard these three or four months.
to get my wall done; and. the 14th of April. I closed it
up. eontriving to go into it. not by a door. but over the

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 01"

wall. b a ladder. that there might be no sign on the out-
side. 0 my habitation.

A rll 16. I nnlehed the ladder: soI went up with the
lad er tothc top. and then pulled it spatter me. and let it
down on the outside. This was a complete enclosure to
me; for within I had room enough. and nothing could
corfie at me them without. unless t. could tlrst mount my
wa .

May 1. In the momlng. looking towards the sea~sldo.
the tide beln low. I saw somethin. lie on the shore. big-
ger than 0 lna'rly. and it looked lko a cask; when i
came to it i foan a small barrel. and two or three pieces
oftho wreck of the ship. which were driven on shore b
a hurricane; and. lookin towards the wreck itself.
thought it seemed to lie h gller out of water than it used
to do. I examined the barrel which was driven on shore.
and soon found that it wasa barrel of gun wder. but it
had taken water. anti the wder was cat: as hard as a
stone; however. I rolled t farther on shore for the pres-
ent. and went on upon the sands. as nctfr as i could to the
wreck of the chi . to look for more.

When I came own to the shi . I found it strangely re.
moved: the forecastle. which sy before buried in the
sand was heaved up at least. six feet; and the stern.
which was broken to pieces and rted from the rest by
the force of the sea. soon after I ad left rummaging of
her. was tossed. as it were. up. and cast on one side;
and the sand was thrown so high on that side next the
stern. and whereas there was a great place of water be-
fore. so that I could not come within a quarter ofu mile
of the wreck without swimming. 1 could now walk quite
up to her when the tide was out. I was an riled with
this at first. btlt soon concluded it must be one by the
earthquake. a violent shock of which I had felt some
days reviously; and as by this violence the ship was
more roken upon than formerly so many things came
daily on shore. which the son had loosened. and which
the winds and water rolled by degrees to the land.

Having resolved to all everything to pieces that I
could of the shi . cone uding that everything I could get
Rom her would u of some use or other to me--

hlay 3. I began with my saw. and cut a piece ofa beam
through. which I thought held some of the u per part. or

usrterdeck. together; and when I had cut t through. I
c cared away the send as well as I could. from the side
which lay highest; but the tide coming in. I was obliged
to give over or that time.

I continued this work every day to the ifith of Junc.
exce t the time necessary to get food. which I alwavs
appo nted. during this part 0 my employment. to be
when the tide was up. that I mi ht be ready when it was
chbed out; and by this tlnte. had often timber and
plank. and iron work enough to have ullt a good boat.

f I had known how: and alsoI ot at several pieces.
near one hundred weight. of shcct- cad.

 

June to. Going down on the sea-side. I found a la
tortoise or turtle; this was the first I had seen. which. t
seems was only in misfortune. not an defect of the
place. or scarcity: or had [happened to on the other
side of the island. I might have had hundreds of them
every day. as I found afterwards; but. perhaps. had paid
dear enough for them.

June 17. I spent in cookino the turtle. I found in her
threescore eggs - and her heels was to me at that time the
most savory and lensant that ever I tested in my life
having had no lies but of goats and fowls. since I landed
in this horrible place.

June 18. Rained all day. so that I staid within. I
thought at this time the rain felt cold. and I was some.
thing chilly. which I knew was not usual in that latitude.
b J one is. Very ill. and shivering. as if the weather had

cen co

Juneau. No rest all night." violent pains in the head.
and feverish.
June :1. Very ill. frighted almost to death with the
ap rehensious of m sad condition. to be sick. and no
h p. Pra ed to G for thefirst time'slnce the atom
oi! liull; ut scarce know what I said. or why; my
thoughts bcin all confused.

Juneau A ittlo better. but under dreadful apprehen-
"3'" oghilinmi d t id d as log d th

une . cry a n,co an vcr .su en
a violent headache. 98'

June all. Much better. ~ '

June 25. An ague very violent; the fit held me seven
hours. cold fit wrth faint sweats after it.

J one 26. Better: and having no victuals to eat took my
gun. but found myself very weak; however. I killed a
she- and. with much dihicultyufot it home. and
broi ed some of it. and ate it. I wont fain have stewed
it. and made some broth. but had no pot.

June 21'. The ague again so violent that I lay abed all
day. and neither ate nor drunk. I was ready to perish
for thirst. but so Week. I had not strength to stand up.
or to get myself any water to drink; Iprayed to God again.
but was light-headed; and when was not. I was so
ignorant. that I knew not what to say; only I la and
cried: " Lord. look upon met Lord. pity mcl rd.
have mercy upon me I' I so pose I did nothing else for
two or three hours. till the t wearing oil". I fell asleep.
and did not awake till far in the night. When I wakcd.
I found myself much refreshed. but weak and exceedinfly
thirsty; however. as I had no water in in whole bab rs-
tlon. was forced to lie till morning. an went to sleep

. in.
ag'I'he good advice of my father now came to m min
and presently his prediction. which I mention at the
beginning of this story. vlz.: That. if I did take this fool-
ish step. God would not bless mo. and I should have leis-
ure hereafter to reflect upon havl neglected his counsel.
when there mifht be none to use st me in to recovery.
" New." said . aloud. " my dear father's wo s are come
to s; God's justice has overtaken me. and I have none
to sip or hear me. I rejected the voice of Providence?
which had mercifully at me in a posture or station 0
life wherein I mi ht vc been happy and can ; but I
would neither see t mysei nor learn to know 0 bless-
in of it from my parents; let! them to mourn over my
to Iy. and now I am left to mourn under the consequences
of t. I refused their help and assistan who would
have lifted me into the world, and woul have made
everythim: easy to me; and now I have difilculties to
struggle with. too great for even nature itself to support.
and no assistance. no help. no comfort. no adv ce.'
gihen I cried out: "Lord, be my help. for I am in great

stress '

This was my first prayer. if I might ca'.l it so. that I had
made for many years. But I return to my journal.

June 28. Having Men somewhat refreshed with the
sleep i. had had. and the fit being'entirely od'. I got up;
and the ilrst thing I did I tilled a rge square case bottle
with water. and set it upon my table. in resclbof m
bed; and to take oil" the chill or agucish disposition o
the water. I put about a quarter of a pint of rum into it.
and mixed them together; then I got me a piece of t's
fiesh. and hrotled it on the coals. but could eat very tttlc -
I walked about. but was very weak. and withal very sat
and heavy-hearted. in the sense of my miserable condi-
tion drendin the return of my distemper the next day;
at night I ma e my supper of three of the turtle's eggs.
which I roasted in the ashes. and ate. as we cull it. in t e
shell; and this was the first bit of meet I had ever asked
fixi's biasing to. that I could remember. in my whole

l e.

After I had eaten. I tried to walk. but found myself so
weak. that I could hurdiy carry the gun (for I never went
out without that); so went but a little way. and sat
down upon the ground. lookin out upon the which
was just before me. and very ea In and smooth. s I sat
hone. some such thoughts as these occurred to me:

What is the earth and sea. of which I have seen so
much? Whence is it produced? And what am I. and
all the other creatures. wild and tame. human and brutal.
whence are we r

Such we are all made by some secret wer. who formed
the earth and sea. the air and sky: an who is that!

Then it followed most naturally: it is God that has
made it all. Well. but then it came on strongly: if God
has made all these things. he guides and overns them
all. and all things that concern them; for o Being that
could make all things. must certainly have power to

guide and direct them.
pen in the great circuit of his

If so. nothing can he
works. either without h s knowledge or a poiutmeut.
happens without his nowled he

thud if norbin
knows that I am ere. and am in this dreadful eon tion;

and if nothing h as without his a lntme he has
sprinted all thlt'ficbefal me. ppo at.

othing occu to m thoughts to contradict any of
these concluslom and th'crefore it rested u a me with

the greater force, that it must needs be. 00d 1|"

19

aprolntedall this to beihl mo - that I was brought to this
in scrsble circumstance by his direction. be having the
sole wer. not of me only. but'of ev this: that hap-
pen in the world. Immediatel it fol ow :
Whyhasaoddone this to me What haveIdoneto

be thus used!

Myconsclcnce recently checked me in that inquiry.
as i I had blnsp emed; and methought it s oke to no
likes voice : Wretch. dost then ask what then t done 2
Look back upon a dreadful misspent life. and ask thyself
what thou hast donel Ask why is it that thou wart not
long ago destroyed? Why wort then not drowned in
Yarmouth roads? killed in the fight when the ship was
taken by the Sallee men of war 2 devoured by wild beasts
on the coasts of Africa? or. drowned here. when all the
grew perished but thyself i Dost thou ask. What have I

one

I was struck dumb with these reflections. as one as-
tonlsh and had nota word to as . no not to answer
myself; ut rose up. pensive and sad. walked back to my
retreat. and went up over my wall. as if I had been ing
to bed; but my thoughts were sadly disturbed. and bad
no inclination to sleep; so I sat down in m chair and
lighted my lamp for t began to be dark. 'ow. as the
apprehensions of the return of my distemper terrified me
very much. it occurred to my thought that the Brazilians
take no physlc but their tobacco for almost all distempers ;
and I had a piece of roll of tobacco in one of the chests.
which was quite cured. and some also that was green.
and not quite cured.

I went. directed by Heaven. no doubt; for in this chest

d. I found a cure for both soul and MI: I opened the
.: t

chest. and found what I looked for. v be tobacco;
and as the few booksI had saved lay there too. I took
out one of the Bibles which I had mentioned before. and
which to this time. I had not found leisure. or ad much
as inclination to look into; I say I took it out. and
brought both that and the tobacco with me to the table.

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not. as to m
distemper. or whether it was for me or not - but
tried several experiments wi it. as if I was resolved it
should hit one way or other. I first took a piece of a
leaf. and chewed it in my month which indeed. at first
almost stu efied in brain. the tobacco being It and
strong. an not hav as been much used to it; on Itook
some. and steeped it an hour or two in ru and resolved
to take a dose of it when I lay down; and stl . I burnt
some n on a pan of coals. and held my now ose over
the smo e of t. as long as I could bear it. as well for the
heat as the virtue of i and I held it. almost to suu'oeation.

,In the interval of t is operation. I took up the Bibi
and to read: but my head was too much distur
with the tobacco to beer reading. at least at that time;
only. having opened the book casually. the first words
that occurred to me were these: "Call on me in the day
of trouble. and I will deliver thee. and thou shalt glorify
me."

The words were very apt to my case. and made some
impression upon my thoughts at the time of reading
them' thoufib not so much as they did afterwards; for. as
to being e vered. the word had no soundbas I may say. to
me; the thing was so remote. so impossi ie in my appre-
hension of things. that I began to ss as the children of
Israel did. when they were promise flesh to eat. " Can
God spreads table in the wilderness?" So I n to
say can God himself deliver the from this place And
as it was not for many years that any hope appeared.
this prevailed very often upon my thoughts. But. how-
ever. tho words made a great impression upon me. and
I mused upon them very often. It rgew now late. and
the tobacco had. as I said dozsd in end so much. that
I inclined to sleep; so flea my amp burning in the
cave. lest I should want arkvthinglln the night. and went
to bed; but before I lay own. did what I never had
done in all my life. I kneeled down and 'prayed to God
to fulfill the promise made to me. that. i I called upon
him in the day of trouble. he would deliver me. After
my broken and im rfect pra'er was over. I drank the
rum in which I ha steeped t e tobacco which was so
strong and rank of the tobacco. that indeed I could scarce

et it down. Immediately upon this I went to bed. and
ffound presently it ilew up into In head violently but
I fell into a sound slee . and wait no more till y the
sun. it must access ly be near three o'clock in the
afternoo the next day; nay to this hour. Iam partly
of the op nion thatI slept all the next day and nigh
and till almost three the day after; for. otherwise.
knew not how I should lose a day out of my reckoning
in the days of the week. as it a some ears after.
Ihsddone- for lfIhad lost it ycsoes ugau recreating.
the line. I, should have lost more than one day - but
comply; lost a day in my account. and I never know
w l we .

Be that as "$5 onewayor other whsnIawskedI
found myself ex Kristy refreshed. and my spirits lively
and cheerful. When got up I was stronger than I was
thedaybefore.sndmystomsch better; for Iwas hungry.

-mmti!20

and. in short. I had no fit the next da . but continued
much altered for the better. This was s 29th.

The 80th was my well day. of course. and I went abroad
with my u. but did not care to travel too far. I killed
a sea-few or two. something like a brand-goose. and
brought them home. but was not very forward to eat
them; so I eat some more of the turtles'
were we ood. This evening I renewed the medicine.
which I a supposed did me the day before. viz..
the tobacco steeged in rum. on y I did not take so much
as before. nor di I chew any of the leaf. or hold my head
over the smoke. However. I was not so well the next
day. which was the 1st of July. as I hoped I should have
been h' for I had a little spice of the cold at. but it was not
muc .

Jul 2. I renewed the medicine all the three ways.
and osed miself with it as at first. and doubled the
quantit whlc I drank.

July . I missed the fit for good and all. though I did
not recover my full strength for some weeks after. While
I was thus thering strenglth. my thoughts ran exceed-
ingly n nt is Scripture. ' will deliver thee ;" and the
im ss biilty of my deliverance lay much upon my mind.
in r of my ever ex ting it. But as I was discoura -
ing myself with see though it occurred to my min .
that I pored so much upon in eliverauce from the main
affliction. that I disregards tho deliverance I had re-
ceived; and I was. as it were. made to ask myself such
questions as these. viz. : Have I not been delivered. and
wonderfull ' too. from sickness; from the most distressed
condition t at could be. and that was so in htful to me?
And what notice had I taken of it? lied I one my part?
God had delivered me; but I had not lorined him; that
is to say. I had not owned and been t nkful for that as
a deliverance; and how could I expect greater deliver-
snce .

This touched in heart very much. and immediately I
kneeled down. an gave God thanks aloud. for my recov-
ery from sickness.

uly 4. In the morning. I took the Bible~ and begin-
ni at the New Testament. I began seriously to rca i
an imposed upon myself to read every morning an
every n ght. not tying myself to a number of chapters.
but as lo as my thoughts should engage rue. t was
not long a er I set seriously to this work. but I found my
heart more deeply and sincerely afl'ectcd with the wick-
edness of my past life. The im session of adream re-
vived. and the words "All theset in have not brought
thee to repentance." ran seriously it my thoughts. I
was earnestly b ing of God to give me repentance.
when it happen rovideutiaily. the very day. that read~
in the Scripture. came to the words. " lie is exalted a
Pr nce. and a Saviour to give repentance. and to give
remission." I threw down the book, and. with my heart
aswell as my hands lifted up to Iicavcn. in a kind of
ecstasy of Joy. I cried out aloud: "Jesus. thou Son of
David. Jesus. thou exalted Prince and Saviour. give me
re cntance i"

his was the first time that I could say in the _true
sense of the word. that I prayed in all my l f'e: for now I
pra ed with a sense of my condition. and with a true
Sc pture view of hope. founded on the encouragement
of the word of God- and from this time. I may say. I

n to have hope that God would hear me.

ow I began to construe the words mentioned above.
" Call on m . and I will deliver you." in a different sense
from what I d ever done before; for then I had no no-
tion of an thing being called deliverance. but at being
delivered m the captivity I was in - for thong I was
indeed at large in the place. {at the island was certainly
a prison to me. and that in t e worst sense of the word -
but now I learned to take it in another sense. Nomi
looked back upon my t life with such horror. and my
sins a peered so drca ful. that m soul sou ht nothing
of Go but deliverance item the end of go it that bore
down all m comfort. As for my solitary life it was
nothln ; I id not so much as pray to be delivered from
it. or t ink of it; it was all of no consideration in com-
parison of this- and I add this part here. to hint to who-
ever shall read i that whenever they come to a true
sense of this ey will find deliverance from sin a
much renter leasing. than deliverance from affliction.

But. caving this part. I return to my ournal.

My condition began now to be. thong not less miser-
able ss to my way of living. yet much easier to my mind;
and mgutlhoughts being irectcd. by a constant reading
of tho lptures. and praying to God. to things of a higher
nature I had a deal of comfort within. which till
now I knew nothing of. Also. as my health and strength
returned. I bestirred myself to furnish myself with every-
thing that I wanted. and make my way of living as regu-
lar as I could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th. I was chief! employed
in walking about wit my gun in my hand. a ittle and a
little at a time. as a man that was gathering up his
strength after a at of sickness; for it is hardly o be
imagined how low I was. and to what wrakness I was

eggs. which t

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF

reduced. The application which I made use of was
figrfectly new.and perhaps what had never cured nn ague

fore; neither can I recommend it to an one to rac--
tlce. by this experiment; and though it til carry 0 the
fit. yet it rather contributed to weaken me: for I had
frequent convulsions in my nerves and limbs for some

me.
I had now been in this unhappy island above ten
months: all poaslhilit of deliverance from this condi-
tion seemed to be en rely taken from me; and I tirmly
believed that no human she had ever set foot upon that
lace. Havin now seen my habitation. as I thought.
silly to my in ad. I had a t desire to make a more
pc set discove of the is and. and to see" what other
productions I m ght find. which et i knew nothing of.

It was the 15th of Jul that began to make a more
Rsrticular survey of the sland itself. I went up the creek

rat. where. as hinted. I brought my rafts on shore. I
found. after I came about two miles up. that the tide did
not flow any hi her. and that it was no more than a little
brook of man ug water. and very fresh and good; but
this being the dry season. there was hardly any water in
some rts of it. at least not enough to run in any per-
ce tib e stream.

it the bank of this brook I found many pleasant savuno
ms or meadows. plain. smooth. and covered with Emu;
and on the rising parts of them next to the igher
grounds. where the water. as it might be supposed. never
orertlowed. I found a t deal of tobacco. reen. and
growing toa t an ver strong stalk. ere were
divers other p ants. which had no notion of. or under-
standing about ' and might. perhaps. have virtues of
their own. which I could not find out.

Isearched for the Cassava root. which the Indians. in
all that climate. make their bread of; but I could tind
none. I saw large plants of aloes. but did not then under-
stand them. I saw several sngamanes. but wild. and for
want of cultivation. int rfcct. .

The next day. the iiit . I went up the same way again:
and. after going something farther than i had one the
day before. i found the brook and the savannas gen to
cease and the country became more woody than before.
In this part I found different fruits. and particularly I
found melons upon the und. in great abundance. and
fiapos upon the trees: t o vines ha spread indeed over
t e trees. and the clusters of gmggs were Just now in
their prime. very ripe and rich. his was a surprising
discove . and l was exceedingly glad of them; but I was
warned y my ex rience to eat a arin ly of them. re-
memberin that w en 1 was ashore n Bar ry. the eating
of grapes illcd several of our Englishmen. who were
slaves there, by throwing them into fluxes and fevers;
butI found an excellent use for these gra s; and that
was to cure or dry them in the sun. and 'ee them as
dried raisins are kept. which I thought woul be. as in-
deed they were. as wholesome. and as agreeable to eat.
when no grapes might be had.

I spent all that evening there. and went not back to m
habitation. which. by the way. was the first night. as
m 'ht say. I had lain from home. In the night i took my
firs contrivancc. and got up into a tree. where Islept
well. and the next morn ng proceeded upon my discovery.
travelling near four miles as I might Jud b the length
of the vaile '. keeping still due north. wi u r dge of hills
on the nort and south side of me.

At the end of this march. I came to an openln . where
the count seemed to descend to the west; an a little
spring of h water which issued out of the side of the
hill by me. ran the other way. that is. due east: and the

coun ap ed so fresh. so recn. so flourishing. every-
thing sing in constant ve use. or flourish of spring.
that t looked like a planted garden.

I descended a little on the side of that delicious valley
surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure (than h mixed
with other afflicting thoughts). to think that th s was all
my ownzihat I wasa king and lord of all this country
indefeasibly. and I had a right of possession: and. if I
could convey it. I mi ht have it in inheritance. as com-
pletel as an lord o a manor in En land. 1 saw here
ahnn ancc o cocoa-trees; oran e. an lemon. and citron
trees: but all wild. and few bear ng any fruit. at least not
then. However. the green limes that I gathered were not
onl pleasant to ca but very wholesome; and I mixed
the r juice afterwa s with water. which made it very
wholesome. and very cool and refreshing.

I found now I had business enough to gather and carry
home; and I resolved to lay it a store as well of grapes
as limes and lemons. to furnis myself for the wet season.
which I knew was approaching.

In order to do this I gathered a great heap of gra es
in one place. and a esser heap in another place. an a

t parcel of limes and lemons in another place- an
king a few of each with me. I travelled homeward. an
resolved to come again. and bring a bag or sack. or what
I could make. to carry the rest home. -

Accordingly. having spent three days in my journey. I

came home (so I must now call my tent and my caveo
but. before I got thither. the gra were lied; the

richness of the fruit. and the wei'i t of the in ce having

broken them and bruised them. ey were ood for little

2;."deg'{SS"'gr' as to the limes. they were go&. but I could
u ut ew.

'I'hge next (In . being the 19th. I went back. havi made
me two small gs to bring home my harvest; bu I was
surprised when coming to my hon of grapes. which
were so rich and fine when I gathere them I ound them
all spread abroad.trod to ieces. and d about. some
here some there. and a nudancc eaten and devoured.
By this. I concluded there were some wild creatures
member-ta which had done this; but what they were. I

cw no

However. as I found there was no laying them up on

heaps. and no currving them away in a suck; but that ex

one we ' they would' be destroyed. and the other way they
would crushed with their own weight. I took another
course: for I gathered a large nantity of the gra and
hun them upon the out-brauc es of the tree t t th
mig t cure and dry in the sun: and as for the imes. an
lem'onml carried as many back as I could well stand
III! er.

When I came home from this ionrney. I contempia
with at pleasure. the it'uitfn ness of that valley. an
the p easantucss of the situation. the securit from
stems on that side of the water. and the w ; and
concluding that i had pitched upon a place to fix my
abode. which was. h far. the worst part of the con .
Upon the whole. I e to consider of removln my
habitation. and to loo out for a lace equally as e as
where I now was situate. if pose Is. in that pleasant
fruitful Kart of the island.

Thist ou ht run long in my head. and I was exceeding
fond of it or some time: the pleasantness of the place
tempted me; but when I came to a nearer view of it. and
to consider that I was now by the sea-side where it was
at least possible that somethln might hap on to my
advantage. and that the same ii fate which rought me
hither. might brine some other unhappy wretches to the
some place; and though it was scarce probable that any
such thing should ever happen. yet. to enclose mysel
among the hills and woods. was to render such an affair
not only improbable. but impossible; and that therefore
I ought not. by any means to remove.

However. I was so euamoured with this place. that I
spent much of in time there. for the whole rcmaini
part of the meat of July: and though. upon secon
thoughts I resolved as above. not to remove. ct I built
me a little kind of a bower. and surrounded t at a dis.
tance with a strong fence. being a double hedge. as hi
as I could reach. well staked and filled between w th
brushwood; and here I lay very secure. sometimes two
or thrce'nights together always goiu over it with a
ladder. as before. so that I fancied now had my count
house. and my sea.coast house; and this work took me
up to the beginnin of August.<<

I had but newly nlshcd my fence. and began to sale
my labour. when the ruins came on. and made me at cl:
close to my first habitation; for though I had made me a
tent like t e other. with a piece of a sail. and spread it
very well. yet I had not the shelter of a hill to keep me
ii-om storms nor a cave behind me to retreat into. when
the rains were extraordinary.

About the beginning of An . st. as I said. I had finished
my bower. and began to CHE); myself. The ad of Au-
gust I found the grapesI ad has up were perfectly
dried. and indeed were excellent g ra sins of the sun;
so I began to take them down from the trees; and it was
very happy that I did so. for the rains which followed
would have spoiled them and I had lost the best rt of
my winter food; for I had above two hun large
bunches of them. No sooner had I taken them all down.
and carried most of them home to my cave. but it began
to rain; and from hence. which was the 14th of A at.
it rained more or less every day till the middle of
her; and sometimes so violently. that I could not stir out
of my cave for several days.

In this season I was much surprised with the increase
of my family. I had been concerned for the loss of one
of my cats. who ran away from me. or. as I thought. had
been dead; and I heard no more tale or tidin of her
till. to my astonishment. she came home abou the end
of August with three kittens.

This was the more strange to me. because. though I
had killed a wild cat. as I calledi with my n. yet I
thought it was quite a different kin item our uropean
cats- yet the young cats were the same kind of house-
breed. like the old one; and both my cats being femal
I thought it very strange. But from these three cats
afterwards came to be so pestered with cats. thatI was
forced to kill them like vermin. or wild and to
drive them from m'y house as much as possible.

From the lath 0 August to the 26th. incessant rain. so
that I could not stir. and was now very careful not to be
much wet. In this confinemeutI to be straitencd

for food; but ventured onttwiee. audone day killedsgoat:

21

and the last day. which was the 28th. found a re large
tortoi which was a treat to me; and my food 3. reg-
ulated t as: I eat a bunch of raisins for to breakfast; a
icee of the goat's flesh. or of the turtle or my dinner.
roiled. (for. to my great misfortune. I had no vessel to
boil or stew anything.) and two or three of the tnrtle's

.:s or an r.

During t s confinement in my cover by the rain. I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave
and. by degrees. worked it on towards one side. till I
came to the outs do of the hill. and made a door or way
out. which came boyon my fence'or wall. and so I came
in and out this way. u I was not perfecti easy at

layin'g so open; fori as I had managed mvself

fore
was perfect one

I
osure. whereas now. I thought I lay

n a
sed: and yet. I could not perceive that there was any

liv ng thiu&?i:aalratmiggg%EURreaturc that I had yet

seen upon

 

September the mth. I was now come to the unhappy
anniversar of m'y landing. I cast up the notches on ma
post. and ound had been on shore three hundred an
sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast. setting
it apart to religious exercise. Krostrating myself on the
ground with the most serious umiiiation. confessed my

sins to G acknowl his hteons nd enta
"' "L "at... Ji. ' "'

upon m and re ve mercy on m
throu h cans Emilea not having tasted the leagt
rcfres ment for twelve hours. even till he going down of
the sun. I then eat a biscuit cake. and a bunch of grapes.
and went to finishing the day as I began it.

I had all this t me observed no Sabbath-day: for as at
first I had no sense of roll Ion upon my mind.I had. alter
some time omitted to dis gulch the weeks. by making
a longer notch than ordinary for the Sabbathday'. and so
did not really know what any of the days were; but now
having east up the days as above. I found I had been
there a year so I divided it into weeks. and set apart
every seventh day for a Sabbath; though I found at the
end of my amount. I lost a day or two in my reckoning.

A little after this my ink began to fail me. and so I con-
tented myself to use it more sparingly. and to write down
only the most remarkable events 0 my life. without con-
tinuing a dail memorandum of other things.

I mention before. that I had a t 111 nd to see the
whole island. and that I had trave ed n the brook. and
so on to where I had built my bower. an where I had an
opening quite to the sea. on the other side of the island.
I now resolved to travel quite across to the sea-shore on
that side; so takin my gun. a hatchet. and my d . and
a larger quantity 0 powder and shot than us with
two biscuit cakes. and a great bunch of raisins in m
pouch. for my store. I my journey. When I h

ssed the vale where my wer stood. as above. I some

n view of the sea to the west ; and it bein a very clear

day. I fairly deserted land. whether an islan or a conti-

nent. I could not tell: but it lay very high. extending

from the west. to the W. S. W.. at a very eat distance:

by my guterss it could not be less than n or twenty
as 0

could not tell what part of the world this mi ht be.
otherwise than that I knew that it must be part 0 Amer-
ica; and as I conclud by all m observations. must
be near the Spanish dom nions. an hapa was all in-
habited by savages. where. if I shoul have landed. I had
been in a worse condition than I was now; and there-
fore Iacquiesccd in the dispositions of Providence. which
I began now to own. and to believe. ordered everything22

for the best; I say' I quieted my mind with this. and
left afilictlng my mind

with fi'nitlesa wishes of being
there.

Besides. after some pause upon this affair. I considered.
that if this land was the Spanish coast. I should some
time or other see some vessels pass or repass one way or
other; but if not. then it was the savage coast between
thb Spanish country and Braztls. which were indeed the
worst of savages. for they are cannibals. or men-eaters.
and fall not to murder and devour all the human bodies
that fall into their hands.

With these considerations I walked very leisurely for-
ward. I found that side of the island where I now was
much pleasanter than mine. the open or savanna fields
sweet. adorned with flowers and grass. and full of very
fine woods. I saw abundance of rrots. and faln would
I have caught one. if possible. to two he tit to be tame.
and taught it to speak to me. I did. a or some pains
taken. catch a young parrot; for I knocked it down with
a stick. and havi recovered it. I brought it home. but.
it was some cars fore Icould make h m speak. How-
ever. at last taught him to call me b my name. very
familiar. But the accident that followetz though it be a
trifle. will be very diverting in its place.

I was exceediu ly diverted with this joumey. I found
in the low unis. hares. as I thought them to be. and
foxes. but ey differed greatly from all other kinds I had
met with ; nor cogld I satisfy myself to eat them. though
I killed several. ut I had no need to be venturous. or
I had no want of f and of that which was very good.
too: especially those t tee sorts. viz.: goats. igeon.and
turtle or torto so which. added to my grapes. denhall
market could not have furnished a table better than I. in

ropertiou to the company. And though my case was

ep omble enough. yet I had great cause for thankful-
ness. that I was' not driven to any extremities for food.
but had rather "lent . even to duiuties.

I never trave ed this journey above two miles out-
right in aday. or thereabouts; but I took so many turns
and returns. to see what discoveries I could make. that I
came watt enough to the place where I resolved to_ sit
down for a luight; and then I either reposcd myself in a
tree. or surrounded mgoself with a .row of stakes set
upright in the ground. In one tree to another. so as no
wild creature could come at me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the sea-shore. I was sur riscd to
see that I had takeuegg my lot on the, worst sl e of the
island; for here ind the shore was covered with in-
numerable turtles; whereas on the other side I had found
but three in a year and a half. Iiere was also an infinite
number offowls. of many kinds. some of which I had
sent. and some of which I had not seen before. and many
ofthcm very good meat: but such as I knew not the
names of. except those called pen Ins.

I could have shot as many as pleased. but was very
sparing of my powder and s ot - and therefore had more
mind to kill a she-goat if 1 could. which I could better
feed on. And though there were many goats here more
than on at side oft e island. yet it was with much ore
dlitlculty t at I could come near them. the country ~in~
flat and even. and they saw me much sooner than whcui
was on the hills.

I confess this side of the country much pleasanter than
mine. but yet i had not the least inclination to remove;
for. as I was fixed in my habitation. it became natural to
me: and I seemed all the while I was here. to be. as it
were. upon aJoumey. and from home. Iiowever. I trav-
elled alou the shore of the sea. towards the cast. I sup-
pose ubou twelve miles; and then. settiu up a rent
Role upon the shore. for a mark. I conclud I won d go

ome again ; and that the next journey: took. should 0
on the other side of the island. east tn my dwelll .
sad so round. till I came to my post again; of which n

p ace.

I took another way to come back than that I went.
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much in my
view that] could not miss finding my first dwelling. by
viewing the country; but I found myself mistaken: for.
being come about two or three miles. I found In self de-
scended into a v large valley. but so surroun ed with
hills. and those h lls covered with woods. that I could
not see which was my way by any direction but that of
the sun. nor even then. unless I knew very well the posi-
tion of the sun at that time of the day.

It hap tied to my farther misfortune. that theweather
proved y for three or four days. while I was in this
valley: and. not being able to see the sun. I wandered
about very uncomfortable. and at last was obliged to find
out the sea-aide. look for nt'post. and come back the
same way I went; and than. y easy journeys I turned
homeward. the weather being exceedingly bet. and
:1, gnu. ammunition. hatchet. and other things. very

ea .

Inwthis journey my dog surprised a yo kid. and
seized n n it; and I. ruuu in to take old of it.
caught th and saved it alive Rom the do . I had a
greatmin to bring it home. it! could; for had often

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF

been musing whether it ml ht not be possible to a
kid or two. and to raise a reed of tame goats. w ich
might-supply me when my powder and shot should be all
spent.

1 made a collar to this little creature and with a string
which I made of some ropeyuru. which I always carried
about me. I led him along. though with some difiiculty.
till I came to my bower. and there I enclosed him. and
left him - for I was very intggtieut to be at home. from
whence had been absent a re a month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to
come into in old hutch. and lie down in my hammock-
bed. This] ttle wanderingjouruey. without any settled
place of abode. had been so unpleasant to me. that my
own house. as I called it to myself. was a perfect settle--
ment to me. compared to that; and it rendered eve -
thing about me so comfortable. that I resolved I won d
never go a great way from it again. while it should be my
lot to stay on the is and.

I reposed m -aelf herea week. to rest and r

it? myself
after my lon

ourneyl. during which most of t e time was
taken up in e welg ty afi'a :- of making a cage for my
poll who began now to be a mere domestic. and to be
mighty well acquainted with me. Then I began to think
of the poor kid. which I had pent in within my little cir-
cle. and resolved to go and fetch it home or give it some
food: accordingly I went. and found it where i left it. for
indeed it could not get out. but was almost starved for
want of food. I went and cut boughs of trees. and
branches of such shrubs as I could find. and threw it over;
and having fed it. I tied it as I did before. to lead it
away; bu it was so time. with being hungry; that I had
no need to have tied it. for it followed me lite a dog:
and as I continually fed it. the creature became so loving.
so gentle. and so fond that it was from that time
one of my domestics. also. and would never leave me
afterwards.

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come. and I kept the 80th of Se tomber in the same
solemn manner as before being t e anniversary of my
landing on the island. having now been there two years.
and no more prospect of being delivered than the first
day I came there. I spent the whole day in humble and
thankful acknowledgments of the many wonderful mer-
cies which my solitary condition was attended with. and
without which it might have been infinitely more
miserable. I gave humble thanks that God had been
pleased to discover to me. even that it was possible I
might be more happy in this solita condition. than I
should have been in a liberty of soc cty. and in all the
pleasures of the world; that he could fully make up to
me the deficiencies of my solitary state. and the want of
human society. by his rcseucc. and the communications
of his race to my son . supporting. comfortin . and en-
coumg u r me to depend upon his ruvidcnce etc. and
holpe for is eternal pro ce hcrcs or.

t was now that flu sensibly to feel how much
more happy the life I now led was. with all its miserable
circumstances. than the wicked. cursed. abominable life
I led all the past part of my days: and now having
changed both my sorrows and my 10 's. my very desires
altered. my affections cha ed the r guests. and my
delights were perfegly new. In what hcy were at my
first coming. or ind for the two years past.

Before. as I walked about. either on my hunting. or for
viewing the country. the anguish of my soul at my con-
dition would break out upon me on a sudden. and my
very heart would die with n me. to think of the woods.
the mountains the deserts I was in: and how I was a
prisoner locked up with the eternal bars and bolts of the
ocean. in an uninhabited wilderness. without rcdem tion.
In the midst of the greatest composures of min this
would break out upon me. like a storm. and make me
wring tn hands and w like a child. Sometimes it
would ta 0 me in the mi die of my work. and I would
immediately sit down and sigh. and look upon the ground
for an hour or two together. and this was still worse to
me; for if I could burst out into tears. or rent myself by

words. it would go off. and the grief. having exhausted
itself. would abate. .
But now I began to exercise m f with new thou hts.

I daily read the word of God an applied all the com orts
of it to my resent state. as morning. being very sad.
I opened I 0 Bible upon these words. "I win never.
never leave thee. nor forsake thee!" Immediately it
occurreth that these words were to me - wh else should
they be lrecicd in such a manner. just at t e moment I
was mourning over m condition. as one forsaken of
God and man! " Weli then." said I. " if God does not
forsake me. of what ill conseguence can it be. or what
matters it. though the world s onld all forsake me. see-
ing. on the other hand. if I had all the world. and should
lose the favor and blessing of God. there would be no
comparison in the loss t"

From this moment! began to conclude in mi mind
that it was possible for me to be more hang in is for-
saken. solitary condition. than it was pro a lo I shouldBOBLNSON an (7508.

have ever been in any other particular state in the world -
and with this then ht. I was going to give thanks to God
for bringing me to his place.

I was now in the months of November and December
expecting my crop of barley and rice. The ground I had
maaun-d or d u for them was not t; for my seed
of each was no e vs the quantity 0 half a peck. for I
had lost one whole crop by sowing in the dry season. but
now in crop promised very well. when. on a sudden. I
found was u da er of losing it all againI by enemies
of several sorts. w ich it was scarcely poss ble to kee
from it; as first. the oats. and wild creatures which
called hares. who. tas ng the sweetness of the bled lay
In it night and day. as soon as it came up and ate t so
close that it could get no time to shoot up into stalk.

This I saw no remedy for. but by making an enclosure
about it with she e. which I did witha great deal of
toll. and the more use it re uired speed. the crea-
tures dail spoiling in corn. owever. as my arable
land was at small. su ted to my cm I got it tolerably
well fenced in about three woeka' me; and shooting
some of the creatures in the day-time. I set my dog to
guard it in the night. tyi him up to'a stake at the fits.
where he would stand an bark all night long; so.' a
little time. the enemies forsook the place. an the corn
grew very strong and well and n to ripen space.

But. as the beasts ruined me be ore while my corn was
in the blade. so the birds were likely to ruin me now.
when it was in the car; for oing along by the place to
see how it throve. I saw my ttle crop surrounded with
fowls. of I know not how many sorts. who stood. as it
where. watching till I shodld be gone. I immediatel let
ily among them for I always had my gun with meg. I
had no sooner s ot. but there rose upailttle cloud of
{3:2, which I had not seen at all. from among the corn

 

This touched me sensibl : for i foresaw that. in a few
days. they would devour 1 my hopes; that I should be
starved. and never be able to raise acrop at all: and
what to do I could not tell. However. I resolved not to
lose my corn. it possible. though I should truth it nl ht

and day. In the first ghee. I went amon it to see w t
damage was al one. and found I ey had spoiled
a good deal of it; at. that. us it was yet too green for
the the loss was not so great but that the remainder
was i kvl to be a good crop. if it could be saved.

I staid it to load my gun. and then coming away. I
could easi y see the thieves sittin u n all the trees
about me. as if the only waited t l was gone away.
and the event prov it tobe so; for as I walked oil as
if I were gone I was no sooner out of their sight. but
they dropped ow one by one. into the corn again. I
was so provoked. t I could not have patience to stay
till more came on knowing that evc grain that they
eat now. was. as might be said. a eck oat' to me in the
con uences; but. coming It to t o bed I ilredacain.
and kl led three of them. T is was what wish for;
so I took them up. and served them as we serve notorious
thieves in England. viz.. banging them in chains fora
terror to others. It is almost im lble to imagine that
this should have such an eti'cet as it had: for {owls
would not only not come at the corn but. ln.short. they
forsook all that part of the island. and I could never see a
bird near the place as ion as my scarecrowa hun there.

This I was ve lad oi you may be sure; an about
the latter and o lfecember. which was our second har-
vest of the ear. I reaped my crop.

I was as {lput to it for a scythe. or a sickle. to cut it
down. and a [could do was to make one as wellas I
could. out of one of the broad-swords. or cutlasses. which
I saved among the arms out of the ship. However as
my crop was but small. I had no great drillculty to cut it
down. In short. I reaped it my way; for I cut nothin
of but the ears. and carried it away in a baske
which I had made. and so rubbed it out wit my hands.
Andattheendoiall myharvestlug.I found thatoutof

my halt peek of seed. I had near two bushels of rice. and
above two bushels auda half oi barley- that is to say.
by my guess. for I had no measure at that time.

However. this was a t encou eat to me; and I
foresaw that, in time. would please God to an ply ms
with bread. And yet here I was perplexed or I
neither knew how to nd or make meal of my corn. or
indeed how to clean t. and part it- nor. if made into
meal. how to make bread for of i I knew not how to
bake-it. These things being add to my desire of hav-
ing a good quantity tor store. and to secure a constant
supply. I resolved not to taste any of this crop. but to

reserve it all for seed against the next season. and. in

e fimgme. to enlarge Iall my studyk anfd horas 0:
war ng accomp s a great wor 0 re ding
m it with corn and bread. p

'hen my corn was growing and grown. I have ob-
served how many things I wanted to fence it. sscurei
mow or reap it. cure and carry it home. thresh. part
iron the chair. and save it. Then I wanted amillto
grind it. sieves to dress it. yeast and salt to make it into

read. and an oven to bake it in ; and yet all these things
I did without. as shall be observed; and the corn was an
inestimsble comfort and advent e to me too. All this.
as I said. made everythi labor one and tedious to me.
but that there was no be p (or: neither was my time so
much loss to me. becauseas I had divided it. acertaln
part oi it was every day appointed to these works; and
asIresolvedtonsenoneofthecornforbreadtinlhada
greater quantity1 by me. I had the next six months to
apply myselt w ol by labor and invention to furnish
myself with ntens pro for the pcrformin all the
fipgraftloue necessary {or 6 making the corn. w enI had

or my use.

But first. I was to prepare moreiand for! hadnow seed
cue h to sow above an acre of ground. BeforeI didthie.
I a week's work at least to make me a spade. which.
when it was done. was but a sorry one indeed. and very
heavy and required double labor to work with it. How-
ever. I went through that. and sowed my md in two
is iist pieces of ground. as near my house as I could
iln them to my mind. and leased ,them in with a good
hedge. the stakes of which were all cut of that wood
which 'I had set before. which I knew would grow- so
that. in one year's time I knew I should have a quick or
living hedge. that would want but little repair. This
work was not so little as to take me up less than three
months. because great part of that time was of the wet
seasons. when I could not abroad.

Within-doors. that is. w on it rained. and I could not
go out. I found employment on the following occasions -
always observing that all the while I was at work. I
diverted myself with talking to my parro and teaching
him to speak; and I uickly taught him to ow his own
name at last to s a it out firett loud. " oil ;" which
was the first we I had ever spoken in the island
by any month but my own. Thi therefore. was not "I
work. but an assistant to my wor ; for now. as I said.
had a t emdplo cut upon my hen as follows. vis..
I had ong stu <<(lay some means or 0 er. to make my-
self some earthen vessels. which indeed I wanted sorel .
but knew not where to come at them. However consi -
erln the heat of the climate. I did not doubt but. u I
coulfi iiud out any such clay. I might botch up some such
pot as might. being dried in the sun. be hard enouxhhand
strong enough. to bear handling. and to hold anyt ing
thatwas ulredtoboke tso;andasthiswas
necessary prepar ng corn. in d:c.. which was the
thin I was upon. I resolved to e some as large as I
coal and at only to stand like jars to hold what should
beIput in them.

I would make the readerpity me. or rather laugh at
me. to tell how man awkward ways I took to raise this
paste; what od m ssha n. ugly things I made; how
many ofthem fel in. and ow many fell out. the clay not
bein stifl' enough to bear its own weight; how many
c ed by the over-violent heat of the sun. being set out
too hastily; and how many fell to pieces with onl rs-
movln . as well before as after they were dried; an in
a we how. after having labored hard to and the y
to di it. to temper it. to bring it home and work it. I
coul not make above two large. earthen. ugl things. I
cannot call them are. inabout two months' r.

Ilowever. as a sun baked these two very dry and
hard. I lifted them very ntly up. and set them down
again in two great wicker- ets. which I had made on

urpose for them. that th might not break; and as
between the t and the st there was a little room to
a are.Istu editi'ullof therice and barley straw; and

. and

ese two ts be to stand alwa dry I tho
would hold fiy dry 35a. and perhaps meh when
corn was bruised.

ThoughImiscsrried so much in my ties for
pots. yet I made several smaller things wit better sue-
oess- such as little round mm dishes. pitchers. and
pi kins. and an hing my turned to; and the heat

the sun bake them extremely hard.84

But all this would not answer my end which was to
an earthen pot to hold what was ll uid. and bear the
re. which none of these could do. t happened after
some time. making a pretty large fire for cooking my
meat. when I went to put it out. after I had done with it.
I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware vessels
in the fire. burnt as hard as a stone. and red as a tile. I
was agreeably surprised to see it. and said to m self.
that certainl they might be made to burn whole.i they
would burn rokon.

This set me to study how to order my fire. so as to
make it burn the some pots. I had no notion of a kiln.
such as the otters burn in. or of glazin them with lea
though I he some lead to do it with; at I laced three
large pipkins. and two or three pots. in n pi 0 one u it
another. and placed my ilre-tvood all round it wit a

at heap of embers under them. I piled the fire with

resh fuel round the outside. and upon the tow. till I saw
the pots in the inside red-hot quite throu h. and observed
they did not crack at all. When I saw t em a clear red.
I let them stand in that heat about five or six hours. till
I found one of them. though it did not crack. did melt or
run; for the sand which was mixed with the clay melted
with the violence of the heat. and would have run into

less. if I had gone on: so I slacked my fire greduall .
all the pots Wu to abate of the red color. and were -
ing them all nig t. that I might not let the fine abate too
fast. in the morning I had three very good. I will not sa
handsome plpkins. and two other earthen pots. as be
burnt as could be desired: and one of them perfectly
glazed with the running of the sand.

After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no
sort of earthenware for my use; but I must nccds say. as
to the shapes of them. they were very indifferent. as any
one may sup' so. when I had no way of making them
but as the c ldren make dirt-pics. or as awoman would
make ice that never learnt to raise paste.

No oy at a thing of so mean a nature was over equal to
mine. when I found I had made an earthen pot that would
bear the tire; and I had hardly patience to stay till they
were cold. before I set one upon the tire a . in. with some
water in it. to boil me some meat. which I did edmirabgs
well; and. with a piece of kid. I made some ve go
broth. though I wanted oatmeal. and several ot er in-
mdieuts requisite to make it as good as I would have

t.

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to stamp
or beat some corn in: for as to the mill. there was no
thought of arriving to that perfection of art with one pair
of hands. To an ply this went I was at a great loss: for
of alitrades int 0 world. I was as perfectly un ualiiled
for a stone-cutter. as for anything whatever: ncit er had
lany tools to go about it with. I spent ma'ny a day to
find out a great stone big enough to cut hollow. and make
tit for a mortar and could find none at all. except what
was in the solid rock. and which I had no way to dig or
cut out: nor indeed were the rocks in the island of hard-
ness sudlcient. but were of a sandy. crumbling stone.
which would neither bear the weight of a heavy tpestle.
nor would break the corn without filling it with sun . So
after a t deal of time lost in searching for a stone. I
gave it over. and resolved to look fora great block of hard
wood. which I found indeed much easier; and tting
one as big as I had strength to stir. I rounded t. and
formed it on the outside with to axe and hatchet; and
then. with the help of fire. and in nitc labor. madea hol-
low place in it. as the Indians in Brazil make their canoes.
After this I made a great heat stle or heater. of the
wood called the iron-wood. an t is I prepared and laid
by against I had my next crop of corn. when I proposed
to myself to grind, or rather pound. my corn into meal. to
make my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve. or scarce. to
dress my meal. and to part it from the bran and the husk.
without which I did not see it possible I could have any
bread. This was a most diiiicult thing. so much as but
to think on ; for. to be sure. I had nothing'liko the neces>>
sary thing to make it with. I mean tine. t in canvass. or
stui! to scarce the meal throu h. And here I was at, a full
stop for many months: nor id I really know what to do.
Linen I had none left. but what was more rage. I had
goat's hair. but neither knew I how to weave or spin it ;
and had I known how. here were no tooisto work it with -
all the remedy that I found for this. was. that at last I did
remember I had. among the seamen's clothes. which were
saved out of the ship. some neckcloths of calico or mus-
lin; and with some pieces of these. I made three small
sieves. but proper enotigh for the work ; and thus I made
{hi'ft to; some years. ow I did afterwards. I shall show

u ts ce.

The leg part was the next thing to be considered.
and how I should make bread when I came to have corn;
for. tire I had no yeast. As to that part. as there was
no sup ying the want. so I did not concern myself much
about t : but for an even. I was indeed in great pain.
At len I found out an e out for that also. which
was th s: I made some ea vessels. very bros but
not deep; that isto say. about two feet diameter. an not

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 01"

above nine inches deep; theserurnt in the fire. as I
had done the other. and laid them by. and when I wanted
to bake. I made a great lire upon my hearth. which I had
gaved with some s uare tiles. of in own making and
nrning. also: but should not call t cm square.

When the lire-wood was burnt pretty much into embers.
or live coals. I drew them forward upon this hearth so
as to cover it all over- and there I let them lie. till the
hearth was very hot; then sweepin awn all the embers.
I set down my loaf. or leaves. an whe mlng down the
earthen pot upon them. drew the embers all round the
outside ofthe pet to keep in. and add to the heat: and

d. thus. as well as in the best even in the world. Ibnkcd my

barley-loaves. and became. in a little-time. a good Pastry-
cook into the bargain; forI made myself severe cakes
of the rice. and puddings: indeed. I made no ice neither
had I anything to ut nto them. supposing had.oxcept
the flesh either of owls or goats.

lt need not be wondered at. if all these things took me
up most part of the third year of my abode here: for it is
to be observed. that. in the intervals of these things. I
had my new harvest and husbandry to manage. for I
rea m corn in its season. and carried it home as well
as coul . and laid it up in the ear in my large baskets.
till I had time to rub it out: for I had no floor to thresh
it on. or instrument to thrcsh it with.

And now indeed my stock of corn increasing. I really
wanted to build my barns bi, er. I wanted a see to
lay it u in: for the increase 0 the corn lmw yie (led me
so mu that I had of barley about twcnt bushels and
of the rice as much or more: lnsomuch t at now I re-
solved to begin to use it freely. for my bread had been

uite gone a great while ; also I resolved to see what quan-
t ty would be suniclcut for me a whole year. and to sow
but once a year.

Upon the whole. I found that the forty bushels of bar-
ley and rice were much more than I could consume in a
year: so I resolved to sow just the same quantity every
year that I sowed the ins in hopes that such a quantity
would fully provide the w th bread. do.

All the while these things were doing. you may be sure
mg thoughts ran many times upon the res -ct of land
w ich I ad seen from the other side o the land; and
I was not without secret wishes that I were on shore
there. fancyin that seciu the main land. and an inhab-
ited countrv. might tin some way or other to conve
myself farther. and perhaps at last ilnd some mcauso
escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers
of such a condition. and how I might fall into the hands
of savages. and firm? such as I might have reason to
think far worse n t e lions and tigers of Africa; if I
once came into their power I should run a hazard more
than a thousand to one of being killed. and perhaps of
being eaten; for I had heard. that the people of the Car-
ribcou coast were cannibal-i. or men-eaters; and i knew
by the latitude that Icould not be far ofl' from that short: -
that. suppose they were not cannibais. yet they might kill
me as many Europeans who had fallen into their hands
had been served. even when they had been ten or twenty
together: much more I. that was but one. and could make
little or no defense. All these thin . I say. which I
ought. to have considered well of. an did cast up in my
thoughts afterwards. fyl-ct took up none of my ap rchen-
slous at first ; and my cad ran mightily upon the t ought
of rgetting over to that shore.

ow I wished for my bo Xu . and theloug-hoat. with
the shoulderuolimutton so i. wit which I sai ed above a
thousand miles on the coast of Africa- but this was in
vain. Then I thought I would and 'look at our ship's
boat. which. as I have said. was lown up upon the shore.
a great way. in the storm. when we were first east away.
She lay almost where she did at first. but not quite; and
was turned. by the force of the waves and the winds. al-
most bottom upwards. against a high ridge of beachy.
roufh send but no water about her. as before.

i I had had hands to have refitted her. and to have
launched her into the water. the heat would have done
well enough and I might have gone back into the Brazils
with her ees ly enough ; but I might have easily foreseen
that I could no more turn her. and set her upright upon
her bottom. than I could remove the island. Iiowever I
went to the woods. and cut levers and rollers. and brought
them to the boat. resolved to try what I could do. su -
gestiug to myself that if I could but turn her down
might easily repair the damage she had received. and she
would be a very good boat. and I might go to sea in her

ve easily.

{ysparcd no pains indeed in this piece of fruitless toil.
and spent. I think three or four weeks about it: at last.
findingitimpossibie to heave it up with my little strength.
I fell to di ug away the sand to undermine it. and so to
make it it down. setting pieces of wood to thrust and

guide it right in the on.
But when I had done thi I was unable to stir it up

again. orget undcri much on to move it forward to-
wards the water: so was forced to ve it over: and yet.

though I gave over the hopes of 0 beat. my desire tonosmsmv GRUSOE'.

venture over for the main increased. rather than de-
creased. es the means for it seemed impossible.

This at length set me u u thinking. whether it was
not ossible to make myse f a canoe. or periegue such
as t to natives of those climates meks- even w thout
tools. or. as I might say. without hands. vim: of the
trunk of a great tree. T is I not only thought possible.
but easy; and pleased myself extremely with the thoughts
of making it. and with my having much more conve--
nience for it than any of the negroes or Indians. but not
at all considerin the particular inconveniences which I
lay under more t u the Indians did. viz.: want of hands
to move it into the water. when it was made: a difficulty
much harder for me to surmount. than all the conse-

ucncm of want of tools could be to them : for what was

t to me. that when I had chosen a vest tree in the woods.
I tni ht with great trouble cut it down. if after I might
be a is with my tools to how and dab the outside into
the proper she of a host. end burn orcut out the inside
to make it be low. so to mekeeboet of it. if after all
this. I must leave it just where I found it. end was not
able to launch it into the water!

One would have thought. I could not here had the least
afi'cction upon my mind of my circumstsnces. while I
was making this best. but I should have immediately
thought how I should get it into the see; but my thoughts
were so intent upon my voy s over the sea in it. that I
never once considered how should get it off the land;
and it was really. in its own nature. more easy for me to

idc it over forty-five miles of sea. than about forty-five

them of lend. where it lay. to set it silent in the water. by

 

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool that.
ever man did who had any of his senses awake. I pleas-
ed myself with the deal . without determining whether
I was ever able to un ertake it: not but that the diffi-
culty of launching my boat cerae often into my head; but
I put a stop to my own en airlce into it, by this foolish
answer. which I gave mysel : " Let me first make it; I'll
warrant I'll find some way or other to get it along. when
it is done." .

This was a most preposterous method; but the eager-
ness of mg fancy prevailed. and to work I went. and
felled s cc er-tree. I question much whether Solomon
ever had such a one for the building the temple of Jeru-
salem: it was five feet ten inches d ameter. at the lower
pert next the stump. and four feet clevea inches diam-
eter. at the end of twenty-two feet: after which it less-
ened for a while. end then parted into branched It was
not without infinite labor that I felled this tree. I m
twenty days hackin end bowing it at the bottom. I
fourteen more gett ag the breaches. and limbs. and the
vast spreading head of it cut 0!. which I hacked and
hcwcd thron with my axe end hatchet. end inexpreeso
ible labor. r this it cost meamonth to shape it.
and dab it to a proportion. and to something like the
bottom ofa boat. that it might swim upright as it ought
to do. It cost me ncer three months more to clear the
inside. end work it out so as to make an exact bout of it.
This I did indeed without fire. by mere mallet end chisel.
and by the dint of herd labor. till I had brought it to be
e very handsome pcriegua. and big enough to have car-
ricd six-and-twenty men. and consequently big enough
to have carried the and all my cargo.

When I had he through this work. I was extremely
delighted with t. The boat was really much hi or than
I ever saw a canoe. or that was me e of one
tree. in my life; many e weary stroke it had cost. you
may he sure. and there remained nothing but to et it
into the water; end had I otten it into the we er. I
make no question but I shou d have n the maddest
game. and the most unlikely to be per ortned. that ever

in: II.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me.
though they cost me infinite labor too; it hty about one
hau red yards from the water. end not more- but the
first inconvenience was. it was uphill towards the creek.
Well. to take away this discouragement. I resolved to
dig into the surface of the earth. and so make a declivity.
Title I began. and it cost me a prodi one deal of paine-
butwho grad 'epains that have their eliverance in view?
But when th s was worked through. and this difficulty
managed. it was still much the same; for I could no
more stir the canoe. then I could the other host.

Then I measured the distance of ground. and resolved
to cut a dock. or canal. to hrln the water a to the
canoe. seein that I could not hr n the canoe own to
the water. ell. i heuan this wor ' and when I bedsn
to enter into it. and calculated how deep it was to be dug.
how brood. how the stud' was to be thrown out. I found
that. by the number of hands I had. being none but in
own. it must have been ten or twelve years before
should have gone through with it; for the shore ley high.
so that at no upper end it must have been at least
twenty feet deep; so at length. though with great reinc-
tency. I gave this at tempt over also.

This grieved me heartily; end now I saw. though too
late. the folly of be innin a work before we count the
cost. end before we adge r ghtly of our own strength to
go through with it.

In the middle of this work. I finished my fourth year
in this place. and kept in anniversary with the same
devotion and with as nine comfort. as ever before: for
a constant study. and a serious unification of the
word of God. and by the assistance of a race I valued
a different knowlcd e from what I had he ore. entan-
telncd difi'crent not one of things. I looked now upon
the world as a thing remote. which I had nothing to do
with. no 0 tation from and indeed no desire about;
in a word. had nothing indeed to do with it. nor was
ever like to have. so I thought it looked. as we perhaps
the look upon it hereafter. vlz.: as a place I had lived
in. ut was come out of it : and well might I so as father
Aliligtnlntn'i1 to Dives. "Between the an thcc s a gmt

xc ."

gum the first place I was removed from all the wicked-
ness of the vvorld here. I had neither the "lust of the
fies the lust of the c e. nor the pride of life." I had
noth to covet; for I ad all I was ca bio of enfoyin -
I was ord of the whole manor. or. if pleased. mlgfit
call in 'self King or cm ror over the whole countr
which had possession o . There were no rivals. I he
no competitor - none to dis utc sovereignty or command
with me. I might have re scd ship-loads of corn. but I
had no use for it. so I lot as little grow as I the ht
enough for my occasion. I had tortoises or turt es
enough; but now and then one was as much as I could
put to any use. I had timber enough to have built afieet
of ships. I had grs enough to have made wine. or to
have cured into re sins, to have loaded that fieet when
they had been built.

But all that I could make use of. was all that was
valuable. I had enough to cut. end to sup 1 my wants.
and what was all the rest to met If I ki more ficeh
than I could eat. the dog must eat it. or the vermin. If I
sowed more corn than Iconld eat. it must be spoiled.
The trees that I cut down were lyin to rot on the ground.
I could make no more use of them for fuel: and that
I had no occasion for. but to dress my food.

There reflections made me veryscasihle of the goodness
of Providence to me. and very thankful for my present
condition with all its hardships and misfortunes.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably. my mind bein en-
tirely composed? bi resigning to the will of Gt and
throwi mysel w ally in n the disposal of his provi-
dence. his made my life tter than sociable; for when
I began to regret the want of conversation. I would ask
myself. whether thus conversing mutually with my own
th vine. and. as I hope I may say. with even my Maker.
byogfacnlations end titions. was not better than the
utmost enjoyment of amen society in the world?

I cannot say that after this. for five ears any extra-
ordinary thin happened to me; but lived on in the
posture and p ace Just as before. The chief thing I was
employed in. besides my yearly labor of planting my bar-
ley and rice. and curing my raisins. of both which I
always kept up just enough to have snfiicient stock of
one year's provisions before-hand; I say. besides this
y labor. and my dail labor of going out with in

on. bad one labor to in c me e <<in which at last

ished. So that by diggingecanal to t six feet wide
and four feet decp.I broug t it into the me almost
haifa mile. As for the first that was so vastly ig. as I
made it without eonsideringhefere-hend as I ought to do.
how I should be able to launch it. so never bein able to
bring it to the water or bring the water to I was
obl't ed to let it lie when it wasgse memoren am to
tea me to be wiser next time. deed. the next time.
though I could not t a tree proper for i and was in e
place where I coal not get the water to t. at enyiess26

distance than. as I have sai of nearly half a mile. yet
as I saw it was practicable at set. I never gave it over;
and though I was near two years about lt.yct I never
nudged my labor. in hopes of having a boat to go ofl' to
sea in at last.

However. though my little periagua was finished. yet
the size of it was not at all answerable to the design
which I had in view. when I made the first. I mean of
venturing over to the term ilrma. where it was above
forty miles broad: accordingly. the smallness of my boat
assisted to put an end to that design. and now I thought
no more of it. But as I had a beat. my next design was
to make a tour round the island: for as I had been on the
other side in one place. crossing as I have already de-
scribed it. over the and. so the discoveries I made in that
journey made me very eager to ace other parts of the
coast: and now I had a boat. I thought of nothing but
sailing round the island.

For this purpose. and that I might do everything with
discretion and consideration. I titted up a little must to
my boat. and made a sail to it out of some of the pieces
0 the ship's sail. which lay in store. and of which I had
a rest stockelg' me.

avine tilt my mast and sail. and tried the boat. I
found she would call very well. Then I made little lockers
or boxes at either end of my boat. to put provisions.
necessaries. and ammunition. &c.. into. to be kc t dry.
either from rain or the s ray of the sea. and a iitt e lon
hollow place I cut in the made of the boat. where I could
lav my gun. making a flap to hang over it to kcc it dry.

Itixc an umbrella of my own manufacture a so in a
sic of the stern. like a mast. to stand over my head. and
to cop the heat of the sun off me. like an awning: and
thus I every now and then took a little vo age upon the
sea. but never went far out. nor far from t e little crock.

 

though very loath to run any hazards; and therefore
sometimes I sat conniving ways to net her about the
island. and at other times sat myself down contented
enough without her. But I had a stran're uneasiness in
in mind": 0 down to the mint of the island. where. as
I ve said. u my last ramb e. I went up the hill to see
how the shore lay. and how the current set. that I might
see what I had to do. This inclination increased upon
me every dav. and at length I resolved to travel thither by
land; and. following the edge of the shore. I did so; but
had any one in England been to meet such a man as I wn
it must either have m htencd him. or raised a great den
of laughter; and as I requcntly stood still to look at my-
self. I could not but smile at the notion of my travelling
through Yorkshire with such an equi . and in such a
airless." Be pleased to take a sketc of my tigurc. as
o o :

I hada great. high. shapeiess cap. made of a t's skin.
with a nap hanging down behind. as well to kiss; the sun
from me as to shoot the rain elf from running into my
neck; nothing being so hurtful. in these climates. as the
rain I: n the ileeh under the clothes.

I ha a short Jacket of goat's skin. the skirts coming
down to about the middle of my thi hs; and apair of
open-kneed breaches of the same: t s breechcs were
made of the skin of an old hmgoat. whose hair hum;
down such a length on either side. that. like pantaioons.
it reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings and shoes
I had none; but I had made me a air of something. I
scarce know what to call them. like uskins to ila over
my legs. and lace on either side like spatterdlshss. at of
:1 nigst barbarous shape. as indeed were all the rest of my

0 es.

1 had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried. which I drew

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF

together with two thongs of the same. instead or buckles -
and. in a kind ofa frog. on either side or this. instead 0
a sword and dagger. hung a little saw and a hatchet. one
on one side. one on the other. I had another belt not so
broad. and hastened in the some manner. which hung:
over my shoulder: and at the end of it. under my left
arm. bang two genetics. both made of goat's skin too:
in one of which an my owder. in the other my shot.
At my back I carri my askot. on my shoulder a gun.
and over my head a great clams . ugly. goat'oskiu um-
brella. but which. after all. wast s most necessary thing
I had about me. next to my gun. As for my face. the
color of it was really not so mulatto-like as one mi vht
expect from a man not at all careful of it. and liv ng
within nine or_tcu degrees of the equinox. )iy beard
had once sutlcrcd to $3)" till it was about a quarter of a
yard lone; but as I d both scissors and razors suiti-
cicnt. I Had cut it retty short. except what grew on my
upper lip. which I ad trimmed into a large pair of Na-
hometan whiskers. such as i had seen worn by some
Turks. whom I saw at Sallee; for the Moors did not wear
such. thou-4h the Turks did. Of these mustachios. or
whiskers. I will not say they were ion enough to hang
my but upon them; but they were of a ength and shape
monstrous enough, and such as in England would have
passed for m htful.

But all this s by the bye: for as to my figure. I had so
few to observe me. that it was of no manner of conse-

uence; so I say no more to that art. In this kind of
cure I went my new journey. an was out tive or six
days. I travelled that along t e sea-shore. directly to the
place where I am. brought my boat to anchor. to get upon
the rocks; and. having no boat now to take care of. I
went over the land a nearer way. to the same height that
I was upon before. when looking forward to the point of
the rocks which lay out. and which I was to double with
"Y boat. as I said above. I was surprised to see the sea
al smooth and uiet: no rippling. no motion. no current.
so! more there a in other places.
was at a stran 0 loss to understand this. and resolved
to spend some t me in observing it. to see if nothing
item the sets of the tide had occasioned it. But I was
presently convinced how it was. viz.. that the tide of ehh
setting from the west. and Joinin with the current of
waters n-om some t river on t e shore. must be the
occasion of this current: and that. according as the wind
blew more forcibly from the west. or from the not th. this
current came near. or went farther from the shore; for.
waiting thereabouts till evening. I went up to the rock
again. and then the tide of ebb being made. I plainly saw
the current again as before. only that it ran farther oti'.
being near ha fa league from the shore; whereas in my
case. it was set close upon the shore. and burned the in
my canoe. along with it. which at another time it would
not have done.

This observation convinced me that I had nothing to
do but to observe the ebbing and flowing of the title. and
I might very easily brim: my boat about the island a rain:
but when I began to think of uttin it into pmct cc. I
had such a terror u n my spir is at t e remembrance of
the dancer I had con in. that! could not think of it
again with any tience: but. on tho coniraa'. I took up
another rcsolut on. which was more safc.t ough more
laborious. and this was. that I would build. or rather
make me another pcriagua. or canoe. and so have one for
one side of the island. and one for the other. _

You are to understand that now I had. as I may call it.
two plantations in the island: one. my little fortification
or tent. with the wall about it under the rock. with the
cave behind me. which. by this time I had enlarged into
several apartments or caves. one within another. One
of these. which was the driest and largest. and had a door
out beyond to wall or fortification. t t is to say. beyond
where my wai joined to the rock. was all tilled up with
la e earthen pots. 'of which I have given an account
an? with fourteen or fifteen great baskets. which would
hold live or six bushels each. where I laid up my stores
of provisions. especially my coru. some in the ear cut
ofl' mars item the straw. and the other rubbed out with
m n .

is for my well. made. as before. with long stakes or
piles. those piles grow all like trees. and were by this
time grown so big. and spread so very much that there
was not the least appearance. to any ouc's view. of any
habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine. but a little fhrthcr within
the land. and u a lower ground. is my two pieces of
corn ground. w ich I kept duly cu tivatcd and sowed.
and which duly yielded me their harvest in its seasons ;
and whenever had occasion for more corn. I had more
land a oininz as at as that.

Bssi cs this. I had my country sea and I had now a
tolerable plantation there also. For. rat. I had to little
bower asIcalied it. which I kc t in repair- the is to
say I kept the hedge which circ ed it in constantly titted
up to its usual height. the ladder standln always in the
thoughts. like a man perfectly confused an out of myself
inside. I kept the trees. which at first were no more
than my stakes. but were now grown very tint and tall -
I kept them alwa s so cut. that they might a read and
w thick and wi d. and make the more agrees in shade.
which the did effectually to my mind. In the middle of
this I be my tent always standing. being a piece of a
sail spread over poles set up for that purpose. and which
never wanted any repair or renewingh; and under this I
had made me a nab or coach. wi the skins of the
creatures I had kil ed. and with other soft things. and a
blanket laid on them. such as belonged to our soapbed-
ding. which I had saved. and a t watch-coat to cover
me: and here. whenever I ha occasion to be absent
from my chief seat. I took up my country habitation.

Adjoining to this. I had at enclosures for my cattle.
that is to say. my goats: an as I had taken an incon-
ceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this ground
I was so uneasy to see it kept entire. lest the goats should
break through. that I never left off. till. with infinite
labor. I had stuck the outside of the hedges so full of
small stakes. and saucer to one another. that it was
rather a le than a hedge. and there was scarce room to
put my ad through between them: which afterwards.
when those stakes grew. as they all did in the next rainy
season. made the enclosure strong like a wall. indeed
atron er than an wail.

Th s will testi for me that I was not idle. and that I
spared no pains to bring to pass whatever appeared
necessary for my-comfortablo support; for I considered
the keepin up a breed of tame creatures thus at my
hand. woulfi be a livin magazine of tiesh. milk. butter.
and cheese for me. as on as I lived in the place if it
were to be forty years; an that keeping them within my
reach depended entirely upon my perfecting m enclo-
sures to such a dearec that I might be sure of 'eeping
them together; which by this method indeed I so efl'ec-
tually secured. that when these little stakes began to
grow. I hadlplantcd them so very thick I was forced to
pull some 0 them up strain.

In this place also I had my grapes growing. which I
princl lly depended on for my w uter--store of raisins.
and w lch-I never failed to preserve very carefully. as the
best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet; and
indeed they were not agreeable only. but physical. whole-
some. nourishing. and reftcshing to the last degree.

As this was also about half way between my other
habitation and the Place where I had laid up my boat. I
generally staid and ay here in my way thither - for I used
fr neatly to visit my boat. andI kept all things about
or lonwini to her in very good order. Sometimes I
went outdegin er to divert myself; but not any hazardous

voyages would I go. nor scarce ever above a stone's cast
or two from the shore. l was so apprehensive of being
hurried out of my knowledge b the currents. or winds
come to a new scene 0

or hr other accident. But now
my life.

 

It happened one da about noon. going towards my
boat. I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a
man's naked foot on e ahor which was very plain to
be set-n in the sand. I stood ll e one thunderstruck. or
as if I had seen an ap ritlon. I listened. I looked round
me: I could hear not ing. nor see an thing. I went up
to the risin ground to look farther. went up the shore.
and down t is shore. but it waaall one; I could see no
other impression but that one. I went to it a in to see
if there were an more. and to observe it it ght not be
my fan ; but era was no room for that. for there was
exact! he very print of afoot. toes. heal. and every

rt 0 a foot: how it came thither I knew not. nor could

the least imagine. But after innumerable fluttering

all

2"!

thoughts. like a man crfectly confused and out or myself.
I came home to my ortldcation. not feeling as we say.
the ground Iwcnt on. but terrified to the last d e.
lookm behind me at cveryltwo or three steps. mis - ug
every ash ,and tree. and ncying every stump at a dis-
tance to be a man. Nor is it nssible to describe how
many various shapes an atl'rlg ted ima ination repre-
sented things to me in; how many w ld ideas were
formed every moment in my fancy. and what stran o
unaccountable whimsies came into my thoughts by e

we .

\'hcn I came to my castle. for so I thinkIcallod it
ever after this. 1 tied into it like one pursued: whether I
went over by the ladder. as first contriv or went In at
the hole in the rock. which I called a ear. I cannot
remember; for never frighted hare tied to cover. or fox
to earth. with more terror of mind than I to this retreat.

I had no sleep that night. The farther I was from the
occasion of my fright. the greater in apprehensions
were; which is something contra to t e nature of such
things. and especiall to the usua practice of all crea-
tures in fear. But was so embarrassed with my own
frightful ideas of the thing. that I formed nothing but
dismal imaginations to myself. even though I was now a
great way od' it.

Abundance of such thin as these assisted to argue
me. that it must be some 0 the savages of the main land
over against me. who had wandered out to sea in their
canoes. and. eilher driven by the'cnrrent. or by contrary
winds. had made the island: and had been on shore but
gone awa again to sea. being as loath. perhaps. to have
gtaed Ri|n t is desolate island. as I would have been to have

a i cm.

While these reflections were rolling n n my mind. I
was very thankful in my thoughts. that 'as so happy
as not to be thereahouts at that time. or that they did not
see my boat. by which they would have concluded that
some inhabitants had been in the place. and rhapa
have searched farther for me. Then terrible t onghta
racked my imaginations about their havin found in
boat. and that t ere were people here; and t at. if so.
should certainly have them come in greater numbers.
and devour me; that if it should happen so that they
should not find me. yet they would rind my enclosure.
destroy all my corn. carry away all my flock of tame
goats. and I shmdd perish at last for more want.

In the middle of my cogitations. apprehensions. and
reflections. it came into my thoughts one da that all this
might be a mere chimera of my own. and th a foot might
be the print of In con foot. when I came on shore from
my best. This c cored me up a little too. and I began
to ersunde myself it was al a delusion: that it was
not ling else but my own foot; and why might not I come
that way from the boat. as well as I was going that way
to the boat 7 Again. I considered also that I could by no
means tell for certain where I had trod. and where I had
not; and that if at last this was only the rim of my own
feet. I had played the part of those foo s. who strive to
make stories of spcctrt-s and apparitions. and then are
themselves frighted at them more than anybody else.

Now I began to take courage. and to peep abroad again :
for I had not stirred out of my castle for three days and
nights. so that I began to starve for provision. for I had
little or nothin within doors. but some barley cakes and
water. Then I kn cw my goats wanted to he milked too.
which usually was my evening diversion.

Heartening myself therefore with the belief. that this
was nothing but the print of one of my own feet and so
I might be truly said to start at my own shadow.) began
to PS0 abroad again. and went to my country house to
mil my flock; to see with what fear I went forward.
how often I looked behind me. how I was ready. every
now and then. to lay down in basket and run for my life.
it would have made any one on ht I was haunted with
an evil conscience. or that I ha been lately most ter-
ribly frighted; and so indeed i had.

However. as I went on thus two or three days. and had
seen nothing I began to be a little holder. and to think
there was res ly nothing in it but my own imagination -
but I could not persuade nfysclf fully ofthis. till I should
go down to the shore again. and see this print of a foot.
and measure it by my own. and see if there was any si-
mllltude or fitness. that I might be assured it was my
own foot. But when I came to the lace first. it ap-
peared evidentl to me. that when I id up my boat. I
could not possl l- be on shore any where thereahouts.
Secondly. when same to measure the mark with my
own feet. I found In foot not so large by a great deal:
both these things in ed my head with new imaginations.
and re me the vapors again to the highest l-grce. so
that shock with cold, like one in an ages. and I went
home a in. filled with the belief that some man or
men he been on shore there; or. _in short that the
island was inhabited. and 1 might be surprised before I
{as aware; and what course to take for my security. i

new no

This confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all28

night; but in the mornlu I fell asleep. and having b the
amusement of m mind. been, as it were. tired. an m
spirits exhausts I slept very soundly and awoke mac
better composed than I had ever been before. And now
I began to think scdatei : and u on the utmost debate
with m sci I conclude that th s island. which was so
exceed ng p easant. fruitful. and no further item the main
land than as Ihad seen. was not so entirely abandoned
as I might imagine: that although there were no stated
inhabitants who lived on this spot. et there mi ht
sometimes come boats of from the s ore. who. cit or
with design. or perhaps never but when they were driven
by cross winds. might come to this place: that I had
lived fifteen years now. and had not met with the least
shadow or it re of ans people before; and that if at any
time they a ould be rtven here. it was probable they
Went away again as soon as ever they could. sceiu they
had never thought lit to tix here. upon any oceas on. to
this time; that the most I could su- est any danger
from. was. from any such casual acci cutal landing of
straggling pco lc [tom the main: who. as it was likely.
if they were dr vcn hither. were here a inst their wills.
so they made no stay here. but went 0 again at all possi-
ble s seldom staying one night on shore. lest the
short d not have the help of the tides and daviight bac
a tin: and that therefore I had nothing: to debut to con-
s dcr of some safe retreat. in case I should see any sav-
a es land upon the spot.

'ow I began sorely to repent that I had du my cave
so large as to bring a door through again. whic door as
I said. came out beyond where mv fortification joined to
the rock. Upon maturely considering this. therefore. I
resolved to draw mea second fortification. in the same
manner of a semicircle at a distance from my wall. just
where I had planted a double row of trees. about twelve

cars before. of which I made mention. 'i'hesc trees

aviug been planted so thick before. there wanted but
a few piles to be driven between them. that the might
be thicker and stronger. and my wall would e soon
finished.

So that I had now a double wall. and my outer wall was
thitkened with icccs of timber. old cables. and ever -
thing I could th nk of to make it strong: having in t
seven little holes. about as big as I mi ht put my arm out
at. In the inside of this I thickenc my wall to about
ten feet thick. continually hringin earth out of my cave.
and la lug it at the foot of the wal . and walking upon it. :
and t rough the seven holes I contrived to plant the
muskets. of which I took not icethnt I got seven on shore
out of the ship: these. 1 ea . I planted like my cannon.
and fitted them into frames at held them like a carriage.
that so i could tire all the guns in two uiiuntcs' time.
This wall I was many a weary month in finishing. and
yet never thought myself safe till it was done.

When this was done. I stuck all the around without
my wall. for a great way every wag. as full with stakes or
at cits of tho osierdikc wood w ich I found so apt to
grow. as they could well stand: insomnch that I might
act in twenty thousand of them. leaving a pretty large
space between them and my wall. that I might have room
to see an enem . and they might have no shelter Rom the
young trees in cy up roachcd my outer wall.

Thus. in two years had a thick grove: and. in five or
six years' time. I had a wood before my dwelling grown
so monstrous thick and strong that it was indeed per-
fectly impassable; and no man of what kind soevcr.
wou d ever imagine that there was anything beyond it.
much less a habitation. As for the way I proposed to
myselfto go in and out. (for I left no avenue.) it was by
setting two ladders; one to a rt of the rock which was
low. and then broke in. and cit room to place another
ladder upon that; so that. when the two ladders were
taken down. no man living could come down to me with-
out misenictinfigiimself; and if they had come down. they
were still on t outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation : and it will be seen. at
length. thatthsy were not al other without Just reason.
though I foresaw nothing at hat time. more than fear
"fined to me.

ile this was doln . I was not altogether careless of
my other adairs; for had a great concern upon me for
my little herd of goats: they were not onlya resent
gupply to nae-upon every occasion. and began to anni-
eient to me without the expense of powder and shot. but
also abated the fatigue of my hunting after the wild ones.
and Iwas loath to lose the advantage of them. and to
have them all to nurse up over again.

To this purpose. after ong consideration. I could think
of but two ways to preserve them: one was to and an-
other eonvonient place to dl a cave under ground. and
to drive them into it every n ght: and the other was to
enclose two or three little bits of land. remote from one
another. and as much concealed as I could. where I might
keep about half a dozen yonngogoats in each p to
that if any disaster happened the flock in enera . I
might be able to raise them again with it e trouble

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 0F

and time; and thi tho h it would require a great
seats? time and is r. I ought was the most rat out]
on . -

According! I spent some time to and out the most rc-
tircd parts o the island; and I pitched u n one which
was private indeed as my heart could wis : for it was a
little damp piece of round in the middle of the hollow
and thick woods. w ere. as is observed, I almost lost
myself once before. endeavor/lug to come back that way
from the eastern part of the island. Here I found a clear
piece of land near three acres. so surrounded with wood;-.
that it was almostan enclosure by nature; at least. it did
not want near so much labor to make it so. as the other
pieces of ound i had worked so hard at.

I imm lately went to work with this piece of and:
and. in less than a month's time. I had so fenced t round.
that my tiock or herd. call it which you please. which
were not so wild now as at iirst they might be supposed
to be. were well enough secured in it. So. without any
further delay. I removed ten she-goats and two hc-goats
to this piece: and when they were there. I continued to
perfect the fence till I made it as secure as the other.
which. however. I did at more leisure. and it took me up
more time b a t deal.

All this is r was at the exgensc purely from my
apprehensions on account of t e prin of a man's foot
whtch I had seen; for as yet I never saw an ' human
creature come near the island; and I had now lived two

:ears under these nneaslnesses. which indeed made my
tfc much less comfortable than it was before. us may
well be imagined by an who knows what it is to live in
the constant snare of t e fear of man; and this I must
observe with ief too. that the diseomposurc of my mind
had too great mprcssions also upon the religious part. of
my thou 'hts; for the dread and terror of tailing into the
hands 0 savages and cunnibais. lay so upon my spirits.
that I seldom found myselfiu a duo temper for a plica-
tion to my Maker. at least. not with the sedate ca mness
and resignation: of soul which I was wont to do.

But to go on. After I had thus secured one part ofmy
little living stock. I went about the whole island. search-
ing for another private place. to make such another dc-

sit- when. wandering more to the west point of the

sland than I had ever done yet. and. looking out to sea.
I thought I saw a boat upon the sea. at a great distance.
I had iound a perspective glass or two. in one of the sea-
mcn's chests. which I saved out of our ship; but I had it
not about me. and this was so remote. that I could not
tell what to make of it. though I looked at it till my eyes
were not able to hold to look unv longer. Whether It. was
a boat or not. I do not know: but as I descended from
the hill. I could see no more of it. so I gave it over: only
I resoltifd'to go no more without a perspective glass in
m ' "v .

\ hen I was come down the hill. to the end of the island.
where. indecd.I had never been before. I was presently
convinced that the seeingthe print of a man's foot was
not such a strange thing in the island as I imagined: and
but that it was a special rovideucc that I was cast upon
the side of the island w era the savages never came. I
should easily have known that nothing was more frequent
than for the canoes from the mat when they happened
to be a little too far out at sea. to s oot over to that side
of the island for harbor; likewise. as they often met. and.
fought in their canoes. the victors. havin taken any
prisoners. would bring them over to this s ore. where.
accordiu to their dreadful custom. heln all cannibal-u.
they we d kill and eat them: of which. creafter.

 

When I was some down the hill to the shore. as I said

above. being the south-west point of the island. I was
perfectly confounded and amaacd: nor is it possible for
tut to express the horror of my mind. at seeing the shore

a
spread with skulls. handsi feet. and other bones of human
bodies. and particularly observed a lace where there
had been a tire made. ands circle dug n the earth. like a
cockpit. where. it is supposed. the savage wretches had
mt down to their inhuman feastings upon the bodies of
their fellow-creatures.

1 was so astonished with the sight of these thi . that
I entertained no notion of any danger to myself in it
for along while. All my apprehensions were buried in
the tho "hts of sucha pitch of inhuman. hellish brutalit .
and the error of the degeneracy of human nature. whlc .
though lhad heard of often. yet I never had so near a
view of before: in short. I turned awa my face from the
horrid spectacle. my stomach grew sic and I was just at
the int of fainting when nature discha the disor-
der rom my stomach: and having vomit with an un-
common violence. I was a little relieved but could not
bear to stay in the place a moment: so I got me up the
hill again. with all the speed Icould. and walked on to-
wards in own habitation.

When came a little out of that part of the island. I stood
still awhile. as amazed; and then. recovering misc". I
looked up with the utmost atfcction of my sou . an with
a flood of tears in my eyes. gave God thanks that! had
cast my first lot in a rt of the world where I was dis-
tinguished from such readiul creatures as theseq and that.
though I had esteemed my present condition very misc-
rable. had yet given me so many comforts in it that I had
still more to give thanks for than to complain of: and
this. shove all. that I had. even in this miserable condi-
tion. been comforted with the knowledge of Himself. and
the hope of his blessing. which was a ellcity more than
sufliciently e uivslcnt to all the misery which I had suf-
fered. or coul sulfcr.

In this frame of thankfulncss I went home to my castle.
and began to be much easier now as to the safet of m
circumstances. than ever I was before; for I o serv
that these wretches never came to this island in search
of what they could get: perhaps not seeking. not want-
ing. or not expecting anything here; and havin often,
no doubt. been u in the covered wood; part of t. with-
out finding anyth oz to their purpose. new I had been
here now almost eighteen years. and never saw the least
footsteps'of human creature there before: and might be
here eiwhteen more as entirely concealed as I was now.
if I did not discover myself to them. which I had no
manner of occasion to do--it bein my only business to
keep in self entirely concealed w ere I was unless I
found a tter sort of creatures than cannibals to make
mvself known to.

Yet i entertained such an abhorrcuce of the savage
\vrctchcs that I have been speaking of. and of t lo
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and catin
one another n . that I continued pensive and sad. an
kept close wit in my own circle for almost two cars
after this. When I say my own circle. I mean by tm
three plantations--viz. my castle. my country sca whic
[called my bower. and my enclosure in the we ; nor
did i look after this for any other use than as an enclo-
sure for my goats: for the aversion which nature ve
me to these hellish wretchcs was such. that I was as car-
ful of seeing them as of scein the devil himself. Nor
did I so much as go to look a er my boat all this tim
bill began rather to think of making me another; for
could not think of ever making an more attempts to
bring the other boat round the lilan to me. lest I should
meet with some of these creatures at sea. in which. if i
had hn pcued to have fallen in their hands. I knew what
would ave been my lot.

Time. hour-egg. Ina]. the satreisfgctign I had that I was in
no anger o u some y t can c. began to
wear all my uncus ncss about them; uggogegan to livo
just ill the same com scd manner as before--only with
this difference. that used more caution and It?! my
eyes more about me than I did before. iest'l shonl hap-
pen to be seen by any of them; and particularly I was
more cautious in firing my gun. lest any of them being
on the island should ha pen to hear it; and it was. there-
fore. it ve provi once to me that I had furnished
myself wit a tame breed of goats. that I needed not hunt
any more about the woods. or shoot at them: and if I did
catch any of them after this. it was by traps and sna
as I had done before: so that for two ears after this.
believe I never fired m gnu once 0 then h I never
went out without it: an which was more. as had saved
three pistols out of the shi . I always carried them out
with me. or at least two 0 them. sticking them in my
Boat-skin belt. Il 'ewise mrbished up one of the great
cutiasses that I be out of the ship. and made me a belt
to at it on also: so thstI was now a most formidable
fel ow to look at when I went abroad. if you add to the
former description of myself the particular of two pistols
and a great broadsword hanging at my side in a belt. but
without a seabbard.

Thin going on thus. as I have said. for some time. I
scemetE'exceptin these cautions. to be reduced to my
former calm. setfste way of living. All these things

tended to showing me. more and more. how far my con-
dition was from being miserable. compared to some
others. nay. to man other particulars of life. which it
might have leased to have made my lot. It put me
upon reflect ug how little repining there would be among
mankind. at any condition of life. if people would rather
com their conditions with those that are worse. in
order to be thankful. than be always comparing them
with those which are better. to assist their murmurings
and complainiugs.

As in my present condition there were not rcall many
things which I wanted. so indeed I thought i at the
frights I had been in about these savage wretches. and
the concern I had been in for my own preservation. had
taken off the edge of my invention for my own conve~
nicnccs; and I had dropped a good design. which I had
once bent my thoughts upon. and that was. to try if I
could not make some of my barley into malt and then
try to brew myself some beer. This was really a whim-
sical thou ht. and I reproved myself oilen for the sim-
plicity of t: for I presently saw there would he the want
of several things necessary to the making m beer that it
would be impersible for me to so ply; as. rst. casks to
preserve it in. which was a thing at. as I have observed
already. I could never compass; no though I spent not
many days. but weeks. nay months. 'in attempting it. but
to no purpose. In the next place I had no hops to make
it keep. no east to make it work. no co r or kettle to
make t boi ; and yet had not all these t u-rs intervened
(i mean the frights and terrors l was in about the
savages). I had undertaken it. and perhaps brought it to
pass too: for I seldom gave anything over without
poof; llhhing it. when once I had it in my head enough

0 ll .

But mi invention now ran quite another way - for night
and day could think of nothing but how 1 mg tdestroy
some of these monsters in the r cruel. bloody entertain-
ment. and. if possible. save the victim they should bring
hither to destro . It would take up: larger volume than
this whole wor is intended to . to set down all the
contrivanccs l hatched. or rather broodt-d upon. in my
thoughts. for the destroying these creatures. or at least
frightening them so as to prevent their coining hither
any more. But a i was abortive: nothing could be pos~
sibio to take etlcct. unless I was to be there to do it my-
self. And what could one man do among them. when.
perhaps. there might be twenty or thirty at them together
with their darts. or their bows and arrows. with which
they could shoot as true to a mark as i could with my
gun.

Sometimes I thought of digging a hole under the place
where they made their fire. and put in live or six pounds
of gunpowder. which. when they kindled their lire. would
consequently take tire. and blow up all that was near it.
But as. in the first place. I was loath to s nd so much
powder upon them. my store beln now w thin the quan-
tity of one barrel. so neither coal 1 be sure of its golu
oil at any certain time. when it might surprise them. an
at best it would do little more than just blow the fire
about their ears and filghtcn them but not suniclent to
make them forsake the place ; so I'Iald it aside. and then
proposed I should lay myself in ambush in some conve-
nient lace. with m ' three guns. all double loaded. and in
the m ddlu of their loody ceremony let tly at them. when
I should be sure to kill or wound perhaps two or thme at
every shot and then falling in upon them with my three
pistols and sword I made no doubt but that if there were
twenty I should kill them all. This fanc pleased my
thoughts for some weeks. and I was to fit I that! often
dreamed of it. and sometimes that l was out going to let
fiy among them in m sleep.

I went so far with t in my imagination. that I employed
myself several days to find out a proper place to put my-
self in ambuscsde. as I said. to watch or them; and I
went frequently to the place itself which was now grown
more familiar to m and especially while my mind was
thus filled with thong ts of revenge. and of putting

twenty
or thirt of them to the sword. as I will call it- but the

horror had at the lace. and at the si is of the bar.
barltilus wretches evouring one shot or. abated my
ma ce.

Well at length I found a place in the side of the hill.
where I was satisfied I ml ht securely wait till I saw any
of their boats coming. an might then. even before they
would be ready to come on shore. convey myself unseen
into the thickest of the trees. in one of which there was
a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely. and where
I might sit and observe all their doing:i and take my full
aim at their heads. when were so use together that
it would be next to impose ble that I should miss my
shot. or that I could (all wounding three or four of them
at the first are.

In this place. then. I resolved to fix my design. and
according y I prepared two muskets and in ordinary
fuming-piece. The two muskets I loaded w th a brace
of slugs each. and four or live small bullets. about the
size of pistol bullets; and the fowling-picce I loaded80

with neerl a handful of swan shot. of the largest size.

Intro 10: ed my pistols with about four bullets each;

and in this sture. provided with ammunition for a

so?" and t ird charge. I prepared myself for my expe-
on.

After I had thus laid the scheme for my design. and.
in my imagination. put it in practioe.I continua ly made
my tour every morning up to the top of the bill. which
was from my castle as I called it) about three miles. or
more. to see if I con d observe an ' boats upon the sea
coming near the island. or stand ng over towards it;
but I began to tire of this hard duty. after I had for two
orthree months constantly ke t watch. and come always
back without any discovery. t icre having not in all that
time been the least appearance. not only on or near the
shore. but not on the whole ocean. so far as my eyes or
glasses could reach every way.

As long as I kt?! up the daily tour to the hill to look
out. so long also kc t up the vigor of my desi n: and
my spirits seemed to l the w tie in a suitab e frame
for such an outrageous execution as the killing of twenty
or thirty naked savages.

I believe the reader of this will not think it strange if
I confess that these anxieties. these constant dangers
that I lived in. and the concern that was now upon me.
put an end to all invention. and to all the contrivances
that I had laid for my future accommodation and con-
veniences. I had the care of my safety more now upon
my hands than that of my food. I cared not to drive a
null. or cite a stick of wood now. for fear the noise I
made shoul be heard: much less would I fire a gun for
the same reason: and. above all. I was very uneasy at
makin any fire. lest the smoke. which is visible at a

rest istnnce in the dav. should helm me: and for
t is reason I removed that part of my usiness which
required fire. such as the burning of pots. pi es. die"
into my new apartment in the woods. where. a er I had
been some time. I found. to my unspeakable consolation.
a more natural cave in the earth. which went in a vast
way. and where I dare say no savage. had he been at the
month of it. would be so hardy as to venture in; nor.
indeed. would any one else but one who. like me. wanted
nothing so much as a safe retrmt.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom ofa rent
rock. where. by mere accident I would say 'lf I di not
see abundant reason to ascribe all such th ugtI now to
Providence). I was cutting down some thick branches of
trees to make charcoal.

I wu afraid of making a smoke about my habitation.
as I said before. and ed could not live there without
baking my bread. coo ing or meat. &c.; so I contrived
to burn some wood here. as had seen done in England
under turf. till it became chark. or dry coal: and then
putting the fire out. I preserved the coal to carry home.
and performed the other services for which the fire was
wanting. without danger of smoke.

Butt is b the b e. While I was cutting down some
wood here. perce rod that. behind a very thick branch
of low brush-wood or under-wood there was a kind of a
hollow lace. I was curious to look into it. and getting
with d: culty into the mouth of it. I found it was pretty
large--that is to say. suilicient for me to stand upright
in it. and perhaps another with me; but I must confess
to you I made more haste out than I did in. when look-
ing farther into the place. which was perfectly dark. I
saw two broad shining eyes of some creature. which
twinkled like two stars; the dim light from the eavc's
mouth shining directly in. and making the reflection.

However. after some pause I recovered mvself' arid
plucking u cottage. I took a great nrebrand. and in I
ntshed ugu n. \ h the stick flaming in my hand. I had
not gone three steps in. but I was a most as much fri vht-
ed as I was before; for I heard a very loud sigh. iko
that of a man in some pain. and it was followed by a
broken noise. as if of words half ex rcssed. and then a

deep sigh again. I step back. an was indeed struck
wit such a surprise t t it put me intoa cold sweat;

and if Ihad had a hat on m head. I would not answer
for it that my hair had not I tied it off. lint still pluck-
ing up my spirits as well as I could. and encouragin
mysel a ittle with considering that the power an
presence of God was everywhere. and was able to rotect
me. I stepped forward again. and b the light oft e dre-
hrand. holding it a little over my end. I saw. l on
the and. a most monstrous fri -htiul old he-goat. nst
rank n his will. as we say. gasp rig for life, and dying.
ind . of more old age.
I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out. and
he essaycd to get up. but was not able to raise himself;
and I thought with myself he might even its there - for
if he had frighted me so. he would certainly fri hten
any of the savages. if any of them should be so rdy
as to come in there. while he had any life in him.
I was now recovered from my surprise. and began to

look around me. when I found the cave was but very

small ; that is to say. it might be about twelve feet over.

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 01"

but in no manner of shape. either round or square. no
hands having ever been employed in makln it than
those of more nature. I observed. also. that t are was
a place at the further side of it that went in farther. but
it was so low that it required me to creep upon my hands
and knees to go into it and whither it went I knew not;
so. having no candle.I vo it over for some time. but
resolved to come again t e next day. provided with can-
dies and a tinder-box. which I had made of the lock of
one of the muskets. with some wildfire in the pan.

Accordingly. the next day. I came rovidcd with six
large candles of my own making. for made very good
candles now of goat's talidiv; and oing into this low
place I was obll ed to croe upon all ours. as I have said.
almost ten r s, which. the way I thought. was a
venture bol enough. cons during that I knew not how
far it might go. or what was beyond it. When I was at
through the strait. I found the roof rose higher It . I
Here near twenty feet; but never was such a g orioua
sight seen in the island. I dare say. as it was. to look
round the sides and roof of this vault or cave. The
walls reflected a hundred thousand lights to me from my
two candies; what it was in the rock. whether diamonds.
or augeother precious stones. or gold. which I supposed
it to . I knew not.

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity. or

rotto. of its kind. as could he expected. thou-'h per-

ectly dark; the floor was dry and level. and had. a sort
of sinail loose gravel upon it. so that there was no nau-
seous or venomous creatures to be seen; neither was
there any damp or wet on the sides or roof. The onl
difIicult in it was the entrance. which. however. as t
was a p ace of security. and such a retreat as I wanted.
I thought that was a convenience- so that I really re-
joiced at the discovery. and resolved. without any delay.
to bring some of those things which I was most anxious
about to this place; Particularly I resolved to bring
hither my magazine 0 powder. and all my s re arms.
viz.. two fowllng-pleccs (for I had three in all. and three
muskets (for of them I had eight in all); so I ept at my
castle only tive, which stood. ready mounted. like pieces
of cannon. on my outmort fence. and were all ready to
take out upon any expedition.

Upon th s occasion of removing m ammunition. I
was obll cd to open the barrel of pow er which I took
up out o the sea. and which had been Wet; and I found
that the water had pcttetratcd about three or four inches
into the powder on ever side which coking and grow-
ing hard. had reservedt e ins de like akernel in a shell.
so that I had s xty ounds vcrygood powder in the centre
of the cask; and t is was an agreeable discovery to me
at that time: so I carried all away thither. never keep-
ing above two or three pounds of powder with me in m
castle. for fear of a surprise of any kind. I also curri
thither all the lead I had left for bullets.

I fancied to self now like one of the ancient giants.
which weresa d to live in caves and holes in the rocks.
where none could come at them ; for I persuaded myself.
while I was here. if five hundred save es were to hunt in:I
they could never find me out; or if t ey did. they wont
never venture to attack me.

 

D
The old goat. whom -I found expl>riuz died in the mouth
of the cave. the next day after I made this discovery-
aud I found it much easier to dig a great hole there. an
throw him in. and cover him with earth. than to drag
him out: so I interred him there. to prevent ofl'encc to
m ' nose. .

Iwas now in my twentyvthird year of residence in this
island. and was so naturalized to the place. that I began
to be ve well-contented with the life I led. if it might
but have a secured from the dread of the savages.

But it was otherwise directed - and it may not be amiss
for all people who shall meet with my story to make this
just observation from lt.viz.: how he neatly. in the course
of our lives. the evil. which in its: we seek most to
she and which. when we are fallen into. is the most
area ful to "I'll oftentimes the very door of our deliver
auce. by whit: alone we can be raised again item the
aiiiiction we are fallen into. Icould giveman examples
of this in the course of m unaccountable l fe; but in
nothing was it more particu ariy remarkable. than in the
cmllilimlulmcg' of the last years of my solitary residence
in t s s an .

It was now the month of December. as I said above. in
my twenty-third ear: and this bei the southern sol-
st cc. for winter cannot calli wast a particular time
of my harvest. and required my ing pretty much abroad
in the tields; when going otit pretty early in the morning
even before it was thorough daylight. I was surprise
with seeing a light of some lire upon the shore. at a d|s~
lance from of about two miles. towards the end of the
island where had observed some savages had been as
before; but not on the other side. but. to my great stille-
tlou. it was on my side of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight. and stop-
ped short within my grove. not daring to go out. lest I
might be surprised; and get i had no more peace within
from the apprehensions had that if these savages in
rambling over the island. should and my corn stand nr.
or en or any of my works or improvements. they won (I
lmm lately conclude thattherc were people in the place.
and would then never give over till they found me out.
in this eatrcmit I went back directly to my castle. pulled
ip the ladder a or me. having made all things without
look as wild and natural as I could.

Then I repared myself within. putting misc" in a pos-
ture of do once. [loaded all m cannon." callcdthcm.
that is to say. in muskets w ich were mounted u "I
my new fortineat on. and all my pistols. and resolv to
defend myself to the last gulp; not forgetting seriously
to commend myself to the ivlne protection, and earn-
estluo pray to (led to deliver me out of the hands of
the rbsrians- and in this sture I continued about
two hours. but bi n to be m ghty iru tient for intelli-
gence abroad. for had no spice to sen out.

After sitting awhile longer. and musing what I should'

do in this case. I was not able tobear sltti in orance
longer; soseltiug u my ladder to the s deo the hill
where there was a at place. as I observed before. and
then pulling the ladder up after me I set it up again. and
mounted to the to of the hill; and pulling out to pen
apectlve glass. wh eh I had taken on pu e. I is d me

own flat on m belly. on the ground. an began to look
for the lace. presently found there were no less than
nine ed savages sitting round a small lire they had
made; not to warm them. for they had no need of that.
the weather bein extremely hot. but. as I sup to
dress some of the r barbarous diet of human flesh. which
the had brought with them. whether alive or dead. I
con d not know.

They had two canoes with them. which they had hauled
up on the shore- and as it was then tide of chi). they
seemed to wait the return of the flood to go awn again.
It is not easy to imagine what confusion this in bi. put
me into. especially seeing them come on my s tie the
island. and so near me. too; but when I observed their
coming must he always with the current of the ebb I
be an afterwards tobe sedate in in mind. bein sat a-
lit that I might go abroad with aa ety all the fime of
tide of flood. f i lay were not on sl are before; and hav-
ing made this observation. I went read about my har-
vestworlt with the more com sure.

As I expected so it rov - for as soon as the this
made to t e westward. saw them all take boat. and row
(or paddle. as we call it.) all away. I should have ob-
served. that for an hour and more before they want oil'.

_ they went to dancing. and I could easily discern their

three and gestures bymy glasses; I could not per- boa

cc ve. b my nicest obscrvs on. but that they were
stark na ed. and had not the least covering u on them;
mittlwhetihgr they were men or women. that could not

I ngu s .

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone. I took two
guns upoti my shoulders. and two istols at my irdl
and great sword by my side. wit out a seaer an
witha l the speed I was able to make. I went away to
the hill. where I had discovered the am appearance of
all. As soon asI got thither. which was not less than
two hours. (for I could not on being so loaded
with arms as I was.) I percc VQJ there had been three
canoes more of savages on that place: and looking out
{airtheri I saw they were at m together. making over for

e ma n.

This wssa dreadihl si htto me. especiall . when golu
down to the shor I coufid see the marks 0 horror which
the dismal work cy had been about had left behind it.

81

viz. : the blood. the bones. and rt of the flesh of human
bodies. eaten and devourcdlzy t ose wretches. with men-
rimcnt and sport. I was so lied with indignation at-the
sifht. that I began now to premeditate the destruction
0 the next that I saw there. let them be who or how
many soevcr.

It seemed evident to me. that the visits which th thus
made to this island. were not very h'cquent; for t was
above fifteen months before any more of them came on
shore there again; that is to say. I never saw them. or
any footsteps or signals of them. in all that time'. for. as to
the rainy seasons. then they are sure not to come abroad.
at least not so far- yet all this while I lived uncomforta-
bly by reason of the constant ap rehensions I was in of
their comin upon me by surpr ac - from whence I eb-
scrve that t e expectation of of evil is more bitter than
the sum-ring. especially if there is no room to shake off
that expectation. or those apprehensions.

Durln all this time. I was in the mnrderina humor;
and too up most of my hours. which should have been
better Chill). eyed. in coutrlving how to circumvent and
fall it on t cm the very next time I should see them. es-

cia iy if they should be divided. as they were at the

at time. into two parties; nor did I consider at all. that
"I killed one party. suppose ten or a dozen. i was still
the next day. or week or month. to kill another. and so
another. even ad influlfum. till I should beno lcssa mur-
derer than they were in being man-caters. and perhaps

""1lch mm "in i t it d i t
it ill in ya now u ml ex an an: e
y my orY=ilher fall iutg

l

ofm n expecting thatl should 0| e

the ban of these merciless creatures. If Idld at any
time venture abroad. it was not without the greatest care
and caution imaginable ; and now I found. to my greatest
comfort how happy it was that I had provided a tame
ilock orherd of goats - for I durst not. upon any account.
tire my gun. or eclally near that side of the island.
where they usun I came. lost I should alarm the lava es;
and if they had ed iiom me now. I was sure to ave
them come back a in. with rhaps two or three hun-
dred canoes witht em. in a air days. and then I knew
what to expect.

However. I were out a year and three months mo
before I ever saw any more of the savages: and then
found them again as I shall soon observe. It is true.
they mi ht have been there once or twice; but either
the ma e no stay. or at least i did not hear them; but.
in t e month of hiay. as near as I could calculate. and in
my founand-twcntieth ear I had a very strange encoun-
ter with them. of whlc in its lace.

The perturbation of my min . durlugthis fifteen or six-
teen months' interval. was very great. I slept nu ule
dreaming always frightful dreams. and often startc on
of my sleep in the night - in the day. great troubles oven
whelmed my mind - in t e night I dreamed often of kill-
in sav es. and t e reasons why I might justify the
do ug of t. But. to waive all this for a while. it was in
the middle of hisy. on the sixteenth da . as well as in
poor wooden calendar would reckon. or I marked at
u n the post still: I say. it was on the sixteenth of

sv. that it blew I ve great storm of wind all day.
with a in." deal of lig tning and thunder. and a very
foul uig t was after it. Iknow not what was the partic-
ular occasion of it: but as I was reading in the szle.
and taken up with serious thoughts about my present
condition. I was surprised with the noise of a gun, as I
thought. fired at sea.

This was. to be sure. a an rise of quite a different na-
ture from any I had metw th before- for the notions
this put into in thoughts were quite of another kind. I
started up in ie greatest haste imaginable: and. in a
trlce cla pod u my ladder to the middle lace of the
rock. an pull it alter me. and mounting t the second
time. got to the top of the bill; that very moment a
flash of tire bade me listen for a second inn. whi
accordingly. in about half a minute. 1 card; an
by the sound knew that it was from that part of the
sea where I was driven out with the current in my

t.
I immediately considered that this must be some ship
in distress and that they had some comrade. or some
other ship a company. and fired these guns for signals
of distress. and to obtain hel . I had the presence of
mind. at that minute. as to t ink that. though could
not help them. it mu be they ml ht help in so I
brought together all t e dry wood could get at hand.
an making a good handsome lie. I set it en tire upon
the ill ; the wood was dry, and b ed freely; and. though
the wind blew very hard. yet it burnt fairly out. so that I
was certain. if there was any each title; as a ship. they
must needs see it. and no doubt they dl : for. as soon as
my fire blazed up. I heard another a. and afterthat sev-
eral others. all from the same r. I plied my fire all
at ht lone. tillda broke; an when itwas broad day.
an" the air cles up. I saw something at a great dis-
tance at sea. full cast of the lots whether a sail. or a
hall. I could not distinguish. no. 0 with my glasses. the82

distance was sogreat. and the weather still something
hazv. also: at least. it was so out at sea.

I'looked fiequeutly at it all that day. and soon per.
ceived that it did not move; so I resently concluded
that it was a shi at anchor; and be u eager. you ma
be sure. to he sat shed. I took my gun n my hand. an
ran towards the south-east part of the island. to the
rocks. where I had been formerly carried away with the
current; and getting it there. t e weather by this time
being perfectly clear. could plainly see. to my great
sorrow. the wreck of a ship cast away in the night upon
these concealed rocks. wh eh I had found when out in
my boat: and which rocks. as they checked the violence
of the stream. and made a kind of counter-stream. or
eddy. were the occasion of mv recovering then from the
most desperate. hopeless condition that ever 1 had been
in all my life.

Thus. what is one man's safety. is another man's de-
struction: for it seems these men. whoever they were.
being out of their knowledge. and the rocks being wholly
under water. had been driven upon them in the night.
the wind blowing hart! at E. and E. N. E. Had the seen
the island. as I must necessarily suppose they di not.
they must. as I thou ht. have endeavored to have saved
themselves on shore y the help of their boat; bttt their
firing of their guns for help. especially when they saw.
as I imagined. my fire. tilled me with many thoughts.
First. I imagined that. ttpon seeing my light. they might
have put themselves into their boat. art have endeav-
ored to reach the shore. but that the sea going very high.
they might have been cast away. Other times I imag-
ined that they might have lost their boat, before. as
might be the case many ways; as particularly by the
breaking of the sea upon their ship. which many times
obliged men to stave. or take in pieces their boat. and
sometimes to throw it overboard with their own hands.
Othertitncs I imagined they had some other ship or ships
in company. who. upon the signals of distress they had
made. had taken them up. and carried them off. Utbcr
whites I fancied they were all gone oti' to sea. and, being
hurried own; by the current that I had been formerly in.
were carric out into the great ocean. where there was
nothin but misery and perishing; and that perhaps they
might. y this time. think of starving. and of being in a
condition to eat one another.

It was not. however. till the last year of my being in
this island. that I ever knew whether any were saved out
of that ship or no: and had only the nililction. some days
after. to see the co so of n drowned boy come on shore.
at the end of the is and which was next the shipwreck.
Iic had on no clothes but a scaman's waist-coat. a pair
of open-kneed linen drawers. and a blue linen shirt;
but nothing to direct mcso much as to guess what nation
he was of. He had nothing in his pocket but two pieces
of eight. and a tobaecoopipe; the last to me of ten times
more value than the first.

It was now calm. and I had a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck. not doubting but I might
tind something on board that might be useful to me;
but that did not altogether press the so much as the pos-
sibility that there might be yet some living creature on
board. whose life I might not only save. but might. b
savin that life. comt'o my own to the last degree: an
thist ought clung so to my heart. that I could not be
quiet. night or day. but I must venture ottt on board this
wreck; and. committing the rest to God's providence. I
thou ht the impression was so strong upon my mind.
that t could not be resisted. that it must come from
some invisible direction. and that I should be wanting
to myself if I did not go.

Under the power of this impression. I hastened back
to my castle. prc. red everything for my voyage. took a
quantity of brca a great pot of fresh water. a compass
to steer by. a bottle of rum (for I had still a great deal of
that left) and a basket hill of raisins: and thus loading
myself with everything necessarv. I went down to m '
boat. got the water out of her. and r-ot her afloat. load
all my cargo in her. and then went home again for more.
My stcond cargo was agmt ba" full of rice. the um-
brella to set up over mv head for :hade. another large pot
fhll of fresh water. and about two dozen of small leaves.
or barley cakes. more than before. with a bottle of goat's
milk. and a cheese; all which. with great labor and sweat.
I brought to my boat. and praying to God to direct my
voyage. I out out: and rowing or paddling the canoe
along the shore. I came at last to the utmost point of the
island. on that side. viz.. N. E. And now I was to launch
out into the ocean; and either to venture. or not to ven-
ture. I looked on the ra id currents which ran con-
stantly on both sides of e island. at a distance. and
which were very terrible to me. from the remembrance
of a hazard I had been in before. and my heart a to
failme: for I foresaw that. if I were driven into either
of those currents. I should be carried a vast way out to
sea.l and perhaps out of my reach. or ai ht of the island
figs n; and that then. my boat was at small. if any

ttle gale of wind short (1 rise. I should be inevitably los

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF

These thoughts so oppressed m mindsthat I began to
give over my cute rise. and. hav ng hauled my boat into
a little crack on shore. I stepped out. and sat me
down upon a little spot of rising ground. very pensive
and anxious. between fear and desire. about my voyage;
when as I was musing. I could perceive that the tide was
turned. and the flood came on. upon which my going was
for so many hours in racticable. Upon this. it. presently
occurred to me that should 0 up to the hi best piece
of ground I could find. and o serve. if I con d. how the
sets of the tides or currents lay when the flood came in.
that I mi ht Judge whether. ifI were driven one way
on I mig t not expect to be driven another way home.
wit the same rapt ness of the currents. This thought
was no sooner in my head. but I cast my e c upon a little
hill. which suflieiently overlooked the sea th ways. and
from wheneeI had aciear view of the current or sets
of the tide. and which way I was to guide myse f in my
return. Here I found. that as the current of the ebb set
out close by the south point of the island. so the current
of the doc set in close b the shore of the north side:
and that I had nothing to 0 but to keep to. the north of
the island in m return. and I should do well enough.

Encoumcd y this observation. I resolved. the next
morning. to set out with the first of the tide: and repos-
ing myself for that night under the great watch-coat I
mentioned. I launched out. I made first a little way out
to sea. full north. till I bean to feel the benefit of the
current which set ear-two . and which carried me at a
great rate and yet did not so much hurry me as the
southern s do current had done before. and so as to take
from me all govcmnxent of the boat ; but. having a strong
steera wit my paddle. I went. I say. at a great rate.
dirctgtiy for the wreck. and in less than two hours I came
up .

It wasa dismal sight to look at: the ship. which by
the bttlldittg was Spanish. stuck fast. jammed in between
two rocks; all the stern and quarter of her were beaten
to pieces by the sea; and as her forecastle. which stuck
in the rocks. had rtm on With great vrolenee her main-
mast and foremost were brought by the board. that is to
any. broken short oil'; but her bows rit was sound. and
the head and how a mound firm. \ hen I came close to
her. a tit appease upon her. who. seein ' me coming

'elped an cried; and as soon as leaned" him. amped
ate the sea to come to me: and I took him into t c boat.
but found him almost dead for hunger and thirst. I gave
him a cake of my bread. and he eat like a ravenous wolf
that had been starving a fortnight in the snow. ltheu
gave the poor creature some fresh water; it ith which. if
would have let him. he would have burst himself.

After this I went on board. The first si ht I met with
was two men drowned in the cock-room. o forecastle of
the ship. with their arms fast about one another. I con-
cluded. as is indeed probable. that when the ship struck.
it bein-v a storm. the sea broke so high that the men were
not able to bear It. and were stran led with the constant
rushing in of the water. as mucfi as if they had been
under water. Besides the dog. there was nothing left in
the ship that had life; not any goods that I could rec. but
what were s cried by the water. There were some casks
of liquor. w ether wine or brandy. I knew not. which
lay in the lower hold. and which. the water hem: cbbcd
out. 1 could see: but they were too big to meddle with.
I saw several chests. which I believed. belonged to some
seamen; and I got two of them in the boat. without ex--

what was in them.

amiuin"

liad fire stern of the ship been fixed. and the fore art
broken oil. I am renadcd I might have made a 2%od
voyage; for. by w at I found in these two chests. I had
room to sup se the ship had agreat deal of wealth on
board: and f I may guess b the course she steered she
must have been bound from nenoa Ayres. or the Rio de
la I'lata. in the south part of America. beyond the Bra-
zils. to the Batman. in the Gulf of Mexico. and so per-
haps to bpain. she had. no doubt. a great treasure in
her. but of no use. at that time. to anybody; and what
became of the rest of her people. I knew not.

I found. besides these chests.a little cask i'nll ofllquor.
of about tWt-nty gallons. which I got into my boat with
much diniculty. There were several markets in a cabin
and a great powder-horn. with about four pounds of
powder in it: as for the markets I had no occasion for
them: so I left them. but took the powderhorn. I took
a tire shovel and tongs which I wanted extremely; as
also two little brass kettles. a co -r pot to make choco-
late. and a grithron: and with l a cargo. and the dog. I
came away. the tide ning to make home a . in : and
the same evening. about an hour within ni ht. reached
the island again. weary and fatigued to thefiast degree.

I re ed that night in the boat; and in the morning
I roso ved to harbor what I had gotten in my new cave.
not to carry it home to my castle. After refreshing my-
:filf. I gait a'll my at" 0).} who're. and! lfiegan to examine

e par cu ars. 0 as o quor ound to a a
of rum. but not such as we had at the B be "I a

null ;
word. not at all good. But when I came :0 :g'nhth:
chests. I found several things which I wanted; for ex-
unole. I found in one a fine case of bottl of an em
ord nary kind. and filled with cordial wa s. fine and
very good: the bottles held about three pints each. and
were tipped with silver. I found two ts of verzngood
succades. or swectmeat so hastened so on to t the
salt water had not hurtt em - and two more of e sam
which the 'water had spoiled. I- found some ve goood
shirts. which were ve welcome to me. and a at a
dozen and a half of wh to linen handkerchiefs. and col-
ored neckcloths: the former were also very welcom
being exceedingly refreshing to wig: my face in a ma
day. Beridee this. when I came to e til in the chest. I
found there three reat bags of pieces of ei ht. which
held about eleven undnd pieces in all; an inone of
them. wrapt up in a paper. six doubioons of gold, and
some sma l bars or wedges of gold; I suppose they
mi ht all wei h near a pound.

he other e est I found had some clothes in it. but of
little value- but by the circumstances it must havebe-
longed to't e gunner's mate. thou h there was no ow-
der in it. but about two pounds of g axed powder, in res
small fiasks. kept. I an se. for charging their fewlin -

ieces on occasions. pen the who e. got very litt e

y this vogage. that was of much use to me; for as to the
money. I i no manner of occasion for it; it was to me
as the dirt under my feet. and I would have given it all
for three or four air of English shoes and stockings.
which were things greatly wanted. but had not had on
my feet now for many ears. I ha indeed. gotten two
pair of shoes new. whlc I took 0th e fbet of the drown-
ed men whom I saw in the wreck; and I found two pair
more in one of the cheats. which were very welcome to
me; but they were not like our English shoes. either for
ease or service. being rather what we call pumps than
shoes. I found in this seaman's chest about fifty pieces
of eight in royals. but no old; I sucplpose this belonged
to a poorer man than the er. whl seemed to belong
to some omeer.

Well however, I In -thls men home to my es
and laid it up. as I d done that fore. which I he
brought horn our own ship deg but it was a great pity. as I
said. that the other part 0 he ship had not come to my
share. for I am satisfied I might have loaded my canoe
several times over with money: which. had I ever
esca ed to England. would have laid here safe enough.
till might have come again and fetched it.

Having now brought all my thin on shore and se-
cured them. I went eck to my hon and rowed or ad-
dled her along the shore to her old harbor. where I aid
her up, and made the best of m; we to my old habitation.
where i found everything as e an quiet; so I began to
repose myself. live after my old fashion. and take care of
my family affairs; and forawhile Illved eas enoug
only that I was more vigilant than I used to . look
out often and did not go abroad so much; and if at any
time I did stir with any freedom. it was alwa s to the
east part of the island..wherc I was preit wel satisfied
the savages never came. and where I coul go without so
many precautions. and such a load of arms and ammuni-
tion as l nlwa carried with me in went the other way.

I lived in th a condition near two cars more; but
unlucky head. that was alwags to ct me know it was
born to make my body misera is was all those two years
filled with projects and des s. how if it were possible.
I might get away from this sland; for sometimes I was
making another voyage to the wrec though my reason
told me that there was nothing is there worth the
hazard of my voyage; sometimes for a ramble one way.
sometimes another; and I believe verily. if I had had the
boat that I went from Seller: in. I should have ventured
to sea bound anywhere. I know not whither.

I am now to be supposed to be retired into In castle
after in late voyage to the wreck. my M to lai up. and
seen under water as usual. and condi ion restored to
what it was before. I had more wealth. indeed. than I
had before. but was not at all the richer; forI had no
more use for it than the Indians of Peru had before the
Spaniards came thither.

About a year and a half after I was surprised one morn-
ing early. with seeing no less than five canoes. all on
shore together. on my side the island. and the people
who belonged to them all landed and out of my sight.
The number of them broke all my measures; for seeing
somany. and knowin the alws s came four or six. or
sometimes more. in a t. coal not tell what to think
of it. or how to take at measures to attack twenty or
thirty men single-hand ; so I lay still in my castle. per-
plexed and discomforted. However I ut myselfinto all
the same osulrea for an attack that ad formerl pro.
vided an wssjust ready for action ifanything pre-
sented. Iiaving waited a good while." listening to hear
if they made any nois at length being very imgtient. I
set my guns at the fee of the ladder. and clam red n
to the top of the bill by my two stages. as usual; stan -

so. however. that my head did not ap r above the
; so that they could not perceive me. yany means.

-were all dancin . in I know not how many

my would be taken there;

Here I observed b the hol of m perspective is

that there were 1.31:" than hirt I: number: than:
had a fire kindled. and that they meet dressed - how
they cooked it. that I knew not. or what it was "may
3 us
gestures and figures. their own way. round the fire.

 

While I was thus looking

on them. I
erspective. two miserable wretches dragged

perceived. by my
item the

ats. who it seems. they were laid by. and were new
brought out or the slaughter. I erceived one of them
immediately fell. being ocked own. I suppose. with
a club. or wooden sword. for that was their way; and
two or three others were at work immediatel . cutting
him open for their cookery while the other v cum was
left standing by himself. till they should be ready for
him. In that very moment this poor wretch seeing him
self a little at liberty. nature inspimd him with hopes of
life. and he started away from them. and ran with iucmd~
ible swiftness along the sands. directly towards me. I
mean towards that part of the coast where my habitation
was.

I was dreadihll frlghted (that I must acknowledge .
when I perceiv him to run my way; and especial y
when. as I though I saw him pursued by the whole
bed . iiowever. I 'ept my lpresent station. and m
agig began to recover. when found that he outstri p
t em cxccedingl in running. and gained ground of emi
so that if he co d but hol it out about half an hour.
saw easily he would get away from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek.
which I mentioned often at the first part of in story
when I landed my cargoes out of the ship; an this I
knew he must neeesaar liswim over. or the poor wretch

at when the savage <<caning
came thither. he made nothin of it. swam throng i
about thirt ' strokes. or therea ut. landed. and ran on
with exceed'ing strength and swiftnees. When the three -
pursuers came to the creek. I found that two of them
could swim. but the third could not. and that he standing
on the other side. looked at the others. but went no
farther; and soon after went softly back again. which. as
it he pcned was very well for him in the main.

I observed that the two who swam. were et morethan.
twice as long swimming over the creek. as t a fellow was
that fied item them. It came now very warmly upon my
thoughts. and indeed irresistibly. that now was my time
to l me a servant. and rhaps a companion or assist.
an and that I was call plainly b Providence. to save
this poor creature's life. I imm iatel got down the
ladders. with all possible expedition. etched my two
guns. for they were both at the foot of the ladders. as I
observed above; and getting; up a in with the same
Mate to the top of the hill. or towards the sea;
and. having a very short cut all down hill. clapped m -
self in the in between the pursuers and the pursued.
hallooing alou to him that tied. who. looking ""83?
perhaps as much iri hted at meas at them; bntI -
oned with my ban to him to come back. and in the-
mean time. I slowly advanced towards the two that fol-
lowed: then rushin at once upon the foremost. I knock-
ed him down with e stock 0 my piece- 1 was loath to
fire because I would not have the rest heer- thoughat
that distance it would not have been easily heard; and
being out of sight of the smoke too they would not
know what to make of it. Ilavlng knocked the fello
down. the other who pursued him stopped. as if _he
been frighted. and I advanced space towards him; . ' . _
as I <<me nearer. I eeived recently he had a bow and._,
wwmnd was fitt it to oot at no: sonaatheq,

-
necessitated to shoot at him first. which I did. and killed

him at the tirst shot. The r savage who tied. but had
stopped. though he saw bot his enemies fallen and killed
(as e thought). yet was so fri htcd with the fire and

noise of my tree. that he at
came forwa nor went backward. though he seemed
rather inclined to fly still. than to come on. I hallooed
again to him. and made signs to come forward. which he
easily understood. and came a little way. then stopped
again. and then a little farther. and stop again - and I
could then perceive that he stood train ing. as if he had
been taken prisoner. and had Just been about to be killed.
as his two enemies were. I beckoned him again to come
to me. and vs him all the signs of encouragement I
could think 0 : and he came nearer and nearer. kneeling
down every ten or twelve steps. in token or acknowledg-
ment for saviu his life. Ismiled at him. and looked
pleasantly, and koued to him to come still nearer. At
ength he came close to me. and then he kueoled down

stock-still and neither

  

again. kissed the ground. and laid his head upon the
ground. and taking me by the foot. set my foot upon his
cad; this. it seems was in token of swearing to be my
slave for ever. I took him up. and made much of him.
and encouraged him all I could. But there was more
work to do yet; for I revived the savaite. whom I
knocked down was not it led but stunned with the blow.
and began to come to himself. So I pointed to him. and
showin him the savage. that he was not dead; upon this
he spo e some words to me. and though I could not un-
derstand them. yet I thought they were pleasant to hear.
for they were the first sound of a man's voice that I had
heardhmy own excepted. for above tive-and-twenty years.
But t ere was no_ time for such reflections now.. The
savage who was knocked down recovered himself so far
as to sit upon the round: and I perceived my savage
u to be afraid; ut when I saw that. l presented my
ot cr piece at the man. as if I would shoot him; upon
this 1:: save e. for so I call him now. made a motion to
me to end h in my sword. which hun naked in a belt by
my side; so I did. He no sooner ha it. but he runs to
his enemy. and. at one blow. cut 08' his head so cleverly.
no executioner in Germany could have done it sooner or
better; which I thought very strange for one. who I had
reason to believe. never sawa sword in his life before.
exce t their own wooden swords. However. it seems.
as I earned aiterward. they make their wooden swords so
sharp. so heavy. and the wood is so hard. the ' will cut
off heads even with them. aye. and arms. and t at at one
blow too. When he had done this. he comes laughing to
me in sign of triumph. and brought me the sword again.
and with abundance of gestures. which I did not under-
stand. laid it down. with the head of the savage that he
had killed. just before me.
But that which astonished him most was to know haw
Ihad killed the other Indian so far off; so pointin to
him. he made signs to me to let him oto him ; so I do
him as well as I could. When e came to him he
stood like one amazed. looking at him ; turned him first
on one side. then on the other; looked at the wound the
bullet had made. which. it seems. was Just in his breast.
where it had made a hole. and no great uantity of blood
had flowed. but he had bled inwardly. or he was quite
.dead. Then he took up his bows and arrows and came
back; so I turned to go away. and beckoned to him to
follow me. making signs to him that more might come

" r them.

:15 .u this he at ed to me that he should b them
gland. that thgynmi ht not be seen lime reentfyif they
..., ,-.L.followed; and so I ma e signs again to to do so; he

C

a .

111.01%" Ann, "M D an .s I'll-W va-

fell to wor and in an instant he scrapeda hole in the
sand with h a hands. b enoug to bus the tiri-t- in. and
thend ed him into t. and cove him; and didso
also byt to other. I believe he had buried them both in
a quarter of an hour; then calling him away. I carried
him. not to m castle. but quite away to my cave. on the
farther rt 0 the island; so I did not let my dream come
tg p'ass n that part. viz.. that he came into my grove for
s c or. .

Here I gave him bread. and a bunch of raisins to
and a draught of water. which I found he was indeed in
great distress for. by his running; and. havin refreshed

im. I made signs for him to lie down and s cc . point,
ing to a (place where I ha laida vreat parcc of rice
straw. an a blanket upon it. which used to sleep upon
myseif. sometimes; so the poor creature lay down. and
went to sleep.

He was a comely. handsome fellow; perfectly well
made. with straight. lon limbs not too large; tall. and
well-shaped. and. as I rec on. about twenty-six years of
age. lie had a very good countenance. not a fierce and
surl aspect. but seemed to have something very manly
in h s face. and et he hiid all the sweetness and sonnets
of an European n his countenance too. especiallv when
he smiled. llis hair was long and black. not curled like
wool; his forehead ve high and large. and a rent vi-
vacity and sparkling s ar int-ts in his eyes. '1' (3 color
of his skin was not quite lack. but very tawny. and yet
not of an n ly. yellow. nauseous tawny. as the Brazilian
and Virgin ans. and other natives of America are. but 0
abrlght kind of a thin olive color. that had in it sonic-
thing very agreeable. though not very easy to describe.
"is see was round and plump. his no:-e email. not flat
like the h'egroes. a very good mouth. thin lips. and his
teeth tine. well set. and white as ivory. After he had slum-
bered.rather titan slept. about half an honr.he waked again
and comes out ofthc cave to me. for I had been milking my
goats which I had in the enciosurejnst by. When he
espied me he came running to me. layln himself down
again upon the ground. with all the pose blc signs of an
humble. thankful disposition, making mans antic ges-
tures. to show it. At last he lays his head at upon the

ound. close to my foot. and sets m other loot upon his

end. as he had done before; and a let this. made all the
signs to me of subjection. servitude. and submission
imaginable. to let me know how much he would serve
me as long as he lived. Innderstood him in man things.
and let him know I was very well leased With im. In
a little time I be u to speak to h m. and teach him to
s at: to me: an tirst. I made him understand his name
s ould be Friday. which was the da I saved his life; and
I called him so for the memory 0 the time; I likewise
taught him to say "Blaster." and let. him know that was
to be my name. I likewise taught him to sa '. "hes."
and "No " and to know the meaniu ofthcni. gave him
some milk in an earthen t. and le him see the drink it
before him. and sop my need in it; and l uvo him a
cake of bread. to do the like. which he quick y complied
with. nnd made sinus that it was very good for him.

I kept them with him all that night; but as soon as it
was day. I beckoned to him to come with me. and let
him know i would give him some clothes; at which he
seemed very glad. for he was stark naked. As we went
by the place where we had buried the two men. he pointed
exactly to the spot. and showed me the marks he had
made to find. them aimin. making signs to me that he
would dig them upsgain and eat them : at this i appeared
very angry. expressed mv abhorrencc of it. inadc'as if I
would vomit at the thought of it. and beckoned with my
hand to him to come away. which he did .mincdiutei
with rest submission. llhcn' led him up to the top 0
the hi I. to see if his enemies were gone. and pulling out
my 'luss. I looked. and saw plainly the place "here they
had -n. but no ii pcsrsuce of them. or of their canoes:
so that it was his n that the were one. and had left
their two comrades behind cm. w thout any search
after them.

But I waaI not content with this discovery; but having
now more coma and consequently more curiosity
took my man l-'r day with me. giving him the swo in
his hand. with the. bow and arrows at his back. which i
found he could use very dexterously. making him carry
one gun for me. and 1 two for myself. and away we
mare ed to the place where these creatures had been; for
I had a mind now to st some fuller intelligence or them.
When I came to the p see. my very blood ran chill in my
veins. and my heart sunk within me at the horror of the
spectacle. Indeed. it was a dreadful sight. at less it
was so to me. thou hI-'riday made noihing of it; t c
place was covered w th human bones. the ground dyed
with the blood. great pieces of flesh left here and there.
half eaten. mangled. and scorched; and. in short. all the
tokens of the triumphant feast they had been making
there. after a victory over their enemies. I saw three
skulls. five hands. and the bones ofthree or four legs and
fee and abundance of other parts of the bodies; and
Fri y. by his signs made me understand that theyROBHVBON CR (7803.

brought over four prisoners to feast upon ; that three of
them were eaten up. and that he. pointing to himself.
was the fourth; that there had been a t battle be-
tween them and their next kin . whose su jects. it seems.
he had been one of . and that t ey had taken a great num-
ber of prisoners. all which were carried to several places
by these that had taken them in the tight. in order to
feast upon them as was done here by these wretches
upon those they brought hither.

1 caused Friday to gather all the skulls. bones. flesh. and
whatever remained. and lay them together on a heap. and
make a are upon it and burn them all to ashes. I found
Friday had still a hankering stomach after some of the
ilcsh. and was still a cannibal in his nature; but 1 dis~
covered so much abhorrcnce at the very thought of it.
and at the least a pearauce of it. that he dam not dis-
cover it - for I ha . by some means. let him know. that I
would kill him if he offered it.

When he had done this. we came back to our castle.
and there I fell to work for my man Friday. And llrst of
all. I gave him a pair of linen drawers. which I had out
of the gunncr's chest I had mention and which I found
in the wreck: and which. with a liti e alteration. tilted
him very well; then I made him ascrkin of goat's skin.
as well as my skill would allow. an I was now grown a
tolerahl good tailor; and I gave him a cap. which I had
made 0 a hare-skin. very convenient. and fashionable
enough: and thus he was dressed. for the present. iole~
rably well; and mightily was he pleased to see himself
almost as well clothed as hitl ma~lcr. It is true. he went
awkwardly in these things at llrsl ; wearing the drawers
was vcr ' awkward to him: and the sleeves of the waist-
coat ga led his shoulders. and the inside of his arms;
but after a little casin them where he complained they
hurt hiln. and using it meet! to them. at length he took to
them very well.

The next day after I came home to my hutch with him
I . n to consider where I should lodwo him; and that
I m gilt do well for him. and yet be perfect! easy myself.
I made a little tent for him. in the vacant p ace between
my two fortifications. in the inside of the last. and in the
outside of the first: and as there was a door or entrance
there into my cave I made a formal framed door-case.
and a dear to it. of boards. and set it up in the passage. a
little within the entrance: and. causing the door to open
on the inside, I barred it up in the night. taking in my
ladders too; so that Friday could no wa come at me in
the inside of my innermost wall. wit ellt making so
much noise in gettin over. that it must needs awaken
me; for my first we] had now a complete roof over it of
long poles. covertns.r all my tent. and leaning in to the
side oi the hilt. which was again laid across wit small
sticks instead of lathe. and then thatched over a great
thickness with the rice straw. which was strong. like
reeds: and at the hole. or place which was ten to o in
or out bv the ladder. I had placed a kind of trap nor.
which. if it had been attempted on the outside. would
not have opened at all. but would have fallen down. and
made a great noise; and. as to weapons. I took them all
In to my side every night.

But I needed none of all this rccsution; for never bad
man a more faiiilfat. loving. a ncere servant than Friday
was to me ' without passions. sulll-nness. or design;
perfectly obliged and engaged--his very affections were
tied to me. like those of a child to a father; and. I dare
say. he would have sacrificed his life for the saving mine.
upon any occasion whatsoever. The many testimonies
he gave me of this. put it out of doubt. and soon con-
vinced meathat I needed to use no precautions as to my
safety on hls accellnt.

I was grcatI dell Med with him. and made it my busi-
ness to teach im a that was pro erto makehim useful.
handy. and hot ifhl; but especial y to make him speak.
and llndt-ntan me when I spoke; and he was the aptcst
scholar that ever was. and particularly was so me . so
constantly dlllgent. and so pleased when he coult but
understand me or make me understand him. that it was
very pleasant for me to talk to him. And now my life
began to be so one '. that I began to say to myself. that
could I but have con safe from more savages. Icared
{1102: I was never to remove from the place while I

v .

After I had been two or three days returned to my cas-
tle. I thought. that in order to bring Friday ad from his
horrid wav of feeding. and from the relish of a cannibal's
stomach. I ought to let him taste other flesh. So I took
him out with me one morning to the woods; I went. in-
deed. intending to kill a kid out of my own flock. and
bring it home and dress it; but. as I was going. Isaw a
she-goat. l'ing down in the shade. and two young kids
sitting by er. I caught hold of Friday: " "old." said I.
" stand still." and made signs to him not to stir: imme-
diately I {resented my piece. shot. and killed one of the
kids. '1' o r creature who had. at a distance. indeed.
seen me kl the savage. his enemy. but did not know nor
could imagine how i was done. was sensibly surprisedi
trembled and shook, and looked so amazed. that

85

then ht he would have sunk down. He did not see the
kid had shot at. nor perceive I had killed it. but ripped
up his waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded; an as
I found presentl . thou ht I was resolved to kill h m; '
for he came and eel down to me. and embracing my
knees. said a rest many thingsldid not understand;
but I could eas y see. that his meaning was to pray me
not to kill him.

I soon found a way to convince him that I would do
him no harm: and. takin him a: by the hand. laughed
at him. and pointing tot e kid w it: I had killed. beck-
oned to hiln to run and fetch it. which he did - and while
he was wondering and looking to see how the creature
was killed. I loaded my again. and by-and-by I saw
a great fowl like a how . sit upon a tree within shot:
so. to let hlday understand a l ttle what I would do. I
called him to me again. aiming at the fowl. which was
indeed a parrot. though thought it had been a hawk - I
say. pointing to the parrot and to in gun. and tot o
ground under the parrot. to let him see would make him

all. I made him understand that I would shoot and kill

that bird: accordingl . I tired. and matte him look. and
immediately he saw t e rrot fall. He stood like one
frighted a in. notwiths anding all that I had said to
him; and found he was the more ama because he
did not seems put anythin into the n: nt thought
there must be some wonde l fund of eath and destruc-
tion in that thing. able to kill man. beast. bird. or any-
thinir near or far off: for the astonishment this crested
him was such as could not wear at! for some time: and
I believe. if I would have let him. he would have wor-
shipped me and my 2:: as for the gun itself. he would
not so much as tone it for several days after: but would
speak to it. and talk to it as if it had answered him. when
he was by himself. which as I afterwards learned of him.
was to desire it not to kill him.

 

Well after his aston shment was a little over at this. I
Boluted to him to run and fetch the bird I had shot. which

edid. but staid some time; for the parrot. not being
quite dead. had fluttered a good way 03' item the place
where she fell. However. he found her. took her up. and
brought her to me; and as I had perceived his imorance
about the gun before. I took this advantage toe arge the
gun again. and not let him see me do it. that I might be
ready for anv other mark thatmiaht present : but nothin
more od'ered at that time. So I brought home the kt
and the same evening I took the skin off. and ctlt it. out
as well as I could; and havinga t for that purpose. I
boiled or stewed some of the ties . and made some very
good broth: after I had begun to eat some! gave some
to my man who seemed very glad of it. and liked it very
well; but that which was the strangest to him was to see
me eat salt with it. He made a sign to me. that the salt
was not good to eat. and puttiu a little late his own
month. he seemed to nauseate i and would spit and
sputter at it. washing his mouth with fresh water after
it: on the other hand. I took some meat in my month
without salt. and I pretended to spit and s utter for
want of salt. as fastas he had done at the as t: but it
would not do: he would never care for salt with meat.

or in his broth. at least. not for a great while. and then
but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth.I was
resolved to feast him next day with roar-tingle lees of
the kid: this I did by hang it? it before a in a
string. as I had seen many poop e do in England. setting
two poles up. one on each side of the are. and one across
on the top. and tying the s ' to the cross stick. letting
the meat turn cont nually. 'his Friday admired very
much; but when he cameto taste the flesh. he took so
many ways to tell me how well he liked it. that I couldnot but understand him : and at last. he told me he would
gout est man's flesh any more. which I was very glad to
ear.

The next day I set him to work to beating some corn
out. and sifting it in the manner I used to do. as I ob-
served before; and he soon understood how to do ltas
well as I. cspecisli after he had seen what the mesnin
of it was. and that t was to make bread of - for after the
I let him see me make my brea and bake it wound
in a little timo Friday was able to o all the work for me.
as well as I could do it myself.

I began now to consider. that. having two months to
feed instead of one. I must provide more ground for my
harvest. and plant a larger quantity of corn than I used
to do. so i marked out a larger piece of land. and bean
tofence in the same manner as before. in which I-'rl
not only worked vcr willingly. and very hard. but did t
very cheerfully; an I told him what it was for. that it
was for corn to make more bread. because he was now
with me. and that I might have enough for him and my-
self too. He agpcared very sensible of that part. and let
me know that e thought I had much more labor upon
me on his account than I had for myself. and that he
would work the harder for me. if I would tell him what

to do.

This was the leasantest ear of all the life I led in this

lace. Frida n to tal prett well. and understand

0 names 0 almost everything had occasion to call
for. and of eVory place I had to send him to. and talk a
great deal to me: so that in short I began now to have
some use for m tongue again. which indeed 1 had very
little occasion or before: that is to say about speech.
Besides the leasure of talking to him. i had a sin ulnr
satisfaction: n the fellow himself: his simple. nnfciivnrd
honesty. a pesrcd to me more and more every da . and I
began ml y to love the creature; and. on his sit e. i be-
iieve he loved me more than it was possible for him ever
to love anything before.

Ihada mind once to try if he had an hankering in-
clination to his own conntrya in; an having taught
him English so well that he con d answer me almost any
questions. I asked whether the nation he belon ed to
never conquered in battle. [it which he smiled au said.
" Yes. yes: we alwaysfl ht the button" that is.he meant.
always get the better It a fight>>: and so we began the
following discourse : " You always tight the better i" said
I. " Bow came you to be taken Prisoner then. Friday t"

Friday. My nation beat much or all that.

Master. Iiow best? It your nation beat them. how
<<me on to be taken?

Fri y. They more than my nation in the place where
me was: they take one. two. three and me. hiy nation
over-heat them in the yonder place. where mo no was:
there my nation take one. two great thousand.

Master. But why did not your side recover you from
the hands of your enemies then?

Friday. They run one. two. three. and me. and make
go in the canoe: mv nation have no canoe that time.

Master. Well. Friday. and what does our nation do
with the men they take 2 Do they carry em away. and
eat them as these did!

Friday. Yes. my nation eat mans too. all up.

Master. Where do the can thcmt

Friday. Go to other p ace w ere they think.

Master. Do they come hither? .-

lIt'riday. Yes. yes. them come hither: come other else

cc.
p Master. Have you been here with them t

Friday. Y I been here. (Points to the N. W. side of
the island. wh eh it seems was their side.)

By this I understood that my man Friday had formerly
been among the savages who used to come on shore. on
the farther plan of the island. on the said man-eating oc-
casion that c was now brought for: and some time after.
when I took courage to carr him to that side. both the
same I formerly mentioned. e presently knew the p ace.
and told me he was there once when the eat a twenty
men. two women. and one child: he cool not to twenty
in English. but be numbered them by laying so many
stones in a row and pointin to me to tell them over.

I have told this . use it introduces what
follows: that. after ha had this discourse with him. I
asked him how far it was fl'om our island to the shore.
and whether the canoes were not often lost. Iie told me
there was no danger. no canoes ever lost; but that. after
a little way out to see. there was a current. and a wind
always one way in the morning. the other in the after-
noon.

This I understood to be no more than the sets of the
tide. as going out or coming in; but I afterwards under-
stood ft was occasioned by the great draught and reflux
of the m 'hty river Oroon no; in the mouth of which
river. as thou t snerwa our island lay- and that
this land which mceived to the W. and N. i. was the

t inland Trlnl . on the north point of the mouth of
he river. I asked Friday a thousand questions about
the country. the inhabitants. the sea. the coast. and what

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF

nations were near: he told me all he know with the
greatest openness imaginable. I asked him the names
of the several nations of his sort of piei but could

t no other name but Caribs: from w enee easily un-

erstood. that these were the Csribbecs which our ma a
place on that rt of America which reaches irom a
mouth of the ver Oroonoquo to Guinea. and onward to
St. liarths. He told me. that up a great way beyond the
moon. that was. beyond the setting of the moon. which
must be west from their country. there dwelt white-
bearded men. like In and pointed to my t whiskc
which I mentioned fore; and that t e had kill
" much mans." that was his word; by all in ich I under-
stood he meant thoSpaniards. whose cruelties in America
had been s read over the whole country and were re-
membered y all the nations. from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from
this is and. and get among those white men - he told me
yes. cs. I might go in " two canoe." I could not under-
stan what he meant by " two canoe ;" till at last. with

t dinicult . I found he meant. that it must beta a
rue great h canoe. as big as two canoes.

This rt of ridsy's discourse began to relish with me
very we I: and from that time I entertained some hopes.
that. one time or other. I might and an opportunity to
make m estape h-om this lace. and that this poor sav-
age mig t be a means to he p me to do it.

During the ion time that Friday had now been with
me. and that he n to speak to me. and understand
me. I was not want ng to lsya foundation of religious
knowledge in his mind- particularly I asked him one
tim who made him. The or creature did not under-
stun me at all. but thong t I had asked who was his
father. But I took it by another handle. and asked him
who made the sea. the ground he walked on and the hills
and woods. He told me. it was one old henamuckee.
that lived beyond all. Iie could describe nothing of this
great erson. but that he was very old; much older. he
said. u the sea or the land. than the moon or the stars.
I asked him then. if this old person had made all things.
why did not all things worship him. Iie looked ve
grave. and with a erfect look of innocence said. "Al
thin said 0| to m." I asked him if the people who
die n his country. went an here. He said. yes. they
all went to Beaamuckce. 'hcn I asked him whether
those they out u wont thither: he said. "Yes."

From these th ngs ibegan to instruct him in the knowlo
edge of the true God. I told him that the great hiaker of
all things lived up there gointing up towards heaven;
that he governs the world y the same power and provi-
dence by which he had made it: that he was omnipotent.
could do everything for us. give everythi to ns.t ke
everything from us: and thus. by degrees. 0 .ned is
eyes. tie listened with great attention. an received
with pleasure the notion of Jesus Christ being sent to
redeem us. and of the manner of our prayer to
God. and his beln able to hear us. even in heaven. He
told me one day t at if our God could hear us up and
the sun. he mus needs be a mu God than their na-
muckee who lived but a litt e way 03'. and et could not
hear. till they went up to the t mounta us where he
dwelt. to speak to him. I as ed him if ever he went
thither to speak to him; he sai no; they never went
that were youn men; none went I ither but the old men.
whom he call their Oowokee. that is. ad made him
explain it to me. their rel ous. or clergy; and that they
went to say 0 (so he on cd saying prayers.) and then
came back. and told them what Benamuckeo said. By
this. I observed. that there is a priestcraft even amou t
the most blinded. ignorant Pagans in the world: and t e
policy of makin a secret religion. in order to preserve
the veneration o the people to the clergy. is not onl to
be found in the Roman. but perhaps among all rclig one
in the world. even among the most brutish and barbarous
sav es.

Igdeavored to clear up this fraud to m man Friday.
and told him. that the pretence of their oi men oing up
to the mountains. to say 0 to their God Benamuc so. was
a chest; and their bringi word from thence what he
said. was much more so; t t if the met with an an-
swer. or spoke with any one there. I. must be wit an
evil spirit; and then I entered into a long discourse with
him about the devil. the original of him. his rebellion

inst God. his eumit to man. the reason of it. his set-
:ignag himself up in the rk rts of the world to be won
shipped instead of God. an as God. and the many stratr
agems he made use of to deludo mankind to their ruin '
how he had secret access to our passions. and to our -
fections. and adapted his snares to our inclinations. so
as tocaure nsto beenrowntempteraandto runupon
"rt"d"'*':::ideg"'.:::deg"te.?tr s... . a

a ways app myse res o ares. an
to let him know. as well as I could. the mean g of what
I read; and he again. by his serious in uirics and ques-
tions. made me a much better scholar the Scripture
knowledge than I should ever have been bymy own more
private reading.

'.
After Friday and I became more intimate! a uaiut
and that he could understandalmost all I salty! t3: shad
speak ilneutly. though in broken Efiliah. to me. so-
quainted him with my own story. or least so much of
it as related to my coming into t apiece. how I had lived
there. and how long. I let him into the mystery (forsuch
it was to him) of gunpowder and bullet. and taught him
how to shoot. "Idgavc him a knife. which he was won.
derfhlly deligh with. and I made him a be] with a
frog han oz to it. such as in England we wear angers
in: and. u the frog. instead of a hanger. I gave him a
hatchet. which was not only a good weapon in some
uses. but much more usetul upon many melons.

 

I described to him the countries of Europe. and

rtic-
which I came from; how we liv . how
we won-h God. how we behaved to one another. and
how we tra ed in ships to all parts of the world. I gave
him an account of the wreck which I had been on board
of. and showed him. as near as I could. the lace where

she lay; but she was beaten in pieces long ore. and
quite gone.

I showed him the ruins of our boat. which was lost
when I escnped and which I could not stir with my whole
strength then.but was now fallen almort all to pieces.
Upon seeing this boat. Friday stood musiugagreat while
and said nothing. I asked him what it was he studied
u n: at last. says he: "hie see such boat like come to

p see at my nation."
while; but at last.

ularly England
P

I did not understand him a good
when I examined mrther into t. I understood by him.
that ahoat. such as that had been. came on shore u n
the country where he lived: that is. as he explainefit.
was driven there by stress of weather. I resently ims'g-
ined. that some European ship must have cast away
upon their coast. and the host might get loose and drive
ashore; but was so dull that I never once thought of men
making escape from a wreck thither. much less whence
thetimbght come; so I only inquired after a description
0 e .

Friday described the boat to me well enontrh: but
brought me better to understand him when he added. with
some warmth. " We save the white mans from drown."
Then I presently asked him if there were any white man
as he ca led them. in the boat: "Yes." he said. " the bee
am of white mans." I asked him. "new man 2" lie

told me upon his lingers. seventeen. I asked h m then.
" What became of them i ' He told me. " They live. they
dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts again into in head ; for I pres-
cntlg imagined. that these might bet e men belonging
to t e shi that was cast away in si ht of my island. as
now call it; and who. after the sh p was struck on the
rock. and they saw her inevitable los had saved them.
selves in their boat. and were land upon that wild
shore among the savages.

Upon this I inquired of him more critically. what was
become otthcm; he assured me they lived still there;
that they had been there about four years; that the sav-
Ilreslet them alone. and gave them vlctuals to live. I
asked him how it came to P1". they did not kill them.
and eat them. He sai " o. the make brother with
mom :" that is. as I no erstood h m. a truce - and then
he added: " They eat no mans. but when make the war
lght ;" that is to say. they never eat any men. but such
u come to tight with them. and are taken in battle.

Itwas after this. some considerable time. thatbeiug

best would do vs

87

on the to of the hill. at the east side of the island. from
whence had. in a clear day. discovered the mainor cou-
tinent of America. Friday, the weather being very se-
rene. looks ve earnestly towards the main land. and. in
a kind of surp se. fails a jam ing and dancing. and calls
out to me. for I was at some istance from him: Iasked
him what was the matter. " 0 joy i" says he. "0 glad]
There see my countryl there my nationl '

I observed an extraordinarysense of pleasure appear in
his face. and his eyes sparkled. and his countenance dis-
covered a strange ea mess. as if he had a mind to be in
his own countr age It : and this observation ofmine at
a great many t oughts into me. which made me at rst
not so easy about my new man Friday. as I was before;
and I made no doubt. but that it Friday could get back to
his own nation again. he would not only forget all his
relkeion. but all his obligation to me; and would be for-
wa euou h to give his coun en an account of me.
and come ack. perhaps. with a undred or two of them.
and make a feast upon mehatwhich he might be as merry
as they used to be with ose of his enemies when they
were taken in war.

But I wronged the poor. honest creature very much. for
which I was very sorry anerwards; however. as my eal-
ousy increased. and held me some weeks. [was a title
more circumspect and not so ihmilinr and kind to him
as before; in whic I was certainly in the wrong. too. the
honest. grateihl creature having no thought about it. but
what consisted of the best principles. both as a religious
Christian. and as a grateful friend. as appeared after-
wards to my fhll satisfaction.

Whilst m jealousy of him lasted. on ma'be sureI
was every ny pump ng him to see if s woufd discover
any of the new houghts which I sue ected were in him;
but I found everything he said was oucst. and so inno-
cent that I could nud nothing tonourish my sus lcion;
and in spite of all my uneasiness. he made me at set en-
tirel h s own again; nor did he in the least perceive
thagecgas uneasy; and therefore I could not suspect him
0 t.

One day. walking up the same hill. but the weather
holn hazy at sea. so that we could not see the continent.
I cal ed to him. and said: " Friday. do notyou wish our-
self in your own country your own nation 2" " es."
he said. "I be much 0 glad to he at my own nation."
" What would you do there t" said I: " would you turn
wild again. eat man's tiesh again. and be rav . as you
were .fore t" He looked full of concern. an shakin
his h d. said: "No no; Friday tell them to live
tell them to pray God. tell them to eat corn-bread. cattle-
ilcsh. milk: no eat man In."

" Why. then." said I to m. " they will kill you." He
looked grave at that. and then said: "No. th no kill
me; they willing love learn." Ile meant by is the
would be willing to learn: he add they learned mu
of the bearded mans that came in the t. Then [asked
him if he would go back to them. He smiled at that. and
said he could no swim so far. I told him I would make
scenes for him; he told me he would go. if Iwould go
with him. "I go!" saidl; " why. they will eat me. i 1
come there." ' No no." said he. "me make them not
eat you; me make them much love you." lie meant. he
would tell them how I had killed his enemies. and saved
his life. and so he would make them love me. Then he
told in as well as he could. how kind they were to seven-
teen wh to men. or bearded men. as he called them. who
came on shore there. in distress.

From this time I_ confer I had a mind to venture over.
and see if I couldgoossibly oin with these bearded men.
who. I made no ouht. were Spaniards or Portuguese-
uot doubting. but. "I could. we might tind some method
to escape item thence. being upon the continent. and a

nod company together. better than I could from an
Feland. Iorty miles oi! the shore and alone. without help.
So. after some do I took Friday to work again. by way
of discourse; an told him. I would vs h m a boat to
go back to his own nation; and accor ingly carriedhlm
to m frigate. which lay on the other side of the island;
and. having cleared it of water. (for I always kept It sunk
in the water.) I brought It out. 9d showed it him. and
we both went into it.

I found he was a most dexteroua fellow at managing it.
would make it go almost as fast In as I could - so
when he was in n I said to him. " sll. new. Friday.
shall we go to our nation i" He looked very dull at my
saying so; wh ch. it seems. was because he tho ht the
hoattoosmallto osofar. Iteldhimthenlhada i -
so the next day went to the lace where the that
lay which I had made. but whic I could not into the
water. He said that was bi enon h; but on asI had
taken no care of it and it is n two or three-and-
twenty years there. the sun had split and dried it. that it:
was in a manner rotten. Fdddl'd told me. that such a

well. and wo carry " much enough

"' that was his way oftalking.
was b this time so fixed upon
to the continent. that I

vittle. drink. b
U n the whole.
dug of going over with
88

him we would go and make one as big as that. and he
should go home in it. lie answered not one word. and
looked very grave and sad. I asked him what was the mat-
ter with him. lie asked me again thus. " Why on so
mad with Pride 1 What me done 2" I asked im w rat
he meant; I to d him I was not angry with him at all.
"No angry! No angry i" as s he. repeating the words
several times: " why send ridzty home away to my
nation 1" " Why." said I. " Friday. did you not say you
wished you were there!" "Yes. yes." says he. "wish
we both there; no wish Friday there. no master there."
In a word. he would not think of oing there withottt me.
"I go there. Friday i" said I; " w at should I do there 9"
He turned very utckly u on me at this: " You do great
deal much goo ." says e; " we teach wild mans be
good. sober tame man; you tel them know God. pray

od. and live new life.' "Alasl Friday." said I. " thou
knowest not what then sayest; I out but an ignorant man
myself." "Yes. yes." an s ho, " you teechee me good.
you teachce them good.' "ho. no Friday " said i.
"you shall 0 without me; leave the lay myse l'. as I was
before." I e looked confused a in at that word; and.
running to one of the hatchet: v'v ich he used to wear. he
takes it u hastily attd 'lves it to me. "What must I
do with th st" sa d I to im. "You take kill Friday "
says he. " What must I kill you for 1" said I. again. i e
returns very niekly. " What you send Friday away for?
Take kill Fri ; no send Friday away." This he spoke
so earnestly. that I saw tears stand in his e ea. In a
word. I so plainly discovered the utmost sheet on in him
to me. and a firm resolution in him. that I told him then
and often after. that I would never send him away item
me if he Were willing to stay with me.

U n the whole. as I found. by all his discourse. a
salt ed afi'ection to me. and that nothing should rt him
from me. so I found all the foundation of his dt-s re to go
to his own country was laid in his urdeut atl'ection tot or
people. and his hopes of my doing them good; a thing.
which as I had no notion of myself. so I had not the least
thought. or intention. or desire of undertaking it. But
still I found a strong inclination to my attempting an
escape as above. founded on the supposition gathered
frorn the former discourse. viz.: that there were seven-
teen bearded men there; and therefore. without any more
deluy. I went to work with Friday. to find out a grant tree
proper to fell. and make a large periagua. or canoe. to
undertake the voya c. There Were trees enough in the
island to hrwe but t it little fleet. not of periaguus and
comes onl . but even of good large vessels; but thdhtain
thing I loo ed at was to get one so near the water. that
we m lght launch it when t was made. to avoid the mis-
take I committed at first.

At last Friday pitched upon a tree: for I found he knew
much better than I what kind of wood was fittest for it;
nor can I tell to this day. what wood to call the tree we
cut down. except that it was ver like the tree we call
mstic. or between that and the .'icaragua wood. for it
was much of the same color and smell. Friday was for
bumln the hollow or eavit of this tree out to make it
intoa oat; but I showed rim how rather to cttt it out
with tools. which. after I showed him .how to use. he did
it very handily- and in about a month's hard labor. we
finished it. and made it very handsome. especially when
with our axes. which I showed him how to handle. we
cut and hcwcd the outside into the true shape of a boat.
After this. however. it cost us near a fortuight'e time to
get her along. as it were. inch by inch. upon great rollers.

nto the water; but when she was in. she would have air-
ried twenty men with ease.

When she was in the water. and tho "h she was so big.
it amazed me to see with what dext ty and how swift
my man Friday would mane e her. tttrn her. and paddle
her along. 80 I asked him. he would. and if we might
venture over in her. " Yes." he said. " me venture over
in her very1 well. thou h great blow wind." However. I
had afart er design hat he- knew nothin of. and that
was to make a mast and a sail. and to t t her with an
anchor and cable. As to a mast. that was easy enough to
get; so I pitched upon a straight young cedantree. which

found near the place. apd wh ch there was a great plenty
of in the island: and I set Friday to work to cut it down.
and gave him directions how to shape and order it : but
as to the sell. that was my articular care. I knew I had
old soils. or rather pieces 0 old sails eno h. but as I had
had them now twenty-six yearn by me. an not been ve
careful to reserve them. not intaginin that I shonl
ever have t is kind of use for them. I di not doubt but
they were all rotten; and indeed most of them were so.
However. I found two pieces which appeared pretty good?
and with these I went to work: and with a great deal 0
pains. and awkward tedious stitching (you may be sure)

or want of needles. I at lea-vth made a three-cornere
ugly thing like what we calrin En land a shoulder-of-
muttou sa . to go with a boom at the ttom. and a little
sprit at the top. such as usunll onr shipe' long-boats sail
with. and such as I beat knew ow to manage. because it
was such a one as I used in the boat in which I made my

-ber."

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF

agape from Barhary.ss related in thefiret part ofmy
r .
I v'vas near two months performing this last work. viz. :

y rigging and fitting my masts and sails; for I finished

them very complete. making a small stay. and a sail. or
foreeall to it. to assist. if we should turn to windward;
and which was more than all I fixed a rudder to the stern
of her. to steer with; and though I was but a bungling
shipwright. yet as I knew the usefulness and even neces-
sity of such a thing. I applied myself with so much pains
to do it. that at astI ronght it to pass; though. cou-
sideri the many dull contrivances I had for it that
{alieldea think it cost me almost as much labor as making

e 1.

After all this was done. I had my man Friday to teach
as to what belonged to the navigation of my boot; for
though he knew very well how to paddle the canoe. he
knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a rudder. and
was the more amazed when he saw me Work the boat to-
and-suain in the sea. by the rudder. and how the sail
jibed. and filled this we or that way. as the course we
sailed changed; I sztyw en he saw this he stood like
one astonished and amazed. ilowever. with a little use.
I made all these things fitmiliar to him. and he became
an expert sailor. exce t that as to the compass. I could
make him understnn very little of that; on the other
hand. as there was very litt e cloudy weather and seldom
or never any fogs in those parts. there was the less occa-
siott for a compass. seeing the stars were alwa s to be
seen by night. and the shore by day. except in t e rainy
seasons; and then nobody cared to stir abroad. either by
land or sea.

I was now entered on the seven-snd-twentieth year of
my cu tivit in this place; though the three last years
that I tad t is creature with me ought rather to be left
out of the account. my habitation being uite of another
kind. than in all the rest of the time. ke t the anni-
versa of my landing here. with the some ankfnlncra
to Gt for his mercies us nt first; and if I had such cause
of acknowledgment at first. I had much more so now.
having such a dltional testimonies of the cure of Provi-
dence over me. and the great hopes I had of bein cfi'cc-
tuully and speedily delivered; or. I had art inv ncible
itn li'chlOn upon my thoughts. that my deliverance was
at and und thatl shoul not be another (year in this
place. Iiowever. I Went on with my husban . digging.
planting. fencing. as usual; I gathered and curt.
grapes. and did chry necessary thing us before.

The rainy seamm was in the mean titne upon me. when
I kept more within doors.than at other times; so I had
stowed our new Vessel as secure as we could. hrin iug
her t3) into the creek. where. as I said in the beginu mg.
I inn ed my rafts from the shif; and hauling her up to
the shore nt high-water mark. made my man Friday dig
a little dock. Just big enough to hold her. and Just deep
enough to give her water enough to fleet in: and that
when the tide was out. we made a strong darn across the
end of it to keep the water ottt; end so she lav dry. as to
the tide from the sea - and to keep the rain otl'. we laid a
great many bought! of trees so thick. that she was as Well
thatched as a house; and thus we waited for the months
of'November and December. in which I designed to make
m adVenture.

\'hcn the settled season began to come in. as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather. I
was preparing daily for the voyn e; and the first thing I
did was to lay by a certain qunnt ty of revisions. being
the stores for our voyage; and inteu ed in a week or
fortnight's time to open the dock. and launch out our
boat. i was busy one morning upon something of this
kind. when I called to Friday and bade him go to the
sea-shore. and see if he could find a turtle or tortoise a
thing which we generully got once a chk for the sake
of the eggs. as well as t to flesh. Friday had not been
long gone. when he came running back. and flew over
my outward wall. or fence. like one that felt not the
ground. or the steps he set his feet on; and before I had
time to s to him. he cried out to me: " 0 master! 0
masteri sorrowi 0 bad 1" "What's the matter. Fri.
day?" said I. "0 yonder there." says he. "one. two.
three canoe! one. two. three 1" By this way of speaking.
I concluded there were six ; but. on inquiry. I found there
were but three. " Well. Friday." said I. "do not be
frightened;" so I heartened him up us well as I could.
However. I saw the or fellow was most terribly scared:
for nothing ran in is head but that they were come to
look for him. and would cut him in pieces and eat him;
and the poor fellow trembled so that I source knew what
to do with him. I comforted him as well as i could. and
told him I was in as much r as he. and that they
would eat me as well as him. 'But." said I. "Frida 3
we must resolve to fight them. Can you fight. Friday '
" Me shoot." says he - " but there come runny - t unm-
"No matter for that." said I again. ' our uns
will fright them we do not kill." be I asked im
whether. if I resolved to defend him. he would defend
me. and stand by me. and do Just as I bade him. Be

my
said. "his die. when you bid dis. master." So I went
and fetched a good dram of rum. and gave him: for I had
made so good a husband of my rum. that I had a great
deal left. When he had drank it. I made him take two
iowliug-pieces. which we always carried. and loaded
them with swan-shot. as b as small pistol-bullets: then
I took four muskets. and oaded them with two sin

and five small bullets each; and my two pistols I lea

with a brace of bullets each. I hon my rest sword. as
usual. naked by my side. and gave riday s hatchet.

When I had thus prepared in if I took my perspec-
tive lass. and went up to the a do of the hill. to see what
I con d discover; and I found quickl . by in glass. that
there were one-and-twenty savages. three p soners. and
three cances: and that their whole business seemed to
be the triumphant banquet over these three human bodies
a barbarous feast indeed! : but nothing more than as I

observed was usual w th them.

I observed. also. that they were landed. not where they
had done when Friday made his escape but nearer to in
creek. where the shore was low. and where a thick w
came close almost down to the sea. This, with the ab-
horrence of the inhuman errand these creatures came
about. so tilled me with indi tion. that Icame down
again to Friday and told him was resolved to 0 down
to them. and kill them all; and asked if he wo d stand
by me. lie had now gotten over his fright. and his
spirits being raised wit the dram I had given him. he
was very cheerful: and told me. as before. "he would
die. when I bid die."

In this tit of fuoiz. I took first and divided the arms
which I had cha as before. between us: I gave Friday
one istol to stic in his girdle. and three -uns upon his
shou der - and I took one pistol and the o ier three my-
self. and in this posture we marched out. I took a small
bottle of rum in my pocket. and gave Friday a lagre bag
with more powder and bullets; and as to or era.
charged him to keep close behind me. and not to stir. or
shoot. or do anything till I bade him: and in the mean-
time. not to speaks word. In this posture I fetched a
compass to in right hand of near a mile. as well to get
over the cree as to t into the wood: so that Imight
come within shot oft em. before I should be discovered.
which I had seen by my lass it was easy to do.

I now entered the woo . and with all possible warlness
and silence (Friday following close at my heels). [march-
ed till I came to the skirt of it. on the side which was
next to them ; only that one corner of the wood lay be-
tween me and them. Here I called softly to Friday. and
showing him a great tree. which was just at the corner
of the wood. I bade him 0 to the tree. and brin me word
if he could see there pla nly what they were olng. lie
did so and came immediately back and said. they might
be lainly viewed there; that they were all about the re.
eat us; the flesh of one of their lprisoners ; and that another
is bound upon the sand. a tile item them. whom. he
as d. they would kill next. and which fired the very soul
within me. lie told me it was not one of their nation.
but one of the bearded men whom he had told me of. that
came to their country in the boat. I was filled with
horror at the very naming the white-bearded man; and,
- going to the tree. I saw plainl . by my glass. a white

man who is upon the beach 0 the sea with his hands
and feet ti with fiags. or things like rushes; andthat
he was a European. and had cio es on.

There was another tree. and a little thicket beyond i
about fifty yards nearer to them than the place where
was. which by going a little way. abou I saw I mi ht
come at undiscovered. and that then I onld be wit in
half-shot of them. So I withheld my passion. though I
was indeed enraged to the highest agree; an going
back about twenty I got behind some ushes
which held all the way til I came to the other tree. and
then I came to a little rising groun which ve me a
full view of them. at the distance of a out ei ty yards.

I had now not a moment to lose; for nine en of the
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground. all close huddled
together. and had just sent the other two to butcher the

r Christian. and bring him. perhaps. limb by limb.
otheir tire; and the were stooped own to nntie the
bands at his feet. I urned to Friday "Now. Friday."
said I. " do as I hid thee." Friday sai he would. " Then.
Friday." said I. " do exactly as you see me do; fall in
nothing." So I set down one of mSSmuskets. and the
fowling-pieoe. n n the groun and riday did the like
by his; and wi the other mus at I took m aim at tho
savages. bidding him to do the like: then as in him if
he was read . he said. " es." " Then fire a them."
said I; and 0 same moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I. that on the
side that he shot he killed two of them. and wounded
three more; and. on my sid I killed one. and wounded
two. They were. on may sure. in a dreadful con.
sternatlon; and al of them who were not hurt. Jumped
upon their feet immediately. .but did not know which
way to run. or which way to look; for they knew not
from whence their destruction came. Friday kept his

eyes close on me. that as I had bid him. he might observe
what I did: so soon as the first shot was made. I threw
down the piece. and took up the' fowllng-piece. and Fri-
day did the like: he sses the cock and present; he did
thesameagsin. "Are you ready Frlda t' saidI. Tee."
said he. ' Let n . then." said I. " in name of God :"
and with that I red again among the amazed wretcha
and so did Friday; an as our p cces were now load
with what Icall swan-shot. or small pistol-bullets. we
found only two drop: but so manykwero wounded. the
ran about (yelling and screaming l e mad creatures.
bloody an miserabl wounded. most of them - whereof
three more fell quick y after. though not quite dead.

"Now. Friday." said I. layin down the discha
pieces and taking u the musk . which was yet] ed.

' follow me." said ; which he did. with a great deal of
courage: upon which I rushed out of the wood. and
showed mvseif. and Pride close at my feet. As soon as
I perceived they saw me. shouted as loud as I coal
and bade Friday do so too; and running as fast as
could. which. b the way. was not very f bein loaded
with arms as was I made directly towards t e poor
victim. who was. as I said. lying upon the beach or shore
between the place where they sat and the sea. The two
butchers who were just going to work with him. had left
him. at the surprise of our first tire. and fled in a terrible
fright to the sea-side. and'had jumped into a canoe. and
three more of the rest had made the same wa . I turned
to Friday. and bade him step forwards. and re at them:
he understood me immediate] . and. running about forty

rds to be near them he sho at them and I thought he
ad killed them all; ior I saw them all an in a hes in
the boat; thonfih I saw two of them up a in qnic - y;
however he lti ed two of them. and woun ed the third.
so that he lug down in the bottom of the boat. as if he

had been dea .

While my man Friday fired at them. I pulled outm
knife. and cut the flags that bound the hpoor victim; an .
loosing his hands and feet. I lifted in up. and asked
him. in the Portuguese tongue. what he was. Be an-
swered. in Latin Christianusz" but was soweak and
ihlnt that he could scarcely stand. or s K. I took my
bottle out of my (pocket. and vs it li m. making signs
that he should rink. which cdid; and I ve him a
piece of bread. which he eat. Then I ask him what
countryman he was; and he said. " Es ole :" and
bein a little recovered. let me know. by a l the signs he
coul ssibly make. how much he was in my debt for
his del venues. " Seignor." said I. with as much 8 -
ish as I could make up. " we will talk afterward; bu we
must fight now; if you have any strength left. take this
pistol and sword. and lay about you. ' He took them
very thankfully. and no sooner had he the arms in his
hands. but. as if they had put new vi or into him. he
flow it n his murderers. like a tiny. an had out two of
them n pieces in an instant; for the truth is.asthe whole
was a surprise to them. so the poor creatures were so
much friglited with the noise of our pieces. that they fell
down for more amazement and fear and bad no more
power to attempt their own <<cage. than their flesh had
to resist our shot; and that wast e case of those five that
Friday shot in the boat; foras three of them fell with
the but they received. so the other two fell with the

lid ht.

fkept ni piece in my hand still. without ii . being
willing to cop my charge ready. because I had ven the
Spaniard my pistol and sword ; so I called to Fr day and
bade him run up to the tree from whence we first fired.
and fetch the arms which lay there. that had been dis-
charged- which he did with great swiftness; and then
giving him my musket. I sat down myself to load all the
rest again. and bade them come to me when they wanted.
While I was leading these pl there happened a fierce
engagement between the Spanlar and one of the savages.
who made at him with one of their great wooden swordsi

the same weapon that was to have killed him befo it
had not prevented it. The Spaniard. who was as it!
and as brave as could be im iued. then b weak. had
fought this Indian a good w e. and ha cut him two
t wounds on his head; but the savage. bein a stout
usty fellow. closing in with him. had thrown h m down
(being faint). and was wring-gag my sword out of his
hand when the Spaniard. t o h nndermoet. wisely
uittlng the ewe drew the pisto item his girdle. shot
are ravage throng the body. and killed him upon the-

spot. before I. who was runnin to helpkoould come near
him. Frida . be now leita his li rt .pursned the-
his nd but his.

n n wre esw hnoweaponin

hiyiitcget - and with that he dis tched those three who .
as I said before. were wound at first and Mien. and all-
the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard com-

ing to me for a gun. I gave him one of the fowling-pi
w ih which he pursued two of the savages. and wound .
them both: but as he was not able to run. they both get

from him into the wood. where Friday pursued them.

and killed one of them; but the other was too nimble for>>

him. and though he was wounded. yet had plunged into-w

the sea. and swam. with all his might. o! to those who
were left in the canoe. which three in the canoe. with
one wounded--we know not whether he died or no--
were all that escaped our hands of one-and-twenty. The
account of the rest is as follows :--

3 Killed at our first shot from the tree.

2 Killed at the next shot.

2 Killed by Friday in the boat.

2 Killed by ditto. of those at first wounded.

1 Killed by ditto. in the wood.

8 Killed by the Spaniard.

4 Killed. bein found dropped here and there of their

wounds. or lled by Friday in his chase of them.
4: Bagged in the boat. whereof one was wounded. if not

:1 In all.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out
of E'uuehot ' and though Friday made two or three shots
at . I did not find that he hit any of them. Frida
would faln have had me take oneo their canoes. an
pursue them. and indeed I was very anxious about their
escape. lest carrying the news home to their people. they
should come back perhaps with two or three hundred of
their canoes. and devour us by mere multitude: so I con-
sented to pursue them by sea; and running to one of
their canoes. I jumped in. and bade Friday follow us -
but. when I was in the canoe. I was surprised to and
another Lgoor creature lie there alive. bound hand and
foot. as e Spaniard was. for the slaughter. and almost
dead with fear not knowing what the matter was. for he
had not been able to look u over the side of the best;
he was tied so hard. neck an heel and had been tied so
long that he had really little life in im.

I mmedlatel out he twisted ii 5. or rushes. which
they had boun him with. and wou d have helped him
up; but he could not stand or {mesh but groaned most
Rotueously. believing. it seems. s . that he was only un-

nd in order to be killed.

  

.N

When Friday came to him. I bade him speak to him.
and tell him 0 his deliverance; and pulling out my bet-
tle. made him give the poor wretch a dram. which with
the news of his being delivered. revived him. and he sat
up in the boat; but when Friday.camc to hear him
speak. and looked in his face. it would have moved any
8'33 3'1 28% "if. "hill. 'i'fidif'w' '33" Eli

rs m. u m. c u e um
about. dancedhwug. then cried lgtgtlll. wrung his hands
beat his own so and head. and then sung and Jumped
about again. like a distracted creature. t was a ood
while before I could make him speak to me. or te me
what was the matter - but when he came a little to him-
self. he told me that it was his father.

It is not easy for me to ress how it moved me to
see what ccstacy and iilial ection had worked in this

r savaSS at the sight of his father. and of his being
elivered m death; nor indeed. can I describe half the
extravagance: of his sfl'ection after this; for he went into

 

the and out of the boat. a t many times. When
he went u to him he would si down by him. open his
breast. and hold his father's head close to his bosom. half
an hour t ether. to nourish it : then he took his arms and
aucles. w eh were numbed and stiffwith the binding. and
ehafed and rubbed them with his hands: and I perce ving
what the case was. gave him some rum out ofm bottle.
to rub them with. which did them a t deal 0 good.
is action put an end to our pnrsu t of the canoe with
'the other savages, who were now gotten almost out of
sight; and it was happy for us that we did not. for it
blew so hard within two hours after. and before the
~eould be gotten afluarter of their way. and continu
blow so hard l night. and that from the north-
west. w ich was against them. that I could not suppose
their. boat could live. or that they ever reached their own
'eoss .

Butte returnto Friday: hewas sobusyabout his father.

 

LIFE 4103 ADVENTURES 01"

that I could not and in my heartto take him off. for some
time' but after I thought he could leave him a little. I
called him to me. and he came jumpingaud laughing. and
pleased to the highest extreme.

Then I asked him. if he had ven his father any bread.
He shook his head. and said. ' one; u ly d eat all u
self." So I gave him a cake of bread on of a I ttle pone
I carried on ttrpose - Ialso gave him a dram for himself.
but he woul not taste it. but carried it to his father. I

in my pocket also two or three bunches of my rai-
sins. so I gave him a handful of them for his father. He
had no sooner iven his father these raisins. but I saw
him come out o the boat. and run away as if he had been
bewitched. He ran at such a rate. (for he was the swift-
cat fellow of his foot that ever I saw.) I say. he ran at
such a rate. that he was out of sight. as it were. in an in-
stant - and though I called and hallooed too after him. it
was all one; away he went. and. in a quarter of an hour.
I saw him come back again thou h not so fast as he
went ; and as he came nearer. I foun is pace was slacker.
because he had something in his hand.

When he came up to me. I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug or ot. to bring his father some
fresh water; and that e ad got two more cakes or
loaves of bread. The bread he gave me. but the water
he carried to his father: however. as I was v thirsty
too. I took a little sip of it. This water revived h s father
more than all the rum or spirits I had given him; for he
was ust fainting with thirst.

W on his father had drunk. I called tohim to know if
there was any water left- he said. " Yes ;" and I bade
him give it to the oor epaniard. who was in as much
want ofit as his fat er; and I sent one of the cakes that
Friday brought. to the Spaniard, too. who was indeed
ve weak. and was reposinfihimself upon a green place.
up er the shade ofa tree. an whose limbs were also very
still'. and ver much swelled with the rude bandage he
had been ti with. When I saw that upon Friday's com-

ng up to him with the water. he sat up. and drank. and
took the broad. and began to ca I went up to him. and
gave him a handful of raisins. e looked up in my face
with all the tokens of gratitude and thanklhluess that
could appear in any countenance; but so weak. notwith-
standing he had so exerted himself in the tightl that he
could not stand up upon his feet; he tried to o t twou;
three times. but was really not able his ancles were su
swelled. and so painful to him; sol bade him sit still.
and caused Friday to rub his uncles. and bathe them with
rum. as he had done his father's.

I observed the poor aflectiouate creature every two
minutes. or perhaps less. all the while he was here. turned
his head about. to see if his father was in the same lace
and posture as he left him sitting; and at last he ound
he was not to be seen. at which he started up. and. with-
out speakin a word. flew with that swiftncss to hi
that onecoul scarce perceive his feet to touch the an
as he went: but when he came he only found that e had
laid himself down to case his limbs. So Friday came
back to me presently; and I then eke to the Spaniard
to let Fridayhelp him a . if he cou and lead him to the
boat. and then he shoul carry him to our dwelling. where
I would take care of him ; but Friday. it lusty young fel-
low. toek the Spaniard quite up upon his back. and car-
ricd him away to the boat. and set him down softly upon
the side or gunwale of the canoe with his feet in the in-
side of it. and then lifted hlm quite in, and set him close
to his father. and presently stepping out again. launched
the boat off. and paddled it alon the shore faster than I
could walk, thou h the wind b ew pretty ha too: so
he brought them gloth safe into our creek. up leaving
them in the boat. runs awa to fetch the other canoe. As
he passed me I spoke to h m. and asked him whither he
went. He told me. " Go fetch more boat." So away he
went like the wind; for sure never man or horse ran
like him; and he had the other canoe in the creek. al-
most assoon as I ot to it by land; so he waited me over.
and then went to sip our new guests out of the boat.
which he did - but they were neither of them able to walk.
so that poor riday knew not what to do.

To remedy this. I went to work in my thou hts, and
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank while
he came to me soon made a kind of hand-barrow to lay
them on. and Friday and I carried them it both together
u on it between us. But when we got t em to the out-
s de of our wall. or fortification. we were at a worse loss
than before. for it was impossible to get them over: and
I was resolved not to break it down. So I set to work
again. and Friday and I. in about two hours' time. made
a very handsome tent. covered with old sails. and above
that with boughs of trees. being in the space without our
outward fence and between that and the grove of young
wood which I had planted - and here we made them two
beds of such things as I ha viz. : of good rice-straw.
with blankets laid upon it tol e on. and another to cover
"gin iniae'd:h led. and I thought myself v

s n was now peep
rich'in subjects; and it wasa marry reflection which

_'
bequently made. how like a king I looked. First of alli
the whole count was in own mere propert . so that
had an undonb rl ht o dominion. Secen y. mypeo-

is were perfect] on jected; Iwaa the absolute lord and

wgiver; they owed their lives to me. and were ready
to lay down their lives. if there had been occasion of it.
for me. It was remarkable. too. I had but three subjects.
and they were of three diiIerent religious: my man Fri-
dawas a rotestant- his father was a n anda can--
ni : an the Spaniard was a papist. owever. I al-
lowed liberty of conscience throughout my dominions.
But this is by the way. .

As soon as I had secured my two week. rescued prison-
ers. aud given them shelter. and a placeto rest them upon
I n to think of making some revision for them; an
the rst thing I did. I ordered Fr dafv to take a yearling
get. betwixt a kid and a goat. out o my particular flock.

be killed. Then I cut off the hinder quarter. and chop-
pi it into email pieces. I set Friday to work to boiling
an stewinfi. and made thema very good dish. I assure
you. of fies and broth. having put some barley and rice
also into the broth: and as I cooked it without doors. for
I made no fire within my inner wall. so I canted it all
into the new tent; and having set a table there for them.
I sat down and eat dinner also with them; and as
well as I could chee them and eucours ed them. ii'rl-
dag being my dnterproter. es laily to h a father. and
in eed to the Spaniard. too; or the Spaniard spoke the
language of the eava es pretty well.

After we had din or rather supped I ordered Friday
to take one of the canoe and go and fetch our muskets
and other firearms. whlc . for went of time. we had left
upon the lace of battle; and the next day I ordered lilm
to go and ury the deadbodlu of the av s. which is
o u to the sun. and would presently be e ensive; and

so ordered him to bury the horrid remains of their bar-
barous feast. which I knew were pretty much. and which
I could not think of doing myself - nay. I could not bear
to see them. in went that way. All which he gunctually

rformcd. and defaced the very appearance oft eeavages

eing there; so that when I went again. I could scarcely

know where it was. otherwise than by the corner of the
wood pointing to the place.

I then began to enter into ailttle conversation with my
two new sub ects; and I first set Friday to inquire of his
father what e thought of the escape of the savages in
that canoe. and whether we might e a return of
them with a power too great for us to resist. Ills first
opinion was. that the savages in the boat never could
live out the storm which blew that night they went ofl'.
but must of necessity be drowned. or driven south to
those other shores. where they were as sure to be de-
voured as they were to be drowned. if they were cast
away: but as to what they would do. if they came safe on
shore. he said he knew not; but it was his opinion that
they were so dreadfully ii-lghted with the manner of their
being attacked. the noise and the fire. that he believed
they would tell their ple they were all killed by thun-
der and lightning. an not b the hand of man; and that
the two which appeared (v 7... Friday and I) were two
heavenly spirits. or furies. come down to destroy them.
and not men with wea us. This. he said he knew. be-
cause he heard them a i cry out so in their . one
to another; for it was impossible to them to conceive
that a man could dart fire. and speak thunder. and kill at
a dlstan without liftln t3 the hand'. as was do is now.
And this 0 d savage was n e right or.as I on erstood
since. b other hands. the savages oi that part never at-
temp to go over to the island afterwards. They were
so terrified with the accounts given bfihose four men.
(for it seems they did escape the sea ) t t they believed.
whosoever went to that enchanted island. would be de-
stroyed with fire iron the gods.

This. however. I knew not. and therefore was under
continual apprehensions for agood while. and kept al-
ways upou my guard. I and all my arm : for as we were
new four of us. I would have vent upon a hundred
ofthem fairi . in the open field. at any time.

In a little. owever. no more canoes appearing. the fear
of their coming wore off. and I began to take my former
thoughts of a vo - to the main into consideration bein
likewise assure |{('Ii'riday's father. that I might depen
upmidm usage at their nation. on his account. it I
won .

But lg?! thoughts were a little suspended. when I had a
serious iscom-se with the Spaniard. and when I under-
stood that there were sixteen more of his countrymen
and Portuguese who having been cast away. and made
their escape to that side. lived there It indeed with
the savages. but were ve sore put to t for necesesrl
and indeed for life. I ed him all the ticulars 0
their voya e. and buud they were a Spanl ship bound

hour the 0 de la Plata. to the numb. be directed
to leave their loading there. which was chiefly idea and
silver. and to bring back what European goods they could
meet with there; that the had tivc Portuguese seamen
on board. whom they took out of another wreck; that

five of their own men were drowned when first their ship
was lost; and that these escaped through infinite den
and hazards. and arrived almost starved on the canni l
coast. where they expected to have been devoured every
momen .

He told me they had some arms with them. but they
were perfectly useless. for that they had neither wder
nor ball. the washing of the sea having spoiled a their
powder. but a little which they used at their first landing
to rovide themselves some food.

asked him what he thought would become of them
there. and if they had formed no design of making any
escape. lie said they had had many consultations about
it. but that havin neither vessel. nor tools to build on
nor provisions 0 any kind. their counsels always endeea
in tests and despair.

I asked him how he thought they would receive a pro-
posal from me. which mi ht tend towards an csca ; and
whether. if they were here. it might not be one. I
told him. with freedom. I feared mostly their treachery
and ill usage of me. if I put my life into their hands; for
that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the nature of
man; nor did men always square their dealin by the
obligations they had race v so much as they d by the
advantages they expected. told him it would be very
hard that I should be the instrument of their deliverance.
and that the should afterwards make me their prisoner
in New Spa n. where an Englishman was certain to be
made a sacrifice. what necessity or what accident soever
brought him thither; and that I had rather be delivered
up to the savages. and be devoured alive. than fiill into
the merciless ws of the priests. and be carried into the
Inquisition. added. that otherwise I was persuaded. if
they were all here. we might. with so many hands. build
a bark large enou h to carry us all away. either to the
Brazils southwar . or to the islands. or Spanish coast
northward; but that if. in reqnital. they should. when I
had put weapons into their hands. carry me. by force.
amon their own people. I might be ill~used for my kind-
lneer 0 them. and make my case worse than it was

ore.

He answered with a great deal of candor and ingenuity.
that their condition was so miserable and they were so
sensible of i that they would abhor the then ht of using
any man unk ndl that shelild contribute tot elr deliveri-
ance; and that i I leased. he would 0 to them with the
old man. and disco tee with them a ut it. and return
again. and bring me their answer; that he would make
conditions with them. upon their solemn oath. that they
should be absolutely under my leading, as their com-
mauder and captain; an they should swear upon the
hol Sacramentaand the ospel to be true to me. and to
go 0 such Christian country as should agree to. and no
other; and to he directed wholly and absolutely by in
orders. till they Were landed safely in such country asi
intended; and that he would bring a contract from them.
under their hands. for that puma.

Then he told me he won d t swear to me himsel
that he wi'iuld never stir from me as Ion as he lived. t
I gave him orders; and that he would tags in side to the
last drop of blood. it there should happen the east breach
of faith among his countrymen.

lie told me they were all of them very civil. honest
men. and they were under the greatestdlstreas imaginable.
having neither weapons her clothes. nor any f but at
the mercy and discretion of the savages. out of al hopes
of ever returning to their own country - and that he was
sur if I would undertake their reli , they would live
and ie by me.

Upon these assurances. I resolved to venture to relieve
them if possible. and to send the old ear e and the
S niard over to them to treat. But when he ad gotten
a things in readiness togo. the Spaniard himself started
an objection. which had so much prudence in it on the
one hand. and so much sincerity on the other hand. that
I could not but be very well satistled in it; and. b his
advice. put ed" the deliverance of hiscomrsdes for at
hairs year. The case was thus:

He had been with us now about a men during which
timeI had let him see in what mannerI d provid
with the assistance of Providence. for in support;
he saw evidently what stock of corn and ce 1 had raised
up. which. as it was more than sufilcieut for myself. so it
was not sufficlen at least without good husbandry. for
my family. now t was increased to number four; but
much less would it be sufiiclent to vicinal our vcase I
we should build one. for a voy e to any of the Christ
colonies of America. So he tol me he thought it would
be more advisable to le him. and the two others. dig and
cultivate some more i d. as much as I could a seed
to sow - and that we should wait another harves that we
might have a supply of corn for his countrymen when
they should come; for want might be a temptation to
them to disagree. or not to thi themselves delivered.
otherwise than out of one diniculty into another. "You
know." said he. I'the children of Israel. though they
rejoiced at first at their being delivered out of Egypt. yet42

rebelled even against God himself. that delivered them.
when they came to want bread in the wilderness."

Bis caution was so seasonabl and his advice so good.
that! could not but be ver wel leased with his pro.
posal. as well as I was satis cd wi his fidelity.

So we fell to diggin . all [our of us. as well as the
wooden tools we were uruishcd with permitted; and in
about a month's time. by the arid of which it was seed-
ttmc. we had gotten as much land cured and trimmed up
as we sowed twenty-two bushels of barley on. and sixteen
jars of rice. which was. in short. all the seed we had to
spare; nor indeed did we leave ourselves barley sudlcicnt
for our own food. for the six months that we had to ex-
pect our crew that is to say. reckoning from the time
we set our seed aside for sowing. for it is not to be sup-
poscdit rs six months in tho ttnd in tltat countrv.

Having now society euoug . and 01 number being
sunlcient to put us out of fear of the sav ges. if they ha
come. unless their numbers had been very great. We went
freely all over the island. wherever we fouitd occasion;
and as here we had our escape or deliverance upon our
thoughts. it was impossible at least for me. to have the
means of it out of mine. To this purpose I marked out
several trees. which I thought lit for otir purpose. and I
set Friday and his father to cuttin them down; and then
I caused the Spaniard. to whom im artctl my thoughts
on that affair. to oversee and direct t 0 work. I showed
them with what indefatigable pains I had hen-ed a large
tree into single planks. and I caused them to do the like
till they had made about a dozen large looks of an
oak. near two feet broad. thirty-live feet on. and m
two inches to four inches thick. What prodigious labor
it took tip. any one may imagine.

At the same time. Iconirlved to increase in little flock
ofL-imc goats as tnuch us I could; and to th s pttrposc I
made Friday and the Spaniard go out one day. and my-
aelfwith Friday the next da ': for we took our turns;
and. by this means we got a tit twenty young kids to
breed up with the rest - for whenever \vc shot the dam.
we saved the kids. and added them to ottr flock. But
above all. the season for curing the era .5 coming on. I
caused such a rodiglous quantity To . hung up in the
sun that I believe. had we been at Alicant. where the
raisins of the sun are cured, we should have filled sixty
or eighty barrels: and these. with otir bread. were a
great art of ottr food. and very goodJiving. too. Iassure
you; or it is an exceeding nourishing food.

It was now harvest; and our crop in good order. It
was not the most plentiful increase 1 mg seen in the
island. but. however. it was enough to answer our end:
for. from our twenty-two bushels of barley. we brought
in and thrashed out above two hundred and twenty bush-
els of barley. and the like iii lproportion of the rice. which
was store euou 'h for otir foo to the next harvest. thou 'il
all the sixteen spaniurds had been on shore with the ; or. f
we had been ready for a toy <<c. it would very pleiitiiitlly
have victuallcd our ship. to ave carried us to any part
of the world. that is to say. of America. When we had
thus housed and secured our mamzine of com. we fell to
work to make more wicker-work. viz.: great baskets in
which we kept it; and the Spaniard was very handy and
dexterous at this art. and often blamed me that I did
not make some th ngs for defense of this kind of work.
but I saw no need of it.

And now having a full sup ly of food for all the guests
chpcctcd. I gave the s an nrd leave to go over to the
main. to see what he con (1 do with these he had left he-
hind him there. I gave him astrict charge in writing
not to tiring any mun with him. who would not first
swear in the presence of himself. and the old savage. that
he would no way injure. ht with. or attack the person
he should find in the islan . who was so kind as to send
for them. in order to their deliverance: but that they
would stand by and defend him a last all such attempts -
and wherever they went. woul be entirel under. an
subjected to. his command; and that this s ould be put
in writing. and signed with their hands. How we were
to have this done. when I knew they had neither pen
nolrfliink. that indeed was a question which we never
as .

Under these instructions. the Spaniard and the old
savage (the father of Fridaa. went away in one of the
canoes. which they might said to come in. or rather
were brought in. when they came as prisoners to be
devoured by the savages.

I gave each of them a musket with a flrclock on it. and
about eight cha es of powder and ball. charging them to
be very ood hus ands of both. and not to use either of
them bu upon urgent occasions.

This was a cheerful work. being the first measures used
by me. in view of my deliverance. for now twent .seven
years and some days. I gave them revisions 0 bread.
and of dried grapes. sufficient for t cmselves for many
days. and snfilc cut for all their count on forabont eight
days time; and winning them a goo vo I let them
go. a eing with them abouta signal they a ould hang
out their return. by which I should know them again.

LH'E AND ADVENTURES OF

. when they came back. at a distance. before they came on

shore.

They went away. with a fair gale. on the day that the
moon was at the MI; bym account. in the month of
October: but as to the one reckoning of days. after I
had once lost it. I could never recover t again; nor had
I ever he t the number of cars so punctually as to be
sure that was right. thong . as it proved. when I after-
wards examined my account, I found I had kept a true
reckoning of years.

It was no less than eight days I waited for them. when
a strange and unforeseen acc dent intervened. of which
the like has not. perhaps been heard of in history. I
was fast asleep in my hutch one momlu . when m man
Friday came running in to me. and call aloud. " aster.
master. they are come. thev are come."

I jumped up. and regardless of danger. I went out. as
soon as I could at my clothes on. through my little
grove. which (by t e way) was by this time grown to he
a very thick wood; I say. regardless of danger. I went
without my arms. which it was not my custom to d0deg
but I was surprised. when. turning my eyes to the sea. I
presently saw a boat. at about a league and a half's dis-
tance. standing in for the shore. with a shonlderof-mut-
ton soil. as they call it. and the wind blowing pretty fair
to bring them in. Also 1 observed presently. that they
did not come from that side which the shbre lay on. but
from the snuthernmoet end of the island. U n this. I
called Fridav in. and bade him lie close. for ese were
not the people we looked for. and that we did not know
yet whether they were friends or enemies.

In the next place I went in to fetch my pen- tlvs
glass. to see what Icould make of them: and via
taken the ladder out. I climbed up to the top of the hi
as I used to do when I was a prehensive of anything.
and :3! take my view the phi ner. without being dis.
cove .

I had scarce set my foot on the bill. when my eye plainly
discovered a ship. lying at anchor at abottt two leagues
and a hall's distance from me. nth. 3.. but not above a
league and a half from the shore. By my observation. it
appeared luirtly to be an English ship. and the boat ap-
peared to e an English ion -boat.

I cannot express the con usion Iwas in; though the
icy of seeing a ship. and one which. I had reason to bo-

ieve. was manned by my own countrymen. and conse-
quently friends. was stich as I cannot describe; but yet I
had some secret doubts hang about me. i cannot tell
from whence they came. bidding me keep upon my guard.
In the first lace it occurred to me to consider what
business an .nglish ship could have in that part of the
world. z-lncc it was not the we to or from ans part of
the world where the English ha any tradlc; an knew
there had been no storms to drive them in there as in
distress; and that if they were English really. it was
most probable that they were here upon no good deal
and I had better continue as I was. than full inio
hands of thieves and murderers.

Let no man despise the secret hints and notices of
dan 'cr which sometimes are given him. when he ma
thin there is no possibility of ts being real. That an
hints and notices are given us. I believe few that have
made an observations on thin . can den -; that they
are ccrta u discoveries of an inv sible worlt . and a con-
verse of spirits. we cannot doubt; and if the tendency
of them seems to warn us of danger. why should we not
suppose thev are from some friendly agent (whether an.
premc. or inferior and insubordinatc. is not the question).
and that they are given for our oodi

The present question abnn tntl ' confirms me in the
justice of this reasoning; for had not been made cau-
tions by this secret admonition. come it from whence it
will. i hadbecn undone inevitably. and in a 1hr worse
condition than before. as you will see presently.

I had not kept myself long in this posture. when I saw
the boat draw near the shore. salt the looked fora creek
to thrust in at. for the convenience a landing: however.
as they did not come quite far enough. they did not see
the little inlet where I formerly landed my rafts but run
their boat on shore upon the beach. at about half a mile
from me. which was very happy for the: for otherwise
the would have landed Just. as I may say. at tn door.
an soon would have beaten me out of my cast e. and.
perhaps. have plundered me of all I bad.

When the were on shore. I was fully satisfied they
were Englis men. at least. most of them: one or two
thought were Dutch. but it did not prove so. There were
in all eleven men. whereof three I found were unarmed.
and (as I thought) bound: and when the first {ear or five
of them jumped on shore. they took those t ee out of
the boat as prisoners. One of the three I could greeivs
usln the most passionate gestures of entreaty. a ictlon.
and espair. even to a kind of extravagance; the other
two, I could perceive. lifted it their hands sometimes.
and apgcared concerned ind but not to such a degree
asthe rat.

I was perfectly confounded at the sight. and knew not
what the meaning of it should be. Friday called out to
me, in English, as well as he could. " 0 master. you see
English mans est prisoners as well as savage mans."
' hy." said I. " Friday, do you think they are going to
eatthem then i" "Yes." In s Frids . "the will eat
them." "No. no."ssid I " riday: em a ld th
will murder them. indeed; hut you may be sure they wi
not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was. but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight. expectin every moment when the three risoners
should be kill ; nay. once I saw one of the v1 lains lift
up his arm. with a great cutlass (as the seamen cell it
or sword. to strike one of the poor men; and I expoc
to see him fall every moment. at which all the blood in
my body seemed to run chill in my veins.

wished heurtil now for m Spaniard. end the savage
that was gone wit him; or t at I had any way to have
come undiscovered within shot of them. that I mi ht
have rescued the three men : for I saw no fire-arms ey
had among them: but it fell out to my mind another
way.

After I had observed the out eous use of the three
men. h the insolent seamen. I o rved t e fellows ran
scatter ng about the land. as if they wanted to see the
country. I observed also that the three other men had
liberty to go where they pleased ' but they sat down all
titan-3e upon the ground very pensive. and looked like men

08 .IP. I

Thisp put me in mind of the first time when I came
on shore. and began to look about me: how I gave my-
self over for lost. how wildly I looked around me. what
dreadihl apprehensions I had. and how I led d in the
tree all night. for fear of being devoured by wi d beasts.

As I knew nothing that n'l'ght of the supply I was to
receive b the providential riving of the ship nearer
the land. y the storms and tide. by which I have since
been so long nourished and supported; so these three
poor. desolate men. know nothing how certain of deliv-
erance and supply they were how near it was tothem.
and how effectually and really they were in a condition
of safety. at the some time as they thought themselves
lost. and their case desperate.

So little do we see before us in the world. and so much
reason have we to depend cheerfully upon the great
Maker of the world. that he does not leave his creatures
so absolutely destitute. but that in the worst circum-
stances they have always something to be thankful for.
and are sometimes nearer their deliverance than the

m
utie'gmfsns which they seem o be brought to their de-
a root on.

It was Just at the top of high-water when these Pie
tame on shore. and partly while they stood r ey ng
with the risoners they brought. and rtl w ile they
rambled s out to see what kind of a ace t ey were
they had carelessl stnid till the ti e was spent. an
the water was ob considerably away, leaving their
boat aground.

They had left two men in the boat. who. as I found af-
terwards having drunk a little too much brandy. fell
asleep. however. one of them waking sooner than the
other. and finding the boat too.fast aground for him to
stir it. halloocd for the rest. who were stmgglin ' about.
upon which they all soon came to the boat; bu it was

all their strength to launch her the boat being ve
t'lt'y. and the shore on that side being a soft. Oozy sen
almoet likes uicitsand.

In this cond tion. like true seamen. who are. Perhaps,
the least of all mankind given to forethought. t Iey gave
it over and away they strolled about the country again -
and I heard one as aloud to another (calling them of!
horn the boat). " Vhy. let her alone. Jack. can't yet
She'll float next tide." By which I was fully confirmed
in the main lnquir . of what countrymen they were.

All this while I ept m if close. not once darin to
stir out of my castle any srther than to my place 0 ob-
servation. near the top of the hill: and very glad I was
to think how well it was fortified. I knew it was no less
than ten hours before the boat could be afloat again. and
b that time it would be dark. and 1 mi htbemore at
liberty to see their motion. and to hear elr discourse.
if they had any.

In t e meantime. I titted m elf up for a battle. as be-
fore. though with more cent on knowi I had to do
with another kind of enemy thsn'I had at rst. I ordered
Friday also. whom I had made an excellent marksman
with his n. to load himself with arms. I took myself
two fowl ng- ieees, sud Igave him three muskets. My

re indeedp was very fierce: I had my formidable goat-
iu coaton. with the t ca I mentioned. a naked
sword b my side. two pistols n my belt. and a gun
I: eac shoulder.
twss my dos . as I said above. not to have made
an attempt till t was dark- but about two o'clock,
be ng the heat of the day. I found. that, in short. thei
were all gone straggling into the woods. and. as

lne; nay. are even brou ht. to their deliverance b

1 some great distress?

48

thought. were all laid down to sl . The three
distressed men, too anxious for the r condition to get
any sleep. were. however. set down under the shelter of
a great tree. at about a quarter of a mile from me, and.
as I thought. out of sight of any of the rest.

 

if to them. and

Upon this. I resolved to discover myse

learn something of their condition. Immediately I
marched. in the figure above - my man Friday at a good
distance behind me. as formidable for his arms as
gait not making quite so staring in spectre-like figure as

I came as near them undiscovered as I could. and then.
before any of them saw me. I called aloud to them. in
Spanish: " What are e. gentlemen 2"

They started up at t e sound. but were ten times more
confounded when they saw me. and the uncouth figure
that I made. The made me no answer at all. but I
thou ht I percciv them just going to fly from m when
Ispo etothem in English: ' Gentlemen." said " do
not be surprised at me: perhaps you may have a irlend
near on. when you do not expect it." "He must be
sent irectly from Heaven. then ' said one ofthem. very
gravely to me. and rulllu ofi' his hat at the same time;

for our condition s pas the hel of man." "All help
is from Heaven. sir." said I. " Bu can you puts stranger

7 in the way how to holpIon; for you seem to me to be in

saw you when you landed: and

when you seemed to make ep lication to the brutes that

films with you, I saw one 0 them lift up his sword to
on.

'I'hye poor man. with tears running down his fa and
trembl ng. looking like one astonished. returned. " m I
talkin to God. or man i Is it a real man. or an a el i"
"Be n no fear about thh. sir." said I. "if G had
sent an angel to relieve you. he would have come better
clothed. and armed after another manner. than on see
me. Prady lay aside your fears: I am a man. an nglish-
man. an disposed to assist you. you see. I have one
aervant. only; we have arms and ammunition. Tell us
free] ': can we serve on? What is your cure t"

" urcase. sir." as d he. " is too long to tell on. while
our murderers are so near; but. in short. sir. was com-
mander of that ship- n3 men having mutiuied against
me, the have been in ly prevailed on not to murder
me. an at last. have set me on shore in this desolate
place. with these two men with me. one in mute. the
other a passenger. where we expected to port believing
3:? lacteuto be uninhabited. and know not yet what to

n o H

" Where sre those bruise. your enemies i" said I.
"Do you know where they are one i" " There "wig:
sir." said he. pointin to a thl at of trees. "My
trembles for fear theyl ve seen us. and heard you speak;
if the have. they wi certainl murder us all. '

" eve they any fire-arms " said I. lie ans
they had oul two piecesasud one which they left in the
boat. "We then." set I. " leave the rest to me. Isee
they are all as eep. It is an easy thing to kill them all:
but shall we rather take them prisoners 2" He told me
there were two do: rate villains among them. that it
was scarce safe to s ow any mere to; but "they were
secured he believed all the rest wo d return to their duty.
I asked him which they were. Ito told me he could not
at that distance descr be them; but he would obey in
orders in anythin I would direct. " Well." said i. "l
as retreat out of heir view or hearing. lest they awake:
and we will resolve farther." So the willingly went back
with me. till the woods covered as at them.

",Look you. sir " said I. "it I venturen 11 your deliv-
erau are you willing tomake two condit one with me 1"
Be an cig'ated my proposals. b tellin me. that both he

and the s . ifrecovered. shon d be w oil directed and
command by me in eve ; and i the shipwss
not recovered, he would live die with me, in what'4 a

part of the world soever I would send him; and the two
other men said the same.

" Well." said I. " my conditions are but two: first,
that while you stay on this island with me. you will not

retend to any authorit here; and if I putarms into your

ads. you w ll. upon a I occasions. give them up to me,

and do no prt-{udice to me or mine. upon this island ; and.
in the mean t me, be overned by my orders.

" Seclmdly. that ift e ship is or ma be recovered, you
will carry me and my man to Engian . passage-free. '

He gave me all the assurances that t e invention and
faith ofa man could devise. that he would compl with
these most reasonable demands; and, besides. won d owe
his life to me. and acknowledge it upon all occasions as
ion as he lived.

" 'ell. then." said I, " here are three markets for you,
with powder and ball. Tell me next what on think is
proper to he done." Lie showed all the tea mony of his
gratitude that he was able; but otfered to be wholly

aided b ' me. I told him I thought it was hard ventur-
ng anyt ing. but the best method I could think or. was
to fire upon them at once. as the la ; and if any were
not killed at the first volley an o and tosuhmit. we
might save them. and so put 'it wholly upon God's provi-
dence to direct the shot.

He said very modestly. that he was loath to kill them.
if he could help it ; but that those two were incorrigible
villains. and bad bectt the authors of all the mutiny in the
ship; and if they escaped. we should be undone still; for
they would go on board and bring the whole ship's com-
pany. and destroy us all. "Well. then." said I, 'nccea-
slty legitimates my advice; for it is the only way to save
our lives." llowevcr. seeing him still cautious of shed-
ding blood. I told him they should go themselves. and
manage as the found convenient. '

In the mldd e of this discourse. we heard some of them
awake and soon after we saw two of them on their feet.
I asked him if either of them were the men, who, he had
said. were the hetds of the mutiny. He said, " No."
" Well. then," said I. 9' you may let them escape. and
Providence seems to have wakencd them on purpose to
save themselves. New," said I, " if the rest escape you,
it is our fault."

[in mated with this. he took the musketI had given
him in his hand. and a pistol in his belt, and his two
comrades with him, with each mans piece in his hand.
The two men. who were with him, going first, made some
noise. at which one of the seamen, who was awake,
turned about, and. seeing them coming, cried out to the
rest; but it was too late then, for the moment he cried
out. they fired, I mean the two men, the captain wisely
rcservln his own piece. They had so well aimed their
shot at t to men they knew. that one of them was killed
on the spot, and the other very much wounded; but not
being dead. he started up upon his feet, and called ea erly
for help to the other; but the ca tain, stepping to im
told him it was too late to c or help, es ould call
upon God to forgive his villa ny. and, with that word,

 

-.9~'..

knocked him down with the stock of his musket. so that
he never spoke more. There were three more in thecom-

ny. and one of them was also slightly wounded. By

s time I was come: and when they saw their danger,
and that it was in vain to resist. they be
The captain told them he would s re the r lives. if they
would give him any assurance of eir abhorrence of the
treachery they had been guilty of. and would swear to be

d for mercy.

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF

faithful to him in recovering the ship. and afterwards in
carrying her backto Jamaica, fi-om whence they came.
They vs himall the protestations of their sincerity th
could deslrsd, and e was willing to helisvs them. an
s e their lives, which Iwas not against; only I obliged
his: take: than: bound, hand and feet, while they were
u n to

pig'hile this was dolu . I sent Friday, with the ca taln's
mate, tothe boat wit orders to secure her, an bring
away the ears and sailehieh they did; and. by-tho-by
three straggling men. t at were (happily for them) parted
tom the rest. come back, upon hearing the guns fired;
and seeing their captain, who was before their prisoner,
now their conqueror. they submitted to be bound, also;
and so our victory was complete.

. It now remained that the captain and I should inquire
into one another's circumstances. I began first, and told
him my whole history, which he heard with an attention
even to amazement, and rtlcuiariy at the wonderful
manner of my being furni edwith provisions and am-
munition; and. indeed. as my story is a whole collection
of wonders. it ad'ectcd him deeply; but when be reflected
from thence et'tlpon himself,'and how I seemed to have
been preserv there on purpose to save his life, the tears
ran down his face, and he could not speak a word more.

After this communication was at an end. I carried him,
and his two men, into my apartment leading them in
inst where I came out. vim. at the top of the house. where

refreshed them with such provisions as I had. and
showed them all the contrivanccs I had made. during my
long ion , inhabiting that place.

Al I owed them. alll said to them. was perfect
amazing; but. above all, the captain admired my fo -
cation. and how perfectly I had concealed my retreat with
agrove of trees. which, having been new lanted near
twenty gears, and the wees rowi much ster than in
Buglau . was become a li e w and so thick that it
was impassable in any part of it. but at that one side
where I had reserved my little winding into it.
Thi I told him, was my castle and my resi ence: but
that had a seat in the country. as most princes have,
whither I could retreat upon occasion, and would show
him that, too another time; buthat resent. our business
was to consider howtorccover t c ip. lie agreed with
mess to that; but told me, he was perwa at a less
what measures to take. for that there were st ll six-aud-
twent hands on board, who. having entered into a
curse cons iracy. h which they had all forfeited their
lives to the w. wo d be hardened in it now by despe-
ration. and would cnrr it on. knowin v that if they were
reduced, they should brought to t e ows assoon
as they came to England, or to any of t e English colo-
nies; and that therefore there would be no attacking
them with so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he had sai and
found it was a very rational conclusion; and that ere-
foro somethiuw was to be resolved on very speedily, as
well to draw the men on board into some snare for their
surprise. as to prevent their landing upon us and destroy-
ing us. Upon this it presently occurred to me. that. in a
little while, the ship's crew, wondering what was become
of their comrades. and of the boat, would certainly come
on shore in their other host. to see for theta: and that
then. perhaps. they mi Lt come armed, and be too strong
for us; this. he at owe . was rational.

Upon this I told him the first ""an had to do was
to'stla've the boat, Iwhichrlay u n the chum that the
m inotcarr ero -nn takingcvery ngou 0
her", leave her :0 far useless as not to be fit to swim.
Accordingly we went on board. took the arms which
were left on board out of her, and whatever else we found
there which was a bottle of brandy, another of rum, a
few biscuit cakes, a horn of powder. and a great lump of
sugar in a piece of canvas; the sugar was five or six
pounds; all which was ver ' welcome to me. as clally
the brandy and sugar, of w eh I had had none et't for
man years. '
w on we had carried all these things on shore (the
oars, mast, sail. and rudder of the boatawere carried awa
before). we knocked it great hole in or bottom. that
they had come strong enough to master us, yet they
could not carry off the boat.

Indeed it was not much in my thoughts, that we could
be capable to recover the ship; but m view was. that if
they went awa without the boat, I id not much nea-
tion to make er fit again to carry us away to the -
ward Islands and call upon our fr ends. the Spaniards,
in m way; for I had them still in my thou hts.

W its we were thus rcparln our dosens, and had
first] by main strength, caved e boat u on the beach,
so gh that the tide would not fioat her 0 at high-water
mark. and besides had broken a hole in her bottom too
big to be quickl stop and were sat down musing
wh'at we should 0. we sard the ship fire a n. and saw
her makes wait with her ensign. as War the boat
to come on board- but no heat sti . and they fired
seven] times, making other signals for the boat.
At last. when all the s and firings proved fruitless.
and they found the boa did not stir we saw them (by
the help of my glasses) hoist another boat out. and row
towards the shore: and we found. as they approached.
that there were no less than ten men In her. and that they
had tire-arms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore we
had it full view of them as they came. and a lain si ht
of the men even of their faces- because the t do ha <<r
set them a'llttle to the east of the other best. they rowed
up under sho to come to the same place where the
other had land . and where the boat is .

By this means. I say. we had a full v ew of them and
the captain knew the us and characters of all the
men in the boat. of whom he said that there were three
very honest fellows. who. he was sure. were led into this
conspiracy by the rest.1 being overpowered and frighted.

But that as for the tswaiu. who. it seems. was the
chief odieer among them. and all the rest. they were as
outrageous as any of the ship's crew ; and were. no doubt.
made des rate in their new enterprise; and terribly
apprehens vs he was that they won it be too powerful

or us. .

I smiled at him. and told him that men in our circum-
stances were past the ommtions of fear; that seeing
almost every condition t t could be. was better than
that which we were supposed to be in. we ought to ex-

that the consequence. whether death or life. would
sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what he thought
of the circumstances of my life. and whethsra deliverance
were not worth venturing for. "And where. sir." said
I. "is your belief of at being preserved here on urpose
to save your life. whlc elevated you a little w lo ago?
For my part. there seems to be but one thin amiss in
all the prospect of it." " What's that 2' said he.
"Why." said I. " 'tis that. as you say. there are three or
four honest fellows amon them. which should be spared -
had they been all of the w cked rt of the crew. I should
have thought God's providence d singled them out. to
deliver them into your hands; for. depend upon it. every
man of them that comes ashore is our own. and shall die
or live. as he behaves to us."

As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful coun-
tenance. I found it greatly encouraged him; sowo set
vigorously to our business. We had. it n the first
appearance of the boat's comlu from the ah p. considered
gaseparfiting our prisoners. an had indeed secured them

ectua .

Two 0; them. of whom the captainwaa less assured
than ordinary. I sent with Friday. and one of the three
delivered men. to my cave. where the were remote
enough. and out of danger of being heard or dlsoovc
or o finding their way out of the woods. if they coul
have delivered themselves. Here they left them bound.
but gave them provisions. and promised them. if they
continued there uietly. to give them their liberty In a
day or two: but at if they attempted their escape. the
should be put to death without mercy. They promi
faithfully to bear their confinement with tieuce. and
were very thankful that they had such g usage. as to
have provisions and alight left them; for Fri
them candles (such as we made ourselves) for the r oom-
fort; and they did not know but that he stood sentinel
over them at the entrance.

The other grlsoners had better use c: two of them
were pinione indeed. because the cap aln was not free
to trust tht-m- but the other two were taken into my
sch-Ice. upon their captain's recommendation, and upon
their solemnly engaging to live and die with us; so. with
them and the three onest men. we were seven men. well
armed; and I made no doubt we should be able to deal
well enough with the ten that were a coming. considering
that the captain had said there were three or four honest
men among them also.

As soon as theyrgot to the place where their other boat
lay. they ran the boat in to the beach. and came all on
shore. hauling the boat I: after them. which I was glad
to see; for l was afraid t ey would rather have left the
boat at an anchor. some distance from the shore. with
some hands in her to guard her; and so we should not be
able to seize the boat.

Being on shore. the first thing they did. they ran all to
the other boat ; and it whs easy to see they were under a
great surprise. to and her stripped. as above. of all that
was in her. and a hole in her bottom.

After they had mused awhile upon thisf the set It two
or three great shouts. hallooing with al the r mtg)". to
try if they could make their companions hear; at it
was all to no pu so. Then the came all close in a
ring and fired a vo ley of their sma l-arms. which indeed
we heard. and the echoes made the woods ring; but it
was all one; these in the cave we were .sure could not
hear. and those in our keeping. though they heard it well
mouuh. yet dnrst give no answer to them.

They were so astonished at the surprise of this. that. as
theynwld us afterwarfathey resolved to go all on board
age to their ship, let them know there. that the

3'70 P

45
men were all murdered. and the long-boat slaved: ac-
cordingly. th

immediatel launched their boat again.
and got. all of em on board.

The captain was terribly amazed. and even confounded
at this. bellevin the would go on board the ship again.
and set sail giv in; t eir comrades up for lost. and so he
should still oso the shig. which he was in hopes he
should have recovered : at he was quickly as much
frl'fihted the other wake

hey had not long it put oi! with the boat. but we
perceived them all coming on shore again; but with this
new measure in their conduct which. it seems. they con-
sulted together upon; viz.. to leave three men in the boat,
and the rest. to go on shore. and go up into the country.
to look for their fellows.

This was a great disa pointment to us; for now we
were at a loss to know w t to do; for our seizing: those
seven men on shore would be no advantage to us. if we
let the boat escape. because they would then row away to
the ship; and then the rest of them would be sure to
weigh. and set sail. and so our hope of recovering the
ship would be lost.

owever. we had no remedy but to wait and see what
the issue of things might present. The seven men came
on shore. and the three who remained in the bout. put
her off to a good distance from the shore. and came to an
anchor to wait for them. so that it was impossible for us
to come at them in the boat.

Those that came on shore kept close t Iber. march-
ing towards the top of a little h ll. under it ich my habi-
tation lay; and we could see them lainl . though the
could not rceive us. We could vc sen very lad
they woui have come nearer to us so that we m ht
have tired at them ' or that the would have gone in cr
elf that we might have come a road.

fiut when they were come to the brow of the hill. where
they could see a reat way into the valleys and woods.
which lay tow s the north-east part. and where the
island lay lowest. they shouted and halloocd till they were
weary; and not caring. it seems. to venture far from the
shore. nor far from one another they sat down together
under a tree. to consider it. Had they thought lit to have
gone to sleep the as the other party of thi in bad don
they had done th;:]ob for us: but they were too full 0
apprehensions of inger to venture to go to sleep. though
theyhcnuld not tell what the danger was they had to fear
as er.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon this
consultation of theirs. viz.. that perhaps they would all
fire a volley again to endeavor to make their fellows
hear. and that we should all sally upon them. just at the
juncture when their pieces were al discharged. and they
would ccrtainlygield and we should have t :cm without
bloodshed. I i ed the proponl. provided it were done
while we were near enough to come up with them before
they could load their pieces again.

But this event did not happen. and we lay still a long
time. very irrosolutc what course to take: at ion lh
told him tlisre would be nothing tobedone in my op uion
till night; and then. if they di not return to the hon
erhaps we might iind a way to get betwtcn them au
the shore. and so might use some stratsgcni with them
in the boat. to get them on shore.

We waited a great while. though very impatient for
their rcmovmg. and were re uneasy; when. after long
consultations. we saw them a I start up. and march down
towards the sea. it seems they had such dreadful ap ro-
hensions upon them of the danvcr of the place. that t ey
resolved to go on board the sh"ip again give their com-
punions over for lost. and so go on with their intended
vo ago with the ship.

is soon as I rcoived them go towards the share. I
imagined it to on it really was. that they had given
over the search. and were for going back again: and the
captain. as soon as I told him my thoughts. was ready to
sink at the apprehensions of it: but I reacntly thought
of a stratagcm to fetch them back ago n; and which any
swared my end to a little.

I ordered Friday. and the captain's mate. to go over the
little creel: westwa towards the place where the sav-
ages came on shore w on Friday was rescued. and as soon
as they came to a little risin ground. at about half a
mile's distance. I bade them he loo as loud as they could.
and wait till they found the seamen hard them; that as
soon as they heard the seamen answer them. they should
return it again. and then kt-epin out of si do. take a
round. always answering when he others lzoocd._ to
draw them as far into the island and among the woods as
possible: and then wheel about again to me. by such

m h u I dimmtd' i i t the boat when Friday and
ere as o n n o
ey w 00ch an} the presently heard them. and
8

the mate hal

answering. ran sion the ore westwart towards the
voice they heard. when the were present stormed b
the creek, where. the water ng up. they coul not g
over. and called for the boat to some up. and set theta
over. as indeed I expected.46

When theyhad set themselves over. I observed that the
boat being as up a good wa into the creek. and. as it
were. in a tsrhor within the ad the took one of the
three men out of her to go along with em. and left only

two in the boat. ltavlng fastened her to the stump of a
little tree on the shore.

This was what l wished for; and immediately leaving
Friday and the captain's mate to their business. I took
tltc rest with me. and crossiu the creek out of their sight.
we surprised the two tnen be are they were aware. one of
them lying: on shore. and the other being in the boat: the
follow on shore was between sleeping and waking. and
going to start up. the captain. who was foremost. ran in
upon him. and 'nocked him down. and then called out
to him in the boat to 'ield. or he was a dead man.

There needed very cw arguments to persuade a sinele
man to yield. when he saw five men upon him. and his
comrade knocked down: besides. this was. it seems. one
of the three who were not so hearty in the tuntiu as the
rest of the crew. and therefore was easily persns ed not
only to yield. but afterwards to join very sincerely with
us.

In the meantime. Frida and the m tsin's mate so well
managed the business wit l the rest. t tat they drew them.
by hallooing and answering. from one hill to another.
and frotn one wood to another. till they not only heartily
tired them. but left them where the were. very sure they
could not reach back before it was rk: and ittdeed they
were heartily tired themselves also by the time they got
back to us.

We had nothing new to do but to watch for them in
the dark. and to fall upon them. so as to make sure work
with them.

It was several hours after Friday came back to me be-
fore they came back to their boat; and we could hear the
foremost of them. long before they tame up. calllnn to
those behind to conte along. and cottld also hear I em
answer. and complain how lame and tired they were. and
notable to come any faster. which was very welcome
news to us.

At length they came up to the boat; but it is im os-
sible to express their confusion when they found the t
fast aground in the creek. the tide ebbcd out. and their
two men gone. We could hear them call to one another.
in the most lamentable manner. telling one another they
were otleu into an enchanted island: that either there
were inhabitants in it. and they should all be murdered.
or else there were devils or spirits in it. and they should
all be carried away and devoured.

They halloned again. and called their two comrades by
their names :t great many times. but no answer. After
some time we could see them. bv the little light there
was. l'ttnltin" about wringing.- their hands. like men in
des air; and that sometimes they would go and sit down
in t to host to rest themselves then come ashore again.
and walk about again. and do the same thing over again.

My tm-n would fain have me give them leave to full
upon them at one in the dark: but I was willlnn to take
them at sr'me advantage. so to spare them. and kill as
few ot'tht-tn as I could: anti cspcctally as l was unwilling
to hazard the killing an ' of our men. knowing the others
were very "'1'" armed. resolved to wait to see if they
did not separate: and therefore, to make sure of them
I drew my atuhnscade nearer. and ordered Friday and
the captain to creep upon their hands and feet. as close
to the wound as they could. that they might not be dis-
cnven . nttd :et as near them as they possibly could
before the} oli'cred to fire.

They had not been lone in that mature.- whcn the
hoatswain. who was the principal ringleader of the mu.
tiny. and had now shown himself the most dejected and
dis titited of all the rest. mute walking towards them.
wit two more of their crew. The captain was so eager.
at havlufhthe principal rogue so much in his power, that
he eoui ardiy have patience to let him come so near as
to be sure of him ; for they only heard his tongue before:
but when they tame nearer. the captain and Friday.
startin upon their feet. let fly at them.

The ontswain was killed it n the spot; the next man
was shot in the body. and ell just by him. though he
'did Inot die till an hour or two after; and the third ran

or t.
At the noise of the tire. I immediately advanced with
my whole army. which was now eight men. viz.. myself.
enemlissimo: Friday. my lieutenant-general: the cap-
ain. and his two men; and the three prisoners of war.
whom we had trusted with arms.

We came upon them indeed in the dark. so that the
could not see ottr number; and I made the man they ha
left in the boat. who was now one of us. to call them by
name. to try if I could bring them to a grisly. and so
might erhaps reduce them to terms. whlc fe out ust
as we csirt-d: for indeed it was easy to think. as t clr
condition then was. they would be very willing to capita-
late. So he called out. as loud as he could. to one of
them. "Tom Smith l Tom Smith I" Tom Smith answered
immediately. " Who's thatt Robinson 1" for it seems he

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF

knew his voice. The other answered. "A e. a e- for
God's sake. Tom Smith. throw down your! ornim'tnd
yield: or you are dead men this moment i"

"Whom must we yield tot Where are they 2" says
Smith. again. "Here the are."says he. "Hotels our
ca tain. and fifty men wit him. have been hunting you
th s two hours. The boatswain is killed. Will Frye is
wounded and I am a prisoner; and if you do not yield.
you are a lost."

" Will the give us quarter then." says Tom Smith.
" and we wl i yield." "I'll go and ask. if you promise
to yield." es s Robinson. So he asked the captain. and
the captain lmself then calls out. "You. Smith. you
know my voice; ifyou lay down yourarma immediately.
rigid submit. you shall have your lives. all but Will At-

ns.

Upon this. Will Atkins cried out. "For God's sake.
ca tain. give me quartert What have I done t They have
al been as bad as I!" which. by the way. was not true.
neither - for it scents this Will Atkins was the tlrst man
that laid hold of theca tsin. when they first mutinied.
and used him barbarous y in tying his hands. and iving
him injurious language. owcver. the captain tol him
he must lay down his arms at discretion. and trust to the
Governor's mercy: for the all called me Govemor.

In sword. they all laid own their arms. and begged
their lives: and I sent the man that had parleyed with
them. and two more. who bound them all: and then my

t army of fifty men which. particularly with those

hree. were. in all but eight. came up and seized a on them

all. and upon their boat. only that I kept mysel . and one
more out of sight. for reasons of slate.

Ottr next work was to re ir the boat. and to think of
seizing the ship; and as or the captain. now he had
leisure to parley with them. he expostulated withthcm
upon the villainy of their practices with him. and at
length. upon the farther wickedness of their design : and
how certainly it must brin them to misery and distress
in the end. and perhaps tot e llows.

The all appeared very pelt tettt. and begged hard for
their 1 ves. As for that. he told them they were none of
his prisOacrs. but the commander's of the island: that
they thought that they had set. him on shore in a barren.
uninhabited island. but it had pleased God so to direct
them. that the island was inhabited. and that the gov-
ernor was an Englishman; that he might hang them all
there. if he pleased: but as he had given them all quarter.
he supposet he would send them to En land. to be dealt
with there as justice required. except . tklns. whom he
was commanded by the governor-to advise to prepare for
death: for that he would be hanged in the morning.

Though this was all a fiction of his own. yet it had its
desired efl'eet: Atkins fell upon his knees to beg the on
thin to intercetlc with the governor for his life; and a i
the rest begged of him. for God's sake. that they might
not be sent to England.

it now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance
was come. and that it wouldbea most easy thin-' to bring
these fellows in to he hearty in getting possession of the
ship. 50 I retired itt the dark from them. that the might
not see what kind of a governor they had. and cal ed the
captain to me. When called. as at a good distance. one
of the men was ordered to speak again. and say to the
captain. "Captain. the commandcr calls for vou;" and
presently the ca ituin replied. " Tell his cxcelienry I am
just a-cominn.' This most perfectly surprised them;
and they all believed that the commander was just by.
with his tifty tnen.

Upon the captain's coming to me. I told him my project
for seizing the ship. which he liked wonderfully Well. and
resolved to at it n execution the next morning.

But in 0 er to execute it with more art. and to be se-
cure of success. I told him we must divide the prisoners
and that he should go and take Atkins and two more of
the worst of them and send them pinioned to the cave
where the others lay. This was committed to Friday.
and the two men who came on shore with the captain.

They cont-e ed them to the cave as to a prison: and
it was indec adlsmal place. especially to men in their

condition.

The other I ordered to my bower. as I called it. of which
I have given a hill description ; and as it was fenced in.
and they pinioncd. the place was secure enough. consid-
ering they were upon their behavior.

To these. in the morning I sent the mptain. who was
to enter into a parley with t em: in a word. to try them.
and tell me whether he thought they might be trusted or
no. to go on board. and surprise the shi . lie talked to
them of the injury done him. of the con ition they were
brought to : and that though the gOchor had given
them quarter for titeirlives. as to the present action. yet
if they were sent to England. they would all be he in
chains. to be sure; but that if_ they would oin so as an
attempt. as to recover the ship. he woul have s gov-
ernor s engagement for their pardon.

Any one my guess how resdil such a pro sal would
be accepted by men in their co tion; they sit downotntheir knees to the ca tain. and promised with the deepest
im reeations. that ey would be faithful to him to the
las drop. and that they should owe their lives to him.
and would go with him all over the world: that '1?
would own him for a father to them as long as the liv .
" Well." saysthe captain. "I must no and tell t e gov-
crnor what you say and see what I can do to bring lm
toconsent to it." he he bron ht me an account of the
ten he found them in; andt the verily believed they
won d be faithihl.

However. that we might be very secure. I told him he
should go back again. and choose out tire of them. and
tell them that they should see that theydid not want men :
but we would take out those live to be his assistants. and
that the governor would keep the othertwo. and the three
that were sent prisoners to the castle. my cave.) as host~
agesI for the fidelity of those five : and t at. if they proved
unfa thihl in the execution. the five hostages should be
hanged in chains alive upon the shore.

This looked severe. and convinced them that the gov-
ernor was in earnest. However. they had no way leit
them but to accept it; and it was now the business of the
prisoners. as much as of the captain. to persuade the other
the to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition :
First. the captain. his mate. and passenger. Second. the
two prisoners of the first gang to whom. having their
characters from the captain. I had ven their liberty. and
trusted them with arms. Third. t e other two. whom I
had kept till now in my bower. pinioned; but. upon the
captain's motion. had now released. Fourth. these five
rc eased at last: so that there were twelve in all. besides
live we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages.

I asked tln- captain if he was willing to venture with
those hands on board the ship; for. as for me and my man
Friday. I did not think it was proper for us to stir. hav-
ing seven men lclt behind: and it was em loyment
enough for us to keep them asunder. and supplyt em with
v ctua s.

As to the five in the cave. I resolved to keep them
fast: but Friday went twice a do to them. to supply
them with necessaries; and I ma 0 the other two carry
print-listens to a certain distance. where Friday was to
ta e t.

When I showed to self to the twohostages. it was with
the captain. who told them I was the person whom the
governor had ordered to look after them. and that it was
the governor's pleasure the should not stir anywhere.
but y my direction: that f they did. they should be
fetched into the castle and laid in irons; so that as wc
never suffered them to see me as _orernor. I now up
peered as another person. and a o e of the governor.
the garrison. the castle and the it 0. upon all occasions.

The captain had now no dithcnlty before him. but to
furnish hi:l two boats. stop the breach of one. and man
them. lie made his passenger captain of one. with four
other men: and himself. his mate. and five more. went
in the other. 'Aud they contrived their business very
Well: for they came n l to the ship about midnight. As
soon as they came wit tin call of the ship. he made Rob
lnson hail them. and tell them he had brought oi! the
men and the boat. and that it was along time before the
had found them. and the like; holding them in a chat ti I
they came to the ship's side: when the captain and the
mate. entering first w th theirarms. immediately knocked
down the second mate and carpenter with the butt-end
of their muskets. bein very faithfully seconded by their
men. They secured al the rest that were open the main
and quarterdecks. and began to fasten the hatches to
keep them down who were below. when the other boat.
and their men entering at the fore-chains. secured the
forecastle of the ship. and the shuttle. which went down
into the cook'room. making the three men they found
there prisouers.

When this was done. and all safe upon the deck. the
captain ordcrI-d the mate. with three men. to break into
the round~houre. where the new rebel captain lay. and.
having taken the alarm. was gotten up. and with two
men and a boy. were gottcn tire-arms in their hands; and
when the mate. with a crow. split open the door. the
new captain and his men tired boldly anion" them. and
wounded the mate With a musket-hallnvhich broke his
arm. and wounded two more of the men. but killed no-

bod .

The mate called for help. rushed. however. into the
round-house. wounded as e was. and. with his pistol.
shot the new captain in the head; the bullet entered at
his mouth. and came out again behind one of his cars;
so that he never a ire a word: upon which the rest
yielded. and the sh p was taken cti'ectually. without any
more lives lost.

As soon as the ship was thus seen the captain or-
demd seven guns to be tired. which wast o signal a ed
upon by me. to give me the notice of his success. w Ic
you may be sure. I was vc glad to hear. having as
watching upon the shore for t ll near two or the clock
in the morning.

.-- as

Having thus heard the signal piaini . I laid me down -
and it having been a day of great fat gue to me. I slept
very sound. till I was something surprised by the noise
of a gun; and presently starting up. I heard a man call
me by the name of " Governor. governor:" and presently
I knew the captain's voice. when. climbing ug to the top
of the hill. there he stood. and intiug to re shi i. he
embraced me in his arms. " y dear friend and oliv-
erer." says he. "there's your ship: for she is all yours.
and so are we. and all that belong to her." I cast my eye
to the shi .and there she rode within little more than
half a mi e of the shore: for they had weighed her
anchor as soon as the were masters of her. and the
weather being fair. ha brought her to an anchor just
against the mouth of a little creek: and the tide being
up. the captain had brought the pinnace in near the
p ecs- where I tirst landed my rafts. and so landed Just at
my oor.

 

I was. at first. ready to sink down with the surprise;
ibr I saw my deliverance indeed visibly put into my
hands. all thinvs easy. and alargc shipjust rcntlyio carry

me away. whiihcr I pleased to go. A: first. for some
time. I was not able to answer one word: httt as soon as
he had taken me in his arms I hold fast by him. or I
should have fallen to the ground.

lie perceived the surprise. and immediately pulls a bot-
tle out of his pocket and gave me a drum of cordial.
which he had brought on purpose for me. After I drank
it. I sat down upon the ground. and ihuii"h it brought
me to myself. yet it was a good while before I could
speak a word to him.

All this while the poor man was in as great an costs
as I. only not under any surprise. as I was; and he sail
a thousand kind. tender th ngs to me. to com mic and
bring me to myself: but such was the flood of oy in m
breast. that it put all mysplrits into confusion: at last t
broke out into tears. and a little while nflcr I recovered
mv speech.

Then I took to tum. and embraced him. as my deliv-
erer; and we rejo ccd together. I told him I looked ttpon
him as a man sent from heaven to deliver me. and that
the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of wonders:
that such things as these were the testimonies we had of
a secret hand of Providence overnin . the world. and an
evidence that the eyes of an nlinitc owcr could search
into the remotest corner of the world. and send help to
the miserable whenever he pleased.

I ""20! not to lift up mv heart in tlnmki'ttlttt-ss to
heaven: and what heart could forbcar to bless Him. who
had not onlv. in a miraculous manner. provided for me
in such a wilderness. and in such a desolate condition.
but from whom every deliverance must always be ac-
knowledgcd to proceed ?

When we had talked a while. thecaptain told me he had
brought me some little refreshment. such as the shi af-
forded. and such as the wretche who had been so ong
his masters. had not plundered im of. Upon this he
called aloud to the boat. and bade his men bring the
things ashore that were for the governor; and indeed it
was aprcsent. as if I had been one. not that was to be car-
ried away alone with them but as if I had been to dwell
upon the island still. and they were to go without me.

First. he had brought me a case of bottles full of excel-
lent cordial waters. six large bottles of Madeira wine--
the bottles held two quarts apiece--two pounds of excel-
lent tobacco twelve "ood ieces of the ship's beef and
swims of pork. with a of peas. and about a an-
d weight of biscuit.

He brought me also a box of sugar. a box of flour. a
bag full of lemons. and two bottles of lime Juice. and
abundance of other things. Bu besides these. an what
was a thousand times more use i to me. he brong t me
sir: clean. new shirts. six very ood neckcloths. two pair
of gloves. one pair of shoes. a at. and one pair of stock-
ings. and a very good suit of clothes of his own. which
had been worn very little: in a word. he clothed me from
head to foot.

It was a very kind and agreeable present. as any one
may imagine. to one in my c rcuvnstsnces; but neverwas
anything iii the world of that kind so unpleasant awk-
ward. and uneasy as it was to me to wear such clothes at
their first putting on.

Alter these ceremonies were least. and afterall his good
things Were brought into myi ttie agartrnen we began
to consult what was to be done wit the pr soners we
had; for it was worth considering. whether we might
venture to take them away with us or no. especially two
or them. whom we knew to be incorrigible and refrac
tory. to the last degree: and the captain said he knew
that they were such rogues. that there was no obliging
them ; and if he did carry them away. it must be in irons.
as maleiactors. to be delivered over to Justice. at the
first English colony he could come at: and] found the
ca taiu himself was very anxious about it.

'pon this. I told him. that if he desired it, I durst un-
dertaketo bring the two men he spoke of. to make it
their own rt. ucst that he should leave them it on the
island. "I s ould be very glad of that." sayst e cap-
tain " with all m heart."

"Well." said . "I will send for them. and talk with
them for you." So I caused Friday and the two boatages.
for they were now discharged. their comrades having
performcdiheir promise; Isay. I caused them to go to
the cave. and bring as the five men pinioned as they
were. to the bower. an keep them there till I came.

Aibcr some time. I came thither. dressed in my new
habit. and now i was called governor In. Being all
met. and the captain with me I caust- the men to be
brought before me. and I told them that I had had a full
account of their villainous behaviour to the captain. and
how they had run away with the ship. and were prepar-
ing to commit further robberies; but that Providence
had ensnarcd them in their own ways. and that they had
fallen into the pit which they had d god for others.

I let them know that. by my direction. the chi had
been seized; that she lay now in the road- an they
might see by-ttud-b that their new captain had received
the reward of his v llainy; for that they might see litm
han ing at the yard-arm.

'I' :it as to them. I wanted to know what they had to
say. why I should not execute them as pirates. taken in
the fact. as by my commission they could not doubt I
had authority to do.

One or them answered in the name ofthe rest. that
they had nothing to say but this. that whentliey were
taken. the capia ii had [promised them their lives. and
they humblfyh implored or mercy. But I told them I
knew not w 'll. mercy to show them: for. us for niyscl
I had resolved to quit the island with all my meu.au
had taken passage with the captain to go to England;
and as for the captain he cuul. not carry them to Eng-
land. other than as prinonortI in irons. to be tried for
mutiny nntl running away with the ship: the conse-
quence of which, they must needs know. would bethc
gallows: so that ICould not tell which was best for
them unless they hada mind to take their fate in the
island: il'tiiei'desircdthzlt I did not care. as I had lib-
ert to leave t. I had some inclination to give them
the r lives if they could shift on shore. They seemed
very thankful for it: said they \voitid much rather ven~
turn to stay there. than to becarried to England to be
hanged: so I left it on that issue.

Iiowevcr. the captain seemed to make some ditlicult
of it. as it he dttrst not leave them there. Upon thisI
seemed a little angry with the captain. and told him that
they were my prisoners. not his; and that if he did not
think fit to consent to it. I would set them at liberty as
I found them: and if he did not like that. he might take
them again. if he could catch them.

Upon this they: peared very thankful. and I accord-
ingly set them at li -rty. and bade them retire into the
woods to the place whence they came. and I would
leave them some firearms some ammunition. and some
directions how they should live very well. if they thought

at.
Upon this I pr red to 0 an board the ship; but
told the captain t Iwoui

stay that at ht to re
my things. and desired him to ti on board in thzmn

time. and keep all right in the s ip. and send the boat on
shore the next day for me; ordering him in the mean
time to cause the new captain who was killed. to be
ban d at the yard-arm. that these men might see him.
on the captain was gone. I sent for the men up to
me in nily agartmeiit. an entered serioust into dis-
course w th t cm of their circumstances. I told them. I
thought they had made a right choice; that if the ca
tain carried them away. they would certainly be hang .
I showed them the new captain hanging at the yard-arm
32:18 ship. and told them they had nothing less to ex-
thn they had all declared their willingness to stay. I

LIFE AND ADVENTURES 01"

then told them. Iwould let them into the story of my
livingothere. and put them into the way- of makinfi it
easy them. Accordingly I gave them the whole is.
tory of the place. and of my coming to it: showed them
my fortifications, the way made my bread. lanted my

com. cured my grapes: and. in a word. I that was

necessa to make them easy. I told them the sto also
of the s xteen Spaniards that were to be e t - for
whom I lett a letter. and made them proni totreat

them in common with themselves.

-I let! them my fire-arms; viz. five muskets. three
fending-pieces. and three swords. I had about a barrel
and a a f of powder left; for after the first year or two I
used but little. and wasted none. I gave them a do
scription of the way I m. the goats. and direction.
to milk and fatten them. to make both butter and cheese.

In a word. I gave them every t of my own story;
and I told them I would reval with the captain to
leave them two barrels o gun wder more. and some
garden-seeds. which I told them would have been very
glad of: also I gave them the of pease which the
captain had brought me to eat. an bade them be sure to
sow and increase them.

Having done all this. I left them the next day. and
went on board the ship. We prepared immediately to
sail. but did not weigh that night. The next morning
early. two of the five men came swimming to the ships
side. and making a most lamentable complaint of he
other three. cd to be taken into the ship. for God's
sake. for they a ould be murdered; and begged the cap
thin to take them on board. though he hanged them im--

medlutely.

Upon this. the tain pretended to have no power
without me; but a ter some didiculty. and after their
solemn promises of amendment. they were taken on

and were some time a r soundly whipped and

board.
icklcd; after which they prov very honest and quiet

ellows.

Some time after this. I went with the boat on shore.
the tide being up. with the things promised to the men.
to which the captain at my intercession. caused their
chests and clothes to be added. which the took. and
were very thankful for. I also encouraged t em. by tell-
in them. that ifit la in my powerto send any vessel to

<<3 them in. I won! not forget them.

\i hen I took leave of this island. I carrlrd on board,
for relics. the gmt goat-skin ca Ihad made. my um.
brella. and one of my parrots; a so I forgot not to take
the money I formerly mentioned. which had been by me
so long useless. that it was wn rusty. or tarnished
and could hardlyl pass for silver. till it had been a little
rubbed and han ed: and also the money I found in the

wreck of the Spanish ship.

 

And thus I left the island. the 19th of December as I
found by the ship's account. in the year 1686. after I had
been upon it at ht-and~tweneta years, two months. and
nineteen days ' in deliver from the second captiw
ity the same day of he month that I first made m es-
ca e in the barco-longo. Rom among the Moors of 8a loo.

n this vessel. after a long voy a. I arrived in England
the 11th of June. in the year 1881. ving been thirty-and-
five cars absent.

W en I came to England. Iwaa asperi'ect a at ate
all the world. as if I had never been known there. My
benefactor and faithful steward. whom I left in trust
with my money. was alive. but had had great misfortunes
in the world. was become a widow the second time. and
very low in the world. I made her easy as to what she
owed me. assurin her I would give her no trouble; but.
on the contra . n gratitude for former care and faith
fuluess to me. relieved her as my little stock would af--
ford. which at that time would indeed allow me to do but
little for her: but I assured her I would never forget
gulls"? I had sudieient to help her. as shall be observed
p cs.

I went down afterwards into Yorkshire: but my {other
was d and m mother. and all the family extinct. ex-
cept that foun two sistersxaud two of the children of
one ofm brothers; and as had been long ago given
over for cad. there had been no revision made for me.
so that. in a we I found noth n to relieve or assist
me; and that the l ttle money I would not do much
for me. as to settling in the world.

I met with one piece of gratitude. indeed. which I did
not ex ; and this was. that the master of the ship.
whom had so hap ily delivered. and. by the same means.
saved the ship an cargo. having given a.ve handsome
account to the owners. of the manner how had saved
the lives of the men. and the ship. they invited me to
meet them. and some other merchants concerned. and
altogether made me a very handsome compliment upon
the lslnbject. and a present of almost two hundred pounds
a or n .

Buhgsftcr making several reflections n u the circum-
stances of my life. and how little way th a would go to.
wards settll mo in the world. I resolved to to Lis-
bon. and sec f Imlght not come b some in ormation
of the state of my plantation in the raxlis. and of what
was become of my partner. who. I had rennin to suppose.
had some years now given me over for dead.

With this view. I ok shipping for Lisbon. where I
arrived in April foliowln ; my man Friday accompany-
ing me ver oucstly in a lthese ramblings. and proving
a most fait fhl servant upon all occasions.

When I came to Lisbon. I found out b inquiry. and to
my particular satisfaction. my old frlen . the captain of
the ahi who first took me up at sea. on' the shore of Af-
rica. o had now grown 0] and had left off the sea.
but put his son. who was r from a young man. into
his sh p. and who still used the Brazil trade. The old
man did not know me. and. indeed. I hardly knew him:
but I soon brought myself to his remembrance. when I
told him who I was. . .

After some passionate expressions of our old acquaint-
ance. I inquired. on ma be sure. after my lantatlon
and my rtner. he oi man told me he ha not been
in the razlls for about nine years; but that he could
assure me. that when he came away to partner was liv-
ing. but the trustees whom I had oiu with him to take
co ninuee of m part. were, hot dead ' that. however.
be lieved that would have a very fired account of the
improvement of the plantation. for at. in the general
be lef of my being cast aw and drowned. my trustees
had given in tho accounto c produce of my part of the
plantation to the procurator fiscal. who had appropriated

t. in case I ncvercame to claim it. one-third to the king.
and two-thirds to the monastery of St. A "ustlne. to be
expended for the benefit of the poor. and or the conver-
sion of the Indians to the Catholic faith - but that if I
appeared. or any one for me. to claim the inheritance. it
would be restored; only that the improvement. or an-
nual production. bei distributed to charitable uses.
could not be restored; ut he assured me that the stew-
ard ofthc king's revenue. (from lands.) and the provedo
or steward o the monastery had taken great care al
along. and the incumbent. that is to say. my rtncr
gave every year a faithful account of the p nee. of
which they received duly my moiety.

I asked int if he knew to what height of im rovement
he had brought the plantation: and whether 0 thought
it mightbcworth looking after; or whether. on my going
thither. I should meet with no obstruction to my pos-
sessing my Just right in the moiety.

Iic told me he could not tell exactly to what d co the
plantation was improved; but this he knew. t at my
partnerwas grown exmdiu rich upon the enjoying but
one half of it; and tha to e best of his remembrance.
he had heard that the k g's third of my part. which was.
it seems. granted away to some other monastery. or re-
ligious house. amounted to above two hundred moldores
a year: that. as to my being restored to a quiet poues-
sion of it. there was no question to be made of that. my
partner being alive to witness my title. and my name

eing also enrolled in the register of the country. Also

e to d are that the survivors of the two trustees were
very fair. honest pee is. and very wealthy; and ho ho-
llcved I would not on y have their assistance for putting
me in possession. but would iind- avery considers lo sum
ofmouey in their hands. for in account. being the pro-
duce of the farm. while their there held the trust. and
before itawas given up. as above. which. as he remem-
bered. was for about twelve years.

I showed myself a little concerned and uneasy at this
account. and required of the old on tain how it came to
pass that the trustees should thus ispoae of my streets.
when he knew that I had made my will. and had made
him. the Portuguese capta my universal heir. to.

lie told me at was true. at as there was no roof of
my being dead. he could not act as executor. nn ll some
certain account should come of my death; and that. be-

40

sides. he was not willing to inter-meddle with a thing 'so
remote: that it was true. he had registered my will. and
put in his claim- and could he have given any account
of my being deador alive. he would have acted by re-
curatiou. and taken possession of the ingenio (so t ey
called the suganhouse . and had given his son. who was
now at the Brazlls. 0 or to do it.

" But." says the old man. "I have one piece of news
to tell you. which perhaps may not be so acceptable to
you as the rest; and that is. that. believing you were
eat. and all the world behaving so also. your partner
and trustees did offer to account to me. in your name.
for six or at ht of the'first earsofprotits. which I re-
ceived; but t ere being at t t time." says he. " great
disbursements for increasing the works; building an in-
genlo. and buying slaves. i did not amount tonear as
much as afterwards it procured. However." as the old
man. " I shall give you a true account of what have re-
ceived in all. and how I have disposed of it."

After a few do farther conference with this ancient
friend. he bro t meansccount of the first six years'
income of my p antatlon. signed by my partner. and the
merchants' trustees being ways delivered in goods. vim.
tobacco in rol and sugar in chests. besides rum. mo-
lasses ac. wh ch is the consequence of a a work;
and I lound. by this account. that every car e income
considerably increased. But. as above t edlsbursemont
being large. the sum at first was small. However the
old man let me see that he was indebted to me fonr'hnn-
tired and seventy moidorcs of Id. besides sixt chests
of so . and fifteen double ro s of tobacco. wh eh were
lost n his ship. he having been shipwrecked coming
hpme to Lisbon. about eleven years after my leaving the

ace. >
p The good man then began to com lain of his misfor-
tunes. and how he had been obll to make use of my
money to recover his losses. an b him a share in a
new ship. "However. my old Men " says he. "you
shall notwant a supp in {gur necessity - and assoou as
myjson returns. you all fully satia ed."

pon this he pulls out an old uch. and ives me one
hundred and sixty Portugal moi ores in l - and giving
me the writings of his title to the ship w lch 'his son was
goin to Bras sin. of which he wasa quarter-part ownen
and is son another. he puts them both into my hands.
for security of the rest.

I was too much moved with the honesty and kindness
of the poor man. to be able to bear this; and remember-
ing what he had done for me. how he had taken me up at
and how generome he hadused me on all occasions.
particularly. how sincere a friend he was now to me.
I could hardly refrain weeping at what he said to me.
Therefore. first I asked him if is circumstances permit-
tcd him to spare so much money at that time. and if it
would not straiten him. He told me he could not say but
it might straiten him a little; but. however. it was my
money. and I might want it more than he. .

EVG?'"II the good man said was full of afl'cctioa. and
I conl ha ly refrain from tears while he spoke. In
short. I tool: one hundred of the moldores. and called for
a pen and ink to give him a recel t for them; then I re-
turned him thorns and told him. f ever I had possession
of the plantation. would return the other to him. also.
as indeed I afterwards did; and that. as to the bill of sale
of his part in his son's ship. I would not take it by any
means: but that. if I wanted the money. I found he was
honest enough to pay me; and if I did no but come to
receive what he gave me reasons to expect. would never
have a penny more from him.

When this was the old man began to ask me if
he should put me in a method to make my claim to mil

lantation. I told him. I thought to 0 over to itm se

fie said. 1 mi ht do so. in pleased: ut that "I di not.
s enough to secure my right. and immedi-

eprotlta to my nsc- and asthers
were ships e river 0 Lisbon. Just ready to go away
to Brazil. he made me enter my name in a ubllc register.
with his amdavit. atllrming. upon oath. t t I was alive.
and that I was the same person who took up the land for
the Ianting the said plantation at first.

T is bei regularly atwsted by a notary. and a procu-
ration affix . he directed me to send it with a letter of
his writl . to a merchant of his acquaintance at the
place; an then'firoposed my staying with him. tillan
account came of e return.

Never an thing was more honorable than the proceed-
inga n n this procuration ; for in less than seven months
I rece ved a large ckot from the survivors of my trua-
tees. the merchan s for whose account I went to sea. in
which were the following particular letters and papers
enclosed: .

First. there was the account current of the produce of
my harm. or lantation. from the year when their fathers
had balan with my old Portugal captain. being for six

ears; the balance appeared to be one thousand one hun-
red and seventy-four moidores in my favor.

Secondly. there was the account of four years more.

there were w
ateiy to approslrlaie
u
while they kept the elects in their hands. before the gov-
ernment claimed the administration as being the efi'ects

efa men not to be found. which they call civil death;
and e balance of this. the value of the plantation in.
ereasing. was to an amount in crusadoes which made

three thousand two hundred and forty-one moidores.

Thirdiy. there was the prior of the Augustine's account.
who had received the profits for above fourteen years:
but not being able to account for what was disposed to
the hospital. very houestl declared he had eight hun-
dred and seventy-two moi ores not distributed, which he
acknowledged to my account. As to the king's part. that
refunded nothing.

There was also a letter of my partner's. congratulating
me very affectionately upon my being alive. giving me
an account how the estate was improved. and what it
produced a year. with a particular of the number of
squares. or acres that it contained; how lanted; how
many slaves there were upon it; and. ma lug two-aud-
twenty crosses. for blessings. told me he had said so
many "Ave Marias." to thank the Blessed Virgin that I
was alive; inviting me. very passionately. to come over
and lake sscssion of my own; and in the mean time.
to ve h m order to whom he should deliver my efi'ects.
if should not come myself; concluding with a heart
tender of his friendship. and that of his fsmllg; and sent
me. ass present. seven finc leopard's skins. w lch he had.
it seems. received from Africa. by some othership. which
he had sent thither, and which. it seems. had madea bet-
ter voyage than I. lie sent me. also. five chests of excel-
lent sweet-meats. and a hundred pieces of gold uncoined.
not quite so Iaroe as moidores.

By the same fleet. my two merchant trustees shipped
the twelve hundred chests of sugar. eight hundred rolls
of tobacco. and the rest of the w ole account in gold.

I might well say now. indeed. that the latter and of Job
was better than the beginning. It is impossible to ex-
press the fluttering of my very heart. when I looked over
these letters. and cspeciall when I found all my wealth
about me; for. as the Bras l ships come all in fleets. the
same ships which brought my letters brought my goods:
and the effects were sale in the 'I'agus be ore the letters
eamete w hand. In a word. I turned pale. and grew
sick: and ad not the old mun run and fetched men cor-
dial. I believe the sudden surprise of Joy had overset us.
tore. and I had died upon the spot.

Nay, after that. I continued very ill. and was so some
hours. till a physician being sent for. and something of
the real cause of m illness being known. he ordered me
to be bled: after w ich I had relief. and grew well; but
I verily believe. if it had not been eased by the vent given
in that manner to the s irits. I should have died.

I was new master. al on a sudden. of above five thou-
sand pounds sterling. in money. and had an estate. as I
might well call it. in the Brazil-I. of above a thousand
pounds a year. as sure as an estate of lands in England;
and. in a word. I was in a condition which I scarce know
how to understand. or how to compose myself for the en-

0 out o .

1 he first thing I did was to recompense m orlninal
benefactor. my good old captain who had been rst c'ltari-
table to me in my distress. kind to me in the beginning.
and honest to me at the end. I showed him all that was
sent tome. I told him that. next to the providence of
Heaven. which disposes all things. it was owin to him -
and that it new lay on me to reward him. \vhic I would
do a hundred-fold. So I first returned to him the hun-
dred moidores I had received of him; then I sent for a
notary. and caused him to dnaw up a general release. or
discharge. for the four hundred and seventy moidores.
which he had atlmowie he owed me. in the fullest
and firmcst manner poss ble: after which. I caused a
procuration to be drawn. empowering hlmao be the re.
eeiver of the annual rofits of my lsntation. and ap-
pointin mygpartner account to im. and make the
returnsayt o usual fleets to him. in my name. And a
clause in the end. bein a nt of one hundred moidores
a year to him. during h s l fe. out of the effects; and fifty
moidores a your to h s son after him. for his life: and thus
I requlted my old man.

I was now to consider which way to steer my course
next. and what to do with the estate that Providence had
thus put into my hands- and indeed. I had more care
upon my head now. than had in my silent state of life
in the island where I wanted nothing but what I ha
and had nothing but what I wanted : whereas. 1 had now
a great charwc upon me. and my business was new to
secure it. I'hnd never a cave now to hide my mono in.
ora place where it mi vht lie without lock or kcv t ll it

w mouldy and tent shed before anybody would med-

0 with it: on the contrary. I knew not where to put it.
or when to trust with it; my old patron. the captain.
indeed. was honest. and that was the only refuge I had.

In the next place. my interest in the Emails seemed to
summon me thither: but now Icould not tell how to
think ofegoing thither till I had settled my affairs. and
left my sets in some safe hands behind me. At first. I

4

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF

thought of my old friend the widow. who I knew was
honest. and would be just to me; but then she was in
cars. and but poor. and. for aught I knew. might be in
eht; so that. in a word. I had no way but t6 go back to
England myself. and take my effects with me.

It was some months. however. before I resolved upon
this; and therefore. as I had rewarded the old captain
fully. and to his satisfaction who had been my former
benefactor. so I began to think of my poor widow. whose
husband had been my first benefactor. and she. while it
was in her power my faithful steward and instructor.
So the first thingI d d. I at antcrchant in Lisbon to
write to his corres ndent n London--not only to pay a
bill. but to go fin her out. and carry her. in money. a
hundred pounds from me. and to talk with her. and com-
fort her n her poverty. by telling her she would. if I
lived. have a fart er supply. At the same time i sent in
two sisters. in the country. each of them a hnndre
pounds. they being. though not in want. yet not in very
good circumstances; one having been married and left a

widow. and the other having a husband not so kind to
her as he should be.

But amen" all my relations or acquaintances. I could
not yet pitch upon one to whom I durst commit the rose

y of my stock. that I might go away to the Brazils. and cave

things safe behind me; and this greatly lperplexed me.

I had once a mind to have gone to the ruziis and have
settled myself there: for I was. as it were. naturalized
to the place; but I had some little scruple in m mind
about religion. which inseuslbly drew me back. 0 which
I shall say more presently. However. it was not reli on
that kept me from goin thither for the resent: an as
I had made no scrapie 0 being openly o the religion of
the country all the while I was amon them. so neither
did 1 yet; only that new and then hav ng of late the ht
more of it than formerly. when I began to think of llv ng
and (1 ing among them. I began to rcnret my having pro--
fessed in self a apist. and thought 'it might not be the
best roll on to ie with.

But. as I have said. this was not the main thing that
kept me from going to the Brazils. but that really I did
not know with whom to leave my efforts behind me; so
I resolved at last to go to En land with them. where. if
I arrived. I concluded I shoul make some acquaintance.
or find some relations that would be faithful to me:
andltegcordingly I prepared to go to England with all my
wea .

In order to prepare things for my going home. I first
(the Brazil fleet being just going away? resolved to lve
nnswvrs suitable to the Just and laithfu account ofth ngs
I had from thence. And first to the prior of St. Augus-
tine I wrote a letter full of thanks for his just dealings.
and the offer of the ei ht hundred and seventy-two moi-
dorcs. which were unu sposed of. which I desired might
berefiiven. five hundred to the monastery and three hun-
d and seventy-two to the poor. as the prior should
gilrcftk; desiring the good padre's prayers for me. and

o l 'e.

I wrote next a letter of thanks to my two trustees
with all the acknowledgment that so much Justice and
honesty called for: as for sending them a present. they
were far above having any occasion for it.

Lastlv. I wrote to my partner. acknowled ng his indus-
try in the improving o the plantation an his integrity
in increasing the stock of the works. giving him instruc-
tions for his future overnment of my part. accordtu to
the owers I had to with my old patron. to whom de-
sire him to send whatever become due to me. till he
should hear from me more particularly: assuri 4' him
that it was my intention not only to come to him nt to
settle myself there for the remainder of my life. 'I'o this
I added a very handsome present of some ltullan silks
for his wife and two daughters. for such the captain's son
informed me he had ; with two ieccs offine English broad-
cloth--the host I could get in isbon--tlve pieces of black
baize. and some Flanders lace of a good value.

liavin thus settled my affairs. sold my cargo. and
turned a l my effects into good bills of exchange. In ' next
dihienlty was which wa ' to go to England. I ha been
accustomed enough to t 0 sea. and yet I had a strange
aversion to go to England b ' sea at that time; and though
I could give no reason for t. yet the ditliculty increased
upon me so much. that though I had once shipped my
baggage in order to go. yet I altered my mind. and that

d. not once. but two or three times.

It is true I had been very unfortunate by sea. and this
might be one of the reasons: but let no man stake the
strong impulse of his own thoughts in cure of shell mo-
ment. Two of the ships which I had sinulcd out to go
in--I mean more particularly singled out I an an other
--that is to say. so as in one of them to put to th ngs on
board. and in the other to have a reed with t e captain;
I so two of these ships miscar ed viz.. one was taken
by e Algerin the other was cast away on the Start.
near 'l'orba . an all the people drowned except three:
so that in e thcr of these vessels I had been made mise-
rable. and in which most. it was hard to say.
Having been thus harassed in my thoughts. my old
pilot. to whom I communicated everything. pressed me
earnestly not to go by see: but either to go by lend to
the Groyne. and cross over the Bay of Biscay to ochelle.
Rom whence it was en eas and safe journey by land to
Paris. and so to Calais and over: or to go up to Madrid.
stilt:I so eligi'olwey by land througngran'ce.' | b

awo weesop us my in y
see at all. except flom ale to Doug? that I resign-(5 to
trech all the wax by land. which. as I was not in haste. and
did not value t 0 charge. was by much the pleasenter
way - and to make it more so. my old captain brought an
English entleman. the son of amerehant in Lisbon. who
was will ug to travel with me. After which. we picked
up two more. who were En lish. and merchants also. and
two young Portuguese out emen. the last going to Paris
Only; so that we were u all six of us. and live servants:
the two merchants and the two Port "nose contenting
themselves with one servant between wo to save the
charge; and as for me. I not an English sailor to travel
with me as servant. besides at man Friday. who was

too much a strsn r to be capab o of supplying the place
of a servant on 0 road.

In this manner 1 set out for Lisbon: and our company
being all very well mounted and armed. we made a lttle
troOp. whereof they did me the honor to call me captain
as well because I was the oldest man as because I had
tjwo servants. and indeed was the original of the whole

ourncy.

As I have troubled you with none of my sea Journal
so shall i trouble you with none of my land Journals. bu
some adventures that happened to tie in this tedious and
ditlicnlt Journey. I must not omit.

When we came to Madrid. we beln all of us strangers
to Spain. were willing to stay some t e to see the court
of Spain. and to see what was worth observing; but it

being the latter part of summer. we hastened away. and
set out from Madrid about the middle of October. But
when we came to the edge of Navarre. we were alarmed
at several towns on the way. with an account that so
much snow had fallen on the French side of the moun-
tains. that several travellers were obli ed to come back

to Paiupeluna. after having attempt . at an extreme
hazard. to pass on.

When we came to Pampeluue itself. we found it so in.
deed; and to me. that had been always used to a hot
climate. and indeed to countries where we could scarce
bear any clothes on. the cold was insnfl'erable. Nor in--
deed was it more inful than it was snr rising. to come
but ten days he ore out of the Old tie. where the
weather was not only warm but very hot; and immedi-
ately to feelewlnd from t e Pyrenean mountains so
ve keen. so severely cold. as to be intolerable. and to
:u 'nger benumbing or pcrishing of our lingers and

oes.

Poor Friday was really frighted when he saw the
mountains all covered with snow. and felt cold weather.
which he had never seen or felt before in his life.

To mend the matter. after we came to Pampeiuna. it
continued snowing with so much violen end so long.

that the peo to said winter was come be ore its time.
and the roe which were difficult befo were now
quite impassable; in e word. the snow y in some
laces too thick for its to travel: and being not hard
rosen. as is the ease in the northern countries. there
was no going without being in den r of being buried
alive every step. We stayed no less t n twenty days at
Pam lune. when (seein the winter comi on. and no
like] hood of its being tter. for it was t o severest
winter over all Europe that had been known {or man
years) I pro oscd that we should all go away to Fonts-

rable. and t ere take shipping for Bourduux. which was
a very little voyage.

But while we Were considering this. there came in four
French gentlemen. who having been stopped on the
French side of the passes as we were on the Spanish.
had found out a guide. who. traversing the country near
the head of Lunguedoc. had brought them over the
mountains by such ways. that the were not much in-
commtiticd with thatsno'w; auci'lwl ere th met with
snow a any qnen y. ey Ia t was rosen hard
enough to bear them and their horses.

We sent for this guide. who told nshe would under-
tehe to can; as the same way. with no heard from the
snow provl ed we were enned suiiiciently to protect us
troin wild beasts; for he said. u it these great snows.
it was frequent for some wolves 0 show themselves at
the foot of the mountains. being made ravenous for
want of food. the ground beiu covered with snow. We
told him we were well enou prepared for such cree--
tures as they were. if he wo d ensure us from a kind of
two-legged wolves. which we were told we were in most

danger from. especially on the French side of the none.
as.

no satisfied as there was no den of that kind I
weythetwe were togo. So we refil'ilyagreed to :33:

I ture in his countr

5|

him; es did also twelve other gentlemen. with their
servants. some French. some Spanish. who as I said.
hadi attempted to go. and were obliged to come back
ega u.

Accordin iy we all set out from Pampelnne. with our
guide on e fifteenth of November. and indeed Iwas
su rised when. instead of going forward. he came di-

ly back with us. on the same road that we came
from Madrid. above twenty miles: when having passed
two rivers. and come Into the plain country. we found
ourselves in swarm climate again. where the country
was leesant. and no snow to be seen; but on a sudden.
turn ng to the ten he approached themountains another
we ; end though it is tru the hills and the precipicee
loo eddreedful. et hema e so many tours. such mean-
ders. and led us y such winding ways. we had insensi-
bly sed the height of the mountains without being
mu encumbered with the snow; and. all on a sudden
he showed us the pleasant fruitful provinces of Len e-
doe end Gescoigne. all green and flourishing; thong in-
deed they were at a great distance. and we had some
rough way to use yet.

Vi s were a into uneasy. however. when we found it
snowed one whole day and at night so fist that we
could not travel; but he'bsde us be easy. we should soon
be past it all. We found. indeed. that we began to de-
scend every day. and to come more north than before;
and so. de nd ng upon our guide. we went on.

It was a out two hours before night. when our ids
being something before us. and not just in sigh out
rushed three monstrous wolves. and after theme beer
out of a hollow way. edioinlng to a thick wood. Two 0
the wolves how u n be de. end had he been half
a mile before us ewould vo beendevoured indeed.
before we could have helped him. One of them ihstened
u n his horse. and the other attacked the man with that
v olence. that he had not time. or not resenee of mind
enough. to drew his pistol. but halloo and cried out to
us most lustlly- My man Friday being next to me. I
bade him ride up. and see what was the matter. As soon
as Friday came it sight of the man. he hallooed as loud

as the other. "Omesteri Omssteri" but. like a bold
fellow. rode direct! up to the man. and. witha pistol.
tacked him in the head.

shot the wolf that

 

It was happy for the poor man that it was my men.
Friday- for be. having been used to that ltiud ofcreo
had no fear upon him. but went up
close to him. and s ot him as above; whereas any of us
would have tired at e farther distance. and have. per-
hgps. either missed the wolf. or endangered shooting
t e men.

But it was enough to have terrified abolder man than
I; and indeed it alarmed all our company. when. with
the noise of Friday's pistol. we heard on both sides the
most dismal howl ng of wolves. and the noise redonbled:
by the echo of the mountains. that It was to uses if
there had been a prodigious multitude of them; aw
haps indeed there were not such a few. as that we no
cause of epprehenslon.

However. as Friday had killed this woll. the other:
that had testened upon his horse. left him immediately,
and lied. having ha (fill fastened upon his head. where
the bosses of the b le inert stuck in his teeth. so that he.
had not done him much hurt. The man. indeed. was-
most hurt: for the re creature had hit him twice..
once on the em. an the other timealittle above his
knee- and hewes just. as it were. tumbling down by,
the disarder or his horse. when Friday came -upand shot

e w

It is easy to en pose. that at the noise <<Friday's.

lstol we all men ed our and rode np.esfastes.

a way (which was very dl cult) would give-us love. to .
seewhet was the matter. As soon as weeemeielserotthe trees. which blinded us before. we saw plainly what

had been the can

{for guide: thong we did not presently dimru what
nd of creature it was he had killed.

But never was a tight managed so hardily. and in such
a surprising manner. as the which followed between
Friday and the bear. which gave us all (though at first we
were an rised and afraid for him) the greatest diversion
imagine is. As the bear'is a heavy. clumsy creaturei
and ocs not liop as the wolf does. which is swift an
ll ht. so he two particular glu'ialltles. which gener-
a yare the rule of his actions. rst. as to man. who
are not his proper prey;a I say. not his proper prey.
though I cannot say w t excessive hunger might do
whlc was now their case. the ground being all covered
with snow; yet. as to men. he does not usually attack
them. unless they tirst attack him: on the comma. if
you meet him in the woods though if you do not in die
with him. he will not meddle with you. yet then you
must take care to be very civil to him and give him the
road: for he is a very nice gentleman. he will not goa
step out of his way fora prince; nay. it you are really
afraid. your best way is to look another way. and hen
going on : for sometimes if you ate and stand still. an
ook steadfastly at him. he takes t for an ail'ront and
sets all other business aside to pursue his revenge: for
he will have satisfaction in point of honour: and this is
his first quality. The next s. that if he be once atl'ront-
ed. he wl lnever leave you. ni t or day. till he has his
reienge. but follow. at a g round rate. till he over-
ta es you.

My man Friday had delivered our guide. and when we
had come ug to him. he was helpin him oif from his
horse: fort e man was both hurt an frightcd and in-
deed the last more than the first; when. on a sudden. we
spied the bear come out of the wood. and a vast mon-
strous one it was. the bi gestb for that ever Isaw.
We were all a little snrpr sed w en we saw him: but
when Friday saw him. it was easy to seejoy and courage
in tho fcllow's countenance. "Oi Oi Oi" says Fri-
day. three times. pointing to him; "0. master. on
give me leave. me shahec the hand with him. mo ma so

you good laugh."
I was surprised to see the fellow so leased. "You
fool you." said I. "he will eat on up " "Entee me

up - entce me up 2" says Fri y. twice over again.
" .\ e eatec him up: me makec you good laugh. You all
stay here ; mo showuyou good augh." So down he sits.
an gets his boots 0 in a moment. and put on a air of
pumps (as we call the tint shoes they wear). on which

e had in his pocket. gives my other servant his horse.
and with his gun away he flew. swift like the wind.

The beer was walking softly on. and offered to meddle
with nobody. till Fritfay. comin retty near. calla to
him.' " Bari: ye. hark ye. ' says Fr ay. " mc spcalree wit
do". ' We followed ata distance; for now being come

own to the Gasooigne side of the mountains. we entered
a vast forest.

Friday. who had. as we sav. the heels of the bear.
came up with him quickly. and takes up a great atone.
and throws it at him. and hit him ust on the head : but
did him no more harm than it he thrown it against
a wall: but it answered Frida 's end; for the e was
so void of fear that he did i purel to make t u hear
follow him. and " show us some laug ." as he called it.

As soon as the bear felt the atone. and saw him; he
turns about. and shudies alon at a strange rate. so as
would put a horse to a midd in gallop. Away runs
Friday. and takes his course. as i he ran towards us for
hei ; so we all resolved to tire at once upon the bear. and
del ver my man : though I was angry at him hesrtil for
bringing the bear back upon us. when he was going a at
his own business another way; and espec ally I was
angry that he had turned the bear upon us. and then ran
away; and I called out. " You dog." said i. " is this your
making us laugh! Come away. and take your horse.
that we ma ' shoot the creature. He hears me. and cries
out. "No s oot. no shooti Stand still: you get much
laugh." And as the nimble creature ran two feet for the
beaat's one. he turned on a sudden. on one side of us.
and seeing a t oak tree. fit for his purpose. he bcck'
oned us to fo low. and. doubling his pace. he gets nim-
bly up the tree. laying his gun down on the ground. at
about five or six yards from the bottom of the tee.

The bear soon came to the tree. and we followed at a
distance. The first thing he did he stopped at the gun.
smeltto it. but let it lie. and n he scrambles into the
tree. climbl like a cat. thong so monstrously heavy.
I was am at the folly. as I thought it. of my man. and
could not for my life see anything to laugh at yet. till
mseeing the bear get upon the tree. we all rode nearer to

m.

When we came to the tree. there was Friday at out to
thesmall end of a large limb of the tree. an the bear
gothalfwa to him; as the bear ot out tothatpart
where the b of the tree was w or. "Ha." says he.
to us, "now you see me teaches the beardance:" so he

and how Friday had disengaged the has

jumping again. and the bear sto

LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF

fails a jumping. and shakin
r began to tolter. but at still and to look be-
hind him. to see how he should t back: then indeed
we did laugh heartil . But Fri ay had not done with
with him by a t cal; when he sees him stand still.
he calls out to im in. as if he had supposed the bear
could speak Englis : ' What. you no come farther:
Pray you come farther l" So he leftjumping and shakin
the bongh: and the bear. net as if he had understoofi
what he said. did come a title farther- then he ibil a
pod aga n.

t me to knock him on the
head. and called to Fri to stand still and we would
shoot the bear: but he cri out earnestly. "0. pm i 0.
prayl no shoot! Me shoot by and then." lie woul have
said. "by and by." However. to shorten the story. Fri-
day danced so much. and the boar stood so ticklish that
we had langlhin enough indeed. but still could not mag-
ine what t e eliow would do: for first we thought he
depended upon shaking the bear oil'. and we found the
hear was too cunning for that too; for he would not go
out far enough to be thrown down. but clings fast with
his great broad claws and feet. so that we could not
imagine what would be the end of it, and where the jest
would be at last.

But Friday put us out of doubt quickly; for seeing the
boar cling that to the bongh. and that he would not be

rounded to come any farther. "Well. well." says Fri-

ay. " you no come farther. me go. me go; you no come
to me. me come to you." And it n this. he ocs out to
the smallest end of the hough. w ere it shonl bond with
his wci ht. and gently lets himself down by it. sliding
down i re bough. till he came near enough to jump down
on his feet and away he ran to his gun. takes it up. and
stands still.

" Well." said Ito him. " Friday. what will you do nowt
Why don't you shoot him i" "No shoot." says Friday.
" no yet. mo shoot now me no kill; me stay. give you
one more laugh." An . indeed. so he did. as you will
see presently: for when the bear saw his enemy gone.
he comes back from the hon h where he stood; ut did
it might leisurely. looking hind him every step. and
coming elm-urns till he got into the body of the tree.
Then with the same. hinder cud foremost. he came down
the tree. graspin'g it with his claws. and moving one foot
ata time. very eisurely: at this juncture. an just be-
fore he could set hishind feet I: n the ground. Friday
stepped close to him. clapped t e muzzle of his piece
into his car. and shot him dead as a stone.

Then the rogue turned about to see it we did not laugh.
and when he saw we were pleased. by our looks. he fails
a laughlu . himself very loud. "Sowe lrill bear in to
country.' says Friday. "80 on kill them i" said ;
"wh . you have no guns." "So." says he. "no guns:
but 5 oot great. much. long w."

This was indeed. a good diversion to us: but we were
still in a wild pin and our guide very much hurt. and
what to do we ha y knew; the howling of wolves ran
much in my head; and. indeed exce t the noise I once
heard on the shores of Africa. of' whic I have said some-
thing already. I never heard anything that lllled me with
so much horror.

These things. and the approach of night. called us off.
or else. as Friday would have had us. we should have cer-
talnl taken the skin of this monstrous creature on'.
whi was worth saving: but we had threol es to o.
and our guide hastened us; so we left him. an Went or-
ward on our onrncy.

The grou was still covered with snow. thou huot so
deep and dangerous as on the mountains; and t e raven-
ous creatures, as we heard afterwards. were come down
into the forest and plain country. pressed by him r to
seek for food: and had done a t deal of misc iiei' in
the villages. where the sn sod the country geople.
killed a digest many of t eir s cop and horses. an some

e .

"W3 had one dangerous place to pass. of which our guide
told us. if there were any more wolves in the country. we
should find them there; and this was a snmll plain. sur-
rounded with woods on every side; and a long. narrow
defile. or lane. which we were to pass to get through the
wood. and then we should come to the r llage where we
were to lodge.

It was within half an hour of sunset. when we entered
the first wood: and a little alter sunset when we came
into the plain. We met with nothing in the first wood.
cxce t that. in a little plain. within t o wood. which was
nota ve two torionga over. we saw five great wolves
cross the road. full speed. one after another. as if they
had been in chase of some prey. and had it in view. They
took no notice of us. and were gone. and out of sight in a
mi; ""3?!" id h b th tched

n sonrgu e.wo. eway.waaawre
falnfiiearted fellow. bade us son in a ready posture:
for he believed there were more wolves a coming.

We kept our arms read . and our eyes about as: but
we saw no more wolves ti we came through that wood.

the bench. at which the

ii 0 thought now was a
which was near halfa league. and entered the plain. As
soon as we came into the plain. we had occasion enough
to look about us. The first object we met with. was a
dead horse: that is to say. a poor horse. which the wolves
had killed. and at least a dozen of them at work; we
could not say. eating of him. but picking of his bones.
rather; for they had eaten in all the flesh. before.

We did not think lit to isturb them at their fcas
neither did the take much notice of us. hiday woul
have let tly at em. but I Would not sud'er him by any
means: for I found we were likely to have more business
upon our hands than we were aware of. We were not
gone half over the plain. but we be u to hear the wolves

owl. in the wood on our left. in a rightful manner; and
presently after we saw about a hundred. coming on dis
r_eetiy towards us. all in a body. and most of them in a
line. as @gulur as an army drawn up by experienced oili-
cers. I scarce knew inwhat manner to receive them;
but found. to draw ourselves in a close line. was the only
way. So we formed in a moment. But that we might
not have too much interval. I ordered that onlg'evcry
other man should tire. and that the others. who d not
fired. should stand ready to ive them a second volley
immediatelv. if they continu to advance upon us; and
that then. those who had fired at tlrst should not firetend
to lead their mslls again. but stand ready. wit every
one a pistol; for we were all armed with a fusii. anda
pair of pigtails. each man: so we were. by this method.
able to six volleys. half of us at a time. However. at
present. we had no necessity; for. upon firing the tlrst
volley the enemy made a full stop. bein territled as well
with the noise as with the fire; our 0 them being shot
into the has dropped; several others were wounded
and went hi g oi. as we could see by the snow. I
found they stopped. but did not immediate] retreat;
whereupon. remembering that I had been let that the
fiercest creatures were territied at the voice of man. I
caused all our company to halloo as loud as we could;
and I found the notion not altogether mistaken - for.
upon our shout. they began to retire. and turn about;
then I ordered a second volley to be fired in their rear.
which put them to the gallop. and away they went to the
woo s.

This vs no leisure to cha our ieces again. and
that wag-tight lose no time. wmept ggiug; but we had
but little more than loaded our ms is. and put ourselves
into a readiness. when we heard a terrible noise in the
some wood on our left; only that it was further onward.
the same way we were to go.

The nl ht was eominghon. and the light begun tobe
dusky. w ch made it e worst on our side; but the
noise increasing. we could easily ercclvo that it was the
bowling and yellin of those vie creatures; and. on a
sudden We pcrceiv two or three troops of wolves. one
on our on. one behind us. and one on our front; so that
we seemed to be surrounded with them. However. us
its: did not fall upon us. we kept our wa forward. as
f as we could make our horses go. w icb. the way
being very rough. was onlya ood is e trot; and in this
manner we only came in v ew of e entrance of the
wood. through which we were to pass. at the farther side
of the plain; but we were greatly surprised. when. com-
ing near the lane. or pass. we saw a confused number of
wolves standing just at the entrance.

On a sudden. at another 0 ni of the wood. wehesrd
the noise of a gun: and loo lng hat way out rushed a
horse. with a saddle and bridle on him. dying like the
wind and aixteen or seventeen wolves a or him. full
speed. Indeed. the horse had the heels of them ; but. as
we supposed that he could not hold at that rate. we
doubted not that they would get up with him at last ; and
no question but they did.

 

Here we had a most horrible sight ; for. ridi
entrance where the horse came on we found t e carcass
of another horse. and of two men. evonred by the raven-
ous creatures. and one of the men was no doubt the same

up totha

58

whom we had heard fire the gun; for there lay the gun
hat by him fired ott'; but. as to the man. his head. and
t e upper part of his body. were eaten up.

This fitted as with horror. and we knew not what course
to take; but the creatures resolved us soon. for the
gathered about us presently. in hopes of prey; and
verily believetherc were three hundred of them. It hap-
pened very much to our advantage. that at the entrance
of the wood. but a little way from it. there lay some large
timber trees. which had been cut down the summer be-
fore, and I suppose is there for carriage. l drew my
little troog in amought ese trees. I advised them all to
alight. an keeping t at tree before us for a breastwork.
to stand in a triangle. or three fronts. enclosing our
horses in the centre.

\ie did so; and it was well we did. for never wasa
more furious charge than the creatures made upon us in
this place; they came on us with a growling kind of
norsc. and mounted the piece of timber. (which. as Isaid.
was our breastworlr.) as if they were only rushing upon
their prey._and this fury of theirs. it seems. was princi-
pally occastoucd by their seeing our horses behind us.
which was the prey they aimed at. I ordered our men to
tire as before. every other man ; and they took their aim
so sure. that indeed they killed several wolves at th tint
volley; but there was a. necessity to keep a cont nual
tiring. for they came on like devils. those behind pushing
on t lose before.

When we had tired the second volley of our mails. we
thought they stopped a little. and I he ed they would
have gone oil'. but t was but a moment. or others came
forward again: so we tired two vollevs of our pistols.
and I believe in these four firi we killed seventeen or
eighteen of them. and lamed wice as many: yet they
came on again.

I was loath to spend our last shot too hastily: so I
called my servant. not my man Friday, for he was better
employed ; for. with the greatest dexterity imaginable. he
charged my fusil. and his own. while we were engn -d:
but. as I said. I called my other man; and giving h tn a
born of owder. l bade h inlay a large train. lie did so.
and had ut Just time to et away. when the wolves came
up to i when I snap an uncharged istol close to
the pow er. which set t on "WA Those t at were u n
the timber were scorched with it. and seven of them ell.
or rather amped in among us. with the force or the
M ht of t re lire. We dispatched these in an instant.
an the rest were so frighted with the light. which the
night for now it was very near dark. made more terrible.
that they drew back a little.

Upon which I ordered our last phtois to be fired ofi' in
one volley. and after that we ve a shout: n n this the
wolves turned tall. and we sat led immediate { upon near
twent lame ones. which we found strum; in on the
groun . and fell a cutting them with our swor s. which
answered our expectations; for the crying and howling
they made were better understood by their fellows. so
that they all tied and left us.

We had. first and last. killed about threescore of them;
and had it been daylight. we had killed many more. The
field of battle being thus cleared. we made forward again,
for we had still near a league to go.

We heard the ravenous creatures bowl and yell in the
woods as we went. several times - and sometimes we
fancied we saw some of them. but the snow dazzling our
eyes we were not certain: so in about an hour more we
came to the town where we were to lodge. which we
found the terrible fright. and-all in arms: for it seems
that the night before the wolves and some beers had
broken into the villa and put them in a terrible flight;
and thy were obligede to keep night and day but
espec ly in the n ght. to preserve their cattle. and. in-

deed. their people.

The next morning our ide was so ill. and his limbs
so swelled with the re 3 of his two wounds. that he
could go no farther; so we were obliged to take another
guide there. and go to Toulouse. where we found a warm
climate. a mum. pleasant county. and no snow. no
wolves. nor anything like them. at when we told our
story at Toulouse they told us it was nothing but what
was ordlna in the great forest. at the foot of the moun-
tains es ally when the snow lay on the ground. But
they inquired much what kind of a guide we had gotten.
that would venture to bring us that way in such a severe
season: and told us it was sur rising we were not all
devoured; when we told them ow we had placed our-
selves. and the horses in the middle. they blunted us ex-
ceedingly. and told us it was titty to one but we had all
been destroyed; for it was the sight of the horses that
made the wolves so furious. seeing their prey. and that
at other times the are reall atrai of a gun: but they
being excessively . an raging on that accouu the
eagernesstocome at t e horses had made them sen cos
of the danger; and that if we had not. by the continued
fire. and at last h the stra of the train of powder
mastered them. thad been great odds but thatwehsd
been torn in pieces; whercaahad we been oontentto
have sat still on horseback. and fired as horsemen. they
would not have taken the horses so much for their own.
when men were on their buckb as otherwise; and.
withal. th told us. that at last. we had all stood to-
gether. an left our horses. they would have been so
eager to have deVoured them. that we might have come
oh safe. especially having our fire-arms in our hands. and
"1'?" 'deg rill" "mm" m f danger in

or a never was so sens e o my
life; fayszeing above three hundred wolves come roar-
ing and open-mouthed to devour us. and having nothing
to shelter us. or retreat to I gave myself over for lost:
and. as it was. I believe I shat never care to cross those
mountains again: I think I would much rather go a

thousand leagues b sea tho h I were sure to meet
with a storm once a{reelr: ug

I have nothin uncommon to take notice of in my
passage thro h rauoe; nothi but what other tra-
vellers have run an account 0 . with much more ad.
vantage than can. I travelled from Toulouse to Perl

and. without an considerable stay. came to Calais. su
lauded safelyat vcr. the fourteenth of January. after
having had a severely cold season to travel in.

I was now come to the centre of my travels. and had
in a little tim all my new-discovered estate safe about
me. the bills 0 exchange which I brought with me hav-

been very currently C/paid.

iy principal guide an privy-counsellor was my
ancient widow who. in gratitude for the money had
sent her. thought no gains too much. or cure too great.
to employ for me. and trusted hersoentirely with every-
thing. that I was perfectly easy as to tho security of my
eifcets: and. indeed. I was very happy from the begin-
ning. and now to the end. in the unspotted integrity of
this good gentlewomau.

And now I b?" to think of leaving my elects with
this woman. an setting out for Lisbon. and so to the
Brazlls. But now another acruple came in my wa . and
that was religion; for as I had entertained some oubts
about the Roman rel on. even while I was abroad. es-
pecially in my state c solitude. so I knew there was no

ing to the Brazils for me. much leaa 13mg to settle

here: unless I resolved to embrace the men Catholic

religion. without any reserve; except. on' the other hand.
I resolved to has sacrifice to m rriucipl be a martyr
for religion. and die in the lnqu s tion: so resolved to
stay at home. and if I could tlnd means for it. dispose of
m plantation.

0 this Purpose I wrote to my old friend at Lisbon.
who. in re urn. gave his notice that he could easily dis-
rose of it there; but that. if I thought lit to give him
save to ofi'er it in my name to the two merchants. the
survivors of my trustees. who lived in the Brazil who
must fully understand the value of it. who iiv Just
upon the s t. and whom I knew to he v rich. so that
he bellev they would be fond of buying t: he did not
doubt but I should make four or five thousand pieces of

m '23:"? agreed." hi rd t if it to

cco ny ve mo ersooer
them. and 0 did so: ungain about eight months more
the ship being then returned. he sent me an account
that they had aces ted the odor. and had remitted thirty-
three thousand p seas of eight to a correspondent of
theirs at Lisbon to a for it.

In return. I sign t e instrument of sale in the form
which they sent from Lisbon. and sent it to my old man.
who sent me bills of exchange for thirty-two thousand
eight hundred pieces of eight. for the estate. reserving
the payment of one hundred moidores a year to him the
old man. during his life and fifty moidorcs afterwards to
his son for his life. which I had promised them: and
which the plantation was to make as a rent charge.

And thus I have'given the history of a life of fortune
and adventure--a e of Providence s checker-work. and
of s varlet which the world will seldom show the like

of--beglnn n foolishly. but closing much more happily
than guy of it ever gave me leave so much as to
0 or.

ny one would think. that in this state of com licated
good fortune. I was past running any more haaar s - and
so indeed I had been. if other circumstances hsd'con-
curred: but I was inured to a wandering life. had no

TEE

ROBINSON OBUBOE.

ibm normanyrelatlone. nor. howeverri hadIcon-

tracltle'dmuch acquaintance; and thou Idl't'ad soldmy

estate in the Brasils. yetI could not eep thatcouutry

out of in head. and had a great mind- to be upon the

wing" ; especiallyas I could not resistvths strong

incl 3 emailed" I"shanty island. 23:0 haw .if- the
oor pan were n ow e rogues
had left. there had used offs. ere. -

My true friend the widow earnestly dissuaded me from
it. and so far prevailed with me that for almost seven
years shegnavented my running abroad; during which
time I too my two nephews. the children of one of m
brothers. into my cars. The eldest having somethiajf 0
his own. I bred u as a gentleman. and gave him-a tie-
ment of some dition to his estate after at decaase:
the other I put out tea on tale of a ship; an alter five

cars. find him a sens ble. bold. enterprising young
cllow. I put im into a good ship. and sent him to sea.
And this young fellow afterwards drew me in. old as I
was. to ihrthor adventures myself.

In the meantime. I in part settled myself here: for first
of all I married. and that riot either to my disadvantage
or dlsaatieihction; and had three children. two sons and
one daughter. But my wife dying. and my nephew com.
ing home. with success. from a voyage to Spain.
my inclination to go sbroad.-and his in rtunity pro-
vailed. sud enga ed me to in his ip "grate
trader to the East ndles. 'I' s was in the year 1 .-

In this voyage I visited my new colony in the island.
saw in succesao the Spaniards; had the whole story
of the r lives. an of the villains I left there: how at
first they insulted the r Spaniards; how they after-
wards sgreed. dlss united. separated. and ow at
last the Spaniards were obliged to use violence with
them: how they were subjected to the Spaniards; how
honestly the Spaniards used them; a history if it were
entered into. as full of variety and wonderful incidents.
as to own part: partlcularl also as to their battles with
the 'arrlbbeans. who lan ed several times upon the
island itself: and how tire of them made an attempt
upon the main land. and bron ht away eleven men and
five women prisone by whl at m coming. I found
about twcnt young iidren on the i and.

Here I ate d about twenty da left them supplies of
all necessary things. and particu arly of arms.[ Bowder
shot. cloth tools. and two workmen whom rought
from Englsu with me: viz. a carpenter and s smith.

Besides this. I shared the island into parts with them.
reserved to myself the property of the whole. but gave
them such rts res tlvely as they s on: and
having sett ed all th n with them. an engaged them
not to leave the place.h left them there.

From thence l touc ed at 'the Brazlls. from whence I
sent a bark. which I ht there. with more people to
the island: and in it. besi other sup lies. I sent seven
women. being such as I found proper or service or for
wives to such as would take them. As to the finglish
men. I nornised them to send them some women fitom
En lan with a good cargo of necessaries. if the would
app y themselves to lauting. which I site s could
not perform. Thef ows proved very honest and dill-
gent. after they were mastered. and had their property
set apart for them. I sent them also from the Brazils five
cows-three of them with calves--some sheep and some
hmhich. when I came again, were considerably in-
crea

After this. however. three hundred Oarrlbbeos came
and invaded them. and ruined their plantations. and they
fought with that whole number twice. and were at first
defeated. and one of them killed: but at last a storm de-
stro ng their enemies! <<noes. they famishcd or destroy-
ed most all the rest. and renewed and recovered the
possession of their plantations. and still lived u n the

sland. I had some very surprising incidents. u some
new adventures of my own. for several cars more; but
now. havin lived scvcnt -two years a i fe of infinite va-
riety. and mod sufficiently to know the value, of re-
tirement and the blessing of ending our days in peace. I
have resolved to harass myself no more. and am there-
fore preparing for a longer tourney than any I have yet
undertaken. . '\

END.
ANNOUNCEMENTS.

 

Tn: an Douro Sunny--Tho introduction to the] Cannes-r tuna--The list of Beadle'o tunnel {or the
list. of Beadle'o Dimo Publications. of the new octave months of December and January coral-rites never-oi

series, BEADLE'S D FICTION, unusually captivating and desirable work. among which

imay be named Din: Nov-2x. No. 76, to tune December

In but an elaboration oi the I'uhllshers' idea, viz.: lo ' 27th. '11-!

place before the reading public the choices! production: 9' TEE BGOUT'B ME?

our most art-eplaola wrilers, at (In: 10,",th price. Or, the Old Dutch Blunderhnnr. A tale of New York

Their unequalled facilities for obtaining the very cream : l" 1775- 3! Herrick "Milo". l"Ati- Embracing a "ll"

of current literature, rcndor " an easy matter to produce l account of the battle of Long Island, the retreat, etc.. in

a succession of novelties. calculated to "Ford delight to . fl ""3"" of falcinatlng powcrand interest. TM writer

all classes. and to develop a taste for what in heat in ' l' 011deg 0' 0"" Pure" and "1deg" NINE: "I'M". "I7

Amflimn hieiorit'al and character romance. familiar with our revolutionary history. and no thor-

oughly imbued with the rpirlt of patriotism that be

THE NEW SERIES writes with unusual rigor. grace and cfl'ective lntcrell.

to printed in lame octave. double columna. with a clear. Dntr. Norm. No. 1-1. to tune January 3m. t.

open-faced. easily read type. and is bound in the usual

salmon-colored paper which has now become recognized 0mm 3

u "Beadie'n own." Each lune embraces a complete! 012150 Heroine 0i F0" Laramie. A romance 0f the

story, choten, from the multitude ofmannicripta oat-red. , 0m '0". in which the "WW iii-mo wilderueu, n'tte

for itutirringnctlon. peculiarity of lncldt'lliJli'iil uniquo- ' settle". old 1'00"". ""1 l'nlted SM." "'00P! 3": Nih-

neao ofcharaeter. lttvillnsmnie nnludividualitypnrely miliflk'" 1" '8 drama of peculiar "Mic". WW6! and

its own, anti be no repetition of another series. There puthos. The """lOl' "MENU"! familiar withhlsgronnd.

have been finned. limo fur:

THE mun BULLET:

Or. the Squziw's Reprieve. A tale of Border Life. by
George Henry Prentitc. A t-tory of early life in the
so full of mystery and singularity of
drama ms to rival the creations ol'\\'ilkle Collins; uliilc
noapieture of the backwoods and forest. it in particu-
larly intere ' 2. Such worlu almost assnmethe dignity
of hirtory. 't afford the most enticing of all romances.
for theirtielrl of portraiture is one of exhaustless interest.
To perurc this choice production in to become familiar
with early settlement life. character and clrcumatances.
No.11. of the series in:

THE OUTLAW BROTHERS:
Or, the Captive of the linrpea. A story of Kentucky. by
John J. Marshall. The history of the llarpe brothers.
t'onns one of the most exciting episodes in the story or
the settlements south of the Ohio. They were veritable
characters, \vhase wonderful bravery. \vhose astonishing

 

   

 

   

sagaclty. and whose ferocity rendered their name at once .

aterror and: charm. The author has seized upon one
incident in their wild career to produce a work of absorh'
in: interest, vigor and novelty. Few will arise from ila
perusal without desiring to hear again {rent the name
charming author. No. ill, will be:

m WILLING CAPTIVE ;

A rich, racy and romantic story of the Ohio. by J. Stan-
ley iicndcrzou. in this most laughable and exhilarating
emannt ion, from the pen of a well-known writer, is shown
the mysterious ways of men and things on the Ohio
River. and how u Kentuchiou won. and an ItEllgllBll
gentleman tourist lost. a certain valuable prize. it is. as
a piece of character painting. worthy of the great Dick-
eno. and will excite even the most ascetic old maid.
bachelor. disappointed lover or politician to smiles.

SEVERAL GOOD THINGS

Ate already echedulcd in for use in this series. which will
he announced in the season. The issue in monthly
(about the middle of the month); and. aolhe hooks are.

5 and writes with that knowledge of the wild men of the
l "1 at which render: his work a: real on life itself. Such
5 romance. are as edlfyiug as they are delightful; and it
- [it]: one more literary tmrnre to the now unrivalled
st of American historical novel: which compose Bla-
: hurls but: Roi-:13 Series. There has recently been
. added to the Dun: Btoomrurcar. Stains,

l THE LIFE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN.

i By 0. J. \'ictor. Esq. Composed with rpeciul refer-
( once ton place in this Maud-rd library. it in as full of
' interert an an old time chronicle. it particularly dwells
Iupon the rtory of his early years. when. an a youth.
inured to hurtizhips and borne down with toil. his eoul
atniggletl on through the darkueut. and came forth in it.
. aitnniahing strength to ell. among the great roulo of
'modern timezl. it traces his development with reference
to imparting. not only a con-pick biography of the inn>>.
- hilt hire a ltuon la the young mm of America, by which
they may learn how true greatness can tome forth even
from the lowly log--cabin of the humble pioneer, to adorn
. the higher! anti moat auguat elation in the gift of It free
lpcople. The work is espceially adapted to the library
i and lireoitle, where it must. become a favorite.

BEADLE'S 1mm SONG BOOK No. 15,

Recently issued, contains numerous choice wyyrtgltt
songs (words), among which may be named: When the
lloyu ('omo Homo--Swinging in 'the Lfllinbo'l
Right to be Kilt--The Swords were Thirty-neven--Chnrm-
in: Lizzie Clay--now do you like it. Jett'crson l) 9--When
Johnnie comes Marching llomc-'l'he Cmckuman'n Chant
--De United States Hotel--Sally Come up--Coruradee.
touch the Elbow--Nancy Fat--Tentlng on the chi Camp
Ground--The New Sltcdaddlc Song--Mother. when the
War in Over--Dc ole Corn Lilli--Como Home. Father---
Stand by the Flag. Boys--My Polly Ann--Song of the
Soldiers--Pm a Young Man from the Country--For Phil.
Sheridan, iiurrihl--Yotl don't know how we misled
you--anti ova-r thirtrllvc others.

Song lovers will bear in mintl that Beam: sh Carma!
are the eardrum Song Book Publirhera for the leading

 

 

 

 

sold by newniealero generally; or, are sent to an; ml- ! music denlcrr in this country. Therefore. all desiring
dreu port-paid. on receipt of n: coma for each book 5 the newest and most popular Cornuunr Saxon, together
ordered. none needdcnythemaelves the pleasure of read-E with many old favorites, will seek for Beadle'o Song
lug. "once cheap. entertaining and ntirfylug. l hook"

BEADLE AND COMPANY.

"a