I SIOOD un 0N3 Tnnxnnsnucxl4 THE LIFE AND _
SURPRISING ADVENTURES OF

ROBINSON
CRUSOE A

by
DANIEL DEFOE

Mama>>
Lannusnmmmon.

DAILY SKETCH PUBLICATIONS
' LONDONLIST OF ILLUSTRATLONS

I 51001) LIKE ONE Tnmnnsmucx Frontispiecc

GAVE CHASE WITH ALL rm: SAIL SHE 000m

SET . . . . . . . page 25
THEY cor HER Sumo OVER THE Sam's SIDE ,, 53
MY MACHINE . . . . . . l.. 97
II WAs A DlsuAL SIGHT. . . . .. 209

KNOCKED Hm Down WITH THE S'rocx or
ms Musm . . . . i ,, 289
CHAPTER I

of a good family, though not of that country, my

father being a. foreigner of Bremen, who settled
first at Hull. He got a good estate by merchandise,
and leaving off his trade, lived afterward at York,
from whence he had married my mother, whose
relations were named Robinson, a very good family
in that country, and from whom I was ealled Robinson -
Kreutznaer; but by the usual corruption of words in '
England we are now called, nay, we all ourselves,

and write our name, Crusoe, and so my companions
always ealled me.

Being the third son of the family, and not bred to
any trade, my head began to be filled very early with
rambling thoughts. My father, who was very andent,
had given me a competent share of learning, as far
as house-education and a country free school generally
goes, and designed me for the law; but I would be
satisfied with nothing but going to sea; and my
inclination tothisledmesostronglyagainstthewill, '
nay, the commands, of my father, and against all
the entreatiee and persuasions of my mother and other
friends, that there seemed to be something fatal in

u' 9

I WAS born' in the year 1632, in the city of York,
that propension of nature tending directly to the life
of misery which was to befall me.

My father, a wise and grave man, gave me serious
and excellent council against what he foresaw was my
design. He called me one morning into his chamber,
where he was confined by the gout, and expostulated
very warmly with me upon this subject.

He pressed me earnestly, and in the most aflectionate
manner, not to play the young man, not to precipitate
myself into miseries which Nature and the station of
life I was born in seemed to have provided against;
that I was under no necessity of seeking my bread;
that he would do well for me, and endeavour to enter
me fairly into the middle station of life which he had
been just recommending to me; and that if I was not
very easy and happy in the world it must be my mere
fate or fault that must hinder it, and that he should
have nothing to answer for, having thus discharged his
duty in warning me against measures which he knew
would be to my hurt ; in a word, that as he would do
very kind things for me if I would stay and settle at
home as he directed, so he would not have so much
hand in my misfortunes, as to give me any encourage-
ment to go away. And to close all, he told me I had
my elder brother for an example, to whom he had
used the same earnest persuasions to keep him from
going into the Low Country wars, but could not
prevail, his young desires prompting him to run
into the army, where he was killed; and though he
said he would not cease to pray for me, yet he would
venture to say to me, that if I did take this foolish
step, God would not bless me, and I would have
leisure hereafter to reflect upon having neglected his
counsel when there might be none to assist in my
recovery.

I was sincerely affected with this discourse, as indeed
who could be otherwise? and I resolved not to think
of going abroad anymore, but to settle at home accord-
ing to my father's desire. But alas! a few days wore
it all OE; and, in short, to prevent any of my father's
farther importunities, in a few weeks after I resolved
to run quite away from him. However, I did not
act so hastily neither as my first heat of resolution
prompted, but I took my mother, at a time when
I thought her a little pleasanter than ordinary, and
told her that my thoughts were so entirely bent upon
seeing the world, that I should never settle to any-
thing with resolution enough to go through with it,
and my father had better give me his consent ,than
force me to go without it; that I was now eighteen
years old, which was too late to go apprentice to a
trade, or clerk to an attorney; that I was sure if I
did, I should never serve out my time, and I should
certainly run away from my master before my time
was out, and go to sea; and if she would speak to my
father to let me go but one voyage abroad, if I came
home again and did not like it, I would go no more,
and I would promise by a double diligence to recover
that time I had lost.

This put my mother into a great passion. She told
me, she knew it would be to no purpose to speak to
my father upon any such subject; that he knew too
well what was my interest to give his consent to any-
thing so muchfor my hurt, and that she wondered12 ' ROBINSON cnuson

how I could think of any such thing after such a
discourse as I had had with my father, and such kind
and tender expressions as she knew my father had
used to me; and that, in short, if I would ruin myself
there was no help for me; that I might depend I
should never have their consent to it; that for her
part, she would not have so much hand in my destruc-
tion, and I should never have it to say, that my
mother was willing when my father was not.

Though my mother refused to move it to my father,
yet, as I have heard afterwards, she reported all the
discourse to him, and that my father, after showing a
great concern at it, said to her with a sigh, " That boy
might be happy if he would stay at home, but if he
goes abroad he will be the miserablost wretch that was
ever born: I can give no consent to it."

It was not till almost a year after this that I broke
loose, though in the meantime I continued obstinately
deaf to all proposals of settling to business, and fre-
quently expostulating with my father and mother
about their being so positively determined against
what they knew my inclinations prompted me to.
But being one day at Hull, where I went casually,
and without any purpose of making an elopement
that time; but I say, being there, and one of my
companions being going by sea to London, in his father's

neither father or mother any more, nor so much as sent
them word of it; but leaving them to hear of it as

they might, without asking God's blessing, or my-nonrnson cnuson ' r3

father's, without any consideration of circumstances or
consequences, and in an ill hour, God knows, on the
first of September, 1651, I went on board a ship bound
for London. Never any young adventurer's mis-
fortunes, I believe, began sooner, or continued longer
than mine. The ship was no sooner gotten out of
the Humber, but the wind began to blow, and the
waves to rise in a most frightful manner ; and as I had
never been at sea before, I was most inexpressibly
sick in body, and terrified in my mind. I began now
seriously to reflect upon what I had done, and how
justily I was overtaken by the judgment of heaven for
my wicked leaving my father's house, and abandoning
my duty. '

All this while the storm increased, and the sea,
which I had never been upon before, went very high,
though nothing like what I have seen many times
since ; no, nor like what I saw a few days after. But
it was enough to affect me then, who was but a young
sailor, and had never known anything of the matter.
I expected every wave would have swallowed us up,
and that every time the ship fell down, as I thought,
in the trough, or hollow of the sea, we should never
rise more; and in thiS'agony of mind I made many
vows and resolutions, that if it would please God here
to spare my life this one voyage, if ever I got once
my foot upon dry land again, I would go directly
home to my father, and never set it into a ship again
while I lived, that I would take his advice, and never
nm myself into such miseries as these any more.
Now I saw plainly the goodness of his observations
about the middle station of life, how essy, how com-
fortably he had lived all his days, and never had been
exposed to tempests at sea, or troubles on shore ; and
I resolved that I would, like a true repenting prodigal,
go home to my father.

These wise and sober thoughts continued all the
while the storm continued, and indeed some time
after; but the next day the wind was abated and the
sea calmer, and I began to be a little inured to it.-
However, I was very grave for all that day, being
also a little sea-sick still; but towards night the
weather cleared up, the wind was quite over, and a
charming fine evening followed; the sun went down
perfectly clear, and rose so the next morning; and
having little or no wind, and a smooth sea, the sun
shining upon it, the sight was, as I thought, the most
delightful that ever I saw.

I had slept well in the night, and was now no more
sea-sick but very cheerful, looking with wonder upon
the sea that was so rough and terrible the day before,
and could be so calm and so pleasant in so little time
after. And now lost my good resolutions should con-
tinue, my companion, who had indeed enticed me
away, comes to me: " Well, Bob," says he, clapping
me on the shoulder, "how do you do after it? I
warrant you were frighted, wa'n't you, last night,
when it blew but a capful of wind? " "A capful
d'you call it? " said I ; "'twas a terrible storm."
"A storm, you fool you," replies he; " do you call
that a storm? Why, it was nothing at all; give us
but a good ship and sea-room, and we think nothing
of such a squall of wind as that; but you're but a fresh-
water sailor, Bob. Come. let us make a bowl ofI

ROBINSON cnuson 15

punch, and we'll forget all that ; d'ye see what charm-
ing weather 'tis now? " To make short' this sad part
of my story, we went the old way of all sailors; the
punch was made, and I was made drunk with it, and
in that one night's wickedness I drowned all my
repentance, all my reflections upon my past conduct,
and all my resolutions for my future. I found indeed
some intervals of reflection, and the serious thoughts
did, as it were, endeavour to return again sometimes;
but I shook them off, and roused myself from them as
it were from a distemper, and applying myself to
drink and company, soon mastered the return of those
fits, for so I walled them, and I had in five or six days
got as complete a victory over conscience as any young
fellow that resolved not to be troubled with it could
desire. But I was to have another trial for it still;
and Providence, as in such cases generally it does,
resolved to leave me entirely without excuse. For
if I would not take this for a deliverance, the next
was to be such a one as the worst and most hardened
Wretch among us would confess both the danger and
the mercy. J

Thesixthdayofourbeingatseawemmeinto
Yarmouth roads; the wind having been contrary and
the weather ealm, we had made but little way since
the storm. Here we were obliged to come to an
anchor, and here we lay, the wind continuing contrary,
viz., at south-west, for seven or eight days, during
which times a great many ships from Newcastle earne
into the same roads, as the common harbour where the
ships might wait for a wind for the river.

We had not, however, rid here so long, but should16 Ronmson cnuson

have tided it up the river, but that the wind blew too
fresh; and after we had lain four or five days, blew
very hard. However, the roads being reckoned as
good as a harbour, the anchorage good, and our
ground-tackle very strong, our men were unconcerned,
and not in the least apprehensive of danger, but spent
the time in rest and mirth, after the manner of the
sea; but the eighth day in the morning the wind
increased, and we had all hands at work to strike
our topmasts, and make everything snug and close,
that the ship might ride as easy as possible. By
noon the sea went very high indeed, and our ship rid
forecastle in, shipped several seas, and we thought
once or twice our anchor had come home ; upon which
our master ordered out the sheet-anchor, so that we
rode with two anchors ahead, and the cables veered
out to the better end.

By this time it blew a terrible storm indeed, and now
I began to see terror and amazement in the faces even
of the seamen themselves. The master, though vigilant
to the business of preserving the ship, yet as he went
in and out of his cabin by me, I could hear him softly
to himself say several times, " Lord be merciful to us,
we shall be all lost, we shall be all undone " ; and the
like. During these first hurries I was stupid, lying
still in my cabin, which was in the steerage, and
cannot describe my temper , I could ill reassume the
first penitence, which I had so apparently trampled
upon, and hardened myself against, I thought the
bitterness of death had been past, and that this would
be nothing too, like the first. But when the master
himself came by me, as I said just now, and said we
should be all lost, I"was' dreadftu frighted; I got up
out of my cabin, and looked out. But such a dismal
sight I never saw; the see went mountains high, and
broke upon us every three or four minutes; when
I could look about, I could see nothing but distress
round us. Two ships that rid near us we found had
cut their masts by the board, being deep loaden; and
our men cried out, that a ship which rid about a mile
ahead of us was foundered. Two more ships being
driven from their anchors, were run out of the roads
to sea at all adventures, and that with not a mast
standing. The light ships fared the best, as not so
much labouring in the sea; but two or three of them
drove, and came close by us, running away with only
their sprit-sail out before the wind.

Towards evening the mate and boatswain begged the
master of our ship to let them cut away the foremast,
which he was very unwilling to. But the boatswain,
protesting to him that if he did not the ship would
founder, he consented; and when they had cut away
the foremast, the mainmast stood so loose, and shook
the ship so much, they were obliged to cut her away
also, and make a clear deck.

Any one may judge what a condition I must be in
at all this, who was but a young sailor, and who had
been in such a fright before at but a little. But if
I can express at this distance the thoughts I had about
me at that time, I was in tenfold more horror of mind
upon account of my former convictions, and the having
returned from them to the resolutions I had wickedly
taken at first, than I was at death itself ; and these,
added to the terror of the storm, put me into such a
condition, that I can by no words describe it. But
the worst was not come yet; the storm continued
with such fury, that the seamen themselves acknow-
ledged they had never known a worse. We had a
good ship, but she was deep loaden, and wallowed in
the sea, that the seamen every now and then cried
out she would founder. It was my advantage in one
respect, that I did not know what they meant by.
founder till I inquired. However, the storm was so
violent, that I saw what is not often seen, the master,
the boatswain, and some others more sensible than the
rest, at their prayers, and expecting every moment
when the ship would go to the bottom. In the middle
of the night, and under all the rest of our distresses,
one of the men that had been down on purpose to see
cried out we had sprung a. leak; another said there
was four foot water in the hold. Then all hands were
called to the pump. At that very word my heart, as
I thought, died within me, and I fell backwards upon
the side of my bed where I sat, into the cabin. How-
ever, the men roused me, and told me, that I, that
was able to do nothing before, was as well able to
pump as another; at which I stirred up and went to
the pump and worked very heartily. While this was
doing, the master seeing some light colliers, who, not
able to ride out the storm, were obliged to slip and mm
away to sea, and would come near us, ordered to fire
a gun as a signal of distress. I, who knew nothing
what that meant, was so surprised that I thought the
ship had broke, or some dreadful thing had happened.
In a word, I was so surprised that I fell down in a
swoon. As this was a time when everybody had his
own life to think of, nobody minded me, or what was
become of me; but another man stepped up to the
pump, and thrusting me aside with his foot, let'me lie,
thinking I had been dead; and it was a great while
before I me to myself.

We worked on, but the water increasing in the hold,
it was apparent that the ship would founder, and
though the storm began to abate a little, yet as it was
not possible she could swim till we might nm into a
port, so the master continued firing guns for help;
and a light ship, who had rid it out just ahead of us,
ventured a boat out to help us. It was with the
utmost hazard the boat came near us, but it was
impossible for us to get on board, or for the boat to
lie near the ship's side, till at last the men rowing very
heartily, and venturing their lives to save ours, our
men cast them a rope over the stern with a buoy to it,
and then veered it out a great length, which they after
great labour and hazard took hold of, and we hauled
them close under our stern, and got all into their boat.
It was to no purpose for them or us after we were in
the boat to think of reaching to their own ship, so all
agreed to let her drive, and only to pull her in towards
shore as much as we could, and our master promised
them that if the boat was staved upon shore he would
make it good to their master; so partly rowing and
partly driving, our boat went away to the norward,
sloping towards the shore almost as far as Winterton
Ness. '

While we were in this condition, the men yet
labouring at the oar to bring the boat near the shore,
we could see, when, our boat mounting the waves,
we were able to see the shore, a great many people
running along the shore to assist us when we should
come near. But we made but slow way towards the
shore, nor were we able to reach the shore, till being
past the lighthouse at Winterton, the shore falls off
to the westward towards Cromer, and so the land
broke off a little the violence of the wind. Here we got
in, and though not without much difficulty got all safe -
on shore, and walked afterwards on foot to Yarmouth,
where, as unfortunate men, we were used with great
humanity as well by the magistrates of the town,
who assigned us good quarters, as by particular mer-
chants and owners of ships, and had money given us
sufficient to carry us either to London or back to
Hull, as we thought fit.

Had I now had the sense to have gone back to Hull,
and have gone home, I had been happy, and my
father, an emblem of our blessed Saviour's parable,
had even killed the fatted mlf for me; for hearing the
ship I went away in was east away in Yarmouth road,
. it was a great while before he had any assurance that

I was not drowned. ' '

But my ill fate pushed me on now with an obstinacy
that nothing could resist '; and though I had several
times loud mils from my reason and my more composed
judgment to go home, yet I had no power to do it.
I know not what to call this, nor will I urge that it is
a secret overruling decree that hurries us on to be the
instruments of our own destruction, even though it be
before us, and that we rush upon it with our eyes
open. Certainly nothing but some such decreed
unavoidable misery attending, and which it was
impossible for me to escape, could have pushed me
forward against the aim reasonings. and persuasions of
my most retired thoughts, and against two such visible
instructions as I had met with in my first attempt.
My comrade, who had helped to harden me before,

and who was the master's son, was now less forward '

than I. The first time he spoke to me after we were
at Yarmouth, which was not till two or three days,
for we were separated in the town to several quarters
--I say, the first time he saw me, it appeared his tone
was altered, and looking very melancholy and shaking
his head, asked me how I did, and telling his father
who I was, and how I had come this voyage only for a
trial in order to go farther abroad, his father turning
to me with a very grave and concerned tone, " Young
man," says he, " you ought never to go to sea any
more, you ought to take this for a plain and visible
token, that you are not to be a seafaring man. And,
young man," said he, " depend upon it, if you do not
go back, wherever you go you will meet with nothing
but disasters and disappointments, till your father's
words are fulfilled upon you."

We parted soon after; for I made him little answer,
and I saw him no more ; which way he went, I know
not. As for me, having some money in my pocket,
I travelled to London by land; and there, as well as
on the road, had many struggles with myself what
course of life I should take, and whether I should go
home, or go to sea.

As to going home, shame opposed the best motions
that ofiered to my thoughts; and it immediately
occurred to me how I should be laughed at among the
neighbours, and should be ashamed to see, not my
father and mother only, but even everybody else;
from whence I have since often observed how incon--
gruous and irrational the common temper of mankind
is, especially of youth, to that reason which ought to
guide them in such cases, viz., that they are not
ashamed to sin, and yet are ashamed to repent; not
ashamed of the action for which they ought justly to be
esteemed fools, but are ashamed of the returning,
which only can make them be esteemed wise men.
company in London, which does not always happen

to such loose and misguided young fellows as I then
was ; the devil generally not omitting to lay some snare
for them very early; but it was not so with me. I first
fell acquainted with the master of a ship who had
been on the coast of Guinea, and who, having had very
good success there, was resolved to go again ; and who,
taking a fancy to my conversation, which was not at
all disagreeable at that time, hearing me say I had a
mind to see the world, told me if I would go the voyage
withhim Ishouldbeat noexpense; I shouldbehis
messmate and his companion; and if.I could earry
anything with me, I should have all the advantage of
it that trade would admit, and perhaps I might meet
with some encouragement.

I embraced the ofler; and, entering into a strict
friendship with this captain, who was an honest and
plain-dealing man, I went the voyage with him, and
carried a small adventure with me, which, by the dis-
interested honesty of my friend the eaptain, I increased
very considerably, for I canied about PS40 in such toys
and triflee as the captain directed me to buy. This
PS40 I had mustered together by the assistance of some
of my relations whom I corresponded with, and who,
I believe, got my father, or at least my mother, to
contribute so much as that to my first adventure.

33

IT was my lot first of all to fall into pretty good
This was the only voyage which I may say was suc-
cessful in all my adventures, and which I owe to the
integrity and honesty of my friend the captain ; under
whom also I got a competent knowledge of the mathe-
matics and the rules of navigation, learned how to
keep an account of the ship's course, take an observa-
tion, and, in short, to understand some things that
were needful to be understood by a sailor. For, as he
took delight to introduce me, I took delight to learn ;
and, in a word, this voyage made me both a sailor and
a merchant ; for I brought home five pounds nine
ounces of gold dust for my adventure, which yielded
me in London at my return almost PS300, and this filled
me with those aspiring thoughts which have since so
completed my ruin.

Yet even in this voyage I had my misfortunes too ;
particularly, that I was continually sick, being thrown
into a violent calenture by the excessive heat of the
climate; our principal trading being upon the coast,
from the latitude of 15 degrees north even to the line
itself.

I was now set up for a Guinea trader ; and my friend,
to my great misfortune, dying soon after his arrival, I
resolved to go the same voyage again, and I embarked
in the same vessel with one who was his mate in the
former voyage, and had now got the command of the
ship. This was the unhappiost voyage that ever man
made; for though I did not carry quite PS100 of my
new-gained wealth, so that I had PS200 left, and which
I lodged with my friend's widow, who was very just
to me, yet I fell into terrible misfortunes in this voyage;
and the first was this, viz., our ship making her courseGAvs CHASE wrm ALL ran SAIL sun com Sn-r.
towards the Canary Islands, or rather between those
islands and the African shore, was surprised m the grey
of the morning by a Turkish rover of Sallee, who gave
chase to us with all the sail she could make. We
crowded also as much canvas as our yards would
spread, or our masts carry, to have got clear; but
finding the pirate gained upon us, and would certainly
come up with us in a few hours, we prepared to fight,
our ship having twelve guns, and the rogue eighteen.
About three in the afternoon he came up with us, and
bringing to, by mistake, just athwart our quarter,
instead of athwart our stern, as he intended, we brought
eight of our guns to bear on that side, and poured in a
broadside upon him, which made him sheer off again,
after returning our fire and pouring in also his small-
shot from near 200 men which he had on board. How-
ever, we had not a man touched, all our men keeping
close. He prepared to attack us again, and we to
defend ourselves; but laying us on board the next
fitne upon our other quarter, he entered sixty men upon
our decks, who immediately fell to cutting and hacking
the decks and rigging. We plied them with small-shot,
half-pikes, powder-chests, and such like, and cleared
our deck of them twice. However, to cut short this
melancholy part of our story, our ship being disabled,
and three of our men killed and eight wounded, we
were obliged to yield, and were carried all prisoners
into Sallee, a port belonging to the Moors.
TheusageIhadtherewasnotsodreadfulasatfirst
I apprehended, nor was I carried up the country to the
emperor's court, as the rest of our men were, but was
kept by the captain of the rover as his proper prize,
and made his slave, being young and nimble, and fit
for his business.

As my new patron, or master, had taken me home
to his house, so I was in hopes that he would take me
with him when he went to sea again, believing that it
would some time or other be his fate to be taken by a
Spanish or Portugal man-of-war; and that then I
should be set at liberty. But this hope of mine was
soon taken away; for when he went to sea, he left me
on shore to look after his little garden, and do the
common drudgery of slaves about his house ; and when
he came home again from his cruise, he ordered me to
lie in the cabin to look after the ship.

Here I meditated nothing but my escape, and what
method I might take to effect it, but found no way
that had the least probability in it. Nothing presented
to make the supposition of it rational; for I had
nobody to communicate it to that would embark with
me; so that for two years, though I often pleased
myself with the imagination, yet I never had the least
encouraging prospect of putting it in practice.

After about two years an odd circumstance presented
itself, which put the old thought of making some
attempt for my liberty again in my head. My patron
lying at home longer than usual without fitting out
his ship, which, as I heard, was for want of money, he
used constantly, once or twice a week, sometimes
oftener, if the weather was fair, to take the ship's
pinnace, and go out into the road a-fishing; and as
he always took me and a young Mareeco with him to
row the boat, we made him very merry, and I proved
very dexterous in catching fish; insomuch, that some
times he would send me with a Moor, one. of his kins-
men, and the youth the Maresco, as they called him,
toeatchadishoffishforhim. '

It happened one time that, going a-fishing in a stark
wlm morning, a fog rose so thick, that though we
were not half a league from the shore we lost sight
of it; and rowing we knew not whither or which way,
we laboured all day, and all the next' night, and when
the morning came we found we had pulled off to sea
instead of pulling in for the shore; and that we were
at least two leagues from the shore. However, we got
well in again, though with a great deal of labour, and
some danger, for the wind began to blow pretty fresh .
in the morning; but particularly we were all very
hungry.

But our patron, warned by this disaster, resolved to
take more care of himself for the future; and having
lying by him the long-boat of our English ship which
he had taken, he resolved he would not go a-fishing
any more without a compass and some provision; so
he ordered the carpenter of his ship, who also was an
English slave, to build a little state-room, or cabin, in
the middle of the long-boat, like that of abarge, with
a place to stand behind it to steer and haul home the
mainsheet, and room before for a hand or two to stand
and work the sails. ' -

We went frequently out with this boat a-fishing,
and as I was most dexterous to catch fish for him, he
never went without me. It happened that he had . '
appointed to go out in this boat, either for pleasure '
or for fish, with two or three Moors of some distinction
in that place, and for whom he had provided extra:

h
ordinarily; and had therefore sent on board the boat
overnight a larger store of provisions than ordinary;
and had ordered me to get ready three fuzees with
powder and shot, which were on board his ship, for
that they designed some sport of fowling as well as
fishing.

I got all things ready as he had directed, and waited
the next morning with the boat, washed clean, her
ancient and pendants out, and everything to accom-
modate his guests; when by-and-by my patron came
on board alone, and told me his guests had put off
going, upon some business that fell out, and ordered
me with the man and boy, as usual, to go out with the
boat and catch them some fish, for that his friends
were to sup at his house; and commanded that as
soon as I had got some fish I should bring it home to
his house ; all which I prepared to do.

This moment my former notions of deliverance
darted into my thoughts, for now I found I was like
to have a little ship at my command; and my master
being gone, I prepared to furnish myself, not for a
fishing business, but for a voyage; though I lmew not,
neither did I so much as consider, whither I should
steer; for anywhere, to get out of that place, was
my way.

. My first contrivance was to make a pretence to speak

to this Moor, to get something for our subsistence on
board; for I told him we must not presume to eat of
our patron's bread. He said that was true; so he
brought a large basket of rusk or biscuit of their kind,
and three jars with fresh water, into the boat. I knew
where my patron's case of bottles stood, which it was
evident by the make were taken out of some English
prize; and I conveyed them into the boat while the
Moor was on shore, as if they had been there before
for our master. I conveyed also a great lump of bees-
wax into the boat, which weighed about half a hundred-
weight, with a parcel of twine or thread, a hatchet, a
saw, and a hammer, all which were great use to us
afterwards, especially the wax to make candles Thus
furnished with everything needful, we sailed out of the
port to fish. The castle, which is at the entrance of
the port, knew who we were, and took no notice of us ;
and we were not above a mile out of the port before
we hauled in our sail, and set us down to fish. The
wind blew from the N.N.E., which was contrary to
my desire ; for had it blown southerly I had been sure
to have made the coast of Spain, and at least reached
to the bay of Cadiz; but my resolutions were, blow
which way it would, I would be gone from the horrid
place where I was, and leave the rest to Fate.

After we had fished some time and catched nothing,
for, 'when I had fish on my hook I would not pull
them up that he might not see them, I said to the
Moor, " This will not do; our master will not be thus
served; we must stand farther ofi." He, thinking no
harm. agreed, and being in the head of the boat set
thesails;andasIhadthehelmImntheboatout ..
near a league farther, and then brought her to as if
I would fish; when giving the boy the helm, I stepped
forward to where the Moor was, and making as if I
stooped for something behind him, I took him by
surprise with my arm under his twist, and tossed him
clear overboard into the sea. He rose immediately,
for he swam like a cork, and called to me, begged to
be taken in, told me he would go all the world over
with me. He swam so strong after the boat, that he
would have reached me very quickly, there being but
little wind; upon which I stepped into the cabin, and
fetching one of the fowling pieces, I presented it at
him, and told him I had done him no hurt, and if he
would be quiet I would do him none. " But," said I,
" you swim well enough to reach to the shore, and the
sea is calm ; make the best of your way to shore, and
I will do you no harm ; but if you come near the boat
I'll shoot you through the head, for I am resolved to
have my liberty." So he turned himself about, and
swam for the shore, and I make no doubt but he reached
it with ease, for he was an excellent swimmer.

I could have been content to have taken this Moor
with me, and have drowned the boy, but there was no
venturing to trust him. When he was gone I turned
to the boy, whom they called Xury, and said to him,
" Xury, if you will be faithful to me I'll make you a'
great man ; but if you will not stroke your face to be
true to me," that is, swear by Mahomet and his father's
beard, " I must throw you into the sea too." The boy
smiled in my face, and spoke so innocently, that I
could not mistrust him, and swore to be faithful to
me, and go all over the world with me.

While I was in view of the Moor that was swimming,
I stood out directly to sea with the boat, rather
stretching to windward, that they might think me
gone towards the straits' mouth.

But as soon as it grew dusk in the evening, I changed
my course, and steered directly south and by east,
bending my course a little toward the east, that I
might keep in with the shore; and having a fair, fresh
gale of wind, and a smooth, quiet sea, I made such sail
that I believe by the next day at three o'clock in the
afternoon, when I first made the land, I could not be
less than 150 miles south of Sallee; quite beyond the
Emperor of Morocco's dominions, or indeed of any
other king thereabouts, for we saw no people.

Yet such was the fright I had taken at the Moors,
and the dreadful apprehensions I had of falling into
their hands, that I would not stop, or go on shore, or
come to an anchor, the wind continuing fair, till I had
sailed in that manner five days; and then the wind
shifting to the southward, I concluded also that if any
of our vessels were in chase of me, they also would
now give over; so I ventured to make to the coast,
and came to an anchor in the mouth of a little river,
I knew not what, or where ; neither what latitude, what
country, what nations, or what river. I neither saw,
or desired to see, any people; the principal thing I
wanted was fresh water. We came into this creek' in
the evening, resolving to swim on shore as soon as it
was dark, and discover the country; but as soon as
it was quite dark we heard such dreadful noises of the
barking, roaring, and howling of wild creatures, of
we knew not what kinds, that the poor boy was ready
to die with fear, and begged of me not to go on shore
till day.

Xury was dreadfufly frighted, and indeed so was
I too ; but we were both more frighted when we heard
one of these mighty creatures come swimming towards
our boat; we could not see him, but, we might hear

l2
him by his blowing to be a monstrous huge and furious
beast. Xury said it was a lion, and it might be so
for aught I know; but poor Xury cried to me to weigh
the anchor and row away. " No," says I, " Xury;
We can slip our cable with the buoy to it, and go off
to sea; they cannot follow us far." I had no sooner
said so but I perceived the creature (whatever it was)
within two oars' length, which something surprised.
me ; however, I immediately stepped to the cabin door,
and taking up my gun, fired at him, upon which he
immediately turned about and swam towards the
shore again.

But it is impossible to describe the horrible noises,.
and hideous cries and howlings, that were raised, as
well upon the edge of the shore as higher within the
country, upon the noise or report of the gun, a thing
I have some reason to believe those creatures had never
heard before. This convinced me that there was no
going on shore for us in the night upon that coast ;
and how to venture on shore in the day was another
question too ; for to have fallen into the hands of any
of the savages, had been as bad as to have fallen into
the hands of lions and tigers ; at least we were equally
apprehensive of the danger of it.

Be that as it would, we were obliged to go on shore
:somewhere or other for water, for we had not a pint
.left in the boat ; when or where to get to it, was the
point. Xury said if I would let him go on shore with
one of the jars, he would find if there was any water
.and bring some to me. I asked him why he would
go? why I should not go and he stay in the boat?
The boy answered with so much affection, that made
me love him ever after. Says he, " If wild mans
come, they eat me, you go away." " Well, Xury,"
said I, " we will both go; and if the wild mans come,
we will kill them, they shall eat neither of us." So
I gave Xury a piece of rusk bread to eat, and a dram
out of our patron's case of bottles which I mentioned
before; and we hauled in the boat as near the shore
as we thought was proper, and so waded on shore,
carrying nothing but our arms and two jars for water.

I did not care to go out of sight of the boat, fearing
the coming of canoes with savages down the river;
but the boy seeing a low place about a mile up the
country, rambled to it and by-and-by I saw him come
running towards me. I thought he was pursued by
some savage, or frighted with some wild beast, and I
ran forward towards him to help him; but when
I came nearer to him, I saw something hanging over
his shoulders, which was a creature that he had shot,
like a hare, but different in colour, and longer legs.
However, we were very glad of it, and it was very good
meat; but the great joy that poor Xury came with
was to tell me he had found good water, and seen no
wild mans.

As I had been one voyage to this coast before, I
knew very well that the islands of the Canaries, and
the Cape de Verde Islands also, lay not far off from
the coast. But as I had no instruments to take an
observation to know what latitude we were in, and did
not exactly know, or at least remember, what latitude
they were in, I knew not where to look for them, or
when to stand ofi to sea towards them; otherwise
I might now easily have found some of these islands.
But my hope was, that if I stood along this coast till
I came to that part where the English traded, I should
find some of their vessels upon their usual design of
trade, that would relieve and take us in.

Once or twice in the daytime I thought I saw the
Pico of Teneriffe, being the high top of the Mountain
Teneriffe in the Canaries and had a great mind to
venture out, in hopes of reaching thither ; but having ~
tried twice, I was forced in again by contrary winds,
the sea also going too high for my little vessel; so I
resolved to pursue my first design, and keep along the
shore.

Several times I was obliged to land for fresh water
after we had left this place; and once in particular,
being early in the morning, we came to an anchor
under a little point of land which was pretty high;
and the tide beginning to flow, we lay still to go farther
in. Xury, whose eyes were more about him than it
seems mine were, calls softly to me, and tells me that
we had best go farther off the shore ; " For," says he,
"look, yonder lies a dreadful monster on the side of
that hillch fast asleep." I looked where he pointed,
and saw a dreadful monster indeed, for it was a terrible
great lion that lay on the side of the shore, under the
shade of a piece of the hill that hung as it were a little
over him. " Xury," says I, " you shall go on shore
and kill him." Xury looked frighted, and said, " Me
kill ! he eat me at one mouth" ; one mouthful he meant.
However, I said no more to the boy, but bade him lie
still, and I took our biggest gun, which was almost
musket-bore, and loaded it with a good charge of
powder, and with two slugs, and laid it down ; then I
loaded another gun with two bullets ; and the third (for
we had three pieces) I loaded with five smaller bullets.
I took the best aim I could with the first piece to have
shot him into the head, but he lay so with his leg
raised a little above his nose that the slugs hit his
leg about the knee, and broke the bone. He started
up growling at first, but finding his leg broke, fell
down again, and then got up upon three legs and
gave the most hideous roar that ever I heard. I was
a little surprised that I had not hit him on the head.
However, I took up the second piece immediately, and,
though he began to move off, fired again, and shot
him into the head, and had the pleasure to see him
drop, and make but little noise, but lay struggling for
life. Then Xury took heart, and would have me let
him go on shore. " Well, go," said I; so the boy
jumped into the water, and taking a little gun in one
hand, swam to shore with the other hand, and coming
close to the creature, put the muzzle of the piece to
his ear, and shot him into the head again, which
despatched him quite.

This was game indeed to us, but this was no food;
and I was very sorry to loose three charges of powder
and shot upon a creature that was good for nothing
to us. However, Xury said he would have some of
him ; so he comes on board, and asked me to give him
the hatchet. " For what, Xury? " said I. " Me cut
off his hea ," said he. However, Xury could not cut
off his head, but he cut off a foot, and brought it with
him, and it was a monstrous great one.

I bethought myself, however, that perhaps the skin
of him might one way or other be of some value to us
and I resolved to take all his skin if I could. So
Xury and I went to work with him; but Xury was
much the better workman at it, for I knew very ill
how to do it. Indeed, it took us up both the whole
day, but at last we got oil the hide of him, and spreading
it on the top of our cabin, the sun efiectually dried it
in two days' time, and it afterwards served me to
lie upon.
continually for ten or twelve days, living very

sparing on our provisions, which began to abate
very much, and going no oftener into the shore than
We were obliged to for fresh water. My design in this
was to make the river Gambia or Senegal--that is to
say, anywhere about the Cape de Verde--where I was
in hopes to meet with some European ship ; and if I did
not, I knew not what course I had to take, but to seek
out for the islands, or perish there among the negroes.
I knew that all the ships from Europe, which sailed
either to the coast of Guinea or to Brazil, or to the
East Indies, made this cape, or those islands; and in
a word, I put the whole of my fortune upon this single
point, either that I must meet with some ship, or
must perish.

When I had pursued this resolution about ten days
longer, as I have said, I began to see that the land was
inhabited; and in two or three places, as we sailed by,
we saw people stand upon the shore to look at us; we
could also perceive they were quite black, and stark
naked. I was once inclined to have gone on shore to
them ; but Xury was my better counsellor, and said to
me, " No go, no go." However, I hauled in nearer the
shore that I might talk to them, and I found they ran
along the shore by me a good way. I observed they
had no weapons in their hands, except one, who had

a. FTER this stop we made on to the southward

39
a long slender stick, which Xury said was a lance,
and that they would throw them a great way with
good aim. So I kept at a distance, but talked with
them by signs as well as I could, and particularly
made signs for something to eat ; they beckoned to me
to stop my boat, and that they would fetch me some
meat. Upon this I lowered the top of my sail, and '
lay by, and two of them ran up into the country and
in less than half an hour came back, and brought with
them two pieces of dried flesh and some corn, such as
is the produce of their country; but we neither knew
what the one or the other was. However, we were
Willing to accept it, but how to come at it was our next
dispute, for I was not for venturing on shore to them,
and they were as much afraid of us ; but they took a
safe way for us all, for they brought it to the shore
and laid it down, and went and stood a great way off
till we fetched it on board, and then came close to us
again.

I was now fum15hed with roots and corn, such as it
was, and water; and leaving my friendly negroee, I
made forward for about eleven days more, without
ofiering to go near the shore, till I saw the land run
out a great length into the sea, at about the distance
of four or five leagues before me; and the sea being
very calm, I kept a large offing, to make this point.
At length, doubling the point, at about two leagues
from the land, I saw plainly land on the other side, to
seaward; then I concluded, as it was most certain
indeed, that this was the Cape de Verde, and those the
islands, called from thence Cape de Verde Islands.
However, they were at a great distance, and I could./

ROBINSON CRUSOE 41

not well tell what. I had best to do; for if I-should be
taken with a fresh of wind, I might neither reach one
or other. '

In this dilemma, as I was very pensive, I stepped into
the cabin, and sat me down, Xury having the helm ;
when, on a sudden, the boy cried out, " Master, master,
a ship with a sail I " and the foolish boy was frighted
out of his wits, thinldng it must needs be some of his
master's ships sent to pursue us, when I knew we were
gotten far enough out of their reach. I jumped out of
the cabin, and immediately saw, not only the ship,
but what she was, viz., that it was a Portuguese ship,
and, as I thought, was bound to the coast of Guinea,
for negroes. But when I observed the course she
steered, I was soon convinced they were bound
some other way, and did not design to come any
nearer to shore; upon which I stretched out to sea,
as much as I could, resolving to speak with them, if
possible.

With all the sail I could make, I found I should not
be able to come in their way, but that they would be
gone by before I could make any signal to them ; but
after I had crowded to the utmost, and began to
despair, they, it seems, saw me by the help of their
perspective glasses, and that it was some European
boat, which, as they supposed, must belong to some
ship that was lost, so they shortened sail to let me
come up. I was encouraged with this; and as I had
my patron's ancient on board, I made a waft of it to
themforasignalofdistress,a.ndfiredagun,both
which they saw ; for they told me they saw the smoke,

' though they did not hear the gun. Upon these signals

1?
they were kindly brought to, and lay by for me; and
in about three hours' time I came up with them.

They asked me what I was, in Portuguese, and in
Spanish, and in French, but I understood none of
them ; but at last a Scots sailor, who was on board,
called to me, and I answered him, and told him I was
an Englishman, that I had made my escape out of
slavery from the Moors, at Sallee. Then they bade '
me come on board, and very kindly took me in, and
all my goods.

It was an inexpressible joy to me, that any one will
believe that I was thus delivered, as I esteemed it,
from such a miserable, and almost hopeless, condition
as I was in; and I immediately ofiered all I hadto
the captain of the ship, as a return for my deliverance.
But he generously told me he would take nothing from
me, but that all I had should be delivered safe to me
when I came to the Brazils. " For," says he, " I have
saved your life on no other terms than I would be
glad to be saved myself, and it may, one time or other,
be my lot to be taken up in the same condition.
Besides," says he, " when I worry you to the Brazils,
so great a way from your own country, if I should
take from you what you have, you will be starved there,
and then I only take away that life I have given. No,
no, Seignior Inglese," says he, " Mr. Englishman, I
will may you thither in charity, and those things will
help you to buy your subsistence there, and your
passage home again."

As he was charitable in his proposal, so he was just
in the performance to a tittle; for he ordered the sea-
men that none should ofier to touch anything I had;
then he took everything into his own possession, and
gave me back an exact inventory of them, that I
might have them, even so much as my three earthen
Jars.

As to my boat, it was a very good one, and that he
saw, and told me he would buy it of me for the ship's
use, and asked me what I would have for it? I told
him he had been so generous to me in everything, that
I could not offer to make any price of the boat, but
left it entirely to him ; upon which he told me he would
give me a note of his hand to pay me eighty pieces of
eight for it at Brazil, and when it me there, if any
one offered to give more, he would make it up. He
offered me also sixty pieces of eight more for my boy
Xury, which I was loth to take; not that I was not
willing to let the captain have him, but I was very
10th to sell the poor boy's liberty, who had assisted
me so faithfully in procuring my own. However, when
I let him know my reason, he owned it to be just, and
offered me this medium, that he would give the boy
an obligation to set him free in ten years if he turned
Christian. Upon this, and Xury saying he was willing
to go to him, I let the captain have him.

We had a very good voyage to the Brazils, and
arrived in the Bay de Todos los Santos, or All Saints'
Bay, in about twenty-two days after. And now I was
once more delivered from the most miserable of all
conditions of life; and what to do next with myself
I was now to consider.

The generous treatment the captain gave, I can
never enough remember. He would take nothing of
me for my passage, gave me twenty dueats for the
leopard's skin, and forty for the lion's skin, which I
had in my boat, and caused everything I had in the
ship to be punctually delivered me; and what I was
willing to sell he bought, such as the case of bottles,
two of my guns, and a piece of the lump of beeswax--
for I had made candles of the rest ; in a word, I made
about 220 pieces of eight of all my cargo, and with.
this stock I went on shore in the Brazils.

I had not been long here, but being recommended
to the house of a good honest man like himself, who
had an ingeino as they call it, that is, a plantation and
a sugar-house, I lived with him some time, and
acquainted myself by that means with the manner of
their planting and making of sugar; and seeing how
well the planters lived, and how they grew rich sud-
denly, I resolved, if I could get licence to settle there,
I would turn planter among them, resolving in the
meantime to find out some way to get my money
which I had left in London remitted to me. To this
purpose, getting a kind of a letter of naturaJisation, I
purchased as much land that was uncured as my. money
would reach, and formed a plan for my plantation and
settlement, and such a one as might be suitable to
the stock which I proposed to myself to receive from
England.

I had a neighbour, a Portuguese of Lisbon, but born
of English parents, whose name was Wells, and in
much such circumstances as I was. I call him my
neighbour, because his plantation lay next to mine,
and we went on very sociably together. My stock
was but low, as well as his ; and we rather planted for
food than anything else, for about two years. How-I) 1

ROBINSON CRUSOE 45

ever, we began to increase; and our land began to
come into order; so that the third year we planted
some tobacco, and made each of us a. large piece of
ground ready for planting cones in the year to come.
But we both wanted help ; and now I found more than
before, I had done wrong in parting with my boy Xury.

I was in some degree settled in my measures for
carrying on the plantation before my kind friend, the
captain of the ship that took me up at sea, went back ;
for the ship remained there in providing his loading,
and preparing for his voyage, near three months;
when telling him what little stock I had left behind
me in London, he gave me this friendly and sincere
advice: " Seignior Inglese," says he, for so he always
called me, " if you will give me letters, and a procura-
' tion herein form to me, with orders to the person who
has your money in London to send your efiects to
Lisbon, tosuchpersonsaslshalldirect, andinsuch-
goods as are proper for this country, I will bring you
the produce of them, God willing, at my return. But
since human affairs are all subject to changes and
disasters, I would have you give orders but for one
hundred pounds sterling, which, you say, is half your
stock, and let the hazard be run for the first; so that
if it come safe, you may order the rest the same way;
and if it miscarry, you may have the other half to have
recourse to for your supply."

This was so wholesome advice, and looked so friendly,
that I could not but be convinced it was the best course
I could take; so I accordingly prepared letters to the
gentlewoman with whom I had left my money, and a
procuration to the Portuguese captain, as he desired
I wrote the English captain's widow a full account
of all my adventures; my slavery, escape, and how I
had met with the Portugal captain at sea, the humanity
of his behaviour, and in what condition I was now in,
with all other necessary directions for my supply.
And when this honest captain came to Lisbon, he
found means, by some of the English merchants there,
to send over not the order only, but a full account of '
my story to a merchant at London, who represented
it efiectually to her ; whereupon, she not only delivered
the money, but out of her own pocket sent the Portugal
captain a very handsome present for his humanity and
charity to me.

The merchant in London vesting this hundred pounds
in English goods, such as the captain had writ for,
sent them directly to him at Lisbon, and he brought
them all safe to me to the Brazils; among which,
without my direction (for I was too young in my bufi-
ness to think of them), he had taken care to have all .
sorts of tools, iron-work, and utensils necessary for my
plantation, and which were of great use to me. '

When this cargo arrived, I thought my fortune
made, for I was surprised with joy of it ; and my good
steward, the captain, had laid out the five pounds,
which my friend had sent him for a present for himself,
to purchase and bring me over a servant under bond
for six years" service, and would not accept of any
consideration, except a little tobacco, which I would
have him accept, being of my own produce.

Neither was this all ; but my goods being all English
manufactures, such as cloth, stuffs, baize, and things
particularly valuable and desirable in the country, I
found means to sell them to a very great advantage;
so that I may say I had more than four times the value
of my first cargo, and was now infinitely beyond my
poor neighbour, I mean in the advancement of my
plantation; for the first thing I did, I bought me a
negro slave, and an European servant also; I mean
another besides that which the captain brought me
from Lisbon.

But as abused prosperity is oftentimes made the
very means of our greatest adversity, so was it with
me. I went on the next year with great success in my
plantation. I raised fifty great rolls of tobacco on my
own ground, more than I had di5posed of for neces-
saries among my neighbours; and these fifty rolls,
being each of above a hundredweight, were well cured,
and laid by against the return of the fleet from Lisbon,
And now, increasing in business and in wealth my
head began to be full of projects and undertakings
beyond my reach, such as are, indeed, often the ruin
of the best heads in business.

You may suppose, that having now lived almost four
years in the Brazils, and beginning to thrive and
prosper very well upon my plantation, I had not only
learned the language, but had contracted acquaintance
and friendship among my fellow-planters, as well as
among the merchants of St. Salvador, which was our
port, and that in my discourses among them I had,
frequently given them an account of my two voyages
to the Coast of Guinea the manner of trading with the
negroes there, and how easy it was to purchase upon
the coast for trifles----such as beads, toys, knives,
scissors, hatchets, bits of glass, and the like--not
only gold-dust, Guinea grains, elephants' teeth, etc.,
but negroes, for the service of the Brazils, in great
numbers.

They listened always very attentively to my dis-
courses on these heads, but especially to that part
which related to the buying negroes ; which was a
trade, at that time, not only not far entered into, but,
as far as it was, had been carried on by the assiento, or '
permission, of the Kings of Spain and Portugal, so
that few negroes were bought, and those excessive
dear.

It happened, being in company with some merchants
and planters of my acquaintance, and talking of those
things very earnestly, three of them me to me the
next morning, and told me they had been musing very
much upon what I had discoursed with them of, the
last night, and they came to make a secret proposal
to me. And after enjoining me secrecy, they told me
that they had a mind to fit out a ship to go to Guinea ;
that they had all plantations as well as I, and were
straitened for nothing so much as servants; that as it
was a, trade that could not be carried on because they
could not publicly sell the negroes when they came
home, so they desired to make but one voyage, to
bring the negroes on shore privately, and divide them
among their own plantations; and, in a word, the
question was, whether I would go their supercargo in
the ship, to manage the trading part upon the coast
of Guinea; and they offered me that I should have my
equal share of the negroes without providing any part
of the stock.

This was a fair proposal, it must be confessed, had
it been made to any one that had not had a Settlement
and plantation of his own to look after, which was in a
fair way of coming to be very considerable, and with
a good stock upon it. But for me, that was thus
entered and established, and had nothing to do but go
on as I had begun, for three or four years more, and to
have sent for the other hundred pounds from England ;
and who, in that time, and with that little addition,
could scarce have failed of being worth three or four
thousand pounds sterling, and that increasing too--for
me to think of such a voyage, was the most preposterous
thing that ever man, in such circumstances, could be
guilty of.

But I, that was born to be my own destroyer, could
no more resist the ofier than I could restrain my first
rambling designs, when my father's good counsel was
lost upon me. In a word, I told them I would go with
all my heart, if they would undertake to look after my
plantation in my absence, and would dispose of it to
such as I should direct it I miscarried. This they all
engaged to do, and entered into writings or covenants
to do so; and I made a formal will, disposing of my
plantation and effects, in case of my death; making
the captain of the ship that had saved my liie, as
before, my universal heir, but obliging him to dispose
of my efiects as I had directed in my will; one half
of the produce being to himself, and the other to be
shipped to England.

In short, I took all possible caution to preserve my
effects, and keep up my plantation. Had I used half
as much prudence to have looked into my own interest,
and have made a judgment of what I ought to have
done and not to have done, I had certainly never gone
away from so prosperous an undertaking, leaving all the
probable :views of a thriving circumstance, and gone
upon a voyage to sea, attended with all its common
hazards, to say nothing of the reasons I had to expect
particular misfortunes to myself.

But I was hurried on, and obeyed blindly the
dictates of my fancy rather than my reason. And
accordingly, the ship being fitted out, and the cargo
furnished, and all things done as by agreement by my
partners in the voyage, I went on board in an evil
hour, the Ist of September 1659, being the same day
eight years that I went from my father and mother
at Hull, in order to act the rebel to their authority,
and the fool to my own interest. '~

Our ship was about 120 tons burthen, carried six
guns and fourteen men, besides the master, his boy,
and myself. We had on board no large cargo of goods,
except of such toys as were fit for our trade with the
negroes--such as beads, bits of glass, shells, and odd
trifles, especially little looking-glasses, knives, scissors,
and the like.

The same day I went on board we set sail, standing
away to the northward upon our own coast, with design
to stretch over for the-African coast, when they came
about ten or twelve degrees of northern latitude, which,
it seems, was the manner of their course in those days.
We passed the line in about twelve days' time, and
were, by our last observation, in seven degrees twenty-
two minutes northern latitude, when a violent tornado,
or hurricane, took us quite out of our knowledge. It
began from the south-east, came about to the north-
west, and then settled into the north-east, from whence
it blew in such a terrible manner, that for twelve days
together we could do nothing but drive, and, scudding
away before it, let it carry us wherever fate and the
fury of the winds directed; and during these twelve
days, I need not say that I expected every day to be
swallowed up, nor, indeed, did any in the ship expect
to save their lives.

In this distress we had, besides the terror of the
storm, one of our men died of the calenture, and one
man and the boy washed overboard. About the twelfth
day, the weather abating a little, the master made an
' observation as well as he could, and found that he was
gotten upon the coast of Guinea, or the north part of
Brazil, beyond the river Amazon, toward that of the
river Orinoco, commonly called the Great River, and
began to consult with me what course we should take, '
for the ship was leaky and very much disabled, and he
was going directly back to the coast of Brazil.

I was positively against that ; and looking over the
charts of the sea-coast of America with him, we con-
cluded there was no inhabited country for us to have
recourse to till we came within the circle of the Can'bbee
Islands, and therefore resolved to stand away for the
Barbadoes, which by keeping ofi at sea, to avoid the
inth of the Bay or Gulf of Mexico, we might easily
perform, as we hoped, in about fifteen days' sail;
whereas we could not possibly make our voyage to the
coast of Africa without some assistance, both to our
ship and to ourselves.

With this design we changed our course, and steered
away N.W. by W. in order to reach some of our English

4:
islands, where I hoped for relief ; but our voyage was
otherwise determined; for a second storm came upon
us, which carried us away with the same impetuosity
westward, and drove us so out of the very way of all
human commerce, that had all our lives been saved,
as to the sea, we were rather in danger of being
devoured by savages than ever returning to our own
country.

In this distress, the wind still blowing very hard,
one of our men early in the morning cried out, " Land ! "
and we had no sooner ran out of the cabin to look
out, in hopes of seeing whereabouts in the world we
were, but the ship struck upon a sand, and in a moment,
her motion being so stopped, the sea broke over her
in such a manner, that we expected we should all have
perished immediately ; and we were immediately driven
into our close quarters, to shelter us from the very foam
and spray of the sea.

It is not easy for any one, who has not been in the
like condition, to describe or conceive the consternation
of men in such circumstances. We knew nothing
where we were, or upon what land it was we were
driven, whether an island or the main, whether
inhabited or not inhabited; and as the rage of the
wind was still great, though rather less than at first,
we could not so much as hope to have the ship hold
many minutes without breaking in pieces, unless the
winds, by a kind of miracle, should turn immediately
about. In a word, we sat looking one upon another,
and expecting death every moment, and every man
acting accordingly, as preparing for another world;
for there was little or nothing more for us to do in this.131w not an Sumo ovn 1143 Smr's Sms,
That which was our present comfort, and all the
comfort we had, was that, contrary to our expectation,
the ship did not break yet, and that the master said
the wind began to abate.

Now, though we thought that the wind did a little
abate, yet the ship having thus struck upon the sand,
and sticking too fast for us to expect her getting ofi,
we were in a dreadful condition indeed, and had nothing
to do but to think of saving our lives as well as we
could. We had a boat at our stern just before the
storm, but she was first staved by dashing against the
ship's rudder, and in the next place, she broke away,
and either sunk, or was driven off to sea, so there was
no hope from her; we had another boat on board,
but how to get her off into the sea was a doubtful
thing. However, there was no room to debate, for
we fancied the ship would break in pieces every minute,
and some told us she was actually broken already.

In this distress, the mate of our vessel lays hold of
the boat, and with the help of the rest of the men
they got her slung over the ship's side; and getting all
into her, let go, and committed ourselves, being eleven
in number, to God's mercy, and the wild sea; for
though the storm was abated considerably, yet the
sea went dreadful high upon the shore.

And now our case was very dismal indeed, for we
all saw plainly that the sea went so high, that the boat
could not live, and that we should be inevitably
drowned. However, we committed our souls to God
in the most earnest manner; and the wind driving us
towards the shore, we hastened our destruction with our
own hands, pulling as well as we could towards land.
What the shore was, whether rock or sand, whether
steep or shoal, we knew not ; the only hope that could
rationally give us the least shadow of expectation was,
if we might happen into some bay or gulf, or the
mouth of some river, where by great chance we might
have run our boat in, or got under the lee of the land,
and perhaps made smooth water. But there was
nothing of this appeared; but as we made nearer and
nearer the shore, the land looked more frightful than
the sea.

After we had rowed, or rather driven, about a league
and a half, as we reckoned it, a raging wave, mountain-
like, came rolling astem of us, and plainly bade us
expect the coup de grace. In a word, it took us with
such a fury, that it overset the boat at once; and
separating us, as well from the boat as from one
another, gave us not time hardly to say, " 0 God! "
for we were all swallowed up in a moment.

Nothing can describe the confusion of thought which
I felt when I sunk into the water; for though I swam
very well, yet I could not deliver myself from the
waves so as to draw breath, till that wave having
driven me, or rather carn'ed me, a vast way on towards
the shore, and having spent itself, went back, and
left me upon the land almost dry, but half dead with
the water I took in. I had so much presence of mind,
as well as breath left, that seeing myself nearer the
mainland than I expected, I got upon my feet, and
endeavoured to make on towards the land as fast as
I could, before another wave should return and take
me up again. But I soon found it was impossible to
avoid it ; for I saw the sea come after me as high as a,
great hill, and as furious as an enemy, which I had no
means or strength to contend with. My business was
to hold my breath, and raise myself upon the water,
if I could; and so by swimming, to preserve my breath-
ing, and pilot myself towards the shore, if possible;
my greatest concern now being that the sea, as it
would carry me a great way towards the shore when it
came on, might not carry me back again with it when
it gave back towards the sea.

The wave that came upon me again, buried me at
once 20 or 30 feet deep in its own body, and I could
feel myself carried with a mighty force and swiftness
towards the shore a very great way; but I held my
breath, and assisted myself to swim still forward with
all my might. I was ready to burst with holding my
breath, when, as I felt myself rising up, so, to my
immediate relief, I found my head and hands shoot
out above the surface of the water ; and though it
was not two seconds of time that I could keep myself
50, yet it-relieved me greatly, gave me breath and new
courage. I was covered again with water a good while,
but not so long but I held it out ; and finding the water
had Spent itself, and began to return, I struck forward.
against the return of the waves, and felt ground again
with my feet. I stood still a few moments to recover
breath, and till the water went from me, and then
took to my heels and ran with what strength I had
farther towards the shore. But neither would this
deliver me from the fury of the sea, which came
pouring in after me again, and twice more I was
lifted up by the waves and carried forwards as before,
the shore being very flat.
The last time of these two had well near been fatal
to me ; for the sea, having hurried me along as before,
landed me, or rather dashed me, against a piece of a
rock, and that with such force, as it left me senseless,
and indeed helpless, as to my own deliverance ; for the
blow taking my side and breast, beat the breath as it
were quite out of my body ; and had it returned again
immediately, I must have been strangled in the water.
But I recovered a little before the return of the waves,
and seeing I should be covered again with the water,
I resolved to hold fast by a piece of the rock, and so to
hold my breath, if possible, till the wave went back.
Now as the waves were not so high as at first, being
near land, I held my hold till the wave abated, and
then fetched another run, which brought me so near
the shore, that the next wave, though it went over me,
yet did not so swallow me up as to carry me away,
and the next run I took I got to the mainland, where,
to my great comfort, I clambered up the cliffs of the
shore, and sat me down upon the grass, free from
danger, and quite out of the reach of the water.

I was now landed, and safe on shore, and began to
look up and thank God that my life was saved in a
case wherein there was some minutes before scarce
any room to hope.

I walked about on the shore, lifting up my hands,
and my whole being, as I may say, wrapt up in the
contemplation of my deliverance, making a thousand
gestures and motions which I cannot describe, reflecting
upon all my comrades that were drowned, and that
there should not be one soul saved but myself ; for, as
for them, I never saw them afterwards, or any sign
of them, except three of their hats, one up, and two
shoes that were not fellows.

I cast my eyes to the stranded vessel, when the
breach and froth of the sea being so big, I could hardly
see it, it lay so far off, and considered, Lord 1 how was
it possible I could get on shore? ,

After I had solaced my mind with the comfortable
part of my condition, I began to look round me to see
what kind of place I was in, and what was next to be
done, and I soon found my comforts abate, and that,
in a word, I had a dreadful deliverance 3 for I was wet,
had no clothes to shift me, nor anything either to eat
or drink to comfort me, neither did I see any prospect
before me but that of perishing with hunger, or being
devoured by wild beasts; and that which was par-
ticularly afiicting to me-was, that I had no weapon
either to hunt and kill any creature for my sustenance,
or to defend myself against any other creature that
might desire to kill me for theirs. In a word, I had
nothing about me but a knife, a tobacco-pipe, and a
little tobacco in a box. This was all my provision;
and this threw me into terrible agoniee of mind, that
for a while I ran about like a madman. Night coming
upon me, I began, with a heavy heart, to consider
what would be my lot if there were any ravenous
beasts in that country, seeing at night they always
come abroad for their prey.

All the remedy that offered to my thoughts at that
time was, to get up into a thick bushy tree like a fir,
but thorny, which grew near me, and where I resolved
to sit all night, and consider the next day what death
I should die, for as yet I saw no prospect of life.
I walked about a furlong from the shore, to see if I
could find any fresh water to drink, which I did, to
my great joy; and having drank, and put a little
tobacco in my mouth to prevent hunger, I went to the
tree, and getting up into it, endeavoured to place
myself so, as that if I should sleep I might not fall;
and having cut me a short stick, like a truncheon, for
my defence, I took up my lodging, and having been
excessively fatigued, I fell fast asleep, and slept as
comfortably as, I believe, few could have done in my
condition, and found myself the most refreshed with
it that I think I ever was on such an occasion.
HEN I waked it was broad day, the weather

' )s ; clear, and the storm abated, so that the sea.

did not rage and swell as before. But that
which surprised me most was, that the ship was lifted
off in the night from the sand where she lay, by the
swelling of the tide, and was driven up almost as far
as the rock which I first mentioned, where I had been
so bruised by the dashing me against it. This being
within about a mile from the shore where I was, and
the ship seeming to stand upright still, I wished
myself on board, that, at least, I might have some
necessary things for my use.

When I came down from my apartment in the tree
I looked about me again, and the first thing I found
was the boat which lay as the wind and the sea had
tossed her .up upon the land, about two miles on my
right hand. I walked as far as I could upon the shore
to have got to her, but found a neck or inlet of water
between me and the boat, which was about half a mile
broad; so I came back for the present, being more
intent upon getting at the ship, where I hoped to find
something for my present subsistence.

A little after noon I found the sea very calm, and
the tide ebbed- so far out, that I could come within a
quarter of a mile of the ship; and here I found a fresh
renewing of my grief, for I saw evidently, that if we
had kept on board we had been all safe, that is to say,
we had all got safe on shore,--and I had not been so

6!
miserable as to be left entirely destitute of all comfort
and company, as I now was. This forced tears from
my eyes again; but as there was little relief in that,
I resolved, if possible, to get to the ship; so I pulled
off my clothes, for the weather was hot to extremity,
and took the water. But when I came to the ship,
my difficulty was still greater to know how to get on
board; for as she lay aground, and high out of- the
water, there was nothing within my reach to lay
hold of. I swam round her twice, and the second time
I spied a small piece of a rope, which I wondered I did
not see at first, hang down by the fore-chains so low,
as that with great difficulty I got hold of it, and by
the help of that rope got up into the forecastle of the
ship. Here I found that the ship was bulged, and had
a great deal of water in her hold, but that she lay
so on the side of a bank of hard sand, or rather earth,
that her stern lay lifted up upon the bank, and her
head low almost to the water. By this means all her
quarter was free, and all that was in that part was
dry ; for you may be sure my first work was to search
and to see what was spoiled and what was free. And
first I found that all the ship's provisions were dry and
untouched by the water ; and being very well disposed
to eat, I went to the bread-room and filled my pockets
with biscuit, and eat it as I went about other things,
for I had no time to lose. I also found some rum in
the great cabin, of which I took a large dram, and
which I had indeed need enough of to Spirit me for
what was before me. Now I wanted nothing but a
boat, to furnish myself with many things which I
foresaw would be very necessary to me.
It was in vain to sit still and wish for what was not
to be had, and this extremity roused my application.
' We had several spare yards, and two or threeelarge
spars of wood, and a spare top-mast or two in the
ship. I resolved to fall to work with these, and flung
as many of them overboard as I could manage for
their weight, tying every one with a rope, that they
might not drive away. When this was done I went
down the ship's side, and, pulling them to me, I tied
four of them fast together at both ends as well as I
could, in the form of a raft ; and laying two or three
short pieces of plank upon them crossways, I found
I could walk upon it very well, but that it was not
able _to bear any great weight, the pieces being too
light. So I went to work, and with the carpenter's
saw I cut a spare top-mast into three lengths, and
added them to my raft, with a great deal of labour and
pains; but hope of furnishing myself with necessaries
encouraged me to go beyond what I should have been
able to have done upon another occasion.

My raft was now strong enough to bear any reason-
able weight. My next care was what to load it with,
and how to preserve what I laid upon it from the surf
of the sea ; but I was not long considering this. I first
laid all the planks or boards upon it that I could get,
and having considered well what I most wanted, I first
got three of the seamen' s chests, which I had broken
open, and emptied, and lowered them down upon my
raft. The first of these I filled with provisions, viz.,
bread, rice, three Dutch cheeses, five pieces of dried
goat's flesh, which we lived much upon, and a little
remainder of European corn, which had been laid by
for some fowls which we brought to sea with us, but
the fowls were killed. There had been some barley
and wheat together, but, to my great disappointment,
I found afterwards that the rats had eaten or spoiled
it all. As for liquors, I found several cases of bottles
belonging to our skipper, in which were some cordial
waters, and, in all, about five or six gallons of rack.
These I stowed by themselves, there being no need to
put them into the chest, nor no room for them. While
I was doing this, I found the tide began to flow, though
very calm, and I had the mortification to see my coat,
shirt, and waistcoat, which I had left on shore upon
the sand, swim away ; as for my breeches, which were
only linen, and open-kneed, I swam on board in them,
and my stockings. However, this put me upon rum-
maging for clothes, of which I found enough, but took
no more than I wanted for present use; for I had
other things which my eye was more upon, as first
tools to work with on shore; and it was after long
searching that I found out the carpenter's chest,
which was indeed a very useful prize to me, and much
more valuable than a shiploading of gold would have
been at that time. I got it down to my raft, even
whole as it was, without losing time to look into it,
for I knew in general what it contained.

My next care was for some ammunition and arms ;
there were two very good fowling-pieces in the great
cabin. and two pistols ; these I secured first, with some
powder-horns, and a small bag of shot, and two old
rusty swords. I knew there were three barrels of
powder in the ship, but knew not where our gunner
had stowed them ; but with much search I found
them, two of them dry and good, the third had taken
water; those two I got to my raft with the arms.
And now I thought myself pretty well freighted, and
began to think how I should get to shore with them,
having neither sail, oar or rudder; and the least
capful of wind would have overset all my navigation.

I had three encouragements. I. A smooth calm sea.
2. The tide rising and setting in to the shore. 3. What
little wind there was blew me towards the land. And
thus, having found two or three broken oars belonging
to the boat, and besides the tools which were in the
chest, I found two saws, an axe, and a hammer, and
with this cargo I put to sea. For a mile or thereabouts
my raft went very well, only that I found it drive a
little distance from the place where I had landed before,
by which I perceived that there was some indraft of
the water, and consequently I hoped to find some creek
or river there, which I might make use of as a port to
get to land with my cargo.

As I imagined, so it was ; there appeared before me
a little opening of the land, and I found a strong
current of the tide set into it, so I guided my raft as
well as I could to keep in the middle of the stream.
But here I had like to have suffered a second ship-
wreck, which, if I had, I think verily would have broke
my heart ; for knowing nothing of the coast, my raft
ran aground at one end of it upon a shoal, and not
being aground at the other end, it wanted but a little
that all my cargo had slipped ofi towards that end that
was afloat, and so fallen into the water. I did my
utmost by setting my back against the chests to keep
them in their places, but could not thrust ad the raft

33
with all my strength, neither durst I stir from the
posture I was in, but holding up the chests with all
my might, stood in that manner near half-an-hour, in
which time the rising of the water brought me a. little
more upon a level; and a little after, the water still
rising, my raft floated again, and I thrust her off with
the oar I had into the channel, and then driving up
higher, I at length found myself in the mouth of a
little river, with land on both sides, and a. strong
current or tide running up. I looked on both sides
for a proper place to get to shore, for I was not willing
to be driven too high up the river, hoping in time to
see some ship at sea, and therefore resolved to place
myself as near the coast as I could.

At length I spied a little cove on the right shore of
the creek, to which, with great pain and difliculty, I
guided my raft, and at last got so near, as that, reach-
ing ground with my oar, I could thrust her directly in ;
but here I had like to have dipped all my cargo in the
sea again; for that shore lying pretty steep, that is
to say, sloping, there was no place to land but where
one end of my float, if it run on shore, would lie so
high and the other sink lower, as before, that it would
endanger my cargo again. All that I could do was to
wait till the tide was at the highest, keeping the raft
with my oar like an anchor to hold the side of it fast
to the shore, near a. flat piece of ground, which I
expected the water would flow over; and so it did.
As soon as I found water enough, for my raft drew
about a foot of water, I thrust her on upon that flat
piece of ground, and there fastened or moored her
by sticking my two broken cars into the ground; one
on one side near one end, and one on the other side
near the other end ; and thus I lay till the water ebbed
away, and left my raft and all my cargo safe on shore.

My next work was to view the country and seek a
proper place for my habitation, and where to stow my
goods to secure them from whatever might happen.
Where I was, I yet knew not; whether on the con-
tinent, or on an island; whether inhabited or not
inhabited; whether in danger of wild beasts, or not.
There was a hill, not above a mile from me, which rose
up very steep and high, and which seemed to overtop
some other hills, which lay as in a ridge from it, north-
ward. I took out one of the fowling-pieces and one
of the pistols, and a horn of powder ; and thus armed,
I travelled for discovery up to the top of that hill,
where, after I had with great labour and difficulty got
to the top, I saw my fate to my great affliction, viz.,
that I was in an island environed every way with the
sea, no land to be seen, except some rocks which lay
a great way off, and two small islands less than this,
which lay about three leagues to the west.

I found also that the island I was in was barren,
and, as I saw good reason to believe, uninhabited,
except by wild beasts, of whom, however, I saw none;
yet I saw abundance of fowls, but knew not their
kinds; neither, when I killed them, could I tell what
was fit for food, and what not. At my coming back,
I shot at a great bird which I saw sitting upon a tree
on the side of a great wood. I believe it was the first
gun that had been fired there since the creation of
the World. I had no sooner fired, but from all the parts
of the wood there arose an innumerable number of
fowls of many sorts, making a confused screaming,
and crying everyone according to his usual note; but
not one of them of any kind that I lmew. As for the
creature I killed, I took it to be a kind of a hawk, its
colour and beak resembfing it, but had no talons or
claws more than common; its flesh was carrion, and
fit for nothing.

Contented with this discovery, I came back to my
raft, and fell to work to bring my cargo on shore,
which took me up the rest of that day; and what to
do with myself at night I knew not, nor indeed where

Wafer--1M" afraid to lie down on the ground,

not knowing but some wild beast might devour me,
though, as I afterwards found, there was really no
need for those fears. However, as well as I could I
barricaded myself round with the chests and boards
that I had brought on shore, and made a kind of a
hut for that night's lodging; as for food, I yet saw
not which way to supply myself, except that I had-
seen two or three creatures like hares run out of the
wood where I shot the fowl.

I now began to consider, that I might yet get a great
many things out of the ship, which would be useful
to me, and particularly some of the rigging and sails,
and such other things as might come to land; and I
resolved to make another voyage on board the vessel,
if possible. And as I knew that the first storm that
blew must necessarily break her all in pieces, I resolved
to set all other things apart till I got everything out
of the ship that I could get. Then I mlled a council,
that is to say, in my thoughts, whether I should take
back the raft, but this appeared impracticable; so I
resolved to go as before, when the tide was down ; and
I did so, only that I stripped before I went from my
hut, having nothing on but a chequered shirt and a
pair of linen drawers, and a pair of pumps on my
feet.

I got on board the ship as before, and prepared a
second raft, and having had experience of the first, I
neither made this so unwieldy, nor loaded it so hard;
but yet I brought away several things very useful to
me ; as, first, in the carpenter's stores I found two or
three bags full of nails and spikes, a great screw-jack,
a dozen or two of hatchets. and above all, that most
useful thing called a grindstone. All these I secured,
together with several things belonging 'to the gunner,
particularly two or three iron crows, and two barrels
of musket bullets, seven muskets, and another fowling-
piece, with some small quantity of powder more; a
large bag full of small-shot, and a great roll of sheet
lead; but this last was so heavy, I could not hoist it
up to get it over the ship's side. Besides these things,
I took all the men's clothes "that I could find, and a.
spare fore-top sail, a hammock, and some bedding;
and with this I loaded my second raft, and brought
them all safe on shore, tomy very great comfort.

I was under some apprehension during my absence
from the land, that at least my provisions might be
devoured on shore ; but when I came back, I found no
sign of any visitor, only there sat a mtme like a
wild cat upon one of the chests, which, when I came
towards it, ran away a little distance, and then stood
still. She. sat very composed and unconcerned, and
looked full in'my face, as if she had a mind to be
acquainted with me. I presented my gun at her;
but as she did not understand it, she was perfectly
unconcerned at it, nor did she offer to stir away ; upon
which I tossed her a bit of biscuit, though, by the
way, I was not very free of it, for my store was not
great. However, I spared her a bit, I say, and she
went to it, smelled of it, and ate it, and looked (as
pleased) for more ; but I thanked her, and could spare
no more, so she marched ofi.

Having got my second cargo on shore, though I was
fain to open the barrels of powder and bring them by
parcels, for they were too heavy, being large casks, I
went to work to make me a little tent with the sail
and some poles which I cut for that purpose; and
into this tent I brought everything that I knew would
spoil either with rain or sun ; and I piled all the empty
chests and casks up in a circle round the tent, to
fortify it from any sudden attempt, either from man
or beast.

When I had done this I blocked up the door of the
tent with some board's within, and an empty chest set
up on end without; and spreading one of the beds
upon the ground, laying my two pistols just at my
head, and my gun at length by me, I went to bed for
the first time, and slept very quietly all night, for I
was very weary and heavy; for the night before I
had slept little, and had laboured very hard all day,
as well to fetch all those things from the ship, as to
get them on shore.

I had the biggest magazine of all kinds now that
ever was laid up, I believe, for one man; but I was
not satisfied still, for while the ship sat upright in that
posture, I thought I ought to get everything out of
her that I could. So every day at low water I went on

board, and brought away something or other; but,
particularly, the third time I went I brought away as
muchoftheriggingasIcould,asalsoallthesmall
ropes and rope-twine I could get, with a piece of spare
canvas, which was to mend the sails upon occasion,
the barrel of wet gunpowder; in a word, I brought
away all the sails first and last, only that I was fain
to cut them in pieces, and bring as much at a time as
I could; for they were no more useful to be sails, but
as mere mvas only.

But that which comforted me more still was, that
at last of all, after I had made five or six such voyages
as these, and thought I had nothing more to expect
from the ship that was worth my meddling with; I
say, after all this, I found a great hogshead of bread,
and three large runlets of mm or spirits, and a box of
sugar, and a barrel of fine flour; this was surprising
to me, because I had given over expecting any more
provisions, except what was spoilt by the water. I
soon emptied the hogshead of that bread, and wrapped
it up parcel by parcel in pieces of the sails, which I
cut out; and, in a word, I got all this safe on shore
also.

The next day I made another voyage. And now,
having plundered the ship of what was portable and
fit to hand out, I began with the cables; and cutting
the great cable into pieces, such as I could move, I
got two cables and a hawser on shore, with all the

iron-work I could get ; and having cut down the sprit-
sailyard, and the mizzen-yard, and everything I could
to make a large raft, I loaded it with all those heavy
goods, and came away. But my good luck began now
to leave me; for this raft was so unwieldy, and so
overladen, that after I was entered the little cove
where I had landed the rest of my goods, not being
able to guide it so handily as I did the other, it overset,
and threw me and all my cargo into the water. As
for myself, it was no great harm, for I was near the
shore ; but as to my cargo, it was great part of it lost,
especially the iron, which I expected would have been
of great use to me. However, when the tide was out
I got most of the pieces of cable ashore, and some of
the iron, though with infinite labour; for I was fain
to clip for it into the water, a work which fatigued me
very much. After this I went every day on board,
and brought away what I could get.

I had been now thirteen days on shore, and had been
eleven times on board the ship; in which time I had
brought away all that one pair of hands could well be
supposed capable to bring, though I believe verily,
had the calm weather held, I should have brought
away the whole ship piece by piece. But preparing
the twelfth time to go on board, I found the wind
begin to rise. However, at low water I went on board,
and though I thought I had rummaged the cabin so
effectually as that nothing more could be found, I yet
discovered a locker with drawers in it, in one of which
I found two or three razors, and one pair of large
scissors, with some ten or a dozen of good knives and
forks; in another, I found about thirty-six pounds
value in money, some European coin, some Brazil,
some pieces of eight, some gold, some silver.
I smiled to myself at the sight of this money. " 0
drug ! " said I aloud, " what art thou good for? Thou
art not worth to me, no, not the taking off of the
ground ; one of those knives is worth all this heap. I
have no manner of use for thee; even remain where
thou art, and go to the bottom as a creature whose
life is not worth saving." However, upon second
thoughts, I took it away; and wrapping all this in a
piece of canvas, I began to think of making another
raft; but while I was preparing this, I found the sky
overcast, and the wind began to rise, and in a quarter
of an hour it blew a fresh gale from the shore. It
presently occurred to me that it was in vain to pre-
tend to make a raft with the wind off shore, and that
it was my business to be gone before the tide of flood
began, otherwise I might not be able to reach the shore
at all. Accordingly I let myself down into the water,
and swam across the channel, which lay between the
ship and the sands, and even that with difficulty
enough, partly with the weight of the things I had
about me, and partly the roughness of the water ; for
the wind rose very hastily, and before it was quite
high water it blew a storm.

But I was gotten home' to my little tent, where I
lay with all my wealth about me very secure. It blew
very hard all that night, and in the morning, when I
looked out, behold, no more ship was to be seen. I
was a little surprised, but recovered myself with this
satisfactory reflection, viz., that I had lost no time,
nor abated no diligence, to get everything out of her
that could be useful to me, and that indeed there was
little left in her that I was able to bring away if

13'V e
74 ROBINSON cnuson

I had had more time.

I now gave over any more thoughts of the ship, or
of anything out of her, except what might drive on
shore from her wreck, as indeed divers pieces of her
afterwards did; but those things were of small use
to me.

My thoughts were now wholly employed about
securing myself against either savages, if any should
appear, or wild beasts, if any were in the island; and
I had many thoughts of the method how to do this,
and what kind of dwelling to make, whether I should
make me a cave in the earth, or a tent upon the earth;
and, in short, I resolved upon both, the manner and
description of which it may not be improper to give
anaccount of.

I soon found the place I was in was not for my
settlement, particularly because it was upon a low
moorish ground near the sea, and I believed would not
be wholesome; and more particularly because there
was no fresh water near it. So I resolved to find a
more healthy and more convenient spot of ground.

I consulted several things in my situation, which I
found would be proper for me. First, health and fresh
water, I just now mentioned. Secondly, shelter from
the heat of the sun. Thirdly, security from ravenous
creatures, whether men or beasts. Fourthly, a view
to the sea, that if God sent any ship in sight I might
not lose any advantage for my deliverance, of which I
was not willing to banish all my expectation yet.

" In search of a place proper for this, I found a little
plain on the side of a rising hill, whose front towards
this little plain was steep as" a house-side, so that
nothing could come down upon me from the top , on
the side of this rock there was a hollow place; worn a

little way in, like the entrance or door of a cave; but
there was not really any cave, or way into the rock
at all.

On the flat of the green, just before this hollow
place, I resolved to pitch my tent. This plain was not
above an hundred yards broad, and about twice as
long, and lay like a green before my door, and at the
end of it descended irregularly every way down into
the low grounds by the seaside. It was on the N.N.W.
side of the hill, so that I was sheltered from the heat
every day, till it came to a W. and by S. sun, or there-
abouts, which in those countries is near the setting.

Before I set up my tent, I drew a half circle before
the hollow place, which took in about ten yards in
its semi-diameter from the rock, and twenty yards in
its diameter from its beginning and ending. In this
half-circle I pitched two rows of strong stakes, driving
them into the ground till they stood very firm like
piles, the biggest end being out of the ground about
five feet and a half, and sharpened on the top. The
two rows did not stand above six inches from one
another.

Then I took the pieces of cable which I had cut in
the ship, and laid them in rows one upon another,
within the circle, between these two rows of stakes,
up to the top, placing other stakes' in the inside leaning
againstthem, about twofeetandahalfhigh, likea
spur to a post; and this fence was so strong. that
neither man or beast could get into it, or over it.
Thiscost meagreat dealof time and labour, especially
to cut the piles in the woods, bring them to the" place,
and drive them into the earth. .

The entrance into this place I made to be not by a
door, but by a short ladder to go over the top ; which
ladder, when I was in, I lifted over after me, and so I
was. completely fenced in, and fortified, as I thought,
from all the world, and consequently slept secure in
the night, which otherwise I could not have done;
though as it appeared afterwards, there was no need
of all this caution from the enemies that I apprehended
danger from.

Into this fence or fortress, with infinite labour, I
carried all my riches, all my provisions, ammunition,
and stores, of which you have the account above ; and
I made me a large tent, which, to preserve me from
the rains that in one part of the year are very violent
there, I made double, viz., one smaller tent within,
and one larger tent above it, and covered the upper-
most with a large tarpaulin, which I had saved among
the sails. And now I lay no more for a while in the
bed which I had brought on shore, but in a hammock,
which was indeed a very good one, and belonged to
the mate of the ship.

Into this tent I brought all my provisions, and every-
thing that would spoil by the wet; and having thus
enclosed all my goods, I made up the entrance, which,
till now, I had left open, and so passed and repassed,
as I said, by a short ladder.

When I had done this, I began to work my way
into the rock; and bringing all the earth and stones
that I dug down out through my tent, I laid them
up within my fence in the nature of a terrace, so that
it raiQd the ground within about a foot and a half;
and thus I made me a cave just behind-my tent,
which served me like a cellar to my house.

It cost me much labour, and many days, before all
these things were brought to perfection, and therefore
I must go back to some other things which took up
some of my thoughts. At the same time it happened,
after I had laid my scheme for the setting up my tent,
and making the cave, that a storm of rain falling from
a thick dark cloud, a sudden flash of lightning happened,
and after that a great clap of thunder, as is naturally
the efiect of it. I was not so much surprised with
the lightnig, as I was with a thought which darted
into my mind as swift 'as the lightning itself. Oh my
powder! My very heart sunk within me when I
thought, that at one blast all my powder might be
destroyed, on which, not my defence only, but the

providing me food, as I thought, entirely depended.
' I was nothing near so anxious about my own danger;

, though had the powder took fire, I had never known
who had hurt me.

Such impression did this make upon me, that after
the storm was over I laid aside all my Works, my
building, and fortifying, and applied myself to make
bags and boxes to separate the powder, and keep it
a little and a little in a parcel, in hope that whatever
might come it might not all take fire at once, and to
keep it so apart, that it should not be possible to make
one part fire another. I finished this work in about
a fortnight, and I think my powder, which in all was
about 240 pounds' weight, was divided in not less
thanahundredparcels. Astothebarrelthathad
been wet, I did not apprehend any 'danger iron" that,
so I placed it in my new cave, which in my fancy
I called my kitchen, and the rest I hid up and down
in holes among the r , so that no wet might come
to it, marking very carefully where I laid it.

In the interval of time while this was doing, I went
out once, at least, every day with my gun, as well to
divert myself, as to see if I copld kill anything fit for
food, and as near as I could to acquaint myself with
what the island produced. The first time I went out,
I presently discovered that there were goats in the
island, which was a great satisfaction to me ; but then
it was attended with this misfortime to m. viz., that
they were so shy, so subtle, and so swift of foot, that
it was the diflicultest thing in the world to come at
them. But I was not discouraged at this, not doubting
but I might now and then shoot one, as it soon
happened; for after I had found their haunts a little,
I laid wait in this manner for them. I observed if
they saw me in the valleys, though they were upon
the rocks, they would run away in a terrible fright ;
but if they were feeding in the valleys, and I was upon
the rocks, they took no notice of me, from whence
I concluded that, by the position of their optics, their
sight was so directed downward, that they did not
readily see objects that were above them. So after-
ward I took this method ; I always climbed the rocks
first to get above them, and then had frequently 'a fair

which she gave suck to, which- grieved me heartil ;

but when the old one fell, the kid. stood stock still by
her till I came and took her up; and not only so, but
when I carried the. old one with me upon my shoulders,
the kid followed me quite to my enclosure; upon
which I laid down the dam, and took the kid in my
arms, and carried it over my pale, in hopes to have
bred it up tame ; but it would not eat, so I was forced
to kill it, and eat it myself. These two supplied me
with flash a great while, for I eat sparingly, and saved
my provisions, my bread especially, as much as
possibly I could.

And now, being about to enter into a melanchon
relatiOn of a scene of silent life, such, perhaps, as was
never heard of in the world before, I shall take it from
its beginning, and continue it in its order. It was, by
my account, the 30th of September when, in the
manner as above said, I first set foot upon this horrid
island, when the sun being to us in its autumnal
equinox, was almost. just oVer my head, for I reckoned
myself, by observation, to be in the latitude of 9 degrees
22 minutes north of the line.

After I had been there about ten or twelve days, it
came into my thoughts that I should lose my reckoning
of time for want of books and pen and ink, and should
even forget the Sabbath days from the working days',
but to prevent this, I cut it with my knife upon a
large post, in capital letters; and making it into a
great cross, I set it up on the shore where I first
landed, viz., " I mme on shore here on the 30th of
September 1659." Upon the sides of this square post
I out every day a notch with my knife, and every
seventh notch was as long again as the rest, and every
first dayofthemonth aslongagainasthat longone;
and thus I kept my calendar, of weekly, monthly, and
yearly reckoning of time.

In the next place we are to observe, that among the
many things which I brought out of the ship in the
several voyages, which, as above mentioned, I made to
it, I got several things of less value, but not all less
useful to me, which I omitted setting down before ; as
in particular, pens, ink, and paper, several parcels in
the captain's, mate's, gunner's, and carpenter's keeping,
three or four compasses, some mathematical instruments,
dials, perspectives, charts, and books of navigation,
all which I huddled together, whether I might want
them or no. Also I found three very good Bibles,
which came to me in my cargo from England, and
which I had packed up among my things ; some Portu-
guese books also, and among them two or three Popish
prayer-books, and several other books, all which I care-
fully secured. And I must not forget, that we had in
the ship a dog and two cats, of whose eminent history
I may have occasion to say something in its place;
for I carried both the cats with me; and as for the
dog, he jumped out of the ship of himself, and swam
on shore to me the day after I went on shore with my
first cargo, and was a trusty servant to me many
years. I wanted nothing that he could fetch me, nor
any company that he could make up to me; I only
wanted to have him talk to me, but that he could not
do. As I observed before, I found pen, ink, and paper,
and I husbanded them to the utmost; and I shall
show that while my ink lasted, I kept things very
exact ; but after that was gone, I could not, for I could
not make any ink by any means that I could devise.
And this put me in mind that I wanted many things,
notwithstanding all that I had amassed together; and
of these, this of ink was one, as also spade, pickaxe, and
shovel, to dig or remove the earth, needles, pins, and
thread; as for linen, I soon learned to want that
without much difficulty.

This want of tools made every work I did go on
heavily; and it was near a whole year before I had
entirely finished my little pale or surrounded habita-
tion. The piles or stakes, which were as heavy as
I could Well lift, were a long time in cutting and-
preparing in the woods, and more by far in bringing
home; so that I Spent sometimes two days in cutting
and bringing home one of those posts, and a third day
in driving it into the ground; for which purpose I got
a heavy piece of wood at first, but at last bethought
myself of one of the iron crows, which, however,
though I found it, yet it made driving those posts or
piles very laborious and tedious work.

But what need I have been concerned at the tedious-
ness of anything I had to do, seeing I had time enough
to do it in? nor had I any other employment, if that
had been over, at least, that I could foresee, except
the ranging the island to seek for food, which I did
more or loss every day.

I now began to consider seriously my condition, and
the circumstance I was reduced to; and I drew up
the state of my affairs in writing; not so much to
leave them to any that were to come after me, for I
was like to have but few heirs, as to deliver my thoughts
from daily poring upon them, and afilicting my mind.
And as my reason began now to master my despondency.82

ROBINSON CRUSOE

I began to comfort myself as well as I could, and to
set the good against the evil, that I might have some-
thing to distinguish my case from worse ; and I stated
it very impartially, like debtor and creditor, the
comforts I enjoyed against the miseries I sufiered,

thus:
Evil.
I am mst upon a horrible
desolate island, void of all
hope of recovery.
I am singled out and
separated, as it were, from

all the world to be miser-
able.

I am divided from man-
kind, a solitaire, one ban-
ished from human society.

I have not clothes to
cover me.

I am without any defence
or means to resist any vio--
lence of man or beast.

Good.
But I am alive, and not
drowned, as all my ship's
company was.

But I am singled out,
too, from all the ship's
crew to be spared from
death; and He that mira-
culously saved me from
death, can deliver me
from this condition.

But I am not starved
and perishing on a barren
place, affording no sus-
tenance.

But I am in a hot
climate, where if I had
clothes I could hardly
wear them.

But I am cast on an
island, where I see no wild
beasts to hurt me, as I
saw on the coast of Africa ;
and what if I had been
shipwrecked there?
Evil. Good.
I have no soul to speak But God wonderfully
to. or relieve me. sent the ship in near
enough to the shore. that
I have gotten out so many

necessary things as will
either supply my wants.

or enable me to supply
myself even as long as I
live.

Having now brought my mind a little to relish my
condition, and given over looking out to sea. to see
if I'could spy a ship; I say, giving over these things,
I began to apply myself to accommodate my way of
living. and to make things as easy as I could.

I have already described my habitation, which was
a tent under the side of a rock, surrounded with a
strong pale of posts and cabled; but I might now
rathercellitawall,forlraisedakindofwallup
against it of turfs, about two feet thick on the outside,
and aftersome time--I think itwasa yearandahalf
--I raised rafters from it leaning to the rock, and
thatched or covered it with boughs of trees and such
things as I could get to keep out the rain. which
I found at some times of the year very violent.

I have already observed how I brought all my goods
into this pale, and into the cave which I had made
behind me. But I must observe. too. that at first
thiswasaconfusedheapofgoods,whichastheylay
in no order, so they took up all my place; I had no

roomtoturnmyself. SoIsetmyselftoenlargemy
cave and works fartherinto the earth;foritwasa
loose sandy rock, which yielded easily to the labour
I bestowed on it. And so, when I found I was pretty
safe as to beasts of prey, I worked sideways to the
right hand into the rock; and then, turning to the
right again, worked quite out, and made a door to
come out on the outside of my pale or fortification.
This gave me not only egress and regress, as it were a
back-way to my tent and to my storehouse, but gave
me room to stow my goods.

And now I began to apply myself to make such
necessary things as I found I most wanted, as par-
ticularly a chair and a table ; for without these I was
not able to enjoy the few comforts I had in the world.
I could not write or eat, or do several things with so
much pleasure without a table.

I had never handled a tool in my life; and yet in
time, by labour, application, and contrivance, I found
at last that I wanted nothing but I could have made
it, especially if I had had tools. However, I made
abundance of things even without tools, and some
with no more tools than an adze and a hatchet, which
perhaps were never made that way before, and that
with infinite labour. For example, if I wanted a
board, I had no other way but to cut down a tree,
set it on an edge before me, and hew it flat on either
side with my axe, till I had brought it to be thin as a
plank, and then dub it smooth with my adze. It is
true, by this method I could make but one board out
of a whole tree; but this I had no remedy for but
patience, any more than I had for the prodigious deal
of time and labour which it took me up to make a
plank or board. But my time or labour was little
worth, and so it was as well employed one way as
another.

However, I made me a table and a chair, as I
observed above, in the first place, and this I did out
of the short pieces of boards that I brought on my raft
from the ship. But when I had wrought out some
boards, as above, I made large shelves of the breadth
of a foot and a half, one over another, all along one
side of my cave, to lay all my tools, nails, and iron~
work ; and, in a word, to separate everything at large
in their places, that I might come easily at them.
I knocked pieces into the wall of the rock to hang my
guns and all things that would hang up ; so that had
my cave been to be seen, it looked like a general
magazine of all necessary things ; and I had everything
so ready at my hand, that it was a great pleasure to
me to see all my goods in such order, and especially
to find my stock of all necessaries so great.

And now it was when I began to keep a journal of
every day's employment; for, indeed, at first, I was
in too much hurry, and not only hurry as to labour,
but in too much discomposure of mind ; and my journal
would have been full of many dull things.

But having gotten over these things in some measure,
and having settled my household stuff and habitation,
made me a table and a chair, and all as handsome
about me as I could, I began to keep my journal, of
which I shall here give you the copy (though in it
will be told all these particulars over again) as long as
it lasted; for, having no more ink, I was forced to
leave it off.
EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL

Nov. 4.---This morning I began to order my times
of work, of going out with my gun, time of sleep, and
time of diversion, viz., every morning I walked out
with my gun for two or three hours, if it did not rain ;
then employed myself to work till about eleven o'clock ;
then eat what I had to live on; and from twelve to
two I lay down to sleep, the weather being excessive
hot; and then in the evening to work again. The
working part of this day and of the next were wholly '
employed in making my table; for I was yet but a
very sorry workman, though time and necessity made
me a complete natural mechanic soon after, as I believe
it would do any one else.

Nov. 5.--This day went abroad with my gun and my
dog, and ln'lled a wild cat; her skin pretty soft, but
her flesh good for nothing. Every creature I killed,
I took off the skins and preserved them. Coming
back by the sea-shore, I saw many sorts of sea-fowls,
which I did not understand; but was surprised, and
almost frighted, with two or three seals, which, while
I was gazing at, not well knowing what they were,
got into the sea, and escaped me for that time.

Nov. 6.--After my morning walk I went to work
with my table again, and finished it, though not to
my liking; nor was it long before I learned to mend it.

86
Nov. 7.---Now it began to be settled fair weather.
The 7th, 8th, 9th. 10th, and part of the 12th (for the
nth was Sunday) I took wholly up to make me a
chair, and with much ado, brought it to a tolerable
shape, but never to please me ; and even in the making,
I pulled it in pieces several times. Note, I soon
neglected my keeping Sundays ; for, omitting my mark
for them on my post, I forgot which was which.

Nov. I7.--This day I began to dig behind my tent
into the rock, to make room for my farther conveniency.
Note, three things I wanted exceedingly for this work,
viz., a pick-axe, a shovel, and a wheelbarrow or basket ;
so I desisted from my work, and began to consider
how to. supply that want, and make me some tools.
As for a pick-axe, I made use of the iron crows, which
were proper enough, though heavy ; but the next thing
was a shovel or spade. This was so absolutely neces-
sary, that indeed I could do nothing effectually without
it ; but what kind of one to make, I knew not.

Nov. I8.--The next day, in searching the woods,
I found a tree of that wood, or like it, which in the
Brazils they call the iron-tree, for its exceeding hard-
ness; of this, with great labour, and almost spoiling
my axe, I cut a piece, and brought it home, too, with
difliculty enough, for it was exceeding heavy.

The excessive hardness of the wood, and having no
other way, made me a long while upon this machine,
for I Worked it effectually, by little and little, into the
form of a shovel or spade, the handle exactly shaped
like ours in England, only that the broad part having
no iron shod upon it at bottom, it would not last me
so long. '
I was still deficient, for I wanted a basket or a
wheel-barrow. A basket I could not make by any
means, having no such things as twigs that would
bend to make wicker ware, at least none yet found
out. And as to a wheelbarrow, I fancied I could
make all but the wheel, but that I had no notion of,
neither did I know how to go about it ; besides, I had
no possible way to make the iron gudgeons for the
spindle or axis of the wheel to run in, so I gave it
over; and so for carrying away the earth which I dug
out of the cave, I made me a thing like a hod which
the labourers carry mortar in, when they serve the
bricklayers.

Nov. 23.----My other work having now stood still
because of my making these tools, when they were
finished I went on, and working every day, as my
strength and time allowed, I spent eighteen days
entirely in widening and deepening my cave, that it
might hold my goods commodiously.

Note: During all this time I worked to make this
room or cave spacious enough to accommodate me as
a warehouse or magazine, a kitchen, a dining-room,
and a cellar; as for my lodging, I kept to the tent,
except that sometimes in the wet season of the year
it rained so hard, that I could not keep myself dry,
which caused me afterwards to cover all my place
within my pale with long poles, in the form of rafters,
leaning against the rock, and load them with flags and
large leaves of trees, like a thatch.

December Io.---I began now to think my cave or
vault finished, when on a sudden (it seems I had made
it too large) a great quantity of earth fell down from
the top and one side, so much, that, in short, it frighted
me, and not withcut reason too; for if I had been
under it, I had never wanted a gravedigger. Upon
this disaster I had a great deal of work to do over
again; for I had the loose earth to carry out; and,
which was of more importance, I had the ceiling to
prop up, so that I might be sure no more would come
down.

Dec. II .--This day I went to work with it accordingly,
and got two shores or posts pitched upright to the top,
with two pieces of boards across over each post. This
I finished the next day; and setting more posts up
with boards, in about a week more I had the roof
secured; and the posts standing in rows, served me
for partitions to part of my house.

Dec. I7.-----From this day to the twentieth I placed
shelves, and knocked up nails on the posts to hang
everything up that could be hung up; and now I
began to be in some order within doors.

Dec. 20.--Now I carried everything into the cave,
and began to furnish my house, and set up some
pieces of boards, like a dresser, to order my victuals
upon; but boards began to be very scarce with me;
also I made me another table.

Dec. 24.--Much rain all night and all day; no
stirring out.

Dec. 25.--Rain all day.

Dec. 26.------No rain, and the earth much cooler than
before, and pleasanter.

Dec. 27.--Killed a young goat, and lamed another,
so that I catched it, and led it home in a string. When
I hadjt home, I bound and Splintered up its leg, which
was broke. N .B.--I took such care of it, that it lived,
and the leg grew well and as strong as ever; but by
my nursing it so long it grew tame, and fed upon the
little green at my door, and would not go away. This
was the first time that I entertained a thought of
breeding up some tame creatures, that I might have
food when my powder and shot was all spent.

Dec. 28, 29, 30.--Great heats and no breeze, so that
there was no stirring abroad, except in the evening,
for food. This time I spent in putting all my things
in order within doors.

January '1.--Very hot still, but I Went abroad early
and late with my gun, and lay still in the middle of
the day. This evening, going farther into the valleys
which lay towards the centre of the island, I found
there was plenty of goats, though exceeding shy, and
hard to come at. However, I resolved to try if I could
not bring my dog to hunt them down.

Jan. 2.--Accordingly, the next day, I went out with
my dog, and set him upon the goats; but I was mis-
taken, for they all faced about upon the dog; and he
knew his danger too well, for he would not come near
them.

Jan. 3.--I began my fence or wall; which, being
still jealous of my being attacked by somebody, I
resolved to make very thick and strong.

N.B.--This wall being described before, I purposely
omit what was said in the journal. It is suflicient to
observe that I was no less time than from the 3rd of
January to the 14th of April working, finishing, and
perfecting this wall, though it was no more than about
twenty-four yards in length, being a half circle from
one place in the rock to another place about eight yards
from it, the door of the cave being in the centre
behind it.

All this time I worked very hard, the rains hindering
me many days, nay, sometimes weeks together; but _
I thought I should never be perfectly secure till this
wall was finished. And it was scarce credible what
inexpressible labour everything was done with, especi-
ally the bringing piles out of the woods, and driving
them into the ground; for I made them much bigger
than I need to have done.

When this wall was finished, and the outside double-
fenced ,with a turf-wall raised up close to it, I per-
suaded myself that if any people were to come on shore
there, they would not perceive anything like a habita-
tion ; and it was very well I did so, as may be observed
hereafter upon a very remarkable occasion.

During this time, I made my rounds in the woods
for game every day, when the rain permitted me, and
made frequent discoveries in these walks of something
or other to my advantage; particularly I found a kind
of wild pigeons, who built, not as wood pigeons in a
tree, but rather as house pigeons, in the holes of the
rocks. And taking some young ones, I endeavoured
to breed them up tame, and did so; but when they
grew older they flew all away, which, perhaps, was at
first for want of feeding them, for I had nothing to
give them. However, I frequently found their nests.
and got their young ones, which were very good meat.

And now in the managing my household afiairs I
found myself wanting in many things, which I thought
at first it was impossible for me to make, as indeed, as
to some of them, it was. For instance, I could never
make a cask to be hooped; I had a small runlet or
two, as I observed before, but I could never arrive to
the capacity of making one by them, though I spent
many weeks about it. I could neither put in the heads,
or joint the staves so true to one another, as to make
them hold water; so I gave that also over.

In the next place, I was at a great loss for candle ;
so that as soon as ever it was dark, which was generally
by seven o'clock, I was obliged to go to bed. I remem-
bered the lump of beeswax with which I made candles
in my African adventure, but I had none of that now.
The only remedy I had was, that when I had killed a
goat I saved the tallow, and with a little dish made of
clay, which I baked in the sun, to which I added a
wick of some oakum, I made me a lamp; and this
gave me light, though not a clear steady light like a
candle.

In the middle of all my labours it happened, that
rummaging my things, I found a little bag, which, as
I hinted before, had been filled with corn for the
feeding of poultry, not for this voyage, but before, as
I suppose, when the ship came from Lisbon. What
little remainder of corn had been in the bag was all
devoured with the rats, and I saw nothing in the bag
but husks and dust; and being willing to have the
bag for some other use, I think it was to put powder in,
when I divided it for fear of the lightning, or some
such use, I shook the husks of corn out of it on one
side of my fortification, under the rock. It was a
little before the great rains, just now mentioned, that
I threw this stuff away, taking no notice of anything,
and not so much as remembering that I had thrown
anything there; when, about a month after, or there-
about, I saw some few stalks of something green shoot-
ing out of the ground, which I fancied might be some
plant I had not seen; but I was surprised, and per-
fectly astonished, when, after a little longer time, I
saw about ten or twelve ears come out, which were
perfect green barley of the same kind as our European.
nay, as our English barley.

I carefully saved the ears of this corn, you may be
sure, in their season, which was about the end of June ;
and laying up every com, I resolved to sow them all
again, hoping in time to have some quantity suficient
to supply me with bread. But it was not till the fourth
year that I could allow myself the least grain of this
corn to eat, and even then but sparingly, as I shall
say afterwards in its order; for I lost all that I sowed
the first season, by not observing the proper time;
for I sowed it just before the dry season, so that it
never came up at all, at least not as it would have done ;
of which in its place.

Besides this barley, there was, as above, twenty or
thirty stalks of rice, which I preserved with the same
care, and whose use was of the same kind, or to the
same purpose, viz., to make me bread, or rather
food; for I found ways to cook it up without baking,
though I did that also after some time. But to return
to my journal.

I worked excessive hard these three or four months
to get my wall done; and the 14th of April I closed
it up, contriving to go into it, not by a door, but over
the wall by a ladder, that there might be no sign in
the outside of my habitation.

April 16.--I finished the ladder, so I went up with
the ladder to the top, and then pulled it up after me,
and let it down on the inside. This was a complete
enclosure to me; for within I had room enough, and
nothing could come at me from without, unless it
could first mount my wall.

The very next day after this wall was finished, I had
almost had all my labour overthrown at once, and
myselfkilled. Thecasewasthus:Astasbusyin
the inside of it, behind my tent, just in the entrance
into my cave, I was terribly frighted with a most
dreadful surprising thing indeed ; for all on a sudden
I found the earth come crumbling down from the roof
of my awe, and from the edge of the hill over my
head, and two of the posts I had set up in the cave
cracked in a frightful manner. I was heartily scared,
but thought nothing of what was really the cause,
only thinking that the top of my cave was falling in,
as some of it had done before; and for fear I should
be buried in it, I ran forward to my ladder; and not
thinking myself safe there neither, I got over my wall
for fear of the pieces of the hill which I expected
might roll down upon me. I was no sooner stepped
down upon the firm ground, but I plainly saw it was
a terrible earthquake ; for the ground I stood on
shook three times at about eight minutes' distance,
with three such shocks, as would have overturned the
strongest building that could be supposed to have
stood on the earth; and a great piece of the top of a
rock, which stood about half a mile from me next the
sea, fell down with such a terrible noise, as I never
heardinallmylife. IperceivedalsotheverySea
was put into violent motion by it; and I believe the
shocks were stronger under the water than on the
island.

After the third shock was over, and I felt no more
for some time, I began to take courage; and yet I
had not heart enough to go over my wall again, for
fear of being buried alive, but sat still upon the ground,
greatly cast down and disconsolate, not knowing what
to do. All this while I had not the least serious religious
thought, nothing but the common, " Lord, have mercy
upon me I " and when it was over, that went away too.

While I sat thus, I found the air overcast, and grow
cloudy, as if it would rain. Soon after that the wind
rose by little and little, so that in less than half-an-
hour it blew a most dreadful hurricane. The sea was
all on a sudden covered over with foam and froth;
the shore was covered with the breach of the water;
the trees were torn up by the roots; and a terrible
storm it was: and this held about three hours, and
then began to abate; and in two hours more it was
stark calm, and began to rain very hard.

I was forced to go into my cave, though very much
afraid and uneasy, for fear it should fall on my head.

This violent rain forced me to a new work, viz., to
cut a hole through my new fortification, like a sink,
to let the water go out, which would else have drowned
my cave. After I had been in my cave some time,
and found still no more shocks of the earthquake
follow, I began to be more composed. And now to
support my spirits, which indeed wanted it very much,
I went to my little store, and took a small sup of rum,
which however, I did then, and always, very sparingly,
knowing I could have no more when that was gone.

It continued raining all that night and great part
of the next day, so that I could not stir abroad; but
my mind being more composed, I began to think of
what I had best do, concluding that if the island was
subject to these earthquakes, there would be no
living for me in a cave, but I must consider of building
me some little hut in an open place, which I might
surround with a. wall, as I had done here, and so make
myself secure from wild beasts or men ; but concluded,
if I stayed where I was, I should certainly, one time
or other, be buried alive.

With these thoughts I resolved to remove my tent
from the place where it stood, which was just under
the hanging precipice of the hill, and which, if it should
be shaken again, would certainly fall upon my tent;
and I spent the two next days, being the 19th and
20th of April, in contriving where and how to remove
my habitation.

The fear of being swallowed up alive made me that
I never slept in quiet; and yet the apprehension of
lying abroad without any fence was almost equal to it.
But still, when I looked about and saw how everything
was put in order, how pleasantly concealed I was, and
how safe from danger, it made me very 10th to remove.

In the meantime it occurred to me that it would
require a vast deal of time for me to do this, and that
I must be contented to run the venture where I was,
till I had formed a camp for myself, and had seemed it
so as to remove to it. So with this resolution I com-
posed myself for a time. and resolved that I would go
to work with all speed to build me a wall with piles
and cables. &c., in a circle as before. and set my tent
up in it when it was finished, but that I would venture
to stay where I was till it was finished. and fit to remove
to. This was the arst.

April 22.--The next morning I began to consider of
means to put this resolve in execution; but I was at
a great loss about my tools. I had three large axes,
and abundance of hatchets (for we carried the hatchets
for traffic with the Indians), but with much chopping
and cutting knotty hard wood, they were all full of
notches and dull; and though I had a grindstone.
I could not turn it and grind my tools too. This
cost me as much thought as a statesman would have
bestowed upon a grand point of politics, or a judge
upon the life and death of a man. At length I con-
trived a wheel with a string, to turn it with my foot.
that I might have both my hands at liberty. Note,
I had never seen any such thing in England, or at
least not to take notice how it was done, though since
I have observed it is very common there; besides

that, my grindstone was very large and heavy. This
machine cost me a full week's work to bring it to

perfection.
April 28, reg--These two whole days I took up in

grinding my tools, my machine for turning my grind-
stone performing very well.
May I.----In the morning, looking towards the seaside,
the tide being low, I saw something lie on the shore
bigger than ordinary, and it looked like a cask. When
I came to it, I found a small barrel, and two or three
pieces of the wreck of the ship, which were driven on
shore by the late hurricane; and looking towards the
wreck itself, I thought it seemed to lie higher out of
the water than it used to do. I examined the barrel
which was driven on shore, and soon found it was a
barrel of gunpowder; but it had taken water,' and
the powder was caked as hard as a stone. However,
I rolled it farther on shore for the present, and went
on upon the sands as near as I could to the wreck of
the ship to look for more.

When I came down to the ship I found it strangely
removed. The forecastle, which lay before buried in
sand, was heaved up at least six feet ; and the stern,
which was broken to pieces, and parted from the rest
by the force of the sea, soon after I had left rummaging
her, was tossed, as it were, up, and cast on one side,
and the sand was thrown so high on that side next her
stern, that whereas there was a great place of water
before, so that I could not come within a quarter of a
mile of the wreck without swimming, I could now
walk quite up to her when the tide was out. I was
surprised with this at first, but soon concluded it must
be done by the earthquake. And as by this violence

300
the ship was more broken open than formerly, so many
things came daily on shore, which the sea had loosened,
and which the winds and water rolled by degrees to
the land.

This wholly diverted my thoughts from the design of
removing my habitation ; and I busied myself mightily,
that day especially, in searching whether I could make
any way into the ship. But I found nothing was to
be expected of that kind, for that all the inside of the
ship was choked up with sand. However, as I had
learned not to despair of anything, I resolved to pull
everything to pieces that I could of the ship, con-
cluding, that everything I could get from her would
be of some use or other to me.

May 3--17.---Went every day to the wreck, and got
a great deal of pieces of timber, and boards, or plank,
.and two or three hundredweight of iron.

May 24.---Every day to this day I worked on the
wreck, and with hard labour I loosened some things so
much with the crow, that the first blowing tide several
casks floated out, and two of the seamen's chests.
But the wind blowing from the shore, nothing came to
land that day but pieces of timber, and a hogshead,
which had some Brazil pork in it, but the salt water
and the sand had spoiled it.

I continued this work every day to the 15th of June,
except the time necessary to get food, which I always
appointed, during this part of my employment, to be
when the tide'was up, that I might be ready when it
was ebbed out. And by this time I had gotten timber,
and plank, and ironwork enough to have builded a
good boat, if I had known how; and also, I got at
several times, and in several pieces, near one hundred-
weight of the sheet lead.

June 16,--Going down to the seaside, I found a
large tortoise, or turtle. This was the first I had seen,
which it seems was only my misfortune, not any defect
of the place, or scarcity ; for had I happened to be on
the other side of the island, I might have had hundreds
of them every day, as I found afterwards ; but, perhaps,
had paid dear enough for them.

June 17 I spent in cooking the turtle. I found in
her three-score eggs ; and her flesh was to me, at that
time, the most savoury and pleasant that ever I
tasted in my life, having had no flesh, but of goats
and fowls, since I landed in this horn'd place. _

June I8.---Rained all day, and I stayed within.
I thought at this time the rain felt cold, and I was
something chilly, which I knew was not usual in that
latitude.

june 19.--Very ill, and shivering, as if the weather
had been cold.

jam: 20.--No test all night; violent pains in my
head, and feverish.

J1me 21.---Very ill, frighted almost to death with the
apprehensions of my sad condition, to be sick, and no
help. Prayed to God for the first time since the
storm off Hull, but scarce knew what I said, or why;
my thoughts being all confused.

June 22.--A little better, but under dreadful appre-
hensions of sickness.

June 23.---Very bad again; cold and shivering, and
then a violent headache.

June 24.--Much better.
June 25.--An ague very violent; the fit held me
seven hours ; cold fit, and hot with faint sweats after it.

June 26.--Better; and having no victuals to eat,
took my gun, but found myself very weak. However,
I killed a she-goat, and with much difficulty got it
home, and broiled some of it, and eat. I would fain
have stewed it, and made some broth, but had no pot.

june 27,--The ague again so violent that I lay abed
all day, and neither eat or drink. I was ready to
perish for thirst; but so weak, I had not strength to
stand up, or to get myself any water to drink. Prayed
to God again, but was light-headed; and when I was
not, I was so ignorant that I knew not what to say;
only I lay and cried, " Lord, look upon me! Lord,
pity 'me! Lord, have mercy upon me!" I suppose
I did nothing else for two or three hours, till the fit
wearing off, I fell asleep, and did not wake till far in
the night. When I waked, I found myself much
refreshed, but weak, and exceeding thirsty. However,
as I had no water in my whole habitation, I was forced
to lie till morning, and went to sleep again. In this
second sleep I had this terrible dream.

I thought that I was sitting on the ground, on the
outside of my wall, where I sat when the storm blew
after the earthquake, and that I saw a man descend
from a great black cloud, in a bright flame of fire, and
light upon the ground. He was all over as bright as
.a flame, so that I could but just bear to look towards
him. His countenance was most inexpressibly dread-
ful, impossible for words to describe. When he stepped
upon the ground with his feet, I thought the earth
trembled, just as it had done before in the earthquake,
and all the air looked, to my apprehension, as if it
had been filled with flashes of fire.

He was no sooner landed upon the earth, but he
moved forward towards me, with a long spear or
weapon in his hand, to kill me; and when he came to
a rising ground, at some distance, he spoke to me, or
I heard a voice so terrible, that it is impossible to
express the terror of it. All that I an say I under-
stood was this: " Seeing all these things have not
brought thee to repentance, now thou shalt die;" at
which words I thought he lifted up the spear that was
in his hand to kill me.

No one that shall ever read this account, will expect
that I should be able to describe the horrors of my
soul at this terrible vision; I mean, that even while
it was a dream, I even dreamed of those horrors; nor
is it any more possible to describe the impression that
remained upon my mind when I awaked, and found
it was but a dream.

I had, alas I no divine knowledge ; what I had
received by the good instruction of my father was then
worn out, by an uninterrupted series, for eight years,
of seafaring wickedness, and a constant conversation
with nothing but such as were, like myself, wicked and
profane to the last degree. I do not remember that
I had, in all that time, one thought that so much as
tended either to looking upwards towards God, or
inwards towards a reflection upon my ways.

It is true, when I got on shore first here, and found
all my ship's crew drowned, and myself spared, I was
surprised with a kind of ecstasy, and some transports
of soul, which, had the grace of God assisted, might
have come up to true thankfulness; but it ended
where it' begun, in a. mere common flight of joy, or,
as I may say, being glad I was alive, without the
least reflection upon the distinguishing goodness of the
hand which had preserved me, and had singled me out
to be preserved, when all the rest were destroyed; or
an inquiry why Providence had been thus merciful to
me; even just the same common sort of joy which
seamen generally have after they are got safe ashore
frOm a shipwreck, which they drown all in the next
bowl of punch, and forget almost as soon as it is over,
and all the rest of my life was like it.

Even the earthquake, though nothing could be more
terrible in its nature, or more immediately directly to
the invisible Power, which alone directs such things,
yet no sooner was the first fright over, but the impres-
sion it had made went off also. I had no more sense
of God or His judgments, much less of the present
affliction of my circumstances being from His hand,
than if I had been in the most prosperous condition
of life. '

But now, when I began to be sick, and a leisurely
View of the miseries of death came to place itself
before me; when my spirits began to sink under the
burthen of a strong distemper, and Nature was
exhausted with the violence of the fever; conscience,
that had slept so long, began to awake, and I began
to reproach myself with my past life, in which I had
so evidently, by uncommon wickedness, provoked the
justice of God to lay me under uncommon strokes,
and to deal with me in so vindictive a manner.

" New," said I aloud, " my dear father's words are
:4 '
come to pass ; God's justice has overtaken me, and
I have none to help or hear me. I rejected the voice
of Providence, which had mercifully put me in a posture
or station of life wherein I might have been happy
and easy; but I would neither see it myself, or learn
to know the blessing of it from my parents. I refused
their help and assistance, who would have lifted me
into the world, and would have made everything easy
to me; and now I have difliculties to struggle with,
too great for even Nature itself to support, and no
assistance, no help, no comfort, no advice." Then
I cried out, " Lord, be my help, for I am in great
distress."

This was the first prayer, if I may call it so, that
I had made for many years. But I return to my
journal.

June 28.----Having been somewhat refreshed with the
sleep I had had, and the fit being entirely off, I got up ;
and though the fright and terror of my dream was
very great, yet I considered that the fit of the ague
would return again the next day, and now was my
time to get something to refresh and support myself
when I should be ill. And the first thing I did I
filled a large square case-bottle with water, and set
it upon my table, in reach of my bed ; and to take off
the chill or aguish disposition of the water, I put
about a quarter of a pint of rum into it, and mixed
them together. Then I got me a. piece of the goat's
flesh, and broiled it on the coals, but could eat very
little. I walked about, but was very weak, and withal
very sad and heavy-hearted in the sense of my miserable
condition, dreading the return of my distemper the' l'
ROBINSON CRUSOE 107

next day. At night I made my supper of three of
the turtle's eggs, which I roasted in the ashes, and
eat,aswemllit.intheshell; andthiswasthefirst
bit of meat I had ever asked God's blessing to, even
as I could remember, in my whole life.

After I had eaten, I tried to walk, but found myself
so weak, that I could hardly my the gun (for I never
went out without that) ; so I went but a little way,
and sat down upon the ground, looking out upon the
sea, which was just before me, and very mlm and
smooth. As I sat here, some such thoughts as these
occurred to me.

That it must needs be that God had appointed all
this to befall me ; that I was brought to this miserable
circumstance by His direction, He having the sole
power, not of me only, but of everything that happened
in the world. Immediately it followed, Why has God
done this to me? What have I done to be thus
used ?

My conscience presently checked me in that inquiry,
as if I had blasphemed, and methought it spoke to
me like a voice: " Wretch ! dost thou ask what thou
hast done? Look back upon a dreadful misspent
life, and ask thyself what thou hast not done? Ask,
why is it that thou wert not long ago destroyed?
Why wert thou not drowned in Yarmouth Roads;
killed in the fight when the ship was taken by the
Sallee man-of-war; devoured by the wild beast on the
coast of Africa? or drowned here, when all the crew
perished but thyself? Dost thou ask, What have I
done ? "

I was struck dumb with these reflections, as one
astonished, and had not a word to say, no, not to
answer to myself, but rose up pensive and sad, walked
back to my retreat, and went up over my wall, as if
I had been going to bed. But my thoughts were
sadly disturbed, and I had no inclination to sleep ;
so I sat down in my chair, and lighted my lamp, for
it began to be dark. Now, as the apprehension of the
return of my distemper terrified me very much, it
occurred to my thought that the Brazilians take no
physic but their tobacco for almost all distempers ;
and I had a piece of a roll of tobacco in one of the
chests, which was quite cured, and some also that was
green, and not quite cured.

I went, directed by Heaven no doubt; for in this
chest I found a cure both for soul and body. I opened
the chest, and found what I looked for, viz., the
tobacco; and as the few books I had saved lay there
too, I took out one of the Bibles which I mentioned
before, and which to this time I had not found leisure,
or so much as inclination, to look into. I say, I took
it out, and brought both that and the .tobacco with me
to the table.

What use to make of the tobacco I knew not, as to
my distemper, or whether it was good for it or no;
but I tried several experiments with it, as if I was
resolved it should hit one way or other. I first took
a. piece of a leaf, and chewed it in my mouth, which
indeed at first almost stupified my brain, the tobacco
being green and strong, and that I had not been much
used to it. Then I took some and steeped it an hour
or two in some rum, and resolved to take a dose of it
when I lay down. And lastly, I burnt some upon a
pan of coals, and held- my nose close over the smoke
of it as long as I could bear it, as well for the heat, as
almost for sufioeation. .

In the interval of this operation, I took up the
Bible, and began to read, but my head was too much
disturbed with the tobacco. to bear reading, at least
that time; only having opened the book casually, the
first words that occurred to me were these, " Call on
Me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver, and thou
shalt glorify Me."

It grew now late, and the tobacco had, as I said,
dozed my head so much, that I inclined to sleep; so
I left my lamp burning in the rave, lost I should want
anything in the night, and went to bed. But before
I lay down, I did what I never had done in all my life ;
I kneeled down, and prayed to God to fulfil the promise
to me, that if I called upon Him in the day of trouble,
He would deliver me. After my broken and imperfect
prayer was over, I drank the rum in which I had
steeped the tobacco; which was so strong and rank
of the tobacco, that indeed I could scarce get it down. .
Immediately upon this I went to bed. I found
presently it flew up in my.head violently; but I fell
into a sound sleep, and waked no more, till, by the
sun, it must necessarily be near three o'clock in the
afternoon the next day. Nay, to this hour I am
partly of the opinion that I slept all the next day and
night, and till almost three that day after; for other-
wise I knew not how I should lose a day out of my
reckoning in the days of the week, as it appeared
some years after I had done. For if I had lost it by
crossing and recrossing the line, I should have lost
i
more than one day. But certainly I lost a day in
my account, and never knew which way.

Be that, however, one way or the other, when I
awaked I found myself exceedingly refreshed, and
my spirits lively and cheerful. When I got up, I was
stronger than I was the day before, and my stomach
better, for I was hungry; and, in short, I had no fit
the next day, but continued much altered for the
better. This was the 29th.

The 30th was my well day, of course, and I went
abroad with my gun, but did not care to travel too
far. I killed a sea-fowl or two, something like a
brand-goose, and brought them home, but was not
very forward to eat them; so I eat some more of the
turtle's eggs, which were very good. This evening
I renewed the medicine, which I had supposed did me
good the day before, 'viz., the tobacco steeped in rum ;
only I did not take so much as before, nor did I chew
any of the leaf, or hold my head over the smoke.
However, I was not so well the next day, which was
the first of July, as I hoped I should have been; for
I had a little spice of the cold fit, but it was not much.

July 4.--In the morning I took the Bible; and
beginning at the New Testament, I began seriously to
read it, and imposed upon myself to read awhile every
morning and every night, not tying myself to the
number of chapters, but as long as my thoughts should
engage me.

Now I began to construe the words mentioned
above, " Call on Me, and I will deliver you," in a
different sense from what I had ever done before ;
for then I had no notion of anything being called-V .
ROBINSON CRUSOE III

deliverance but my being deIiVered from the captivity.
I wasin; for though I was indeed at largeln the
place, yet the island was certainly a prison to me, and
that in the worst sense in the world. But now I
learned to take it in another sense; now I looked
back upon my past life with such horror, and my
sins appeared so dreadful, that my soul sought nothing
of God but deliverance from the load of guilt that
bore down all my comfort.

My condition began now to be, though not less
miserable as to my way of living, yet much easier to
.my mind; and my thoughts being directed, by a
constant reading the Scripture, and praying to God,
to things of a higher nature, I had a great deal of
comfort within, which, till now, I knew nothing of.
Also, as my health and strength returned, I bestirred
myself to furnish myself with everything that I wanted,
and make my way of living as regular as I could.

From the 4th of July to the 14th, I was chiefly
employed in walking about with my gun in my hand,
a little and a little at a time, as a. man that was
gathering up his strength after a fit of sickness; for
it is hardly to be imagined how low I was, and to
what weakness I was reduced. The application which
I made use of was perfectly new, and perhaps what
had never cured an ague before; neither can I recom-
mend it to any one to practise, by this experiment;
and though it did carry off the fit, yet it rather con-
>> tributed to weakening me; for I had frequent con--
vulsions in my nerves and limbs for some time.

I had been now in this unhappy island above ten
months, all possibility of deliverance from this con-a
112 ROBINSON CRUSOE

dition seemed to be entirely taken from me ; and
I firmly believed that no human shape had ever set
foot upon that place. Having now secured my
habitation, as I thought, fully to my mind, I had a
great desire to make a more perfect discovery of the
island, and to see what other productions I might
find, which I yet knew nothing of.
T was the 15th of July that I began to take amore

particular survey of the island itself. I went up the

creek first, where, as I hinted, I brought my rafts on
shore. I found after I came about two miles up, that
the tide did not flow any higher, and that it was no
more than a little brook of running water, and very
fresh and good; but this being the dry season, there
was hardly any water in some parts of it, at least, not
enough to run in any stream, so as it could be
perceived.

0n the bank of this brook I found many pleasant
savannas or meadows, plain, smooth, and covered
withgrass; andontherisingpartsofthemmexttothe
higher grounds, where the water, as might be supposed,
never overflowed, I found a great deal of tobacco,
green, 'and growing to a great and very strong stalk.
There were divers other plants, which I had no notion
of, or understanding about, and might perhaps have
virtues of their own which I could not find out.

I searched for the cassava root, .which the Indians,
in all that climate, make their bread of, but I could
find none. I saw large plants of aloes, but did not
then understand them. I saw several sugar-eanes, but
wild, and, for want of cultivation, imperfect. I con-
tented myself with thsse discoveries for this time, and
came back, musing with myself what course I might
take to know the virtue and goodnees of any of the

:33t
114 ROBINSON CRUSOE

fruits or plants which I should discover; but could
bring it to no conclusion ; for, in short, I had made so
little observation while I was in the Brazils, that I
knew little of the plants in the field, at least very
little that might serve me to any purpose now in my

The next day, the 16th, I went up the same way
again ; and after going something farther than I had
gone the day before, I found the brook and the
savannas began to cease, and the country became
more woody than before. In this part I found different
fruits, and particularly I found melons upon the ground

in great abundance, and grapes upon the trees. The

vmes had spread indeed over the trees, and the clusters

of grapes were just now in their pnme, very ripe and

experience to eat sparingly of them, remembering
that when I was ashore in Barbary the eating of grapes
killed several of our Englis en, who were slaves
there, by throwing them into fluxes and fevers. But
I found an excellent use for these grapes; and that
was, to cure or dry them in the sun, and keep them as
dried grapes or raisins are kept, which I thought
would be, as indeed they were, as wholesome as agree-
able to eat, when no grapes might be to be had..

I spent all that evening there, and went not back
to my habitation; which, by the way, was the first
night, as I might say, I had lain from home. In the
night, I took my first contrivance, and got up into a
tree, where I slept well; and the next morning pro-
ceeded upon my discovery, travelling near four miles,' n

v

ROBINSON CRUSOE 115

as I might judge by the length of the valley, keeping
still due north, with a ridge of hills on the south and
north side of me.

At the end of this march I came to an opening,
where the country seemed to descend to the west;
and a little spring of fresh water, which issued out of
the side of the bill by me, ran the other way, that is,
due east ; and the country appeared so fresh, so green,
so flourishing, everything being in a constant verdure
or flourish of spring, that it looked like a planted
garden.

I descended a little on the side of that delicious
vale, surveying it with a secret kind of pleasure,
though mixed with my other afflicting thoughts, to
thinkthat thiswasallmyown; that Iwaskingand
lord of all this country indefessibly, and had a right
of possession ; and, if I could convey it, I might have
it in inheritance as completely as any lord of a manor
in England. I saw here abundance of cocoa trees,
orange, and lemon, and citron trees ; but all wild, and
very few bearing any fruit, at least not then. How-
ever, the green limes that I gathered were not only
pleasant to eat, but very wholesome ; and I mixed
their juice afterwards with water, which made it very
wholesome, and very cool and refreshing.

I found now I had business enough to gather and
carry home; and I resolved to lay up a store, as well
of grapes as limes and lemons to furnish myself for
the wet season, which I knew was approaching.

In order to this, I gathered a great heap of grapes
in one place, and a lesser heap In another place, and

a great parcel of limes and lemons in another place;
and, taking a few of each with me, I travelled home-
ward; and resolved to come again, and bring a bag
or sack, or what I could make, to carry the rest home.

Accordingly, having spent three days in this journey,
I came home (so I must now call my tent and my cave) ;
but before I got thither, the grapes were spoiled ; the
richness of the fruits, and the weight of the juice,
having broken them and bruised them; they were
good for little or nothing: as to the limes, they were
good, but I could bring but a few.

The next day, being the 19th, I went back, having
made me two small bags to bring home my harvest ;
but I was surprised, when, coming to my heap of
grapes, which were so rich and fine when I gathered
them, I found them all spread about, trod to pieces,
and ragged about, some here, some there, and
abundance eaten and devoured. By this I con-
cluded there were some wild creatures thereabouts,
which had done this ; but what they were, I knew not.

However, as I found that there was no laying them
up on heaps, and no carrying them away in a sack, but
that one way they would be destroyed, and the other
way they would be crushed with their own weight, I
took another course; for I gathered a large quantity
of the grapes, and hung them up upon the out-branches
of the trees, that they might cure and dry in the sun;
and as for the limes and lemons, I carried as many
back as I could well stand under.

When I came home from this journey, I contem-
plated with great pleasure the fruitfulness of that
valley, and the pleasantness of the situation; the
security from storms on that side the water and the
wood; and ooncfilded that I had pitched upon a place-
to fix my abode, which was by far the worst part of
the country. Upon the whole, I began to consider of
removing my habitation, and to look out for a place
equally safe as where I now was situate, if possible, in
that pleasant fruitful part ofthe island.

This thought ran long in my head, and I was exceed-
ing fond of it for some time, the pleasantness of the
place tempting me ; but when I came to d'nearer view
of it, and to consider that I was now by the seaside,
where it was at least possible that something might
happen to my advantage, and, by. the same ill fate
that brought me hither, might bring some other
unhappy wretches to the same place; and though it
was scarce probable that any such thing should ever
happen, yet to enclose myself among the hills and
woods in the centre of the island, was to anticipate my
bondage, and to render such an affair not only improb-
able, but impossible; and that therefore I ought not
by any means to remove.

However, I was so enamoured of this place, that I
spent much of my time there for the whole remaining
part of the month of July; and though, upon second
thoughts, I resolved, as above, not to remove, yet I
built me a little kind of bower, and surrounded it at a
distance with a strong fence, being a double hedge as
high as I could reach, well staked, and filled between
with brushwood. And here I lay very secure, some-
times two or three nights together, always going over
it with a ladder, as before; so that I fancied now I
had my country house and my sea-coast house; and
this work took me up to the beginning of August.
I had but newly finished my fenee, and began to
enjoy my labour, but the rains came on, and made me
stick close to my first habitation; for though I had
made me a tent like the other, with a. piece of a sail,
and spread it very well, yet I had not the shelter of a
hill to keep me from storms, nor a cave behind me to
retreat into when the rains Were extraordinary.

About the beginning of August, as I said, I had
finished my"bower, and began to enjoy myself. The
3rd of August, I found the grapes I had hung up Were
perfectly dried, and indeed were excellent good raisins
of the sun; so I began to take them down from the
trees. And it was very happy that I did so, for the
rains which followed would have Spoiled them, and I
had lost the best part of my winter food; for I had _
above two hundred large bunches of them. No sooner
had I taken them all down, and carried most of them
home to my cave, but it began to rain ; and from hence,
which was the 14th of August, it rained, more or loss,
every day till the middle of October, and sometimes
so violently, that I could not stir out of my cave for
several days.

In this season, I was much surprised with the
increase of my family. I had been concerned for the
loss of one of my cats, who run away from me, or, as
I thought, had been dead, and I heard no more tale
or tidings of her, till, to my astonishment, she came
home about the end of August with three kittens.
But from these three cats I afterwards came to be so
pestered with cats, that I was forced to kill them like
vermin, or wild beasts, and to drive them from my
house as much as possible.
From the 14th of August to the 26th, incessant rain,-
so that I could not stir, and was now very careful not
to be much wet. In this confinement, I began to be
straitened for food; but venturing out twice, I one
day killed a goat, and the last day, which was the 26th,
found a very large tortoise, which was a treat to me,
and my food was 'regulated thus: I eat a bunch of
raisins for my breakfast, a piece of the goat's flesh, or
of the turtle, for my dinner, broiled; for, to my great
misfortune, I had no vessel to boil or stew anything;
and two or three of the turtle's eggs for my supper.

During this confinement in my cover by the rain, I
worked daily two or three hours at enlarging my cave,
and by degrees worked it on towards one side, till I
came to the outside of the hill, and made a door, or
way out, which came beyond my fence or wall; and
so I came in and out this way. But I was not per-
fectly easy at lying so open; for as I had managed
myself before, I was in a perfect enclosure; whereas
now, I thought I lay exposed, and open for anything
to come in upOn me ; and yet I could not perceive that
there was any living thing to fear, the biggest creature
that I had yet seen upon the island being a goat.

Sept. 3o.--I was now come to the unhappy anniver-
sary of my landing. I cast up the notches on my
post, and found I had been on shore three hundred
and sixty-five days. I kept this day as a solemn fast,
setting it apart to religious exercise.

I had all this time observed no Sabbath day, for as
at first I had no sense of religion upon my mind, I
had, after some time, omitted to distinguish the weeks,
by. making a longer notch than ordinary for the
Sabbath day, and 'so did not really know what any of
the days were. But now, having cast up the days, as
above, I found I had been there a year, so I divided it
into weeks, and set apart every seventh day for a
Sabbath ; though I found at the end of my account, I
had lost a day or two in my reckoning.

Alittleafterthismyinkbegantofailme, andsoI
contented myself to use it more sparingly, and to write
down only the most remarkable events of my life,
without continuing a daily memorandum of other
things.

The rainy season and the dry season began now to
appear regular to me, and I learned to divide them so
as to provide for them accordingly; but I_ bought all
my experience before I had it, and this I am going to
relate was one of the most discouraging experiments
that I made at all. I have mentioned that I had
saved the few ears of barley and rice, which I had so
surprisingly found spring up, as I thought, of them-
selves, and believe there were about thirty stalks of
rice, and about twenty of barley; and now I thought
it a proper time to sow it after the rains, the sun being
in its southern position, going from me.

Accordingly I dug up a piece of ground as well as I
could with my wooden spade, and dividing it into two
parts, I sowed my grain ; but as I was sowing, it
casually occurred to my thoughts that I would not
sow it all at first, because I did not know when was
the proper time for it, so I sowed about two-thirds of
the seed, leaving about a handful of each.

It was a great comfort to me afterwards that I did
so, for not one grain of that I sowed this time came
to anytfiing, for the dry months following, the earth ~
having ad no rain after the seed was sown, it had no
moisture to assist its growth, and never came up at
all till the wet season had come again, and then it
grew as if it had been but newly sown.

Finding my first seed did not grow, which I easily
imagined was by the drought, I sought for a moister
piece of ground to make another trial in, and I dug up
a piece of ground near my new bower, and sowed the
rest of my seed in February, a little before the vernal
equinox. And this having the rainy months of March
and April to water it, sprung up very pleasantly, and
yielded a very good crop; but having part of the seed
left only, and not daring to sow all that I had, I had
but a small quantity at last, my whole crop not
amounting to above half a peck of each kind. But
by this experiment I was made master of my business,
and knew exactly when the proper season was to sow,
and that I might expect two seed-times and two
harvests every year.

While this corn was growing, I made a little discovery,
which was of use to me afterwards. As soon as the
rains were over, and the weather began to settle, which
was about the month of November, I made a visit up
the country to my bower, where, though I had not
been some months, yet I found all things just as I left
them. The circle or double hedge that I had made
was not only firm and entire, but the stakes which I
had cut out of some trees that grew thereabouts were
all shot out, and grown with long branches as much
as a willow-tree usually shoots the first year after
lopping its head. I could not tell what tree to call it
that these stakes were cut from. I was surprised, and
yet very well pleased to see the young trees grow, and
I pruned them, and led them up to grow as much alike
as I could. And it is scarce credible how beautiful a
figure they grew into in three years; so that though
the hedge made a circle of about twenty-five yards in
diameter, yet the trees, for such I might now call them,
soon covered it, and it was a complete shade, sufiicient
to lodge under all the dry season.

This made me resolve to cut some more stakes, and
make me a hedge like this, in a semicircle round my
wall (I mean that of my first dwelling), which I did;
and placing the trees or stakes in a double row, at
about eight yards' distance from my first fence, they
grew presently, and were at first a fine cover to my
habitation, and afterward served for a defence also, as
I. shall observe in its order.

I found now that the seasons of the year might
generally be divided, not into summer and winter, as
in Europe, but into the rainy seasons and the 'dry
seasons. After I had found by experience the ill
consequence of being abroad in the rain, I took care
to furnish myself with provisions beforehand, that I
might not be obliged to go out ; and I sat within doors
as much as possible during the wet months.

In this time I found much employment, and very
suitable also to the time, for I found great occasion of
many things which I had no way to furnish myself
with but by hard labour and constant application;
particularly I tried many ways to make myself a
basket ; but all the twigs I could get for the purpose
proved so brittle, that they would do nothing. It
proved of excellent advantage to me now, that when
I was a boy I used to take a great delight in standing
at a basket-maker's in the town where my father lived,
to see them make their wicker-ware; and being, as
boys usually are, very oflicious to help, and a great
observer of the manner how they worked those things,
and sometimes lending a hand, I had by this means
full knowledge of the methods of it, that I wanted
nothing but the materials; when it came into my
mind that the twigs of that tree from whence I cut my
stakes that grew might possibly be as tough as the
sallows, and willows, and osiers in England, and I
resolved to try.

Accordingly, the next day, I went to my country
house, as I called it ; and cutting some of the smaller
tWigs, I found them to my purpose as much as I could
desire ; whereupon I came the next time prepared with
a hatchet to cut down a quantity, which I soon found,
for there was great plenty of them. These I set up to
dry within my circle or hedge, and when they were fit
for- use, I carried them to my cave; and here during
the next season I employed myself in making, as well
as I could, a great many baskets, both to carry earth,
or to carry or lay up anything as I had occasion. And
though I did not finish them very handsomely, yet I
made them sufficiently serviceable for my purpose.
And thus, afterwards, I took care never to be without
them ; and as my wicker-ware decayed, I made more,
especially I made strong deep baskets to place my
corn in, instead of sacks, when I should come to have
any quantity of it.

Having mastered this difiiculty, and employed a
world of time about it, I bestirred myself to see, if
possible, how to supply two wants. I had no vessels
to hold anything that was liquid, except two runlets,
which were almost full of rum, and some glass bottles,
some of the common size, and others which were case-
bottles, square, for the holding of waters, spirits, &c.
I had not so much as a pot to boil anything, except a-
great kettle; which I saved out of the ship, and which
was too big for such use as I desired it, viz., to make
broth and stew a bit of meat by itself. The second
thing I would fain have had was a tobacco-pipe ; but
it was impossible to me to make one. However, I
found a contrivance for that, too, at last.

I employed myself in planting _my second rows of
stakes or piles and in this wicker-working all the
summer or dry season, when another business took me
up more time than it could be imagined I could spare.
MENTIONED before that I had a great mind to
- see the whole island, and that I had travelled up the
brook, and so on to where I built my bower, and
where I had an opening quite to the sea, on the other
side of the island. I now resolved to travel quite across
to the seashore on that side; so taking my gun, a
hatchet, and my dog, and a larger quantity of powder
and shot than usual, with two biscuit-cakes and a great
bunch of raisins in my pouch for my store, I began
my journey. When I had passed the vale where my
bower stood, as above, I came within view of the sea
to the west; and it being a very clear day, I fairly
descried land, whether an island or a continent I could
not tell; but it lay very high, extending from the west
to the W.S.W. at a very great distance ; by my guess,
it could not be less than fifteen or twenty leagues off.
I saw abundance of parrots, and fain I would have
caught one, if possible, to have kept it to be tame, and
taught it to speak to me. I did, after some painstaking,
catch a young parrot, for I knocked it down with a
stick, and having recovered it, I brought it home ; but
it was some years before I could make him speak.
HoWever, at last I taught him to call me by my name
very familiarly. But the accident that followed,
though it be a trifle, will be very diverting in its place.
I was exceedingly diverted with this journey. I
found in the low grounds hares, as I thought them to

125
be, and foxes; but they diflered greatly from all the
other kinds I had met with, nor could I satisfy myself
to eat them, though I killed several. But I had no
need to be venturous, for I had no want of food, and
of that which was very good too, especially these three
sorts, viz., goats, pigeons, and turtle, or tortoise;
which, added to my grapes, Leadenhall Market could
not have furnished a table better than I, in proportion
to the company. And though my case was deplorable
enough, yet I had great cause for thankfulness, and
that I was not driven to any extremities for food, but
rather plenty, even to daintiee.

I never travelled in this journey above two miles
outright in a day, or thereabouts; but I took so many
turns and returns, to see what discoveries I could
make, that I came weary enough to the place where I
resolved to sit dOWn for all night ; and then I either
reposed myself in a tree, or surrounded myself with a
row of stakes, set upright in the ground, either from
one tree to another, or so as no wild creature could
come at me without waking me.

As soon as I came to the seashore, I was surprised to

found but three in a year and a half. Here was also
an infinite number of fowls of many kinds, some which
I had seen, and some which I had not seen of before,
and many of them very good meat, but such as I knew
not the names of, except those called penguins.

I could have shot as many as I pleased, but was very
sparing of my powder and shot, and therefore had
more mind to kill a she-goat, if I could, which I could
better feed on; and though there were many goats
here, more than on my side the island, yet it was with
much more dificulty that I could come near them, the
country being flat and even, and they saw me much
sooner than when I was on the bill.

I confess this side of the country was much pleasanter
than mine; but yet I had not the least inclination to
remove, for as I was fixed in my habitation, it became
natural to me, and I seemed all the while I was here
to be as it were upon a journey, and from home.
However, I travelled along the shore of the sea towards
the east, I suppose about twelve miles and then
setting up a great pole upon the shore for a mark, I
concluded I would go home again; and that the next
journey I took should be on the other side of the island,
east from my dwelling, and so round till I came to my
post again ; of which in its place.

I took another way to come back than that I went,
thinking I could easily keep all the island so much in
my view, that I could not miss finding my first dwelling
by viewing the country. But I found myself mistaken.
I wandered about very uncomfortably, and at last was
obliged to find out the seaside, look for my post, and
come back the same way I went; and then by easy
journeys I turned homeward, the weather being
exceeding hot, and my gun, ammunition, hatchet, and
other things very heavy.

In this journey my dog surprised a young kid, and
seized upon it, and I nmning in to take hold of it,
caught it, and saved it alive from the dog. I had a
great mind to bring it home if I could, for I had often
been musing whether it might not be possible to get
a kid or two, and so raise a breed of tame goats, which
might supply me when my powder and shot should be
all spent.

I made a collar to this little creature, and with a
string, which I made of some rope-yam, which I
always carried about me, I led him along, though with
some difliculty, till I came to my bower, and there I
enclosed him and left him, for I was very impatient to
be at home, from whence I had been absent above a
month.

I cannot express what a satisfaction it was to me to
come into my old hutch, and lie down in my hammock-
bed. This little wandering journey, without settled
place of abode, had been so unpleasant to me, that my
own house, as I called it to myself, was a perfect
settlement to me compared to that; and it rendered
everything about me so comfortable, that I resolved
I would never go a great way from it again, while it
should be my lot to stay on the island.

I reposed myself here a week, to rest and regale
myself after my long journey; during which most of
the time was taken up in the weighty affair of making
a cage for my Poll, who began now to be a mere
domestic, and to be mighty well acquainted with me.
Then I began to think of the poor kid which I had
penned in within my little circle, and resolved to go
and fetch it home, or give it some food. Accordingly
I went, and found it where I left it, for indeed it could
not get out, but almost starved for want of food. I
went and cut boughs of trees, and branches of such
shrubs as I could find, and threw it over, and having
fed it, I tied it as I did before, to lead it away; but it
was so tame with being hungry, that I had no need to
have tied it, for it followed me like a dog. And as I
continually fed it, the creature became so loving, so
gentle, and so fond, that it became from that time one
of my domestics also, and would never leave me
afterwards. >>

The rainy season of the autumnal equinox was now
come, and I kept the 30th of September in the same
solemn manner as before, being the anniversary of my
landing on the island, having now been there two years,
and no more prospect of being delivered than the first
day I came there. I spent the whole day in humble
and thankful acknowledgments of the many wonderful
mercies which my solitary condition was attended with,
and without which it might have been infinitely more
miserable.

It was now that I began sensibly to feel how much
more happy this life I now led was, with all its miser-
able circumstancos than the wicked, cursed, abomin-
able Iife I led all the past part of my days. And now
I changed both my sorrows and my joys; my very
desires altered, my aflections changed their gusts, and
my delights were perfectly new from what they were
at my first coming, or indeed for the two years past.

Thus, and in this disposition of mind, I began my
third year; and though I have not given the reader
the trouble of so particular account of my works this
year as the first, yet in general it may be observed,
that I was very seldom idle, but having regularly
divided my time, according to the several daily
employments that were before me, such as, first, my

15
duty to God, and the reading the Scriptures, which. I
constantly set apart some time for, thrice every day;
secondly, the going abroad with my gun for food,
which generally took me up three hours in every
morning, when it did not rain; thirdly, the ordering,
curing, preserving, and cooking what I had killed or
catched for my supply; these took up great part of
the day; also, it is to be considered that the middle of
the day, when the sun was in the zenith, the violence
of the heat was too great to stir out; so that about
four hours in the evening was all the time I could be
supposed to work in, with this exception, that some-
times I changed my hours of hunting and working, and

went to work in the morning, and abroad with mygun
in the afternoon.

To this short time allowed for labour, I desire may
be added the exceeding laboriousness of my work; the
many hours which, for want of tools, want of help, and
want of skill, everything I did took up out of my time.
For example, I was full two and forty days making me
a board for a long shelf, which I wanted in my cave;
whereas tw0 sawyers, with their tools and a sawpit,
would have out six of. them out of the same tree in
half a' day. . '

My case was this: it was to be a large tree which
was to be cut dowu, because my board was to be a
broad one. This tree I was three days a--cutting down,
and two more cutting off the boughs, and reducing it
to a log, or piece of timber. With inexpressible hack-
ing and hewing, I reduced both the sides of it into
chips till it began to be light enough to move; then I
turned it, 311de one side of it smooth and flat as
a board from end to end ; then turning that side down-
ward, cut the other side, till I brought the plank to be
about three inches thick, and smooth on both sides
Anyone may judge the labour of- my hands in such a
piece of work; but labour and patience carried me
through that, and many other things. I only observe
this in particular, to show the reason why so much of
my time went away with so little work, viz., that what
might be a little to be done with help and tools, was a
vast labour. and required a prodigious time to do alone,
and by hand. But notwithstanding this, with patience
and labour, I went through many things, and, indeed,
everything that my circumstances made necessary to
me to do, as will appear by what follows.

I was now, in the months of November and De
cember, expecting my crop of barley and rice. The
ground I had manured or dug up for them was not
great ; for as I observed, my seed of each was not above
the quantity of half a peck; for I had lost one whole
crop by sowing in the dry season. But now my crap
promised very well, when on a sudden I found I was in
danger of losing it all again by enemies of several sorts,
which it was scarce possible to keep from it; as, first
the goats and wild creatures which I called hares, who,
tasting the sweetness of the blade, lay in it night and
day, as soon as it came up, and eat it so claw, that it
could get no time to shoot up into stalk.

This I saw no remedy for but by making an enclosure
about it With a hedge, which I did with a great deal'of
toil. and the more, because it required speed. How-
ever, as my arable land was but small. suited to-my
crop. I got it totally well fanned in about three WeekS'
time, and shooting some of the creatures in the day-
time, I set my dog to guard it in the night, tying him
up to a stake at the gate, where he would stand and
bark all night long; so in a little time the enemies
forsook the place, and the corn grew very strong and
well, and began to ripen apace.

But as the beasts ruined me before while my corn
was in the blade, so the birds were as likely to ruin me
now when it was in the ear; for going along by the
place to see how it throve, I saw my little crop sur-
rounded with fowls, of I know not how many sorts,
who stood, as it were, watching till I should be gone.
I immediately let fly among them, for I always had my
gun with me. I had no sooner shot, but there rose up
a little cloud of fowls, which I had not seen at all, from
among the corn itself.

This touched me sensibly, for I foresaw that in a few
days they would devour all my hopes, that I should be
starved, and never be able to raise a crop at all, and
what to do I could not tell. However, I resolved not
to lose my corn, if possible, though I should watch it
night and day. In the first place I Went among it to
we what damage was already done, and found they
had spoiled a good deal of it; but that as it was yet
too green for them, the loss was not so great but that
the remainder was like to be a good crop if it could be
saved.

I stayed by it to load my gun, and then coming away,
I could easily see the thieves sitting upon all the trees
about me, as if they only waited till I was gone away.
And the event proved it to be so ; for as I walked off,
as if I was gone, I was no sooner out of their sight butRosrnson'cnusos I33

they dropped down, one by one, into the corn again;
I was so provoked, that I could not have patience to
stay till more came on. knowing that every grain that
they eat now was, as it might be said, a peck--loaf to
me in the consequence; but coming up to the hedge, I
fired again. and killed three of them. This was what
I wished for; so I took them up, and served them as
we serve notorious thieves in England, viz., hanged
them in chains, for a terror to others. It is impossible
to imagine almost that this should have such an effect
as it had, for the fowls would not only not come at the
corn, but, in short, they forsook all that part of the
island, and I could never see a bird near the place as
long as my scarecrows hung there.

This I was very glad of, you may be sure ; and about
the latter end of December, which was our second
harvth of the year, I reaped my crop.

I was sadly put to it for a scythe or a sickle to cut
it down, and all I could do was to make one as well as
I could out of one of the broadswords, or cutlasses,
which I saved among the arms out of the ship. How-
ever, as my first crop was but small, I had no grest
difliculty to cut it down ; in short, I reaped it my way ;
for I cut nothing off but the ears, and carried it away
in a great basket which I had made, and so rubbed it
out with my hands ; and at the end of all my harvesting,
I found that out of my half peck of seed I had near
two bushels of rice, and above two bushels and a half
of barley, that is to say, by my guess, for I had no
measure at that time.

However, this was a great encouragement to me,
and I foresaw that, in time, it would please God toV

134 'nonms'on cnuson

supply me with bread. And yet here I was perplexed
again, for I neither knew how to grind or make meal
of my corn, or indeed how to clean it and part it ; nOr,
if made into meal, how to make bread 'of it, and if
how to make it, yet I knew not how to bake it. These
thingsbeingaddedtomydesireofhavhigagood
quantity for store, and to secure a Constant supply, I
rescued not to taste any of this crop, but to preserve
it all for seed against the next season, and, in the
meantime, to employ all my study and hours of working
to accomplish this great work of providing myself with
corn and bread.

Within doors, that is, when it rained, and I could
not go out, I found employment on the following
occasions; always observing, that all the while I Was
at Work, I diverted myself with talking to my parrot,
and teaching him to speak, and I quickly learned him
to know his own name, and at last to speak it out
pretty loud, " Poll," which was the first word I ever
heard spoken in the island by any mouth but my ovm.
This, therefore, was not my work, but an assistant to
my work ; for now, as I said, I had a great employment
upon my hands, as follows, viz., I had long studied, by.
some means or other, to make myself some earthen
vessels, which indeed- I wanted sorely, but knew not
where to come at them. However, considering the
heat of the climate, I did not doubt but if I could find
out any such clay, I might botch up some such pot as
might, being dried in the sun, be hard enough and
strong enough to bear handling, and to hold anything
thatmsdry,andrequiredtbbekeptso; andasthis
Was necessary in the preparing corn, meal, etc., which
was the, thing I was upon, I resolved to nfake some as
large as I could, and fit only to stand like jars, to hold
what should be put into them.
T would make the reader pity me, or rather laugh

at me, to tell how many awkward ways I took to

raise this paste ; what odd, misshapen, ugly things I
made; how many of them fell in, and how many fell out,
the clay not being stiff enough to bear its own weight ;
how many cracked by the over-violent heat of the sun,
being set out too hastily; and how many fell in pieces
with only removing, as well before as after they were
dried ; and, in a word, how, after having laboured hard
to find the clay, to dig it, to temper it, to bring it home,
and work it, I could not make above two large earthen
ugly things (I cannot call them jars) in about two
months' labour.

However, as the sun baked these two very dry and
hard, I lifted them very gently up, and set them down
again in two great wicker baskets, which I had made
on purpose for them that they might not break; and
as between the pot and the basket there was a little
room to spare, I stuffed it full of the rice and barley
straw, and these two pots being to stand always dry, I
thought would hold my dry corn, and perhaps the
meal, when the corn was bruised.

Though I miscarried so much in my design for large
pots, yet I made several smaller things with better
success; such as little round pots, flat dishes, pitchers,
and pipkins, and any things my hand turned to; and
the heat of the sun baked them strangely hard. But

:36
all this would not answer my end, which was to get
an earthen pot to hold what was liquid, and bear the
fire, which none of these could do. It happened after
some time, making a pretty large fire for cooking my
meat, when I went to put it out after I had done with
it, I found a broken piece of one of my earthenware
vessels in the fire, burnt as hard as a stone, and red as
a tile. I was agreeably surprised to see it, and said to
myself, that certainly they might be made to burn
whole, if they would burn broken.

This set me to studying how to order my fire, so as
to make it burn me some pots. I had no notion of a
kiln, such as the potters burn in, or of glazing them
with lead, though I had some lead to do it with; but
I placed three large pipkins, and two or three pots in a
pile, one upon another, and placed my firewood all
round it, with a great heap of embers under them. I
plied the fire with fresh fuel round the outside, and
upon the' top, till I saw the pots in the inside red-hot
quite through. and observed that they did not crack
atall. WhenIsawthemclearred,Iletthemstand
in that heat about five or six hours, till I found one of
them, though it did not crack, did melt or run, for the
sand which was mixed with the clay melted by the
violence of the heat, and would have run into glass, if
Ihadgoneon;solslackedmyfiregraduallytillthe
pots began to abate of the red colour; and watching
them all night, that I might not let the fire abate too
fast,inthemorning1hadthreeverygood, Iwillnot
say handsome, pipkins, and two other earthen pots, as
hard burnt as could be desired, and one of them
perfectly glazed with the running of the sand. -
After this experiment, I need not say that I wanted no
sort of earthenware for my use ; but I must needs say,
as to the shapes of them, they were Very indifferent, as
anyone may suppose, when I had no way of making
them but as the children make dirt pies, or as a woman
would make pies that never lmed to raise paste.

No joy at a thing of so mean a nature was ever equal
to mine, when I found I had made an earthen pot that
would beer the fire ; and I had hardly patience to stay
till they were cold, before I set one upon the fire again,
with some water in it, to boil me some meat, which it
did admirably well; and with a piece of a kid I made
some very good broth, though I wanted oatmeal and
several other ingredients requisite to make it so good
as I would, have had it.

My next concern was to get me a stone mortar to
stamp or beat some corn in ; for as to the mill, there was
no thought at arriving to that perfection of art with
one pair of-hands. I spent many a day to find outa
great stone .big' enoughtocut hollow, and make fit for
a mortar, and 'could find none at all, except what was
in the solid rock, and which I had no way to dig or cut
out ; nor indeed were the rocks in the island of hardness
sufficient, but. were all of a sandy crumbling stone,
which neitherwould bear the weight of a heavy pestle,
or would-break, the, corn without fillingit with sand.
So, after a great deal of time lostiin searching for a
stone, I gave it. over, and resolved to look out for a
great-hicckof. hard wood, whichI found indeed much
easier; and getting one as big as I had strength to
stir, I rounded it, and formed it in the outside with my
axe and hatchet, and then, with the help of fire, and
infinite labour, made a hollow place' in it, as the Indians
in Brazil make their canoes. After this, I made a
great heavy pestle, or beater, of the wood called the
iron-wood; and this I prepared and laid by against
I had my next crop of com, when I proposed to myself
to grind, or rather pound, my corn into meal, to make
my bread.

My next difficulty was to make a sieve, or search, to
dress my meal, and to part it from the bran and the
husk, without which I did not see it possible I could
have any bread. This was a most diflicult thing, so
much as but to think on, for to be sure I had nothing
like the necessary thing to make it; I mean fine thin
canvas or stuff, to search the meal through. And here
I_ was at a full stop for many months, nor did I really
know what to do; linen I had none left, but what was
mere tags; I had goats'-hair, but neither knew 1 how
to Weave it (or spin it: and had I known how, here
was no tools to work it with. All the remedy that
I found for this was, that at last I did remember
I had, among the seamen's clothes which were saved
out of the ship, some neckcloths of calico or muslin:
and with some pieces of these I made three small
sieves, but proper enough for the work ; and thus
I made shift for some years. How I did aiterwards,
I shall Show in its place.

The baldngpart was the next thing to be considered,
and how I should make bread when I came tort have
corn; for. first, I had no yeast As to thatpa
there was no supplying the want, so .I' did not" eoneern
myself much about it; but for an oven I was indeed
in great pain. At length I found out an experiment
I40 ROBINSON CRUSOE

for that also, which was this: I made some earthen
vessels very broad, but not deep, that is to say, about
two feet diameter, and not above nine inches deep;
these I burned in the fire, as I had done the other, and
laid them by; and when I wanted to bake, I made a
great fire upon my hearth, which I had paved with
some square tiles, of my own making and burning also ;
but I should not call them square.

When the firewood was burned pretty much into
embers, or live coals, I drew them forward upon this
hearth, so as to cover it all over, and there I let them
lie till the hearth was very hot ; then sweeping away all
the embers, I set down my loaf, or loaves, and whelming
down the earthen pot upon them, drew the embers all
round the outside of the pot, to keep in and add to the
heat. And thus, as well as in the best oven in the
world, I baked my barley-loaves, and beeame, in little
time, a mere pastry-cook into the bargain ; for I made
myself several eakes of the rice, and puddings ; indeed
I made no pies, neither had I anything to put into
them, supposing I had, except the flesh either of fowls
or goats.

It need not be wondered at, if all these things took
me up most part of the third year of my abode here;
for it is to be observed, that in the intervals of these
things I had my newharvest and husbandry to manage ;
for I reaped my corn in its season, and carried it home
aswellas I could, andlaidit upin the ear,inmylarge
baskets, till I had time to rub it out, for I had no floor
to thrash it on, or instrument to thrash it with.

And now, indeed, my stock of corn increasing, I
really wanted to build my barns bigger. I wanted a
place to lay it up in, for the increase of the corn now
yielded me so much, that I had of the barley about
twenty bushels. and of the rice as much, or more,
insomuch that now I resolved to begin to use it freely;
for my bread had been quite gone a great while; also,
I resolved to see what quantity would be sufiicient for
me a whole year, and to sow but once a year.

Upon the whole, I found that the forty bushels of
barley and rice was much more than I could consume
in a year; so I resolved to sow just the same quantity
every year that I sowed the last, in hopes that such a
quantity would fully provide me with bread, &c.

All the while these things were doing, you may be
sure my thoughts ran many times upon the prospect
of land which I had seen from the other side of the
island, and I was not without secret wishes that I were
on shore there, fancying the seeing the mainland, and
in an inhabited country, I might find some way or
other to convey myself farther, and perhaps at last find
some means of escape.

But all this while I made no allowance for the dangers
of such a condition, and how I might fall into the
hands of savages, and perhaps such as I might have
reason to think far worse than the lions and tigers of
Africa; that if I once came into their power, I should
run a hazard more than a thousand to one of being
killed, and perhaps of being eaten; for I had heard
that the people of the Caribbean coasts were mm'bals,
or man-eaters, and I knew by the latitude that I could
not be far ofi from that shore. That suppose they
were not cannibals, yet that they might kill me, as
many Europeans who had fallen into their hands had142 ' nonmsox CRUSOE

been Served, even when they had been ten or twenty
together, much more I, that was but one, and could
make little or no defence ; all these things, I say, which
I ought to have considered well of, and did cast up in
my thoughts afterwards, yet took up none of my
apprehensions at first, but my head ran mightily upon
the thought of getting over to the shore.

Now I wished for my boy Xury, and the long-boat
with the shoulder-of-mutton sail, with which I sailed
above a thousand miles on the coast of Africa ; but this
was in vain. Then I thought I would go and look at
our ship's boat, which, as I have said, was blown up
upon the shore a great way, in the storm, when we
were first cast away. She lay almost where she did at
first, but not quite; and was turned, by the force of
the waves and the winds, almost bottom upward,
against a high ridge of beachy rough sand, but no
water about her, as before.

If I had had hands to have refitted her, and to have
launched her into the water, the boat would have done
well enough, and I might have gone back into the
Brazils with her easily enough; but I might have fore-
seen that I could no more turn her and set her upright
upon her bottom, than I could remove the island.
However, I went to the woods, and cut levers and
rollers, and brought them to the boat, resolved to try
what I could do ; suggesting to myself that if I could
but turn her down, I might easily repair the damage
she had received, and she would be a very good boat,
and I might go to Sea in her very easily.

I spared no pains, indeed, in this piece of fruitless
toil, and Spent, I think, three 01' four weeks about it.Q
ROBINSON CRUSOE I43

- a
At last, finding it impossible to heave it lip with my
little strength, I fell to digging away ,the sand, to
undermine it, and so to make it fall down, setting
pieces of wOod to thrust and guide it right in the fall.
But when I had done this, I was unable to stir it up
again or to get under it, much less to move it forward
towards the water; so I was forced to give it over.
And yet, though I gave over the hopes of the boat, my
desire to venture over for the main increased; rather
than decreased, as the means for it seemed impossible.

This at length put me upon thinking whether it was
not possible to make myself a canoe, or periagua, such
as the natives of those climates make, even without
tools, or, as I might say, without hands, viz., of the
tnmk of a great tree. This I not only thought possible,
but easy, and pleased myself extremely with the
thoughts of making it, and with my having much more
convenience for it than any of the negroes or Indians ;
but not at all considering the particular inconveniences
which I lay under more than the Indians did, viz.,
want of hands to move it, when it was made, into the
water, a difliculty much harder for me to surmount
than all the consequences of want of tools could be to
them. For what was it to me, that when I had chosen
a vast tree in the woods, I might with much trouble
cut it down, if, after I might-be able with my tools to
hew and dub the outside into the proper shape of a
boat, and burn or cut out the inside to make it hollow,
so to make a boat of it ; if, after all this, I must leave
it just there where I found it, and was not alfle to
launch it into the water?

One would have thought I could not have had the
least reflection upon my mind of my circumstance
while I was making this boat, but I should have
immediately thought how I should get it into the sea;
but my thoughts Were so intent upon my voyage over
the sea in it, that I never once considered how I should
get it off of the land; and it was really, in its own
nature, more easy for me to guide it over forty-five
miles of sea, than about forty-five fathoms of land,
where it lay, to set it afloat in the water.

I went to work upon this boat the most like a fool
that ever man did who had any of his senses awake.
I pleased myself with the design, without determining
whether I was ever able to undertake it. Not but that
the difficulty of launching my boat came often into
my head ; but I put a stop to my own inquiries into it,
by this foolish answer which I gave myself, " Let's
first make it; I'll warrant I'll find some way or other
to get it along when 'tis done."

This was a most preposterous method ; but the eager-
ness of my fancy prevailed, and to work I went. I
felled a cedar tree: I question much whether Solomon
ever had such a one for the building of the Temple at
Jerusalem. It was five feet ten inches diameter at the
lower part next the stump, and four feet eleven inches
diameter at the end of twenty-two feet, after which it
lessened for a while, and then parted into branches. It
was not without infinite labour that I felled this tree.
I was twenty days hacking and hewing at it at the
bottom ; I was fourteen more getting the branches and
limbs, and the vast spreading head of it cut off, which
I hacked and hewed through with axe and hatchet, and
inexpressible labour. After this, it cost me a month to
shape it and dub, it to a proportion, and to something
like the bottom of a boat, that it might swim upright
as it ought to do. It cost me near three months more
to clear the inside, and work it so as to make an exact
boat of it. This I did, indeed, without fire, by mere
mallet and chisel, and by the dint of hard labour, till I
had brought it to be a very handsome periagua, and
big enough to have ecu-led six and twenty men, and
consequently big enough to have carried me and all
my cargo.

When I had gone through this work, I was extremely
delighted with it. The boat was really much bigger
than I ever saw a canoe or periagua, that was made
of one tree, in my life. Many a weary stroke it had
cost, you may be sure; and there remained nothing
but to get it into the water; and had I getten it into
the water, I make no question but I should have begun
the maddest voyage, and the most unlikely to be
performed, that ever was undertaken.

But all my devices to get it into the water failed me,
though they cost me infinite labour too. It lay about
one hundred yards from the water, and not more ; but
the first inconvenience was, it was uphill towards the
creek. Well, to take away this discouragement, I
"solved to dig into the surface of the earth, and so
make a declivity. This I began, and it cost me a
prodigious deal of pains; but who grudges pains, that
have their deliverance in view? But when this was
worked through, and this difliculty managed, it was
still much at one, for I could no more stir the canoe
than I could the other boat. -

Then I measured the distance of ground, and resolved
to cut a dock or canal, to bring the water up to the
canoe, seeing I could not bring the canoe down to the
water. Well, I began this work; and when I began to
enter into it, and calculate how deep it was to be dug,
how broad, how the stuff to be thrown out, I found
that by the number of hands I had, being none but my
own, it must have been ten or twelve years before I
should have gone through with it; for the shore lay
high, so that at the upper end it must have been at
least twenty feet deep; so at length, though with
great reluctancy, I gave this attempt over also.

This grieved me heartily ; and now I saw, though too
late, the folly of beginning a work before we count the
cost, and before we judge rightly of. our own strength
to go through with it.

In the middle of this work I finished my fourth year
in this place, and kept my anniversary with the same
devotion, and with as much comfort as ever before;
for, by a constant study and serious application of the
Word of God, and by the assistance of His grace, I
gained a different knowledge from what I had before.
I entertained different notions of things. I looked now
upon the world as a thing remote, which I had nothing
to do with, no expectation from, and, indeed, no desires
about. In a word, I had nothing indeed to do with it,
nor was ever like to have; so I thought it looked, as
we may perhaps look upon it hereafter, viz., as a place
I had lived in, but was come out of it ; and well might
I say, as father Abraham to Dives, " Between me and
thee is a great gulf fixed."

I had now brought my state of life to be much easier
in itself than it was at first, and much easier to my
mind, as well as to my body. I frequently sat down'
to my meat with thankfulness, and admired the hand
of God' 8 providence, which had thus spread my table
in the wilderness. I learned to look more upon the
bright side of my condition, and less upon the dark
side, and to consider what I enjoyed, rather than what
I wanted; and this gave me sometimes such secret
comforts, that I cannot express them; and which I
take notice of here, to put those discontented people
in mind of it, who cannot enjoy comfortably what God
has given them, because they see and covet something
that He has not given them. All our discontents about
what we want, appeared to me to spring from the want
of thankfulness for what we have.

I spent whole hours, I may say whole days, in
representing to myself, in the most lively colours, how
I must have acted if I had got nothing out of the ship.
How I could not have so much as got any food, except
fish and turtles ; and that as it was long before I found
any of them, I must have perished first ; that I should
have lived, if I had not perished, like a mere savage ;
that if I had killed a goat or a fowl, by any contrivance,
I had no way to flay or open them, or part the flesh
from the skin and the bowels, or to cut it up; but
must gnaw it with my teeth, and pull it with my claws,
like a beast.

These reflections made me very sensible of the
goodness of Providence to me, and very thankful for
my present condition, with all its hardships and
misfortunes.

In a word, as my life was a life of sorrow one way, so
it was a life of mercy another; and I wanted nothing
to make it a life of comfort, but to be able to make
my sense of God's goodness to me, and care over me
in this condition, be my daily consolation; and after
I did make a just improvement of these things, I went
away, and was no more sad.

I had not been here so long, that many things which
I brought on shore for my help were either quite gone,
or very much wasted, and near spent. My ink, as I
observed, had been gone for some time, all but a very
little, which I eked out with water, a little and a little,
till it was so pale it scarce left any appearance of black
upon the paper. As long as it lasted, I made use of it
to minute down the days of the month on which any
remarkable thing happened to me. And, first, by
casting up times past, I remember that there was a
strange concurrence of days in the various providences
which befell me, and which, if I had been superstitiously
inclined to observe days as fatal or fortunate, I might
have had reason to have looked upon with a great deal
of curiosity.

First, I had observed that the same day that I broke
away from my father and my friends, and ran away to
Hull, in order to go to sea, the same day afterwards I
was taken by the Sallee man-of-war, and made a. slave.

The same day of the year that I escaped out of the
wreck of that ship in Yarmouth Roads, that same day-
year afterwards I made my escape from Sallee .in the
boat.

The same day of the year I was born on, viz., the
30th of September, that same day I had my life so
miraculously saved twenty-six years after, when I was
castanshoreinthisislandmothatmywickedlifeand
my solitary life began both on a day.

The next thing to my ink's being wasted, was that of
my bread; I mean the biscuit, which I brought out of
the ship. This I had husbanded to the last degree,
allowing myself but one cake of bread a day for above
a year ; and yet I was quite without breed for near a
year before I got any corn of my own; and great
ressonIhadtobethankfulthatIhadanyatall,the
getting it being, as has been already observed, next to
miraculous.

My clothes began to decay. too, mightily. As to
linen, I had none a good while, except some chequered
shirts which I found in the chests of the other seamen,
and which I carefully preserved, because many times
Icouldbearnootherclothesonbutashirt;andit was
a very great help to me that I had. among all the
men's clothes of the ship, almost three dozen of shirts.
There were also several thick watch-coats of the sea-
men's which were left indeed, but they were too hot
.toweermndthoughitistruethat theweatherwasso
violent hot that there was no need of clothes. yet I
could not go quite naked, no, though I had been
inclined to it. which I was not, though I was all alone.

The reason why I could not go quite naked was, I
could not hes: the heat of the sun so well when quite
naked as with some clothes on ; nay, the very best
frequently blistered my skin ; whereas, with a shirt on,
the air itself made some motion, and whistling under
that shirt, was twofold cooler than without it. No
more could I ever bring myself to go out in the heat
of the sun without a cap or a hat. The heat of the sun
beating with such violence, as it does in that place,
would give me the headache presently, by darting so
directly on my head, without a cap or hat on, so that
I could not bear it; whereas, if I put on my hat, it
would presently go away.

Upon those views, I began to consider about putting
the few rags I had, which I called clothes, into some
order. I had worn out all the waistcoats I had, and
my business was now to try if I could not make jackets
out of the great watch-coats which I had by me, and
with such other materials as I had; so I set to work
a-tailoring, or rather, indeed, a-botching, for I made
most piteous work of it. However, I made shift to
make two or three new waistcoats, which I hoped
would serve me a great while. As for breeches, or
drawers, I made but a very sorry shift indeed till
afterward.

I have mentioned that I saved the skins of all the
creatures that I killed, I mean four-footed ones, and I
had hung them up stretched out with sticks in the sun,
by which means some of them were so dry and hard
that they were fit for little. but others it seems were
very useful. The first thing I made of these was a
great cap for my head, with the hair on the outside, to
shoot off the rain ; and this I performed so well, that
after this I made me a suit of clothes wholly of these
skins, that is to say, a waistcoat, and breeches open at
knees, and both loose, for they were rather wanting to
keep me cool than to keep me warm. I must not omit
to acknowledge that they were wretchedly made; for
if I was a bad carpenter. I was a Worse tailor. How-
ever. they were such as I made very good shift with;
and when I was abroad, if it happened to rain, the hair
of my waistcoat and cap being outermost, I was kept
very dry.

After this I spent a great deal of time and pains to
make me an umbrella. I was indeed in great want of
one, and had a great mind to make one. I had seen
them made in the Brazils, where they are very useful
in the great heats, which are there ; and I felt the heats
every jot as great here, and greater too, being nearer
the equinox. Besides, as I was obliged to be much
abroad, it was a most useful thing to me, as well for
the rains as the heats. I took a world of pains at it,
and was a great while before I could make anything
likely to hold ; nay, after I thought I had hit the way,
I spoiled two or three before I made one to my mind ;
but at last I made one that answered indifferently well.
The main difiiculty I found was to make it to let down.
I could make it to spread; but if it did not let down
too, and draw in, it was not portable for me any way
but just over my head, which would not do. However,
at last, as I said, I made one to answer, and covered it
with skins. the hair upwards, so that it cast off the
rains like a pent-house, and kept off the sun so effec-
tually, that I could walk out in the hottest of the
weather with greater advantage than I could before in
the coolest ; and when I had no need of it, could close
it, and carry it under my arm.

Thus I lived mighty comfortably, my mind being
entirely composed by resigning to the will of God, and
throwing myself wholly upon the disposal of His
providence.

I cannot say that after this, for five years, any
extraordinary thing happened to me 3 but I lived on in
the same course, in the same posture and place, just as
before. The chief things I was employed in, besides
my yearly labour of planting my barley and rice, and
curing my raisins, of both which I always kept up just
enough to have sufficient stock of one year's provisions
beforehand--I say, besides this yearly labour, and my
daily labour of going out with my gun, I had one labour,
to make me a canoe, which at last I finished; so that
by digging a canal to it of six feet wide, and four feet
deep, I brought it into the creek, almost half a mile.
As for the first. which was so vastly big, as I made it
without considering beforehand, as I ought to do, how
I should be able to launch it ; so, never being able to
bring it to the water, or bring the water to it, I was
obliged to let it lie where it was, as a memorandum to
teach me to be wiser next time. Indeed, the next time,
though I could not get a tree proper for it, and in a
place where I could not get the water to it at any less
distance than, as I have said, near half a mile, yet as
I saw it was practicable at last, I never gave it over ;
and though I was near two years about it, yet I never
grudged my labour, in hopes of having a boat to go
off to sea at last.
OWEVER, though my little pen'agua was

finished, yet the size of it was not at all answer-

able to the design which I had in view when
I made the first ; I mean, of venturing over to the term
firma, where it was about forty miles broad. Accord-
ingly, the smallness of my boat assisted to put an end
to that design, and now I thought no more of it. But
as I had a boat, my next design was to make a tour
round the island ; for as I had been on the other side in
one place, crossing, as I have already described it,
over the land. so- the discoveries I made in that little
journey made me very eager to see other parts of the
coast ; and now I had a boat, I thought of nothing but
sailing round the island.

For this purpose, that I might do everything with
discretion and consideration, I fitted up a little mast to
my boat, and made a sail to it out of some of the
pieces of the ship's sail, which lay in store, and of
which I had a great stock by me.

Having fitted my mast and sail, and tried the boat,
I found she would sail very well. Then I made little
lockers, or boxes, at either end of my boat, to put
provisions, necessaries, and ammunition, &c., into, to
be kept dry, either from rain or the spray of the sea;
and a little long hollow place I cut in the inside of the
boat, where I oould lay my gun, making a flap to
hang down over it to keep it dry.

153
I fixed my umbrella also in a step at the stern, like
a mast, to stand over my head, and keep the heat of the
sun off of me, like an awning; and thus I every now
and then took a little voyage upon the sea, but never
went far out, not far from the little creek. But at last,
being eager to view the circumference of my little
kingdom, I resolved upon my tour; and accordingly
I vietualled my ship for the voyage, putting in two
dozen of my loaves (cakes I should rather call them)
of barley bread, an earthen pot full of parched rice,
:1 food I eat a great deal of, a little bottle of rum, half
a goat. and powder and shot for killing more, and two
large watch-coats. of those which, as I mentioned
before, I had saved out of the seamen's chests ; these
I took, one to lie upon, and the other to cover me in the
night.

It was the 6th of November, in the sixth year of my
reign, or my captivity, which you please, that I set
out on this voyage, and I found it much longer than
I expected; for though the island itself was not very
large, yet when I came to the east side of it I found a
great ledge of rocks lie out above two leagues into the
sea, some above water, some under it, and beyond
that a shoal of sand, lying dry half a league more;
so that I was obliged to go a great way out to sea to
double the point.

When first I discovered them, I was going to give
over my enterprise and come back again, not knowing
how far it might oblige me to go out to sea, and, above
all, doubting how I should get back again, so I came to
an anchor ; for I had made me a kind of an anchor with
a piece of a broken grappling which I got out of the ship.Roarnson causes :55

Having secured my boat, I took my gun and went
on shore, climbing up upon a bill, which seemed to
overlook that point, where I saw the full extent of it,
and resolved to venture.

In my viewing the sea from that hill, where I stood,
I perceived a strong, and indeed a most furious current,
which run to the east, and even came close to the
point ; and I took the more notice of it, because I saw
there might be some danger that when I came into it
I might be carried out to sea by the strength of it, and
not be able to make the island again. And indeed,
had I not gotten first up upon this hill, I believe it
would have been so ; for there was the same current on
the other side the island, only that it set off at a
farther distance; and I saw there was a strong eddy
under the shore ; so I had nothing to do but to get in
out of the first current, and I should presently be in
an eddy. .

I lay here, however, two days; because the wind,
blowing pretty fresh at E.S.E., and that being just
contrary to the said current, made a great breach of
the sea upon the point ; so that it was not safe for me
to keep too close to the shore for the breach, nor to go
too far off because of the stream.

The third day, in the morning, the wind having
abated overnight, the sea was calm, and I ventured.
But I am a warning-piece again to all rash and ignorant
pilots; for no sooner was I come to the point, when
even I was not my boat's length from the shore, but I
found myself in a great depth of water, and a current
like the sluice of a mill. It carried my boat along
with it with such violence, that all I could do could
not keep her so much as on the edge of it, but I found
it hurried me farther and farther out from the eddy,
which was on my left hand. There was no wind
stirring to help me, and all I could do with my paddlers
signified nothing. And now I began to give myself
over for lost ; for, as the current was on both sides the
island, I knew in a few leagues' distance they must
join again, and then I was irrecoverably gone. Nor
did I see any possibility of avoiding it; so that I had
no prospect before me but of petishing ; not by the sea,
for that was calm enough, but of starving for hunger.
I had indeed found a tortoise on the shore, as big
almost as I could lift, and had tossed it into the boat ;
and I had a great jar of fresh water, that is to say, one
of my earthen pots; but what was all this to being
driven into the vast ocean, where, to be sure, there
was no shore, no mainland or island, for a thousand
leagues at least.

And now I saw how easy it was for the providence of
God to make the most miserable condition mankind
could be in worse. Now I looked back upon my
desolate solitary island as the most pleasant place in
the world, and all the happiness my heart could wish
for was to be but there again. However, I worked
hard, till indeed my strength was almost exhausted,
and kept my boat as much to the northward, that is,
towards the side of the current which the eddy lay on,
as possibly 1 could; when about noon, as the sun
passed the meridian, I thought I felt a little breeze of
wind in my face, springing up from the S.S.E. This
cheered my heart a little, and especially when, in about
half-an-hour more, it blew a. pretty small gentle gale.
By this time I was gotten at a frightful distance from
the island; and had the least cloud or hazy weather
intervened, I had been undone another way too; for I
had no compass on board, and should never have
known how to have steered towards the island if I had
but once lost sight of it. But the weather continuing
clear, I applied myself to get up my mast again, and
spread my sail, standing away to the north as much as
possible, to get out of the current, north-west ; and in
about an hour came within about a mile of the shore,
where, it being smooth water, I soon got to land.

When I was on shore, I fell on my knees, and gave
God thanks for my deliverance, resolving to lay aside
all thoughts of my deliverance by my boat ; and
refreshing myself with such things as I had, I brought
my boat close to the shore, in a little cove that I had
spied under some trees, and laid me down to sleep,
being quite spent with the labour and fatigue of the
voyage. '

I was now at a great loss which way to get home
with my boat. I had run so much hazard, and knew
too much the case, to think of attempting it by the
way I went out ; and what might be at the other side
(I mean the west side) I knew not, nor had I any mind
to run any more ventures. So I only resolved in the
morning to make my way westward along the shore,
and to see if there was no creek where I might lay up
my frigate in safety, so as to have her again if I wanted
her. In about three miles, or thereabouts, coasting
the shore, I came to a very good inlet or bay, about a
mile over, which narrowed till it me to a very little
rivulet or brook, where I found a very convenient
harbour for my boat, and where she lay as if she had
been in a little dock made on purpose for her. Here I
put in, and having stowed my boat very safe, I went
on shore to look about me, and see where I was.

I soon found I had but a little passed by the place
where I had been before, when I travelled on foot to
that shore; so taking nothing out of my boat but my
gun and my umbrella, for it was exceedingly hot,
I began my march. The way was comfortable enough
after such a voyage as I had been upon, and I reached
my old bower in the evening, where I found everything
standing as I left it ; for I always kept it in good order,
being, as I said before, my country house.

I got over the fence, and laid me down in the shade
to rest my limbs, for I was very weary, and fell asleep.
But judge you, if you can, that read my story, what a
surprise I must be in, when I was waked out of my
sleep by a voice calling me by my name several times,
" Robin, Robin, Robin Crusoe, poor Robin Crusoe I
Where are you, Robin Crusoe? Where are you P
Where have you been P "

I was so dead asleep at first, being fatigued with
rowing, or paddling, as it is called, the first part of the
day, and with walking the latter part, that I did not
wake thoroughly; but dozing between sleeping and
waking, thought I dreamed that somebody spoke to
me. But as the voice continued to repeat " Robin
Crusoe, Robin Crusoe," at last I began to wake more
perfectly, and was at first dreadfully frighted, and
started up in the utmost consternation. But no sooner
were my eyes open, but I saw my Poll sitting on the
top of thehedge, and immediately knew that it was he
that spoke to me ; for just in such bemoaning language
I had used to talk to him, and teach him ; and he had
learned it so perfectly, that he would sit upon my
finger, and lay his bill close to my face, and cry,
" Poor Robin Crusoe! Where are you? Where have
you been ? How come you here? " and such things as
I had taught him.

However, even though I knew it was the parrot, and
that indeed it could be nobody else, it was a good while
before I could compose myself. First, I was amazed
how the creature got thither, and then, how he should
just keep about the place, and nowhere else. But as
I was well satisfied it could be nobody but honest Poll,
I got it over; and holding out my hand, and calling
him by his name, Poll, the sociable creature came to me,
and sat upon my thumb, as he used to do, and continued
talking to me, " Poor Robin Crusoe l and how did
I come here? and where had I been? " just as if he
had been overjoyed to see me again ; and so I carried
him home along with me.

I had now had enough of rambling to sea for some
time, and had enough to do for many days to sit still,
and reflect upon the danger I had been in. I would
have been very glad to have had my boat again on my
side of the island ; but I knew not how it was practicable
to get it about. As to the east side of the island, which
I had gone round, I .knew well enough there was no
venturing that way; my very heart would shrink, and
my very blood run chill, but to think of it. And as to
the other side of the island, I did not know how it
might be there ; but supposing the current ran with the
same force against the shore at the east as it passed byr60 vnonrnson CRUSOE

it on the other, I might run the same risk of being
driven down the stream, and carried by the island, as
I had been before of being carried away from it.
So, with these thoughts, I contented myself to be
without any boat, though it had been the product of so
many months' labour to make it, and of so many more
to get it unto the sea.

In this government of my temper I remained near a
year, lived a very sedate, retired life, as you may well
suppose ; and my thoughts being very much composed
as to my condition. and fully comforted in resigning
myself to the dispositions of Providence, I thought
I lived really very happily in all things, except that of
society.

I improved myself in this time in all the mechanic
exercises which my necessities put me upon applying
myself to, and I believe could. upon occasion, make a
very good carpenter, especially considering how few
tools I had. Besides this, I arrived at an unexpected
perfection in my earthenware, and contrived well
enough to make them with a wheel, which I found
infinitely easier and better, because I made things
round and shapable which before were filthy things
indeed to look on. But I think I was never more vain
of my own performance. or more joyful for anything
I found out, than for my being able to make a tobacco-
pipe. And though it was a very ugly clumsy thing
when it was done, and only burnt red, like other
earthenware, yet as it was hard and firm, and would
draw the smoke, I was exceedingly comforted with it ;
for I had been always used to smoke, and there were
pipes in the ship, but I forgot them at first, not knowing
that there was tobacco in the island; and afterwards,
when I searched the ship again, I could not come at
any pipes at all.

In my wicker-ware also I improved much, and made
abundance of necessary baskets, as Well as my invention
showed me ; though not very handsome, yet they were
such as were very handy and convenient for my laying
things up in, or fetching things home in. For example,
if I killed a goat abroad, I could hang it up in a tree,
flay it, and dress it, and cut it in pieces, and bring it
home in a basket ; and the like by a turtle ; I could out
it up, take out the eggs, and a piece or two of the flesh,
which was enough for me, and bring them home in a
basket, and leave the rest behind me. Also large deep
baskets were my receivers for my corn, which I always
rubbed out as soon as it was dry, and cured, and kept
it in great baskets.'

I began now to perceive my powder abated con-
siderably, and this was.a want which it was impossible
for me to supply, and I began seriously to consider
what I must do when I should have no more powder;
that is to say, how I should do to kill any goats.
I had, as is observed, in the third year of my being
here kept a young kid, and bred her up tame. I could
never find in my heart to kill her, till she died at last
of mere age.

But being now in the eleventh year of my residence,
and, as I have said, my ammunition growing low,
I set myself to study some art to trap and snare the
goats, to see whether I could not catch some of them .
alive.

To this purpose, I made snares to hamper them, and

16
I do believe they Were more than once taken in them ;
but my tackle was not good, for I had no wire, and
I always found them broken, and my bait devoured.
At length I resolved to try a pitfall ; so I dug several
large pits in the earth, in places where I had observed
the goats used to feed, and over these pits I placed
hurdles, of my own making too, with a great weight
upon them ; and several times I put ears of barley and
dry rice, without setting the trap, and I could easily
perceive that the goats had gone in and eaten up the
corn, for I could see the mark of their feet. At length,
I set three traps in one night, and going the next
morning, I found them all standing, and yet the bait
eaten and gone ; this was very discouraging. However,
I altered my trap; and, not to trouble you with parti-
culars, going one morning to see my trap, I found in
one of them a large old he-goat, and in one of the other
three kids.

As to the old one, I knew not what to do with him, he
was so fierce I durst not go into the pit to him ; that is
to say, to go about to bring him away alive, which was
what I wanted. So I even let him out, and he ran away,
as if he had been frighted out of his wits. But I had
forgot then what I learned afterwards, that hunger
will tame a lion. If I had let him stay there three or
four days without food, and then have carried him
some water to drink, and then a little corn, he would
have been as tame as one of the kids, for they are
mighty sagacious, tractable creatures where they are

- well used.

However, for the present I let him go, knowing no

better at that time. Then I went to the three kids, and
taking them one by one, I tied them with strings
together, and with some difficulty brought them all
home.

It was a good while before they would feed, but
throwing them some sweet corn, it tempted them, and
they began to be tame. And now I found that if
I expected to supply myself with goat-flesh when
I had no powder or shot left, breeding some up tame
was my only way, when perhaps I might have them
about my house like a flock of sheep.

But then it presently occurred to me that I must
keep the tame from the wild, or else they would always
run wild when they grew up ; and the only way for this
was to have some enclosed piece of ground, Well
fenced either with hedge or pale, to keep them in so
effectually, that those within might not break out, or
those without break in.

This was a great undertaking for one pair of hands ;
yet as I saw there was an absolute necessity of doing
it, my first piece of Work was to find out a proper piece
of ground, viz., where there was likely to be herbage
for them to eat, water for them to drink, and cover
to keep them from the sun.

For the first beginning, I resolved to enclose a piece
of about 150 yards in length, and 100 yards in breadth ;
which, as it would maintain as many as I should have
in any reasonable time, so, as my flock increased, I
could add more ground to my enclosure.

This was acting with some prudence, and I went to
work with courage. I was about three months hedging
in the first piece, and, till I had done it, I tethered the
three kids in the best part of it, and used them to feed
as near me as possible, to make them familiar; and
very often I would go and carry them some ears of
barley, or a handful of rice, and feed them out of my
hand; so that after my enclosure was finished, and I
let them loose, they would follow me up and down,
bleating after me for a handful of com.

This answered my end, and in about a year and half
I had a flock of about twelve goats, kids, and all; and
in two years more I had three and forty, besides
several that I took and killed for my food. And after
that I enclosed five several pieces of ground to feed
them in, with little pens to drive them into, to take
them as I wanted, and gates out of one piece of ground
into another.

But this was not all, for now I not only had goat's
flesh to feed on when I pleased, but milk too, a thing
which, indeed, in my beginning, I did not so much as
think of, and which, when it came into my thoughts,
was really an agreeable surprise. For now I set up my
dairy, and had sometimes a gallon or two of milk in a
day; and as Nature, who gives supplies of food to
every creature, dictates even naturally how to make
use of it, so I, that had never milked a cow, much less
a goat, or seen butter or cheese made, very readily and
handily, though after a great many essays and mis~
carriages, made me both butter and cheese at last, and
never wanted it afterwards.

It would have made a stoic smile, to have seen me
and my little family sit down to dinner. There was
my majesty, the prince and lord of the whole island;
I had the lives of all my subjects at my absolute
command. I could hang, draw, give liberty, and take
it away ; and no rebels among all my subjects.

Then to see how like a king I dined, too, all alone,
attended by my servants. Poll, as if he had been my
favourite, was the only person permitted to talk to
me. My dog, who was now grown very old and crazy,
sat always at my right hand, and two cats, one on one
side the table, and one on the other, expecting now
and then a bit from my hand, as a mark of special
favour.

With this attendance, and in this plentiful manner,
I lived ; neither could I be said to want anything but
society ; and of that in some time after this, I was like
to have too much.
have the use of my boat, though very 10th to rim

any more hazards ; and therefore sometimes I sat
contriving ways to get her about the island, and at other
times I sat myself down contented enough without her.
But I had a strange uneasiness in my mind to go down
to the point of the island where, as I have said, in my
last ramble, I went up the hill to see how the shore lay,
and how the current set, that I might see what I had
to do. This inclination increased upon me every day,
and at length I resolved to travel thither by land,
following the edge of the shore. I did so; but had
anyone in England been to meet such a man as I was,
it must either have frightened them, or raised a great
deal of laughter ; and as I frequently stood still to look
at myself, I could not but smile at the notion of my
travelling through Yorkshire, with such an equipage,
and in such a dress. Be pleased to take a sketch of
my figure, as follows.

I had a great high shapeless cap, made of a goat's
skin, with a flap hanging down behind, as" well to keep
the sun from me, as to shoot the rain off from running
into my neck ; nothing being so hurtful in these
climates as the rain upon the flesh, under the clothes.

I had a short jacket of goat-skin, the skirts coming
down to about the middle of my thighs ; and a pair of
open-kneed breeches of the same. The breeches were

:66

I WAS something impatient, as I have observed, tononrxson cnosos 167

made of the skin of an old he-goat, whose hair hung
down such a length on either side, that, like pantaloons,
it reached to the middle of my legs. Stockings and
shoes I had none, but I had made me a pair of some-
thing, I scarce know what to call them, like buskins,
to flap over my legs, and lace on either side like spatter-
dashes ; but of a most barbarous shape, as indeed were
all the rest of my clothes.

I had on a broad belt of goat's skin dried, which
I drew together with two thongs of the same, instead
of buckles ; and in a kind of a frog on either side of this,
instead of a sword and a dagger, hung a little saw and
a hatchet, one on one side, one on the other. I had
another belt, not so broad, and fastened in the same
manner, which hung over my shoulder ; and at the end
of it, under my left arm, hung two pouches, both
made of goat's skin too; in one of which hung my
powder, in the other my shot. At my back I carried
my basket, on my shoulder my gun, and over my head
a great clumsy ugly goat-skin umbrella, but which,
after all, was the most necessary thing I had about me,
next to my gun. As for my face, the colour of it was
really not so mulatto-like as one might expect from a
man not at all careful of it, and living within nineteen
degrees of the equinox. My beard I had once suffered
to grow till it was about a quarter of a yard long;
but as I had both scissors and razors sufficient, I had
cut it pretty short, except what grew on my upper lip,
which I had trimmed into a large pair of Mahometan
whiskers, such as I had seen worn by some Turks
whom I saw at Sallee ; for the Moors did not wear
such, though the Turks did. Of these mustachios or
whiskers, I will not say they were long enough to
hang my hat upon them, but they were of a length and
shape monstrous enough, and such as, in England,
would have passed for frightful.

But all this is by-the-bye; for, as to my figure,
I had so few to observe me, that it was of no manner of
consequence; so I say no more to that part. In this
kind of figure I went my new journey, and was out
five or six days. I travelled first along the sea-shore,
directly to the place where I first brought my boat to an
anchor, to get up upon the rocks. And having no
boat now to take care of, I went over the land, a nearer
way, to the same height that I was upon before ;
when, looking forward to the point of the rocks which
lay out, and which I was obliged to double with my
boat, as is said above, I was surprised to see the sea all
smooth and quiet, no rippling, no motion, no current,
any more there than in other places.

I was at a strange loss to understand this, and
resolved to spend some time in the observing
it, to see if nothing from the sets of the tide had
occasioned it.

My observation convinced me that I had nothing to
do but to observe the ebbing and the flowing of the
tide, and I might very easily bring my boat about the
island again. But when I began to think of putting it
in practice, I had such a terror upon my spirits at the
remembrance of the danger I had been in, that I could
not think of it again with any patience; but, on the
contrary, I took up another resolution, which was more
safe, though more laborious ; and this was that I would
build, or rather make me another periagua or canoe;
and so have one for one side of the island, and one for
the other.

You are to understand that now I had, as I may call
it, two plantations in the island; one, my little
fortification or tent, with the wall about it, under the
rock, with the cave behind me, which, by this time,
I had enlarged into several apartments or caves, one
within another. One of these, which was the driest
and largest, and had a door out beyond my wall of
fortification, that is to say, beyond where my wall
joined to the rock, was all filled up with the large
earthen pots, of which I have given an account, and
with fourteen or fifteen great baskets, which would hold
five or six bushels each, where I laid up my stores of
provision, especially my corn, some in the ear, cut off
short from the straw, and the other rubbed out with
my hand. a

As for my wall, made, as before, with long stakes or
piles, those piles grew all like trees, and were by this
time grown so big, and spread so very much, that there
was not the least appearance, to any one's view, of any
habitation behind them.

Near this dwelling of mine, but a little further within
the land, and upon lower ground, lay my two pieces of
corn ground, which I kept duly cultivated and sowed,
and which duly yielded me their harvest in its season ;
and whenever I had occasion for more com, I had more
land adjoining as fit as that.

Besides this, I had my country seat, and I had now
a tolerable plantation there also; for, first, I had my
little bower, as I called it, which I kept in repair;
that is to say, I kept the hedge which circled it in

16'
constantly fitted up to its usual height, the ladder
standing always in the inside. I kept the trees, which
at first were no more than my stakes, but were now
grown very firm and tall, I kept them always so cut,
that they might spread and grow thick and wild, and
make the more agreeable shade, which they did
effectually to my mind. In the middle of this, I had
my tent always standing, being a piece of a sail spread
over poles, set up for that purpose, and which never
wanted any repair or renewing ; and under this I had
made me a squab or couch, with the skins of the
creatures I had killed, and with other soft things, and
a blanket laid on them, such as belonged to our sea-
bedding, which I had saved, and a great watch-coat to
cover me; and here, whenever I had occasion to be
absent from my chief seat, I took up my country
habitation.

Adjoining to this I had my enclosures for my cattle,
that is to say, my goats. And as I had taken an
inconceivable deal of pains to fence and enclose this
ground, so I was so uneasy to see it kept entire, lest
the goats should break through, that 1 never left off
till, with infinite labour, I had stuck the outside of the
hedge so full of small stakes, and so near to one another,
that it was rather a pale than a hedge, and there was
scarce room to put a hand through between them;
which afterwards, when those stakes grew, as they all
did in the next rainy season, made the enclosure strong
like a wall, indeed, stronger than any wall.

This will testify for me that I was not idle, and
that I spared no pains to bring to pass whatever

appeared necessary for my comfortable support ; for I
considered the keeping up a breed of tame creatures
thus at my hand would be a living magazine of flesh,
milk, butter, and cheese for me as long as I lived in
the place, if it were to be forty Years ; and that keeping
them in my reach depended entirely upon my perfecting
my enclosures to such a degree, that I might be sure
of keeping them together, which, by this method,
indeed, I so effectually secured, that when these little
stakes began to grow, I had planted them so very
thick, I was forced to pull some of them up again.

In this place also I had my grapes growing, which I
principally depended on for my winter store of raisins,
and which I never failed to preserve very carefully, as
the best and most agreeable dainty of my whole diet.
And indeed they were not agreeable only, but physical,
wholesome, nourishing, and refreshing to the last
degree. -

As this was also about half-way between my other
habitation and the place where I had laid up my boat,
I generally stayed and lay here in my way thither; for
I used frequently to visit my boat, and I kept all
things about, or belonging to her, in very good order.
Sometimes I went out in her to divert myself, but no
more hazardous voyages would I go, nor scarce ever
above a stone's cast or two from the shore, I was so
apprehensive of being hurried out of my knowledge
again by the currents or winds, or any other accident.
But now I come to a new scene of my life.

It happened one day, about noon, going towards my
boat, I was exceedingly surprised with the print of a
man's naked foot on the shore, which was very plain
to be seen in the sand. I stood like one thunderstruck,
or as if I had seen an apparition. I listened, I looked
round me, I could hear nothing, nor see anything. I
went up to a rising ground to look farther. I went up
the shore, and down the shore, but it was all one;
I could see no other impression but that one. I went
to it again to see if there were any more, and to observe
if it might not be my fancy; but there was no room
for that, for there was exactly the very print of a foot--
toes, heel, and every part of a foot. How it came
thither I knew not, nor could in the least imagine.
But after innumerable fluttering thoughts, like a man
perfectly confused and out of myself, I came home to
my fortification, not feeling, as we say, the ground
I went on, but terrified to the last degree, looking
behind me at every two or three steps, mistaking every
bush and tree, and fancying every stump at a distance
to be a man ; nor is it possible to describe how many
various shapes affrighted imagination represented
things to me in, how many wild ideas were found
every moment in my fancy, and what strange unac~
countable whimsies came into my thoughts, by the
way.

When I came to my castle, for so I think I called it
ever after this, I fled into it like one pursued. Whether
I went over by the ladder, as first contrived, or went
in at the hole in the rock, which I called a door, I
cannot remember; no, nor could I remember the next
morning, for never frighted hare fled to cover, or fox
to earth, with more terror of mind than I to this
retreat.

I slept none that night. The farther I was from the
occasion of my fright, the greater my apprehensions
were; which is something contrary to the nature of
such things. and especially to the usual practice of all
creatures in fear. But I was so embarrassed with my
own frightful ideas of the thing, that I formed nothing
but dismal imaginations to myself, even though I was
now a great way off it. Sometimes I fancied it must
be the devil, and reason joined in with me upon this
supposition ; for how should any other thing in human
shape come into the place? Where was the vessel
that brought them? What marks was there of any
other footsteps? And how was it possible a man
should come there? But then to think that Satan
should take human shape upon him in such a place
where there could be no manner of occasion for it, but
to leave the print of his foot behind him, and that
even for no purpose too, for he could not be sure I
should see it; this was an amusement the other way.
I considered that the devil might have found out
abundance of other ways to have terrified me than this
of the single print of a foot; that as I live quite on the
other side of the island, he would never have been so
simple to leave a mark in a place where it was ten
thousand to one whether I should ever see it or not,
and in the sand too, which the first surge of the sea,
upon a high wind, would have defaced entirely. All
this seemed inconsistent with the thing itself, and with
all the notions we usually entertain of the subtilty of
the devil.

Abundance of such things as these assisted to argue
me out of all apprehensions of its being the devil; and
I presently concluded then, that it must be some more
dangerous creature, viz., that it must be some of the
savages of the mainland over against me, who had
wandered out to sea in their canoes, and, either driven
by the currents or by contrary winds, had made the
island, and had been on shore, but were gone away
again to sea, being as loth, perhaps, to have stayed in
this desolate island as I would have been to have had
them.

While these reflections were rolling upon my mind,
I was very thankful in my thoughts that I was so
happy as not to be thereabouts at that time, or that
they did not see my boat, by which they would have
concluded that some inhabitants had been in the place,
and perhaps have searched farther for me. Then
terrible thoughts racked my imagination about their
having found my boat, and that there were people
here : and that if so, I should certainly have them
come again in greater numbers, and devour me; that
if it should happen so that they should not find me,
yet they would find my enclosure, destroy all my corn,
carry away all my flock of tame goats, and I should
perish at last for mere want.

Thus my fear banished all my religious hope. All
that former confidence in God, which was founded upon
such wonderful experience as I had had of His goodness,
now vanished, as if He that had fed me by miracle
hitherto could not preserve, by His power, the provision
which He had made for me by His goodness. I re
proached myself with my laziness, that Iwould not sow
any more com one year than would just serve me till
the next season, as if no accident could intervene to
prevent my enjoying the crop that was upon the
ground. And this I thought so just a reproof, that
I resolved for the future to have two or three years'
corn beforehand, so that, whatever might come, I might
not perish for want of bread.

I then reflected that God, who was not only righteous,
but omnipotent, as He had thought fit thus to punish
and afflict me, so He was able to deliver me; that if
He did not think fit to do it, 'twas my unquestioned
duty to resign myself absolutely and entirely to His
will; and, on the other hand, it was my duty also to
hope in Him, pray to Him, and quietly to attend the
dictates and directions of His daily providence.

These thoughts took me up many hours, days, nay,
I may say, weeks and months; and one particular
effect of my cogitations on this occasion I cannot
omit, viz., one morning early, lying in my bed, and filled
with thought about my danger from the appearance
of savages, I found it discomposed me very much;
upon which those words of the Scripture came into
my thoughts, " Call. upon Me in the day of trouble,
and I will deliver, and thou shalt glorify Me."

In the middle of these cogitations, apprehensions,
and reflections, it came into my thought one day, that
all this might be a mere chimera of my own ; and that
this foot might be the print of my OWn foot, when
I came on shore from my boat. This cheered me up a
little too, and I began to persuade myself it was all a
delusion, that it was nothing else but my own foot;
and why might not I come that way from the boat, as
well as I was going that way to the boat ? Again, I con-
sidered also, that I could by no means tell, for certain,
where I had trod, and where I had not ; and that if, at
last, this was only the print of my own foot, I had
played the part of those fools who strive to make
stories of spectres and apparitions, and then are
frighted at them more than anybody.

Now I began to take courage, and to peep abroad
again, for I had not stirred out of my castle for three
days and nights, so that I began to starve for provision ;
for I had little or nothing within doors but some
barley-cakes and water. Then I knew that my goats
wanted to be milked too, which usually was my evening
diversion; and the poor creatures were in great pain
and inconvenience for want of it ; and, indeed, it almost
spoiled some of them, and almost dried up their milk.

Heartenmg myself, therefore, with the belief that
this was nothing but the print of one of my own feet,
and so I might be truly said to start at my own shadow,
I began to go abroad again, and went to my country
house to milk my flock. But to see with what fear
I went forward, how often I looked behind me, how
I was ready, every now and then, to lay down my
basket, and run for my life, it would have made any
one have thought I was haunted with an evil conscience,
or that I had been lately most terribly frighted; and
so, indeed, I had.

However, as I went down thus two or three days,
and having seen nothing, I began to be a little bolder,
and to think there was really nothing in it but my own
imagination. But I could not persuade myself fully
of this till I should go down to the shore again, and
see this print of a foot, and measure it by my own, and
see if there was any similitude or fitness, that I might be
assured it was my own foot. But when I came to the
place, first, it appeared evidently to me, that when
I laid up my boat, I could not possibly be on shore
anywhere thereabout ; secondly, when I came to
measure the mark with my own foot, I found my foot
not so large by a great deal. Both these things filled
my head with new imaginations, and gave me the
vapours again to the highest degree; so that I shook
with cold, like one in an ague ; and I Went home again,
filled with the belief that some man or men had been
on shore there; or, in short, that the island was
inhabited, and I might be surprised before I was
aware. And what course to take for my security,
I knew not.

The confusion of my thoughts kept me waking all
night. but in the morning I fell asleep ; and having, by
the amusement of my mind, been, as it were, tired, and
my spirits exhausted, I slept very soundly, and waked
much better composed than I had ever been before.
And now I began to think sedately; and upon the
utmost debate with myself, I concluded that this
island, which was so exceeding pleasant, fruitful, and
no farther from the mainland than as I had seen, was
not so entirely abandoned as I might imagine; that
although there were no stated inhabitants who liVed on
the spot, yet that there might sometimes come boats
off from the shore, who, either with design, or perhaps
never but when they were driven by cross winds,
might come to this place; that I had lived here fifteen
years now, and had not met with the least shadow or
figure of any people yet; and that if at any time they
should be driven here, it was probable they went away
again as soon as ever they could, seeing they had never
thought fit to fix there upon any occasion to this
time ; that the most I could suggest any danger from,
was from any such casual accidental landing of
straggling people from the main, who, as it was likely,
if they were driven hither, were here against their
wills; so they made no stay here, but went off again
with all possible speed, seldom staying one night on
shore, lest they should not have the help of the tides
and daylight back again; and that, therefore, I had
nothing to do but to consider of some safe retreat, in
case I should see any savages land upon the spot.

Now I began sorely to repent that I had dug my
cave so large as to bring a door through again, which
door, as I said, came out beyond where my fortification
joined to the rock. Upon maturely considering this,
therefore, I resolved to draw me a second fortification,
in the same manner of a semicircle, at a distance from
my wall, just where I had planted a double row of
trees about twelve years before, of which I made
mention. These trees having been planted so thick
before, they wanted but a. few piles to be driven between
them, that they should be thicker and stronger, and
my wall would be soon finished.

So that I had now a double wall; and my outer wall
was thickened with pieces of timber, old cables, and
everything I could think of, to make it strong, having
in it seven little holes. about as big as I might put my
arm out at. In the inside of this I thickened my wall
to above ten feet thick with continual bringing earth
out of my cave, and laying it at the foot of the wall,
and walking upon it ; and through the seven holes
I contrived to plant the muskets, of which I took
notice that I got seven on shore out of the ship. These,
I say, I planted like my cannon, and fitted them into
frames, that held them like a carriage, that so I could
fire all the seven guns in two minutes' time. This
wall I was many a weary month a-finishing, and yet
never thought myself safe till it was done.

When this was done, I stuck all the ground without
my wall, for a great way every way, as full with stakes.
or sticks, of the osier-like wood, which I found so apt
to grow, as they could well stand; insomuch, that
I believe I might set in near twenty thousand of them,
leaving a pretty large space between them and my
wall, that I might have room to see an enemy. and
they might have no shelter from the young trees, if
they attempted to approach my outer wall.

Thus in two years' time I had a thick grove; and
in five or six years' time I had a wood before my
dwelling, growing so monstrous thick and strong, that
it was indeed perfectly impassable; and no men, of
what kind soever, would ever imagine that there was
anything beyond it. much less a habitation. As for
the way which I proposed to myself to go in and out,
for I left no avenue, it was by setting two ladders, one
to a part of the rock which was low. and then broke in,
and left room to place another ladder upon that; so
when the two ladders were taken down, no man living
could come down to me without mischieving himself ;
and if they had come down, they were still on the
outside of my outer wall.

Thus I took all the measures human prudence could
suggest for my own preservation ; and it will be seen, at
length, that they were not altogether without just
reason; though I foresaw nothing at that time more
than my mere fear suggested to me.

While this was doing, I was not altogether careless of
my other affairs; for I had a great concern upon me
for my little herd of goats. They were not only a
present supply to me upon every occasion. and began
to be sumcient to me, without the expense of powder
and shot, but also without the fatigue of hunting after
the wild ones ; and I was loth to lose the advantage of
them, and to have them all to nurse up over again.

To this purpose, after long consideration, I could
think of but two ways to preserve them. One was, to
find another convenient place to dig a cave under
ground, and to drive them into it every night; and
the other was, to enclose two or three little bits of
land, remote from one another, and as much concealed
as I could, where I might keep about half-a-dozen
young goats in each place ; so that if any disaster
happened to the flock in general, I might be able to
raise them again with little trouble and time. And
this, though it would require a great deal of time and
labour. I thought was the most rational design.

Accordingly I spent some time to find out the most
retired parts of the island; and I pitched upon one
which was as private indeed as my heart could wish
for. It was a little damp piece of ground in the middle
of the hollow and thick woods, where, as is observed,
I almost lost myself once before, endeavouring to come
back that way from the eastern part of the island.
Here I found a clear piece of land, near three acres, so
surrounded with woods, that it was almost an enclosure
by Nature; at least, it did not want near so much
labour to make it so as the other pieces of ground
I had worked so hard at.

I immediately went to work with this piece of ground,
and in less than a month's time I had so fenced it
round that my flock, or herd. call it which you please.
which were not so wild now as at first they might be
supposed to be. were well enough secured in it. So,
without any farther delay, I removed ten young
she-goats and two he-goats to this piece. And when
they were there. I continued to perfect the fence. till
I had made it as secure as the other, which, however,
I did at more leisure, and it took me up more time by
a great deal.
LL this labour I was at the expense of , purely from
Amy apprehensions on the account of the print of

a man's foot which I had seen; for, as yet, I
never saw any human creature come near the island.
And I had now lived two years under these uneasinesses,
which, indeed, made my life much less comfortable than
it was before, as may well be imagined by any who know
what it is to live in the constant snare of the fear of
man. And this I must observe, with grief too, that the
discomposure of my mind had too great impressions
also upon the religious part of my thoughts; for the
dread and terror of falling into the hands of savages
and cannibals lay so upon my spirits, that I seldom
found myself in a due temper for application to my
Maker, at least not with the sedate calmness and
resignation of soul which I was wont to do.

But to go on. After I had thus secured one part of
my little living stock, I went about the whole island.
searching for another private place to make such another
deposit ; when, wandering more to the west point of the
island than I had ever done yet, and looking out to sea,
I thought I saw a boat upon the sea, at a great distance.
I had found a prospective glass or two in one of the
seamen's chests, which I saved out of our ship, but
I had it not about me ; and this was so remote,
that I could not tell what to make of it, though I
looked at it till my eyes were not able to look any

183
longer. Whether it was a boat or not, I did not know;
but as I descended from the hill, I could see no more
of it, so I gave it over; only I resolved to go no more
out without a prospective glass in my pocket.

When I was come down the hill to the end of the
island, where, indeed, I had never been before, I was
presently convinced that the seeing the print of a man's
foot was not such a strange thing in the island as I
imagined. And, but that it was a special providence
that I was cast upon the side of the island where the
savages never came, I should easily have known that
nothing was more frequent than for the canoes from
the main, when they happened to be a little too far
out at sea, to shoot over to that side of the island for
harbour; likewise, as they often met and fought in
their canoes, the victors having taken any prisoners
would bring them over to this shore. where, according
to their dreadful customs, being all cannibals, they
would kill and eat them ; of which hereafter.

When I was come down the hill to the shore, as I
said above, being the S.W. point of the island, I was
perfectly confounded and amazed ; nor is it possible for
me to express the horror of my mind at seeing the
shore spread with skulls. hands, feet, and other bones
of human bodies; and particularly. I observed a place
where there had been a fire made. and a circle dug in
the earth, like a cockpit, where it is supposed the
savage wretches had sat down to their inhuman feast-
ings upon the bodies of their fellow-creatures.

I was so astonished with the sight of these things,
that I entertained no notion of any danger to myself
from it for a long while. All my apprehensions were
buried in the thoughts of such a pitch of inhuman,
hellish brutality, and the horror of the degeneracy of
human nature, which, though I had heard of often, yet
I never had so near a view of before. In short, I
turned away my face from the horrid spectacle. I got
me up the hill again with all the speed I could, and
walked on towards my own habitation.

When I came a little out of that part of the island, I
stood still a while, as amazed; and then recovering
myself, I looked up with the utmost affection of my
soul, and with a flood of tears in my eyes, gave God
thanks, that had cast my first lot in a part of the world
where I was distinguished from such dreadful creatures
as these.

In this frame of thankfulness I went home to my
castle, and began to be much easier now, as to the
safety of my circumstances. than ever I was before;
for I observed that these wretches never came to this
island in search of what they could get ; perhaps not
seeking. not wanting, or not expecting. anything here;
and having often, no doubt, been up in the covered,
woody part of it, without finding anything to their
purpose. I knew I had been here now almost eighteen
years, and never saw the least footsteps of human
creature there before; and I might be here eighteen
more as entirely concealed as I was now, if I did not
discover myself to them. which I had no manner of
occasion to do; it being my only business to keep
myself entirely concealed where I was, unless I found
a better sort of creatures than cannibals to make
myself known to.

Yet I entertained such an abhorrence of the savage
wretches that I have been Speaking of, and of the
wretched inhuman custom of their devouring and eating
one another up, that I continued pensive and sad, and
continued close within my own circle for almost two
years after this. When I say my own circle, I mean
by it my three plantations, viz., my castle, my country
seat, which I called my bower, and my enclosure in
the woods. Nor did I look after this for any other use
than as an enclosure for my goats; for the aversion
which Nature gave me to these hellish wretches was
such, that I was fearful of seeing them as of seeing the
devil himself.

Time, however, and the satisfaction I had that I was
in no danger of being discovered by these people, began
to wear off my uneasiness about them; and I began
to live just in the same composed manner as before;
only with this difference, that I used more caution,
and kept my eyes more about me, than I did before,
lest I should happen to be seen by any of them ; and
particularly, I was more cautious of firing my gun, lest
any of them being on the island should happen to hear
of it. And it was, therefore, a very good providence
to me that I had furnished myself with a tame breed
of goats, that I needed not hunt any more about the
woods, or shoot at them. And if I did catch any of
them after this, it was by traps and snares, as I had
done before; so that for two years after this I believe
I never fired my gun once off. though I never went out
without it ; and, which was more, as I had saved three
pistols out of the ship, I always carried them out with
me, or at least two of them, sticking them in my goat- .
skin belt. Also I furbished up one of the great cutlasses
that I had out of the ship, and made me a belt to
put it on also; so that I was now a most formidable
fellow to look at when I went abroad, if you add to
the former description of myself the particular of two
pistols and a great broadsword hanging at my side in
a belt, but without a scabbard.

Things going on thus, as I have said, for some time,
I seemed, excepting these cautions, to be reduced to
my former calm, sedate way of living. All these things
tended to showing me, more and more, how far my
condition was from being miserable, compared to some
others; nay, to many other particulars of life, which
it might have pleased God to have made my lot. It
put me upon reflecting how little repining there would
be among mankind at any condition of life, if people
would rather compare their condition with those that
are worse, in order to be thankful, than be always
comparing them with those which are better, to assist
their murmurings and complainings.

As in my present condition there were not really
many things which I wanted, so indeed I thought that
the frights I had been in about these savage wretches.
and the concern I had been in for my own preservation,
had taken off the edge of my invention for my own
conveniences. And I had dropped a. good design,
which I had once bent my thoughts too much upon ;
and that was, to try if I could not make some of my
barley into malt, and then try to brew myself some
beer.

But my invention now run quite another way; for,
night and day, I could think of nothing but how I
might destroy some of these monsters in their cruel,
bloody entertainment, and, if possible, save the victim
they should bring hither to destroy. It would take up
a larger volume than this whole work is intended to be.
to set down all the contrivances I hatched, or rather
brooded upon, in my thought, for the destroying these
creatures, or at least frighting them so as to prevent
their coming hither any more. But all was abortive;
nothing could be possible to take effect, unless I was
to be there to do it myself. And what could one man
do among them, when perhaps there might be twenty
or thirty of them together, with their darts, or their
bows and arrows, with which they could shoot as true
to a mark as I could with my gun ?

Sometimes I contrived to dig a hole under the place
where they made their fire, and put in five or six
pound of gunpowder. which, when they kindled their
fire, would consequently take fire, and blow up all that
was near it. But as, in the first place, I should be
very loth to waste so much powder upon them, my
store being now within the quantity of one barrel, so
neither could I be sure of its going off at any certain
time, when it might surprise them ; and, at best, that
it would do little more than just blow the fire about
their ears, and fright them, but not sufficient to make
them forsake the place. So I laid it aside, and then
proposed that I would place myself in ambush in some
convenient place, with my three guns all double
loaded, and, in the middle of their bloody ceremony,
let fly at them, when I should be sure to kill or wound
perhaps two or three at every shot; and then falling
in upon them with my three pistols and my sword, I
made no doubt but that if there was twenty I should
kill them all. This fancy pleased my thoughts for
some weeks; and I was so full of it, that I often
dreamed of it, and sometimes that I was just going to
let fly at them in my sleep.

I went so far with it in my imagination, that I
employed myself several days to find out proper places
to put myself in ambuscade, as I said, to watch for
them ; and I went frequently to the place itself, which
was now grown more familiar to me; and especially
while my mind was thus filled with thoughts of revenge,
and of a bloody putting twenty or thirty of them to
the sword, as I may call it, the horror I had at the
place, and at the signals of the barbarous wretches
devouring one another, abated my malice.

Well, at length I found a place in the side of the hill,
where I was satisfied I might securely wait till I saw
any of their boats coming; and might then, even
before they would be ready to come on shore, convey
myself, unseen, into thickets of trees, in one of which
there was a hollow large enough to conceal me entirely ;
and where I might sit and observe all their bloody
doings, and take my full aim at their heads, when
they were so close together, as that it would be next
to impossible that I should miss my shot, or that I
could fail wounding three or four of them at the first
shot.

In this place, then, I resolved to fix my design ; and,
accordingly, I prepared two muskets and my ordinary
fowling-piece. The two muskets I loaded with a brace
of slugs each, and four or five smaller bullets, about
the size of pistol-bullets; and the fowling-piece I
loaded with near a handful of swan-shot, of the largest
size. I also loaded my pistols with about four bullets
each ; and in this posture, well provided with ammuni-
tion for a second or third charge, I prepared myself
for my expedition.

After I had thus laid the scheme of my design, and
in my imagination put it in practice, I continually
made my tour every morning up to the top of the hill,
which was from my castle, as I called it, about three
miles, or more, to see if I could observe any boats
upon the sea coming near the island, or standing
over towards it. But I began to tire of this hard duty,
after I had, for two or three months. constantly kept
my watch, but came always back without any discovery;
there having not, in all that time. been the least
appearance, not only on or near the shore, but not on
the whole ocean, so far as my eyes or glasses could reach
every way.

As long as I kept up my daily tour to the hill to look
out, so long also I kept up the vigour of my design,
and my spirits seemed to be all the while in a suitable
form for so outrageous an execution as the killing twenty
or thirty naked savages for an offence which I had not
at all entered into a discussion of in my thoughts, any
farther than my passions were at first fired by the
horror I conceived at' the unnatural custom of that
people of the country.

But when I had considered a little, it followed
necessarily that I was certainly in the wrong in it;
that these people were not murderers in the sense that
I had before condemned them in my thoughts, any
more than those Christians were murderers who often
put to death the prisoners taken in battle; or more
frequently, upon many occasions, put whole troops of
men to the sword, without giving quarter, though they
threw down their arms and submitted.

In the next place it occurred to me, that albeit the
usage they thus gave one another was thus brutish
and inhuman, yet it was really nothing to me; these
people had done me no injury. That if they attempted
me, or I saw it necessary for my immediate preservation
to fall upon them, something might be said for it;
but that as I was yet out of their power, and they had
really no knowledge of me, and consequently no design
upon me, and therefore it could not be just for me to
fall upon them.

These considerations really put me to a pause, and
to a kind of a full stop ; and I began, by little and little,
to be off of my design, and to conclude, I had taken
wrong measures in my resolutions to attack the
savages; that it was not my business to meddle with
them, unless they first attacked me ; and this it was my
business, if possible, to prevent; but that if I were
discovered and attacked, then I knew my duty.

On the other hand, I argued with myself that this
really was the way not to deliver myself, but entirely
to ruin and destroy myself ; for 'unless I was sure to
kill every one that not only should be on shore at
that time, but that should ever come on shore after-
wards. if but one of them escaped to tell their country
people what had happened, they would come over
again by thousands to revenge the death of their
fellows, and I should only bring upon myself a certain
destruction, which, at present, I had no manner of
occasion for.
Upon the whole, I concluded that neither in principles
nor in policy I ought, one way or other, to concern
myself in this affair. That my business was, by all
possible means, to conceal myself from them, and not
to leave the least signal to them, to guess by that there
were any living creatures upon the island; I mean of
human shape.

Religion joined in with this prudential resolution, and
I was convinced now, many ways, that I was perfectly
out of my duty when I was laying all my bloody schemes
for the destruction of innocent creatures; I mean
innocent as to me. As to the crimes they were guilty
of towards one another, I had nothing to do with them.
They were national, and I ought to leave them to the
justice of God, who is the Governor of nations, and
knows how, by national punishments, to make a just
retribution for national offences, and to bring public
judgments upon those who offend in a public manner
by such ways as best pleases Him.

In this disposition I continued for near a year after
this; and so far was I from desiring an occasion for
falling upon these wretches, that in all that time I never
once went up the hill to see whether there were any of
them in sight, or to know whether any of them had been
on shore there or not, that I might not be tempted to
renew any of my contrivances against them, or to be
provoked, by any advantage which might present
itself. to fall upon them. Only this I did, I went and
removed my boat, which I had on the other side the
island, and carried it down to the east end of the whole
island, where I ran it into a little cove, which I found
under some high rocks and where I knew, by reason of
the currents, the savage durst not, at least would not,
come with their boats, upon any account whatsoever.
With my boat I carried away everything that I had
left there belonging to her, though not necessary for
the bare going thither, viz., a mast and sail which I had
made for her and a thing like an anchor, but indeed
which could not be called either anchor or grappling;
however, it was the best I could make of its kind.
All these I removed, that there might not be the least
shadow of any discovery, or any appearance of any
boat, or of any human habitation, upon the island.
Besides this, I kept myself, as I said, more retired
than ever, and seldom went from my cell, other than
upon my constant employment, viz., to milk my
she-goats, and manage my little flock in the wood,
which, as it was quite on the other part of the island,
was quite out of danger; for certain it is, that these
savage people, who sometimes haunted this island,
never came with any thoughts of finding anything
here, and consequently never wandered off from the
coast; and I doubt not but they might have been
several times on shore after my apprehensions of them
had made me cautious, as well as before ; and indeed,
I looked back with some horror upon the thoughts of
what my condition would have been if I had chopped
upon them and been discovered before that, when,
naked and unarmed, except with one gun, and that
loaded often only with small shot, I walked everywhere,
peeping and peeping about the island to see what I
could get. What a surprise should I have been in if,
when I discovered the print of a man's foot, I had,
instead of that, seen fifteen or twenty savages and
found them pursuing me. and by the swiftness of their
running. no possibility of my escaping them!

I believe the reader of this will not think strange if
I confess that these anxieties, these constant dangers
I lived in, and the concern that was now upon me, put
an end to all invention, and to all the contrivances
that I had laid for my future accommodations and
conveniences. I had the care of my safety more now
upon my hands than that of my food. I cared not
to drive a nail, or chop a stick of wood now, for fear
the noise I should make should be heard; much less
would I fire a gun, for the same reason; and, above
all, I was intolerably uneasy at making any fire, lest
the smoke, which is visible at a great distance in the
day, should betray me ; and for this reason I removed
that part of my business which required fire, such as
burning of pots and pipes, etc., into my new apartment
in the woods; where, after I had been some time,
I found, to my unspeakable consolation, a mere
natural cave in the earth, which went in a vast way,
and where, I dare say, no savage, had he been at the
mouth of it, would be so hardy as to venture in;
nor, indeed, would any man else, but one who, like
me, wanted nothing so much as a safe retreat.

The mouth of this hollow was at the bottom of a
great rock, where, by mere accident I would say (if
I did not see abundant reason to ascribe all such things
now to Providence), I was cutting down some thick
branches of trees to make charcoal; and before I go
on, I must observe the reason of my making this
charcoal, which was thus.

I was afraid of making a smoke about my habitation.

'7
as I said before ; and yet I could not live there without
baking my bread, cooking my meat, etc. So I contrived
to burn some wood here, as I had seen done in England
under turf, till it became chark, or dry coal ; and then
putting the fire out, I preserved the coal to carry home,
and perform the other services which fire was wanting
for at home, without danger of smoke.

But this is by-the-bye. While I was cutting down
some wood here, I perceived that behind a very thick
branch of low brushwood, or underwood, there was a
kind of hollow place. I was curious to look into it;
and getting with difficulty into the mouth of it, I found
it was pretty large; that is to say, sufficient for me
to stand upright in it, and perhaps another with me.
But I must confess to you I made more haste out than
I did in when, looking farther into the place, and which
was perfectly dark, I saw two broad shining eyes of
some creature, whether devil or man I knew not,
which twinkled like two stars, the dim light from the
cave's mouth shining directly in, and making the
reflection.

But plucking up my spirits as well as I could, and
encouraging myself a little with considering that the
power and presence of God was everywhere, and was
able to protect me, upon this I stepped forward again,
and by the light of a firebrand, holding it up a little
over my head, I saw lying on the ground a most
monstrous, frightful, old he-goat, just making his will.
as we say, and gasping for life; and dying indeed, of
mere old age.

I stirred him a little to see if I could get him out,
and he essayed to get up, but was not able to raise
himself; and I thought with myself he might even lie
there; for if he had frighted me so, he would certainly
fright any of the savages, if any of them should be so
hardy as to come in there while he had any life in
him.

I was now recovered from my surprise, and began
to look round me when I found the cave was but very
small; that is to say, it might be about twelve feet
over, but in no manner 'of shape, either round or
square. no hands having ever been employed in making
it but those of mere Nature. I observed also that
there was a place at the farther side of it that went in
farther, but was so low, that it required me to creep
upon my hands and knees to go into it. and whither
I went I knew not ; so having no candle, I gave it over
for some time, but resolved to come again the next
day, provided with candles and a tinder-box, which I
had made of the lock of one of the muskets, with some
wild-fire in the pan.

Accordingly the next day I came provided with six
large candles of my own making, for I made very good
candles now of goat's tallow; and going into this low
place, I was obliged to creep upon all fours, as I have
said, almost ten yards; which, by the way, I thought
was a venture bold enough, considering that I knew
not how far it might go, nor what was beyond it.
When I was got through the straight, I found the roof
rose higher up, I believe near twenty feet. But never
was such a glorious sight seen in the island. I dare say,
as it was. to look round the sides and roof of this vault
or cave; the walls reflected a hundred thousand lights
to me from my two candles. What it was in the rock.
whether diamonds, or any other precious stones, or
gold, which I rather supposed it to be, I knew not.

The place I was in was a most delightful cavity or
grotto of its kind, as could be expected, though per-
fectly dark. The floor was dry and level, and had a
sort of small loose gravel upon it, so that there was no
nauseous or venomous creature to be seen; neither
was there any damp or wet on the sides or roof. The
only dificulty in it was the entrance, which, however,
as it was a place of security, and such a retreat as I
wanted, I thought that was a convenience; so that I
was really rejoiced at the discovery, and resolved,
without any delay, to bring some of those things which
I was most anxious about to this place; particularly,
I resolved to bring hither my magazine of powder, and
all my spare arms, viz., two fowling-pieces, for I had
three in all, and three muskets, for of them I had
eight in all. So I kept at my castle only five, which
stood ready-mounted, like pieces of cannon, on my
outmost fence; and were ready also to take out upon
any expedition.

Upon this occasion of removing my ammunition, I
took occasion to open the barrel of powder, which I
took out of the sea, and which had been wet; and I
found that the water had penetrated about three or
four inches into the powder on every side, which caking,
and growing hard, had preserved the inside like a
kernel in a shell; so that I had near sixty pounds of
very good powder in the centre of the cask. And this
was an agreeable discovery to me at that time; so I
carried all away thither, never keeping above two or
three pounds of powder with me in my castle, for fear
of a surprise of any kind. I also carried thither all
the lead I had left for bullets.

I fancied myself now like one of the ancient giants.
which were said to live in caves and holes in the rocks,
where none could come at them; for I persuaded
myself, while I was here, if five hundred savages were
to hunt me, they could never find me out; or, if they
did, they would not venture to attack me here.

The old goat, whom I found expiring, died in the
mouth of the cave the next day after I made this
discovery; and I found it much easier to dig a great
hole there, and throw him in and cover him with earth,
than to drag him out.
WAS now in my twenty-third year of residence in
I this island; and was so naturalised to the place,

and to the manner of living, that could I have but
enjoyed the certainty that no savages would come to the
place to disturb me, I could have been content to have
capitulated for spending the rest of my time there,
even to the last moment, till I had laid me down and
died, like the old goat in the cave. I had also arrived
to some little diversions and amusements, which made
the time pass more pleasantly with me a great deal
than it did before. As, first, I had taught my Poll, as
I noted before, to speak; and he did it so familiarly,
and talked so articulately and plain, that it was very
pleasant to me; and he lived with me no less than six
and twenty years. How long he might live afterwards
I know not, though I know they have a notion in the
Brazils that they live a hundred years. Perhaps poor
Poll may be alive there still, calling after poor Robin
Crusoe to this day. I wish no Englishman the ill luck
to come there and hear him; but if he did, he would
certainly believe it was the devil. My dog was a very
pleasant and loving companion to me for no less than
sixteen years of my time, and then died of mere old
age. As for my cats, they multiplied, as I have
observed, to that degree, that I was obliged to shoot
several of them at first to keep them from devouring
me and all I had ; but at length, when the two old ones

:98
I brought with me were gone, and after some time
continually driving them from me, and letting them
have no provision with me, they all ran wild into the
woods, except two or three favourites, which I kept
tame, and whose young, when they had any, I always
drowned; and these were part of my family. Besides
these, I always kept two or three household kids about
me, whom I taught to feed out of my hand. And I
had two more parrots, which talked pretty well, and
would all call " Robin Crusoe," but none like my first ;
nor, indeed, did I take the pains with any of them
that I had done with him. I had also several tame
sea-fowls, whose names I know not, whom I caught
upon the shore, and cut their wings; and the little
stakes which I had planted before my castle wall being
now grown up to a good thick grove, these fowls all
lived among these low trees, and bred there, which
was very agreeable to me; so that, as I said above,
I began to be very well contented with the life I led, if
it might but have been secure from the dread of the
savages.

But it was otherwise directed; and it may not be
amiss for all people who shall meet with my story, to
make this just observation from it, viz., how frequently,
in the course of our lives, the evil which in itself we
seek most to shun, and which, when we are fallen into
it, is the most dreadful to us, is oftentimes the very
meansor door of our deliverance, by which alone we
can be raised again from the afiiction we are fallen
into. I could give many examples of this in the course
of my unaccountable life; but in nothing was it more
particularly remarkable, than in the circumstances of
my last years of solitary residence in this island.

It was now the month of December, as I said above,
in my twenty-third year; and this, being the southern
solstice (for winter I cannot call it), was the particular
time of my harvest, and required my being pretty
much abroad in the fields; when, going out pretty
early in the morning, even before it was thorough
daylight, I was surprised with seeing a light of some
fire upon the shore, at a distance from me of about
two miles, towards the end of the island, where I had
observed some savages had been, as before. But not
on the other side ; but, to my great affliction, it was on
my side of the island.

I was indeed terribly surprised at the sight, and
stopped short within my grove, not daring to go out,
lest I might be surprised ; and yet I had no more peace
within, from the apprehensions I had that if these
savages, in rambling over the island, should find my
corn standing or cut, or any of my works and improve-
ments, they would immediately conclude that there
were people in the place, and would then never give
over till they had found me out. In this extremity I
went back directly to my castle. pulled up the ladder
after me, and made all things without look as wild and
natural as I could.

Then I prepared myself within, putting myself in a
posture of defence. I loaded all my cannon, as I called
them, that is to say, my muskets, which were mounted
upon my new fortification, and all my pistols, and
resolved to defend myself to the last gasp ; not forgetting
seriously to commend myself to the Divine protection,
and earnestly to pray to God to deliver me out of the
hands of the barbarians. And in this posture I con-
tinued about two hours; but began to be mighty
impatient for intelligence abroad, for I had no spies. to
send out.

After sitting a while longer, and musing what I should
do in this case, I was not able to bear sitting in
ignorance any longer; so setting up my ladder to the
side of the hill where there was a flat place, as I
observed before, and then pulling the ladder up after
me, I set it up again, and mounted to the top of the
hill; and pulling out my perspective-glass, which I had
taken on purpose, I laid me down flat on my belly on
the ground, and began to look for the place. I presently
found there was no less than nine naked savages
sitting round a small fire they had made, not to warm
them, for they had no need of that, the weather being
extreme hot, but, as I supposed, to dress some of their
barbarous diet of human flesh which they had brought
with them, whether alive or dead, I could not know.

They had two canoes with them, which they had
hauled up upon the shore ; and as it was then tide of
ebb, they seemed to me to wait for the return of the
flood to go away again. It is not easy to imagine what
confusion this sight put me into, especially seeing
them come on my side of the island, and so near me
too. But when I observed their coming must be
always with the current of the ebb, I began afterwards
to be more sedate in my mind, being satisfied that
I might go abroad with safety all the time of the tide of
flood, if they were not on shore before; and having
made this observation, I went abroad about my
harvest-work with the more composure.

17'
As I expected, so it proved; for as soon as the tide
made to-the westward, I saw them all take boat, and
row (or paddle, as we call it) all away. I should have
observed, that for an hour and more before they went
ofi, they went to dancing; and I could easily discern
their postures and gestures by my glasses.

As soon as I saw them shipped and gone, I took two
guns upon my shoulders, and two pistols at my girdle,
and my great sword by my side, without a scabbard,
and with all the speed I was able to make I went away
to the hill where I had discovered the first appearance
of all. And as soon as I got thither, which was not less
than two hours (for I could not go apace, being so
loaded with arms as I was), I perceived there had been
three canoes more of savages on that place; and
looking out farther, I saw they were all at sea together,
making over for the main.

This was a dreadful sight to me, especially when,
going down to the shore, I could see the marks of
horror which the dismal work they had been about
had left behind it, viz., the blood, the bones, and part
of the flesh of human bodies, eaten and devoured by
those wretches with merriment and sport. I was so
filled with indignation at the sight, that I began now to
premeditate the destruction of the next that I saw
there, let them be who or how many soever.

However, I wore out a year and three months more
before I ever saw any more of the savages, and then
I found them again, as I shall soon observe. It is true
they might have been there once or twice, but either
they made no stay, or at least I did not hear them;
but in the month of May, as near as I could calculate,
and in my four and twentieth year, I had a very strange '
encounter with them; of which in its place.

The perturbation of my mind, during this fifteen or
sixteen months' interval, was very great. I slept
unquiet, dreamed always frightful dreams, and often
started out of my sleep in the night. In the day great
troubles overwhelmed my mind, and in the night
I dreamed often of killing the savages, and of the
reasons why I might justify the doing of it. But, to
waive all this for a while, it was in the middle of May,
on the sixteenth day, I think, as well as my poor
wooden calendar would reckon, for I marked all upon
the post still; I say, it was the sixteenth of May that
it blew a very great storm of wind all day, with a great
deal of lightning and thunder, and a very foul night it
was after it. I know not what was the particular
occasion of it, but as I was reading in the Bible, and
taken up with very serious thoughts about my present
condition, I was surprised with a noise of a gun, as
I thought, fired at sea. .

This was, to be sure, a surprise of a quite different
nature from any I had met with before ; for the notions
this put into my thoughts were quite of another kind.
I started up in the greatest haste imaginable, and, in
a trice, clapped my ladder to the middle place of the
rock, and pulled it after me; and mounting it the
second time, got to the top of the hill the very moment
that a flash of fire bid me listen for a second gun, which
accordingly, in about half a minute, I heard; and, by
the sound, knew that it was from that part of the sea
where I was driven down the current in my boat.

I immediately considered that this must be some
ship in distress, and that they had some comrade, or
some other ship in company, and fired these guns for
signals of distress, and to obtain help. I had this
presence of mind, at that minute, as to think that
though I could not help them, it may be they might
help me ; so I brought together all the dry wood
I could get at hand, and, making a good handsome
pile, I set it on fire upon the hill. The wood was dry,
and blazed freely; and though the wind blew very
hard, yet it burnt fairly out ; so that I was certain, if
there was any such thing as a ship, they must needs
see it, and no doubt they did; for as soon as ever my
fire blazed up I heard another gun, and after that
several others, all from the same quarter. I plied my
fire all night long till day broke; and when it was
broad day, and the air cleared up, I saw something at
a great distance at sea, full east of the island, whether
a sail or a hull I could not distinguish, no, not with my
glasses, the distance was so great, and the weather still
something hazy also ; at least it was so out at sea.

I looked frequently at it all that day, and soon
perceived that it did not move ; so I presently concluded
that it was a ship at an anchor. And being eager, you
may be sure, to be satisfied, I took my gun in my hand
and ran toward the south side of the island, to the
rocks where I had formerly been carried away with the
current; and getting up there, the weather by this
time being perfectly clear, I could plainly see, to my
great sorrow, the wreck of a ship, cast away in the
night upon those concealed rocks which I found when
I was out in my boat ; and which rocks, as they checked
the violence of the stream, and made a kind of counter'
stream or eddy, were the occasion of my recovering
from the most desperate, hopeless condition that ever
I hadbeenininallmylife.

Thus, what is one man's safety is another man's
destruction; for it seems these men, whoever they
were, being out of their knowledge, and the rocks
being wholly under water, had been driven upon them
in the night, the wind blowing hard at E. and E.N.E.
Hadthey seen the island, as I must necessarily suppose
they did not, they must, as I thought, have endeavoured
to have saved themselves on shore by the help of their
boat ; but their firing of guns for help, especially when
they saw, as I imagined, my fire, filled me with many
thoughts. First, I imagined that upon seeing my
light, they might have put themselves into their boat,
and have endeavoured to make the shore; but that
the sea going very high, they might have been cast
away. Other times I imagined that they might have
lost their boat before, as might be the case many ways ;
as, particularly, by the breaking of the sea upon their
ship, which many times obliges men to stave, or take in
pieces their boat, and sometimes to throw it overboard
with their own hands. Other times I imagined they
had some other ship or ships in company, who, upon
the signals of distress they had made, had taken them
up and carried them off. Other while: I fancied they
were all gone ofi to sea in their boat, and being hun'ied
away by the current that I had been formerly in, were
carried out into the great ocean, where there was
nothing but misery and perishing; and that, perhaps,
they might by this time think of starving, and of being
in a condition to eat one another.
As all these were but conjectures at best, so, in the
condition I was in, I could do no more than look
upon the misery of the poor men, and pity them;
which had still this good eifect- on my side, that it
gave me more and more cause to give thanks to God,
who had so happily and comfortably provided for me
in my desolate condition ; and that of two ships'
companies who were now cast away upon this part of
the world, not one life should be spared but mine.
I learned here again to observe, that it is very rare
that the providence of God casts us into any condition
of life so low, or any misery so great, but We may see
something or other to be thankful for, and '-may see
others in worse circumstances than our own.

I cannot explain, by any possible energy of words,
what a strange longing or hankering of desires I felt
in my soul upon this sight, breaking out sometimes
thus: " Oh that there had been but one or two, nay,
but one soul, saved out of this ship, to have escaped
to me, that I might but have had one companion, one
fellow-creature, to have spoken to me, and to have
oonversed with l " In all the time of my solitary life,
I never felt so earnest, so strong a desire after the
society of my fellow-creatures, or so deep a regret at
the want of it.

But it was not to be. Either their fate or mine, or
both, forbade it ; for, till the last year of my being on
this island, I never knew whether any were saved out
of that ship or no ; and had only the affliction, some
days after, to see the corpse of a drowned boy come on
shore at the end of the island which was next the
shipwreck. He had on no clothes but a seaman's
waistcoat, a pair of open-kneed linen drawers, and a
blue linen shirt ; but nothing to direct me so much as
to guess what nation he was of. He had nothing in his
pocket but two pieces of eight and a tobacco-pipe.
The last was to me of ten times more value than the
first.

It was now calm, and I had a great mind to venture
out in my boat to this wreck, not doubting but I might
find something on board that might be useful to me.
But that did not altogether press me so much as the
possibility that there might be yet some living creature
on board, whose life I might not only save, but might,
by saving that life, comfort my own to the last degree.
And this thought clung so to my heart, that I could
not be quiet night nor day, but I must venture out in
my boat on board this wreck; and committing the
rest to God's providence, I thought, the impression
was so strong upon my mind that it could not be
resisted, that it must come from some invisible
direction, and that I should be wanting to myself if
I did not go.

Under the power of this impression, I hastened back
to my castle, prepared everything for my voyage, took
a quantity of bread, a great pot for fresh water, a
compass to steer by, a bottle of rum (for I had still a
great deal ,of that left), a basket full .of raisins. And
thus, loading myself with everything necessary, I went
down to my boat, got the water out of. her, and got her,
afloat, loaded all my cargo in her and then went home
again for more. My second cargo was a great bag full
of rice, the umbrella to set up over my head for shade,
another large pot full of fresh water, and about two
dozen of my small loaves, or barley-cakes, more than
before, with a bottle of goat's milk and a cheese; all
which, with great labour and sweat, I brought to my
boat. And praying to God to direct my voyage,
I put out; and rowing, or paddling, the canoe along
the shore, I came at last to the utmost point of the
island on that side, viz., N.E. And now I was to
launch out into the ocean, and either to venture or not
to venture. I looked on the rapid currents which ran
constantly on both sides of the island at a distance,
and which were very terrible to me, from the remem-
brance of the hazard I had been in before, and my
heart began to fail me; for I foresaw that if I was
driven into either of those currents, I should be carried
a vast way out to sea, and perhaps out of my reach, or
sight of the island again ; and that then, as my boat was
but small, if any little gale of wind should rise, I should
be inevitably lost.

These thoughts so oppressed my mind, that I began
to give over my enterprise; and having hauled my
boat into a little creek on the shore, I stepped out,
and sat me down upon a little rising bit of ground,
very pensive and anxious, between fear and desire,
about my voyage; when, as I was musing, I could
perceive that the tide was turned, and the flood come
on; upon which my going was for so many hours
impracticable. Upon this, presently it occurred to me
that I should go up to the highest piece of ground
I could find and observe, if I could, how the sets of the
tide, or currents, lay when the flood came in, that
I might judge whether, if I was driven one way out,
I might not expect to be driven another way home,I! In A Dmuu. Stan
with the same rapidness of the currents. This thought
was no sooner in my head but I cast my eye upon a
little hill, which sufficiently overlooked the sea both
ways, and from whence I had a clear view of the
currents, or sets of the tide, and which way I was to
guide myself in my return. Here I found, that as the
current of the ebb set out close by the south point of
the island, so the current of the flood set in close by
the shore of the north side ; and that I had nothing to
do but to keep to the north of the island in my return,
and I should do well enough.

Encouraged with this observation, I resolved the
next morning to set out with the first of the tide, and
reposing myself for the night in the canoe, under the
great watch-coat I mentioned, I launched out. I made
first a little out to sea full north, till I began to feel
the benefit of the current which set eastward, and
which carried me at a great rate ; and yet did not so
huny me as.the southern side current had done before,
and so as to take from me all government of the boat ;
but having a strong steerage with my paddle, I went
at a great rate directly for the wreck, and in less than
two hours I came up to it.

It was a dismal sight to look at. The ship, which,
by its building, was Spanish, stuck fast, jammed in
between two rocks. All the stern and quarter of her
was beaten to pieces with the sea; and as her fore-
castle, which stuck in the rocks, had run on with great
violence, her mainmast and foremast were brought by
the board; that is to say, broken short off; but her
bowsprit was sound, and the head and bow appeared
firm. When I came close to her a dog appeared upon
her, who, seeing me coming, yelped and cried ; and as
soon as I called him, jumped into the sea to come to
me, and I took him into the boat, but found him almost
dead for hunger and thirst. I gave him a cake of my
bread, and he ate it like a ravenous wolf that had been
starving a fortnight in the snow. I then gave the poor
creature some fresh water, with which, if Iwould have
let him, he would have burst himself.

After this I went on board ; but the first sight I met
with was two men drowned in the cook-room, or fore-
castle of the ship, with their arms fast about one
another. I concluded, as is indeed probable, that
when the ship struck, it being in a storm, the sea broke
so high, and so continually over her, that the men
were not able to bear it, and were strangled with the
constant rushing in of the water, as much as if they
had been under water. Besides the dog, there was
nothing left in the ship that had life; nor any goods
that I could see, but what were spoiled by the water.
There were some casks of liquor, whether wine or
brandy I knew not, which lay lower in the hold, and
which, the water being ebbed out, I could see; but
they were too big to meddle with. I saw several chests,
which I believed belonged to some of the seamen ; and
I got two of them into the boat, without examining
what was in them.

Had the stem of the ship been fixed, and the fore-
part broken off, I am persuaded I might have made a
good voyage ; for by what I found in these two chests,
I had room to suppose the ship had a great deal of
wealth on board; and if I may guess by the course
she steered, she must have been bound from
Buenos Ayres, or the Rio de la Plata, in the south
part of America, beyond the Brazils, to the Havana,
in the Gulf of Mexico, and so perhaps to Spain. She
had, no doubt, a great treasure to her, but of no use,
at that time, to anybody; and what became of the
rest of her people, I then knew not.

I found, besides these chests, a little cask full of
liquor, of about twenty gallons, which I got into my
boat with much difi'iculty. There were several muskets
in a cabin, and a great powder-ham, with about four
pounds of powder in it. As for the muskets, I had no
occasion for them, so I left them, but took the powder-
horn. I took a fire-shovel and tongs, which I wanted
extremely; as also two little brass kettles, a copper
pot to make chocolate, and a gridiron. And with this
cargo, and the dog, I came away, the tide beginning to
make home again; and the same evening, about an
hour within night, I reached the island again, weary
and fatigued to the last degree.

I reposed that night in the boat ; and in the morning
I resolved to harbour what I had gotten in my new
cave, not to carry it home to my castle. After refreshing
myself, I got all my cargo on shore, and began to
examine the particulars. The cask of liquor I found to
be a kind of rum, but not such as we had at the Brazils,
and, in a word, not at all good. But when I came to
open the chests, I found several things of great use to
me. For example, I found in one a fine case of bottles,
of an extraordinary kind, and filled with cordial
waters, fine, and very good; the bottles held about
three pints each, and were tipped with silver. I found
two pots of very good succades, or sweetmeats, so
fastened also on top, that the salt water had not hurt
them ; and two more of the same, which the water had
spoiled. I found some very good shirts, which were
very welcome to me; and about a dozen and a half
of linen white handkerchiefs and coloured neckcloths.
The former were also very welcome, being exceeding
refreshing to wipe my face in a hot day. Besides this,
when I came to the till in the chest, I found there three
great bags of pieces of eight, which held out about
eleven hundred pieces in all; and in one of them,
wrapped up in a paper, six doubloons of gold, and some
small bars or wedges of gold. I suppose they might all
weigh near a pound.

The other chest I found had some clothes in it, but
of little value ; but by the circumstances, it must have
belonged to the gunner's mate; though there was no
powder in it, but about two pounds of fine glazed
powder, in three small flasks, kept, I suppose, for
charging their fowling-pieces, on occasion. Upon the
whole, I got very little by this voyage that was of any
use to me; for as to the money, I had no manner of
occasion for it ; 'twas to me as the dirt under my feet ;
and I would have given it all for three or four pairs of
English shoes and stockings, which were things I greatly
wanted, but had not had on my feet now for many
years. I had indeed gotten two pairs of shoes now,
which I took off the feet of the two drowned men
whom I saw in the wreck, and I found two pair more
in one of the chests, which were very welcome to me;
but they were not like our English shoes, either for
ease or service, being rather what we call pumps than.
shoes. I found in this seaman's chest about fifty pieces
of eight in royals, but no gold. I suppose this belonged
to a poorer man than the other, which seemed to
belong to some oflicer.

Well, however, I lugged this money home to my
cave, and laid it up, as I had done that before which
I brought from our own ship; but it was great pity,
as I said, that the other part of this ship had not come
to my- share, for I am satisfied I might have loaded my
canoe several times over with money, which, if I had
ever escaped to England, would have lain here safe
enough till I might have come again and fetched it.

Having now brought all my things on shore, and
secured them, I went back to my boat, and rowed or
paddled her along the shore to her old harbour, where
I laid her up, and made the best of my way to my old
habitation, where I found everything safe and quiet.
So I began to repose myself, live after my old fashion,
and take care of my family affairs ; and, for a while,
I lived easy enough, only that I was more vigilant than
I used to be. looked out oftener, and did not go abroad
so much; and if at any time I did stir with any freedom,
it was always to the east part of the island, where I was
pretty well satisfied the savages never came, and where
I could go without so many precautions, and such a
load of arms and ammunition as I always carried with
me if I went the other way.
my unlucky head, that was always to let me know it,

was born to make my body miserable, was all this
two years filled with projects and designs, how, if it
were possible, I might get away from this island; for
sometimes I was for making another voyage to the
wreck, though my reason told me that there was
nothing left there worth the hazard of my voyage;
sometimes for a ramble one way, sometimes another;
and I believe verily, if I had had the boat that I went
from Sallee in, I should have ventured to sea, bound
anywhere, I knew not whither.

I have been, in all my circumstances, a memento to
those who are touched with the general plague of
mankind, whence, for aught I know, one-half of their
miseries flow ; I mean, that of not being satisfied with
the station wherein God and Nature has placed them.

It was one of the nights in the rainy season in March,
the four-and-twentieth year of my first setting foot in
this island of solitariness. I was lying in my bed, or
hammock, awake, very well in health, had no pain, no
distemper, no uneasiness of body, no, nor any uneasi-
ness of mind, more than ordinary, but could by no
means close my eyes, that is, so as to sleep; no, not a
wink all night long, otherwise than as follows.

It is as impossible, as needless, to set down the
innumerable crowd of thoughts that whirled through

2:6

I LIVED in this condition near two years more ; but
that great thoroughfare of the brain, the memory, in
this night's time. I ran over the whole history of my
life in miniature, or by abridgment, as I may call it,
to my coming to this island, and also of the part of my
life since I came to this island.

My head was for some time taken up in considering
the nature of these wretched creatures, I mean the
savages, and how it came to pass in the world that
the wise Governor of all things should give up any of
His creatures to such inhumanity; nay, to something
so much below even brutality itself, as to devour its
own kind. But as this ended in some (at that time
fruitless) speculations, it occurred to me to inquire
what part of the world these wretches lived in? how
far ofi the coast was from whence they came? what
they ventured over so far from home for? what kind
of boats they had? and why I might not order myself
and my business so, that I might be as able to go over
thither, as they were to come to me.

I never so much as troubled myself to consider what
I should do with myself when I came thither; what
would become of me, if I fell into the hands of the
savages; or how I should escape from them, if they
attempted to take me ; no, nor so much as how it was
possible for me to reach the coast, and not be attacked
by some or other of them, without any possibility of
delivering myself ; and if I should not fall into their
hands, what I should do for provision, or whither I
should bend my course. None of these thoughts, I say,
so much as came in my way ; but my mind was wholly
bent upon the notion of my passing over in my boat
to the mainland. I looked back upon my present
condition as the most miserable that could possibly
be ; that I was not able to throw myself into anything,
but death, that could be called worse ; that if I reached
the shore of the main, I might perhaps meet with
relief, or I might coast along, as I did on the shore of
Africa, till I came to some inhabited country, and
where I might find some relief ; and after all, perhaps
I might fall in with some Christian ship that might
take me in; and if the worse came to the worst, I
could but die, which would put an end to all these
miseries at once.

When this had agitated my thoughts for two hours,
or more, with such violence that it set my very blood
into a ferment, and my pulse beat as high as if I had
been in a fever, merely with the extraordinary fervour
of my mind about it, Nature, as if I had been fatigued
and exhausted with the very thought of it, threw me
into a sound sleep. One would have thought I should
have dreamed of it, but I did not, nor of anything
relating to it ; but I dreamed that as I was going out
in the morning, as usual, from my castle, I saw upon
the shore two canoes and eleven savages coming to
land, and that they brought with them another savage,
whom they were going to kill in order to eat him;
when, on a sudden, the savage that they were going to
kill jumped away and ran for his life. And I thought,
in my sleep, that he came running into my little thick
grove before my fortification to hide himself ; and that
I, seeing him alone, and not perceiving that the other
sought him that way, showed myself to him, and
smiling upon him, encouraged him; that he kneeled
dam to me, seeming to pray me to assist him ; upon
which 1 showed my ladder, made him go up, and
carried him into my cave, and he became my servant ;
and that as soon as I had gotten this man, I saidto
myself, " Now I may certainly venture to the main-
land; for this fellow will serve me as a pilot, and will
tell me what to do, and whither to go for provisions,
and whither not to go for fear of being devoured;
what places to venture into, and what to escape." I
waked with this thought, and was under such inexpres-
sible impressions of joy at the prospect of my escape
in my dream, that the disappointments which I felt
upon coming to myself and finding it was no more than
a dream were equally extravagant the other way, and
threw me into a very great dejection of spirit.

Upon this, however, I made this conclusion; that
my only way to go about an attempt for an escape
was, if possible, to get a savage into my possession;
and, if possible, it should be one of their prisoners
whom they had condemned to be eaten, and should
bring thither to ldll. But these thoughts still were
attended with this difficulty, that it was impossible
to effect this without attacking a whole caravan of
them, and killing them all; and this was not only a
very desperate attempt, and might miscarry, but, on
the other hand, I had greatly scrupled the lawfulness
of it to me; and my heart trembled at the thought of
shedding so much blood, though it was for my de-
liverance. I need not repeat the arguments which
occurred to me against this, they being the same
mentioned before. But though I had other reasons
to ofier now, viz., that those men .were enemies to my
life, and would devour me if they could; that it was
self-preservation, in the highest degree, to deliver
myself from this death of a life, and was acting in my
own defence as much as if they were actually assaulting
me, and the like; I say, though these things argued
for it, yet the thoughts of shedding human blood for
my deliverance were very terrible to me, and such as
I could by no means reconcile myself to a great while.

However, at last, after many secret disputes with
myself, and after great perplexities about it, for all
these arguments, one way and another, struggled in
my head a long time, the eager prevailing desire of
deliverance at length mastered all the rest, and I
resolved, if possible, to get one of those savages into
my hands, cost what it would. My next thing then
was to contrive how to do it, and this indeed was very
difficult to resolve on. But as I could pitch upon no
probable means for it, so I resolved to put myself upon
the watch, to see them when they came on shore, and
leave the rest to the event, taking such measures as
the opportunity should present, let be what would be.

With these resolutions in my thoughts, I set myself
upon the scout as often as possible, and indeed so often,
till I was heartily tired of it ; for it was above a year
and half that I waited; and for great part of that time
went out to the west end, and to the south-west corner
of the island, almost every day, tosee the canoes, but
none appeared. This was very discouraging, and began
to trouble me much ; though I cannot say that it did
in this case, as it had done some time before that, viz.,
wear off the edge of my desire to the thing. But the
longer it seemed to be delayed, the more eager I was for
it. In a word, I was not at first more careful to shun
the sight of these savages, and avoid being seen by
them, as I was now eager to be upon them.

Besides, I fancied myself able to manage one, nay,
two or three savages, if I had them, so as to make them
entirely slaves to me, to do whatever I should direct
them, and to prevent their being able at any time to
do me any hurt. It was a great while that I pleased
myself with this affair; but nothing still presented.
All my fancies and schemes came to nothing, for no
savages me near me for a great while.

About a year and half after I had entertained these
notions, and by long musing had, as it were, resolved
them all into nothing, for want of an occasion to put
them in execution, I was surprised, one morning early,
with seeing no less than five canoes all on shore together
on my side the island, and the people who belonged to
them all landed, and out of my sight. The number of
them broke all my measures; for seeing so many, and
knowing that they always came four, or six, or some-
times more, in a boat, I could not tell what to think
of it, or how to take my measures to attack twenty
or thirty men single-handed ; so I lay still in my castle,
perplexed and discomforted. However, I put myself
into all the same postures for an attack that I had
formerly provided, and was just ready for action if
anything had presented. Having waited a good while,
listening to hear if they made any noise, at length,
being very impatient, I set my guns at the foot of my
ladder, and clambered up to the top of the hill, by
my two stages, as usual; standing so, however, that
my head did not appear above the hill, so that they
could not perceive me by any means. Here I observed,
by the help of my perspective glass, that they Were no
less than thirty in number, that they had a fire kindled,
that they had had meat dressed. How they had
cooked it, that I knew not, or what it was; but they
were all dancing, in I know not how many barbarous
gestures and figures, their own way, round the fire.

While I was thus looking on them, I perceived by
my perspective two miserable wretches dragged from
the boats, where, it seems, they were laid by, and were
now brought out for the slaughter. -I perceived one
of them immediately fell, being knocked down, I
suppose, with a club or wooden sword, for that was their
way, and two or three others were at work immediately,
cutting him open for their cookery, while the other
victim was left standing by himself, till they should
be ready for him. In that very moment this poor
wretch seeing himself a little at liberty, Nature inspired
him with hopes of life, and he started away from them,
and ran with incredible swiftness along the sands
directly towards me, I mean towards that part of the
coast where my habitation was.

I was dreadfully frighted (that I must acknowledge)
when I perceived him to rim my way, and especially
when, as I thought, I saw him pursued by the whole
body; and now I expected that part of my dream was
coming to pass, and that he would certainly take shelter
in my grove; but I could not depend, by any means,
upon my dream for the rest of it, viz., that the other
savages would not pursue him thither, and find him
there. However, I kept my station, and my spirits
began to recover when I found that there was not
above three men that followed him ; and still more was
I encouraged when I found that he outstripped them
exceedingly in running, and gained ground of them;
so that if he could but hold it for half-an-hour, I saw
easily he would fairly get away from them all.

There was between them and my castle the creek,
which I mentioned often at the first part of my story,
when I landed my cargoes out of the ship; and this I
saw plainly he must necessarily swim over, or the poor
wretch would be taken there. But when the savage
escaping came thither he made nothing of it, though
the tide was then up; but plunging in, swam through
in about thirty strokes or thereabouts, landed, and ran
on with exceeding strength and swiftness. When the
three persons came to the creek, I found that two of
them could swim, but the third could not, and that,
standing on the other side, he looked at the other, but
went no further, and soon after went softly back, which,
as it happened, was very well for him in the main.

I observed, that the two who swam were yet more
than twice as long swimming over the creek as the
fellow was that fled from them. It came now very
warmly upon my thoughts, and indeed irresistibly,
that now was my time to get me a servant, and perhaps
a companion or assistant, and that I was called plainly
by Providence to save this poor creature's life. I
immediately ran down the ladders with all possible
expedition, fetched my two guns, for they were both
but at the foot of the ladders, as I observed above, and
getting up again, with the same haste, to the top of
the bill, I crossed toward the sea, and having a very
short cut, and all down hill, clapped myself in the way
between the pursuers and the pursued, hallooing aloud
to him that fled, who, looking back, was at first perhaps
as much frighted at me as at them; but I beckoned
with my hand to him to come back ; and, in the mean-
time, I slowly advanced towards the two that followed ;
then rushing at once upon the foremost, knocked him
down with the stock of my piece. I was loth to fire,
because I would not have the rest hear ; though, at that
distance, it would not have been easily heard, and being
out of sight of the smoke too, they would not have
easily known what to make of it. Having knocked
this fellow down, the other who pursued with him
stopped, as if he had been frighted, and I advanced
apace towards him ; but as I came nearer, I perceived
presently he had a bow and arrow, and was fitting it to
shoot at me ; so I was then necessitated to shoot at him
first, which I did, and killed him at the first shot.

The poor savage who fled, but had stopped, though
he saw both his enemies fallen and killed, as he thought,
yet was so frighted with the fire and noise of my piece,
that he stood stock-still, and neither came forward or
went backward, though he seemed rather inclined to
fly still, than to come on. I hallooed again to him,
and made signs to come forward, which he easily under-
stood, and came a little way, then stopped again, and
then a little further, and stopped again; and I could
then perceive that he stood trembling, as if he had been
taken prisoner, and had just been to be killed, as his
two enemies were. I beckoned him again to come to
me, and gave him all the signs of encouragement that
I could think of ; and he came nearer and nearer,
kneeling down every ten or twelve steps, in token of
acknowledgment for my saving his life. I smiled at
him, and looked pleasantly, and beckoned to him to
come still nearer. At length he came close to me, and
then he kneeled down again, kissed the ground, and
laid his head upon the ground, and taking me by the
foot, set my foot upon his head. This, it seems, was
in token of swearing to be my slave for ever. I took
him up, and made much of him, and encouraged him all
I could. But there was more work to do yet; for I
perceived the savage whom I knocked down was not
killed, but stunned with the blow, and began to come
to himself; so I pointed to him, and showing him the
savage, that he was not dead, upon this he spoke some
words to me ; and though I could not understand them,
yet I thought they were pleasant to hear ; for they were
the first sound of a man's voice that I had heard, my
own excepted, for above twenty-five years. But there
was no time for such reflections now. The savage who
was knocked down recovered himself so far as to sit
up upon the ground, and I perceived that my savage,
began to be afraid; but when I saw that, I presented
my other piece at the man, as if I would shoot him.
Upon this my savage, for so I call him now, made a
motion to me to lend him my sword, which hung naked
in a belt by my side; so I did. He no sooner had it
but he runs to his enemy, and, at one blow, cut off
his head'as cleverly, no executioner in Germany could
have done it sooner or better; which I thought very
strange for one who, I had reason to believe, never saw
a sword in his life before, except their own wooden
swords. However, it seems, as I learned afterwards,
they make their wooden swords so sharp, so heavy,
and the wood is so hard, that they will cut off heads even

18
with them, ay, and arms, and that at one blow too.
When he had done this, he comes laughing to me in
sign of triumph, and brought me the sword again, and
with abundance of gestures, which I did not understand,
laid it down, with the head of the savage that he had
killed, just before me.

But that which astonished him most was to know
how I had killed the other Indian so far off ; so pointing
to him, he made signs to me to let him go to him ; so I
bade him go, as well as I could. When he came to him,
he stood like one amazed, looking at him, turned him
first on one side, then on t'other, looked at the wound
the bullet had made, which, it seems, was just in his
breast, where it had made a hole, and no great quantity
of blood had followed ; but he had bled inwardly, for
he was quite dead. He took up his bow and arrows,
and came back ; so I turned to go away, and beckoned
to him to follow me, making signs to him that more
might come after them.

Upon this he signed to me that he should bury them
with sand, that they might not be seen by the rest if
they followed; and so I made signs again to him to do
so. He fell to work, and in an instant he had scraped
a hole in the sand with his hands big enough to bury
the first in, and then dragged him into it, and covered
him, and did so also by the other. I believe he had
buried them both in a quarter of an hour. Then calling
him away, I carried him, not to my castle, but quite
away to my cave, on the farthest part of the island; so
I did not let my dream come to pass in that part, viz.,
that he came into my grove for shelter.

Here I gave him bread and a bunch of raisins to eat,
and a draught of water, which I found he was indeed
in great distress for, by his nmning; and having re-
freshed him, I made signs for him to go lie down and
sleep, pointing to a place where I had laid a great
parcel of rice-straw, and a blanket upon it, which I
used to sleep upon myself sometimes ; so the poor
creature laid down, and went to sleep.

He was a comely, handsome fellow, perfectly well
made, with straight strong limbs, not too large, tall,
and well-shaped, and, as I reckon, about twenty-six
years of age. He had a very good countenance, not a
fierce and surly aspect, but seemed to have something
very manly in his face; and yet he had all the sweet-
ness and softness of an European in his countenance
too, especially when he smiled. His hair was long
and black, not curled like wool ; his forehead very high
and large; and a great vivacity and sparkling sharp-
ness in his eyes. The colour of his skin was not quite
black, but very tawny; and yet not of an ugly, yellow,
nauseous tawny as the Brazilians and Virginians and
other natives of America are, but of a bright kind of a
dun olive colour, that had in it something very
agreeable, though not very easy to describe. His face
was round and plump ; his nose small, not flat like the
negroes ; a very good mouth, thin lips, and his fine
teeth well set, and white as ivory.

After he had slumbered, rather than slept, about
half-an-hour, he waked again, and comes out of the
cave to me, for I had been milking my goats, which I
had in the enclosure just by. When he espied me, he
came running to me, laying himself down again upon
the ground, with all the possible signs of an humble,
thankful disposition, making a many antic gestures
to show it. At last he lays his head flat upon the
ground close to my foot, and sets my other foot upon
his head, as he had done before, and after this made all
the signs to me of subjection, servitude, and submission
imaginable, to let me know how he would serve me as
long as he lived. I understood him in many things,
and let him know I was very well pleased with him.
In a little time I began to speak to him, and teach him
to speak to me; and, first, I made him know his name
should be Friday, which was the day I saved his life.
I called him so for the memory of the time. I like-
wise taught him to say master, and then let him know
that was to be my name. I likewise taught him to say
Yes and No, and to know the meaning of them. I
gave him some milk in an earthen pot, and let him see
me drink it before him, and sop my bread in it ; and
I gave him a cake of bread to do the like, which he
quickly complied with, and made signs that it was very
good for him.

I kept there with him all that night ; but as soon as
it was day, I beckoned to him to come with me, and let
him know I would give him some clothes; at which he
seemed very glad, for he was stark naked. As we went
by the place where he had buried the two men, he
pointed exactly to the place, and showed me the marks
that he had made to find them again, making signs to
me that we should dig them up again, and eat them.
At this I appeared very angry, expressed my abhorrence
of it, made as if I would vomit at the thoughts of it,
and beckoned with my hand to him to come away;
which he did immediately, with great submission. I
then led him up to the top of the hill, to see if his
enemies were gone ; and pulling out my glass, I looked,
and saw plainly the place where they had been, but no
appearance of them or of their canoes ; so that it was
plain that they were gone, and had left their two
comrades behind them, without any search after them.

But I was not content with this discovery; but
having now more courage, and consequently more
curiosity, I takes my man Friday with me, giving him
the sword in his hand, with the bow and arrows at his
back, which I found he could use very dexterously,
making him carry one gun for me, and I two for myself,
and away we marched to the place where these creatures
had been; for I had a mind now to get some fuller
intelligence of them. When I came to the place, my
very blood ran chill in my veins, and my heart sunk
within me, at the horror of the spectacle. Indeed, it
was a dreadful sight, at least it was so to me, though
Friday made nothing of it. The place was covered
with human bones, the ground dyed with their blood,
great pieces of flesh left here and there, half-eaten,
mangled, and scorched ; and, in short, all the tokens of
the triumphant feast they had been making there,
after a victory over their enemies. I saw three skulls,
five hands, and the bones of three or four legs and feet,
and abundance of other parts of the bodies; and
Friday, by his signs, made me understand that they
brought over four prisoners to feast upon ; that three
of them were eaten up, and that he, pointing to himself,
was the fourth; that there had been a great battle
between them and their next king, whose subjects it
seems he had been one of, and that they had taken a
great number of prisoners; all which were carried to
several places by those that had taken them in the
fight, in order to feast upon them, as was done here by
these wretches upon those they brought hither.

I caused Friday to gather all the skulls, bones, flesh,
and whatever remained, and lay them together on a
heap, and make a great fire upon it, and burn them all
to ashes. I found Friday had still a hankering stomach
after some of the flesh, and was still a cannibal in his
nature; but I discovered so much abhorrence at the
very thoughts of it, and at the least appearance of it,
that he durst not discover it ; for I had, by some means,
let him know that I would kill him if he offered it.

When we had done this we came back to our castle,
and there I fell to work for my man Friday ; and, first
of all, I gave him a pair of linen drawers, which I had
out of the poor gunner's chest I mentioned, and which
I found in the wreck ; and which, with a little alteration,
fitted him very well. Then I made him a jerkin of
goat's-skin, as well as my skill would allow, and I was
now grown a tolerable good tailor; and I gave him a
cap, which I made of a hare-skin, very convenient and
fashionable enough; and thus he was clothed for the
present tolerably well, and was mighty well pleased to
see himself almost as well clothed as his master. It is
true he went awkwardly in these things at first ;
wearing the drawers was very awkward to him, and the
sleeves of the waistcoat galled his shoulders, and the
inside of his arms ; but a little easing them where he
complained they hurt him, and using himself to them,
at length he took to them very well.

The next day after I came home to my hutch with
him, I began to consider where I should lodge him.
And that I might do well for him, and yet be perfectly
easy myself, I made a little tent for him in the vacant
place between my two fortifications, in the inside of
the last and in the outside of the first ; and as there was
a door or entrance there into my cave, I made a formal
framed door-case, and a door to it of boards, and set
it up in the passage, a little within the entrance; and
causing the door to open on the inside, I barred it up
in the night, taking in my ladders too ; so that Friday
could no way come at me in the inside of my innermost
wall without making so much noise in getting over,
that it must needs waken me; for my first wall had
now a complete roof over it of long poles, covering all
my tent, and leaning up to the side of the hill, which
was again laid cross with smaller sticks instead of laths,
and then thatched over a great thickness with the rice-
straw, which was strong, like reeds ; and at the hole or
place which was left to go in or out by the ladder, I had
placed a kind of trap-door, which, if it had been
attempted on the outside, would not have opened at
all, but would have fallen down, and made a great
noise ; and as to weapons, I took them all into my side
every night.

But I needed none of all this precaution ; for never
man had a more faithful, loving, sincere servant than
Friday was to me; without passions, sullennass, or
designs, perfectly obliged and engaged; his very
affections were tied to me, like those of a child to a
father ; and I dare say he would have sacrificed his life
for the saving mine, upon any occasion whatsoever.
The many testimonies he gave me of this put it out of
doubt, and soon convinced me that I needed to use
no precautions as to my safety on his account.

This frequently gave me occasion to observe, and that
with wonder, that however it had pleased God, in His
providence, and in the government of the works of His
hands, to take from so great a part of the world of
His creatures the best uses to which their faculties and
the powers of their souls are adapted, yet that He has
bestowed upon them the same powers, the same reason,
the same affections, the same sentiments of kindness
and obligation, the same passions and resentments of
wrongs, the same sense of gratitude, sincerity, fidelity,
and all the capacities of doing good, and receiving
good, that He has given to us; and that when He
pleases to offer to them occasions of exerting these,
they are as ready, nay, more ready, to apply them to
the right uses for which they were bestowed than we
are.

But to return to my new companion. I was greatly
delighted with him, and made it my business to teach
him everything that was proper to make him useful,
handy, and helpful ; but especially to make him speak,
and understand me when I spoke. And he was the
aptest scholar that ever was ; and particularly was so
merry, so constantly diligent, and so pleased when he
could but understand me, or make me understand him,
that it was very pleasant to me to talk to him. And
now my life began to be so easy, that I began to say to
myself, that could I but have been safe from more

savages, I cared not if I was never to remove from the
place while I lived.
FTER I had been two or three days returned to
Amy castle, I thought that, in order to bring
Friday off from his horrid way of feeding, and
from the relish of a cannibal's stomach, I ought to
let him taste other flesh ,' so I took him out with me one
morning to the woods. I went, indeed, intending to
kill a kid out of my own flock, and bring him home and
dress it; but as I was going, I saw a she-goat lying
down in the shade, and two young kids sitting by her.
I catched hold of Friday. " Hold," says I, " stand
still," and made signs to him not to stir. Immediately
I presented my piece, shot and killed one of the kids.
The poor creature, who had, at a distance indeed, seen
me kill the savage, his enemy, but did not know, or
could imagine, how it was done, was sensibly surprised,
trembled and shook, and looked so amazed, that I
thought he would have sunk down. He did not see
the kid I had shot at, or perceive I had killed it, but
ripped up his waistcoat to feel if he was not wounded ;
and, as I found presently, thought I was resolved to
kill him'; for he came and kneeled down to me, and
embracing my knees, said a great many things I did
not understand ; but I could easily see that the meaning
was to pray me not to kill him.
I soon found a. way to convince him that I would do
him no harm ; and taking him up by the hand, laughed
at him, and pointing to the kid which I had killed,

x8' 233
beckoned to him to run and fetch it, which he did;
and while he was wondering, and looking to see how the
creature was killed, I loaded my gun again ; and
by-and-by I saw a great fowl, like a hawk, sit upon a
tree, within shot ; so, to let Friday understand a little
what I would do, I called him to me again, pointing at
the fowl, which was indeed a parrot, though I thought
it had been a hawk ; I say, pointing to the parrot, and
to my gun, and to the ground under the parrot, to let
him see I would make it fall, I made him understand
that I would shoot and kill that bird. Accordingly
I fired, and bade him look, and immediately he saw
the parrot fall. He stood like one frighted again,
notwithstanding all I had said to him ; and I found he
was the more amazed, because he did not see me put
anything into the gun, but thought that there must
be some wonderful fund of death and destruction in
that thing, able to kill man, beast, bird, or anything
near or far off; and the astonishment this created in
him was such as could not wear off for a long time ;
and I believe, if I would have let him, he would have
worshipped me and my gun. As for the gun itself, he
would not so much as touch it for several days after ;
but would speak to it, and talk to it, as if it had
answered him, when he was by himself; which, as I
afterwards learned of him, was to desire it not to kill
him.

Well, after his astonishment was a. little over at
this, I pointed to him to run and fetch the bird I had
shot, which he did, but stayed some time; for the
parrot, not being quite dead, was fluttered a good way
off from the place where she fell. However, he found
her, took her up, and brought her to me ; and as I had
perceived his ignorance about the gun before, I took
this advantage to charge the gun again, and not let him
see me do it, that I might be ready for any other mark
that might present. But nothing more ofiered at that
time ; so I brought home the kid, and the same evening
I took the skin off, and cut it out as well as I could;
and having a pot for that purpose, I boiled or stewed
some of the flesh, and made some very good broth;
and after I had begun to eat some, I gave some to my
man, who seemed very glad of it, and liked it very well ;
but that which was strangest to him, was to see me
eat salt with it. He made a sign to me that the salt
was not good to eat, and putting a little into his own
mouth, he seemed to nauseate it, and would spit and
splutter at it, washing his mouth with fresh water
after it. On the other hand, I took some meat in my
month without salt, and I pretended to spit and
splutter for want of salt, as fast as he had done at the
salt. But it would not do; he would never care for
salt with his meat or in his broth ; at least, not a great
while, and then but a very little.

Having thus fed him with boiled meat and broth, I
was resolved to feast him the next day with roasting
a piece of the kid. This I did by hanging it before the
fire in a string, as I had seen many people do in England,
setting two poles up, one on each side of the fire, and
one cross on the top, and tying the string to the cross
stick, letting the meat turn continually. This Friday
admired very much. But when he came to taste
the flesh, he took so many ways to tell me how well he
liked it, that I could not but understand him ; and at
last he told me he would never eat man's flesh any more
which I was very glad to hear.

The next day I set him to work to beating some
corn out, and sifting it in the manner I used to do, as
I observed before ; and he soon understood how to do
it as well as I, especially after he had seen what the
meaning of it was, and that it was to make bread of ;
for after that I let him see me make my bread, and
bake it too ; and in a little time Friday was able to do
all the Work for me, as well as I could do it myself.

I began now to consider that, having two mouths
to feed instead of one, I must provide more ground
for my harvest, and plant a larger quantity of corn
than I used to do; so I marked out a larger piece of
land, and began the fence in the same manner as before,
in which Friday not only worked very willingly and
very hard, but did it very cheerfully; and I told him
what it was for; that it was for corn to make more
bread, because he was now with me, and that I might
have enough for him and myself too. He appeared
very sensible of that part, and let me know that he
thought I had much more labour upon me on his account
than I had for myself; and that he would work the
harder for me, if I would tell him what to do.

This was the pleasantest year of all the life I led in
this place. Friday began to talk pretty well, and under~
stand the names of almost everything I had occasion
to call for, and of every place I had to send him to, and
talk a great deal to me ; so that, in short, I began now
to have some use for my tongue again, which, indeed,
I had very little occasion for before, that is to say,
about speech. Besides the pleasure of talking to him,
I had a singular satisfaction in the fellow himself. His
simple, unfeigned honesty appeared to me more and
more every day, and I began really to love the creature ;
and, on his side, I believe he loved me more than it
was possible for him ever to love anything before.

I had a mind once to try if he had any hankering
inclination to his own country again; and having
learned him English so well that he could answer me
almost any questions, I asked him whether the nation
that he belonged to never conquered in battle? At
which he smiled, and said, " Yes, yes, we always fight
the better; " that is, he meant, always get the better
in fight; and so we began the following discourse:
" You always fight the better," said I. " How came
you to be taken prisoner then, Friday?"

Friday. My nation beat much for all that.

Master. How beat ? If your nation beat them, how
came you to be taken ?

Friday. They more many than my nation in the
place where me was ; they take one, two, three, and me.
my nation overbeat them in the yonder place, where
me no was; there my nation take one, two, great
thousand.

Master. But why did not your side recover you from
the hands of your enemies then ?

Friday. They run one, two, three, and me, and make
go in the canoe; my nation have no canoe that time.

Master. Well, Friday, and what does your nation do
with the men they take? Do they carry them away
and eat them, as these did?

Friday. Yes, my nation eats mans too ; eat all up.

Master. Where do they carry them?
Friday. Go to other place, where they think.

Master. Do they come hither?

Friday. Yes, yes, they come hither; come other else
place.

Master. Have you been here with them P

Friday. Yes, I been here. (Points to the NW. side
of the island which, it seems, was their side.)

By this I understood that my man Friday had
formerly been among the savages who used to come on
shore on the farther part of the island, on the same
man-eating occasions that he was now brought for;
and, some time after, when I took the courage to carry
him to that side, being the same I formerly mentioned,
he presently knew the place, and told me he was there
once when they eat up twenty men, two women, and
one child. He could not tell twenty in English, but
he numbered them by laying so many stones on a row,
and pointing to me to tell them over.

I have told this passage, because it introduces what
follows; that after I had had this discourse with him,
I asked him how far it was from our island to the shore,
and whether the canoes were not often lost. He told
me there was no danger, no canoes ever lost ; but
that, after a little way out to the sea, there was a current
and a wind, always one way in the morning, the other
in the afternoon.

This I understood to be no more than the sets of the
tide, as going out or coming in; but I afterwards
understood it was occasioned by the great draught
and reflux of the mighty river Oroonoko, in the mouth
of the gulf of which river, as I found afterwards. our
island lay; and this land which I perceived to the W.
and N.W. was the great island Trinidad, on the north
point of the mouth of the river. I asked Friday a
thousand questions about the country, the inhabitants,
the sea, the coast, and what nations were near. He
told me all he knew, with the greatest openness imagin-
able. I asked him the names of the several nations of
his sort of people, but could get no other name than
Caribs ; from whence I easily understood that these
were the Caribbees, which our maps place on the part
of America which reaches from the mouth of the river
Oroonoko to Guiana, and onwards to St. Martha. He
told me that up a great way beyond the moon, that was,
beyond the setting of the moon, which must be W.
from their country, there dwelt white-bearded men,
like me, and pointed to my great whiskers, which I
mentioned before; and that they had killed much
mans, that was his word; by all which I understood
he meant the Spaniards, whose crueltiec in America
had been spread over the whole countries, and was
remembered by all the nations from father to son.

I inquired if he could tell me how I might come from
this island and get among those white men. He told
me, " Yes, yes, I might go in two canoe." I could not
understand what he meant, or make him describe to
me what he meant by two canoe; till at last, with
great di'fiiculty, I found he meant it must be in a large
great boat, as big as two canoes.

This part of F rlday's discourse began to relish with
me very well; and from this time I entertained some
hopes that, one time or other, I might find an opport-
unity to make my escape from this place, and that this
poor savage might be a means to help me to do it.
During the long time that Friday had now been with
me, and that he began to speak to me, and understand
me, I was not wanting to lay a foundation of religious
knowledge in his mind; particularly I asked him one
time, Who made him ? The poor creature did not
understand me at all, so I took it by another handle,
and asked him who made the sea, the ground we walked
on, and the hills and woods? He told me it was one
old Benamuckee, that lived beyond all. He could
describe nothing of this great person, but that he was
very old, much older, he said, than the sea or the land,
than the moon or the stars. I asked him then, if this
old person had made all things, why did not all things
worship him ? He looked very grave, and with a per-
fect look of innocence said, " All things do say 0 to
him." I asked him if the people who die in his country
went anywhere ? He said, " Yes, they all went to
Benamuckee." Then I asked him whether these they
eat up went thither too? He said " Yes."

From these things I began to instruct him in the
knowledge of the true God. I told him that the great
Maker of all things lived up there pointing up towards
heaven ; that He governs the world by the same power
and providence by which He had made it; that He
was omnipotent, could do everything for us, give
everything to us, take everything from us ; and thus,
by degrees, I opened his eyes. He listened with great
attention, and received with pleasure the notion of
Jesus Christ being sent to redeem us, and of the manner
of making our prayers to God, and His being able to
hear us, even into heaven. He told me one day that
if our God could hear us up beyond the sun, He must
needs be a greater God than their Benamuckee, who
lived but a little way off, and yet could not hear till
they went up to the great mountains where he dwelt
to speak to him. I asked him if he ever went thither
to speak to him ? He said, No; they never went
that were young men ; none went thither but the old
men, whom he called their Oowokakee, that is, as I
made him explain it to me, their religious, or clergy;
and that they went to say 0 (so he called saying prayers),
and then me back, and told them what Benamuckee
said. By this I observed that there is priostcraft even
amongst the most blinded, ignorant pagans in theworld;
and the policy of making a secret religion in order to
preserve the veneration of the people to the clergy is
not only to be found in the Roman, but perhaps among
all religions in the world, even among the most brutish
and barbarous savages.

I endeavoured to clear up this fraud to my man
Friday, and told him that the pretence of their old
men going up to the mountains to say 0 to their god
Benamuckee was a cheat, and their bringing word from
thence what he said was much more so ; that if they met
with any answer, or spoke with any one there, it must
be with an evil spirit ; and then I entered into a long
discourse with him about the devil, the original of him,
his rebellion against God, his enmity to man, the reason
of it, his setting himself up in the dark parts of the
world to be worshipped instead of God, and as God,
and the many stratagems he made use of to delude
mankind to their ruin; how he had a secret access to
our passions and to our affections, to adapt his snares
so to our inclinations, as to cause us even to be our
own tempters, and to run upon our destruction by
our own choice.

I had been telling him how the devil was God's
enemy in the hearts of men, and used all his malice
and skill to defeat the good designs of Providence,
and to ruin the kingdom of Christ in the world, and
the like. " Well," says Friday, " but you say God
is so strong, so great; is He not much strong, much
might as the devil? " " Yes, yes," says I, " Friday,
God is stronger than the devil; God is above the devil,
and therefore we pray to God to tread him down under
our feet, and enable us to resist his temptations, and
quench his fiery darts." " But," says he again, " if
God much strong, much might as the devil, why God
no kill the devil, so make him no more do wicked ? "

I was strangely surprised at his question; and after
all, though I was now an old man, yet I was but a
young doctor, and ill enough qualified for a casuist,
or a solver of difliculties; and at first I could not tell
what to say ; so I pretended not to hear him, and asked
him what he said? But he was too earnest for an
answer to forget his question, so that he repeated it in
the very same broken words as above. By this time I
had recovered myself a little, and I said, " God will at
last punish him severely; he is reserved for the judg-
ment, and is to be cast into the bottomless pit, to
dwell with everlasting fire." This did not satisfy
Friday; but he returns upon me, repeating my words,
" Reserve at last! me no understand; but why not
kill the devil now? not kill great ago ? " " You
may as well ask me," said I, " why God does not kill
you and me, when we do wicked things here that offend
Him; we are preserved to repent and be pardoned."
He muses awhile at this. " Well, well," says he,
mighty affectionately, " that well; so you, I, devil,
all wicked, all preserve, repent, God pardon all."

I therefore diverted the present discourse between
me and my man, rising up hastily, as upon some sudden
occasion of going out ; then sending him for something
a good way off, I seriously prayed to God that He would
enable me to instruct savingly this poor savage, and
would guide me to speak so to him from the Word of
God as his conscience might be convinced, his eyes
opened, and his soul saved. When he came again to
me, I entered into a long discourse with him upon the
subject of the redemption of man by the Saviour of
the world, and of the doctrine of the Gospel preached
from heaven, viz., of repentance towards God, and
faith in our blessed Lord Jesus. I then explained to
him as well as I could why our blessed Redeemer took
not on Him the nature of angels, but the seed of
Abraham; and how, for that reason, the fallen angels
had no share in the redemption; that He came only
to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and the like.

In this thankful frame I continued all the remainder
of my time, and the conversation which employed the
hours between Friday and I was such as made the three
years which we lived there together perfectly and
completely happy, if any such thing as complete
happiness can be formed in a sublunary state. The
savage was now a good Christian, a much better than
I; though I have reason to hope, and bless God for it,
that we were equally penitent, and comforted, restored
penitents. We had here the Word of God to read,
and no farther off from His Spirit to instruct than if
we had been in England.

As to all the disputes, wranglings, strife, and con-
tention which has happened in the world about
religion, whether niceties in doctrines, or schemes of
Church government, they were all perfectly useless
to us ; as, for aught I can yet see, they have been to all
the rest in the world. We had the sure guide to heaven,
viz., the Word of God; and we had, blessed be God,
comfortable views of the Spirit of God teaching and
instructing us by His Word, leading us into all truth,
and making us both willing and obedient to the in-
struction of His Word; and I cannot see the least
use that the greatest knowledge of the disputed points
in religion, which have made such confusions in the
world, would have been to us if we could have obtained
it. But I must go on with the historical part of things,
and take every part in its order.

After Friday and I became more intimately ac-
quainted, and that he could understand almost all
I said to him, and speak fluently, though in broken
English, to me, I acquainted him with my own story,
or at least so much of it as related to my coming into
the place; how I had lived there, and how long. I
let him into the mystery, for such it was to him, of
gunpowder and bullet, and taught him how to shoot ;
I gave him a knife, which he was wonderfully delighted
with, and I made him a belt, with a frog hanging to it,
such as in England we wear hangers in; and in the
frog, instead of a hanger, I gave him a hatchet, which
was not only as good a weapon, in some cases, but much
more useful upon other occasions.
I described to him the country of Europe, and
particularly England, which I came from; how we
lived, how we worshipped God, how we behaved to one
another, and how we traded in ships to all parts of the
world. I gave him an account of the wreck which I
had been on board of, and showed him, as near as I
could, the place where she lay; but she was all beaten
in pieces before, and gone.

I showed him the ruins of our boat, which we lost
when we escaped, and which I could not stir with my
whole strength then, but was now fallen almost all to
pieces. Upon seeing this boat, Friday stood musing
a great while, and said nothing. I asked him what it
was he studied upon. At last says he, " Me see such
boat like come to place at my nation."

I did not understand him a good while; but at last,
when I had examined further into it, I understood by
him that a boat such as that had been, came on shore
upon the country where he lived ; that is, as he explained
it, was driven thither by stress of weather. I presently
imagined that some European ship must have been
cast away upon their coast, and the boat might get
loose and drive ashore; but was so dull, that I never
once thought of men making escape from a wreck
thither, much less whence they might come; so I only
inquired'after a description of the boat.

Friday described the boat to me well enough; but
brought me better to understand him when he added
with some warmth, " We save the white mans from
drown." Then I presently asked him if there was any
white mans, as he called them, in the boat. " Yes,"
he said, " the boat full of white mans." I asked him
how many. He told upon his fingers seventeen. I
asked him then what became of them. He told me,
" They live, they dwell at my nation."

This put new thoughts into my head ; for I presently
imagined that these might be the men belonging to
the ship that was cast away in sight of my island, as
I now call it ; and who, after the ship was struck on the
rock, and they saw her inevitably lost, had saved them-
selves in their boat, and Were landed upon that wild
shore among the savages.

Upon this I inquired of him more critically what was
become of them. He assured me they lived still there ;
that they had been there about four years; that the
savages let them alone, and gave them victuals to live.
I asked him how it came to pass they did not kill them,
and eat them. He said, " No, they make brother with
them " ; that is, as I understood him, a truce ; and then
he added, " They no eat mans but when make the war
fight " ; that is to say, they never eat any men but such
as come to fight with them and are taken in battle.

It was after this some considerable time, that being
on the top of the hill, at the east side of the island (from
whence, as I have said, I had in a clear day discovered
the main or continent of America), Friday, the weather
being very serene, looks very earnestly towards the
mainland, and, in a kind of surprise, falls a-jumping
and dancing, and calls out to me, for I was at some
distance from him. I asked him what was the matter ?
"0 joy ! " says he, " O glad! there see my country,
there my nation 1 "

I observed an extraordinary sense of pleasure
appeared in his face, and his eyes sparkled, and his
countenance discovered a strange eagerness, as if he
hadamind tobeinhisown countryagain;andthis
observation of mine put a great many thoughts into
me, which made me at first not so easy about my new
man Friday as I was before; and I made no doubt
but that if Friday could get back to his own nation
again, he would not only forget all his religion, but all
his obligation to me; and would be forward enough to
give his countrymen an account of me, and come back
perhaps with a hundred or two of them, and make a
feast upon me, at which he might be as merry as he
used to be with those of his enemies, when they were
taken in war.

But I wronged the poor honest creature very much,
for which I was very sorry afterwards. However, as
my jealousy increased, and held me some weeks, I was
a little more circumspect, and not so familiar and kind
to him as before; in which I was certainly in the
wrong too, the honest, grateful creature having no
thought about it but what consisted of the best
principles, both as a religious Christian and as a grate-
ful friend, as appeared afterwards to my full satisfaction.

While my jealousy of him lasted, you may be sure I
was every day pumping him, to see if he would dis-
cover any of the new thoughts which I suspected were
in him ; -but I found everything he said was so honest
and so innocent, that I could find nothing to nourish
my suspicion; and, in spite of all my uneasiness, he
made me at last entirely his own again, nor did he in
the least perceive that I was uneasy, and therefore I
could not suspect him of deceit.

One day, walking up the same hill, but the weather
being hazy at sea, so that we could not see the con-
tinent, I called to him, and said, " Friday, do not you
wish yourself in your own country, your own nation P "
" Yes," he said, " I be much 0 glad to be at my own
nation." " What would you do there? " said I.
" Would you turn wild again, eat men's flesh again,
and be a savage as you were before?" He looked
full of ooncem, and shaking his head said, " No, no;
Friday tell them to live good; tell them to pray God;
tell them to eat com-bread, cattle-flesh, milk, no eat
man again." " Why then," said I to him, " they will
kill you." He looked grave at that, and then said,
" No, they no kill me, they willing love learn." He
meant by this they would be willing to learn. He
added, they learned much of the bearded mans that
come in the boat. Then I asked him if he would go
back to them? He smiled at that, and told me he
could not swim so far. I told him I would make a
canoe for him. He told me he would go, if I would go
with him. " I go! " says I; " why, they will eat me
if I come there." " No, no," says he, " me make they
no eat you ; me make they much love you." He meant
he would tell them how I had killed his enemies, and
saved his life, and so he would make them love me.
Then he told me, as well as he could, how kind they
were to seventeen white men, or bearded men, as he
called them, who came on shore there in distress.

From this time I confess I had a mind to venture over,
and see if I could possibly join with those bearded men,
who, I made no doubt, were Spaniards or Portuguese;
not doubting but, if I could, we might find some method
to escape from thence, being upon the continent, and
a good company together, better than I could from an
island forty miles off the shore, and alone, without
help. So, after some days, I took Friday to work
again, by way of discourse, and told him I would give
him a boat to go back to his own nation ; and accord-
ingly I carried him to my frigate, which lay on the other
side of the island, and having cleared it of water, for
I always kept it sunk in the water, I brought it out,
showed it him and we both went into it.

I found he was a most dexterous fellow at managing
it, would make it go almost as swift and fast again as
I could. So when he was in I said to him, " Well now,
Friday, shall we go to your nation ? " He looked very
dull at my saying so, which, it seems, was because he
thought the boat too small to go so far. I told him
then I had a bigger; so the next day I went to the
place where the first boat lay which I had made, but
which I could not get into water. He said that was
big enough ; but then, as I had taken no care of it, and
it had lain two or three and twenty years there, the
sun had split and dried it, and it was in a manner rotten.
Friday told me such a boat would do very well, and
would carry " much enough victual, drink, brea ";
that was his way of talking.
PON the whole, I was by this time so fixed upon

I l my design of going over with him to the
continent, that I told him we would go and make

one as big as that, and he should go home in it. He
answered not one word, but looked very grave and sad.
I asked him what was the matter with him ? He asked
me again thus, " Why you angry mad with Friday?
what me done ? " I asked him what he meant. I told
himeas not angrywithhim at all. "Noangry! no
angry!" says he, repeating the words several times.
" Why send Friday home away to my nation ? "
" Why," says I, " Friday, did you not say you wished
you were there? " " Yes, yes," says he, "wish be
both there, no wish Friday there, no master there? "
In a word, he would not think of going there without
me. " I go there, Friday? " says I ; " what shall I do
there? " He turned very quick upon me at this:
" You do great deal much good," says he ; " you teach
wild mans to be good, sober, tame mans ; you tell them
know God, pray God, and live new life." " Alas !
Friday," says I, " thou knowest not what thou sayest.
I am but an ignorant man myself." " Yes, yes," says
he, " you teachee me good, you teachee them good."
" No, no, Friday," says I, " you shall go without me ;
leave me here to live by myself, as I did before." He
looked confused again at that word, and running to
one of the hatchets which he used to wear, he takes it

250
up hastily, comes and gives it me. " What must I do
with this? " says I to him. " You take kill Friday,"
says he. " What must I kill you for? " said I again.
He returns very quick, " What you send Friday away
for? Take kill Friday, no send Friday away." This
he Spoke so earnestly, that I saw tears stand in his
eyes. In a word, I so plainly discovered the utmost
affection in him to me, and a firm resolution in him,
that I told him then, and often after, that I Would
never send him away from me if he was willing to stay
with me.

Upon the whole, as I found by all his discourse a
settled affection to me, and that nothing should part
him from me, so I found all the foundation of his desire
to go to his own country was laid in his ardent affection
to the people, and his hopes of my doing them good ; a
thing which, as I had no notion of myself, so I had not
the least thought or intention or desire of undertaking
it. But still I found a strong inclination to my
attempting an escape, as above, founded on the
supposition gathered from the discourse, viz., that
there were seventeen bearded men there; and, therefore,
without any more delay I went to work with Friday
to find out a great tree proper to fell, and make a large
periagua, or canoe, to undertake the voyage. There
were trees enough in the island to have built a little
fleet, not of periaguas and canoes, but even of good
large vessels. But the main thing I looked at was, to
get one so near the water that we might launch
it when it was made, to avoid the mistake I committed
at first.

At last Friday pitched upon a tree, for I found he
knew much better than I what kind of wood was
fittest for it ; nor can I tell, to this day, what wood to
call the tree we cut down, except that it was very like
the tree we call fustic, or between that and the
Nicaragua wood, for it was much of the same colour
and smell. Friday was for burning the hollow or
cavity of this tree out, to make it for a boat, but I
showed him how rather to cut it out with tools; which
after I had showed him how to use, he did very handily ;
and in about a month's hard labour we finished it, and
made it very handsome ; especially when, with our
axes, which I showed him how to handle, we cut and
hewed the outside into the true shape of a boat. After
this, however, it cost us near a fortnight's time to get
her along, as it were inch by inch, upon great rollers
into the water; but when she was in, she would have
carried twenty men with great ease.

When she was in the water, and though she was so
big, it amazed me to see with what dexterity, and how
swift my man Friday would manage her, turn her, and
paddle her along. 50 I asked him if he would, and if
we might venture over in her. " Yes," he said, " he
venture over in her very well, though great blow wind."
However, I had a farther design that he knew nothing
of, and that was to make a mast and sail, and to fit her
with an anchor and cable. As to a mast, that was
easy enough to get ; so I pitched upon a straight
young cedar tree, which I found near the place, and
which there was great plenty of in the island ; and I set
Friday to work to cut it down, and gave him directions
how to shape and order it. But as to the sail, that
was my particular care. I knew I had old sails, or
rather pieces of old sails enough ; but as I had had them
now twenty-six years by me, and had not been very
careful to preserve them, not imagining that I should
ever have this kind of use for them, I did not doubt
but they were all rotten, and indeed, most of them
were so. However, I found two pieces which appeared
pretty good, and with these I went to work, and with
a great deal of pains, and awkward tedious stitching
(you may be sure) for want of needles, I, at length,
made a three-comer ugly thing, like what we call in
England a shoulder-of-mutton sail, to go with a boom
at bottom, and a little short sprit at the top, such as
usually our ships' longboats sail with, and such as I
best know how to manage; because it was such a one
as I had to the boat in which I made my escape from
Barbary, as related in the first part of my story.

I was near two months performing this last work,
viz., rigging and fitting my mast and sails; for I
finished them very complete, making a small stay, and
a sail, or foresail, to it, to assist, if we should turn to
windward; and, which was more than all, I fixed a
rudder to the stern of her to steer with ; and though I
was but a bungling shipwright, yet as I knew the
usefulness, and even necessity, of such a thing, I
applied myself with so much pains to do it, that at last
I brought.it to pass; though, considering the many
dull contrivances I had for it that failed, I think it
cost me almost as much labour as making the boat.

After all this was done too, I had my man Friday to
teach as to what belonged to the navigation of my
boat; for though he knew very well how to paddle a
canoe, he knew nothing what belonged to a sail and a
rudder; and was the most amazed when he saw me
work the boat to and again in the sea by the rudder,
and how the sail jibbed, and filled this way, or that way,
as the course we sailed changed; I say, when he saw
this, he stood like one astonished and amazed. How-
ever, with a little use I made all these things familiar
to him, and he became an expert sailor, except that as
to the compass I could make him understand very
little of that. On the other hand, as there was very
little cloudy weather, and seldom or never any fogs in
those parts, there was the less occasion for a compass,
seeing the stars were always to be seen by night, and
the shore by day, except in the rainy seasons, and
then nobody cared to stir abroad, either by land
or sea.

I was now entered on the seven and twentieth year
of my captivity in this place; though the three last
years that I had this creature with me ought rather to
be left out of the account, my habitation being quite
of another kind than in all the rest of the time. I kept
the anniversary of my landing here with the same
thankfulness to God for His mercies as at first ; and if
I had such cause of acknowledgment at first, I had
much more so now, having such additional testimonies
of the care of Providence over me, and the great hopes
I had of being effectually and speedily delivered; for
I had an invincible impression upon my thoughts that
my deliverance was at hand, and that I should not be
another year in this place. However, I went on with
my husbandry, digging, planting, fencing, as usual.
I gathered and cured my grapes, and did every
necessary thing as before.
The rainy season was, in the meantime, upon me,
when I kept more within doors than at other times;
so I had stowed our new vessel as secure as we could,
bringing her up into the creek, where, as I said in the
beginning, I landed my rafts from the ship; and
hauling her up to the shore at high-water mark, I made
my man Friday dig a little dock, just big enough to
hold her, and just deep enough to give her water
enough to float in ; and then, when the tide was out,
we made a strong dam across the end of it, to keep the
water out ; and so she lay dry, as to the tide, from the
sea; and to keep the rain off, we laid a great many
boughs of trees, so thick, that she was as well thatched
as a house; and thus we waited for the month of
November and December, in which I designed to make
my adventure.

When the settled season began to come in, as the
thought of my design returned with the fair weather,
I was preparing daily for the voyage; and the first
thing I did was to lay by a certain quantity of pro-
visions, being the stores for our voyage ; and intended,
in a week or a fortnight's time, to open the dock, and
launch out our boat. I was busy one morning upon
something of this kind, when I called to Friday, and
bid him go to the sea-shore and see if he could find a
turtle, or tortoise, a thing which we generally got once
a week, for the sake of the eggs as well as the flesh.
Friday had not been long gone when he came running
back, and flew over my outer wall, or fence, like one
that felt not the ground, or the steps he set his feet on ;
and before I had time to speak to him, he cries out to
me, "0 master! 0 master! 0 sorrow! 0 bad!"
" What's the matter, Friday? " says I. " O yonder,
there," says he, " one, two, three canoe! one, two,
three I " By his way of speaking, I, concluded there
were six; but, on inquiry, I found it was but three.
" Well, Friday," says I, " do not be frighted." So I
heartened him up as well as I could. However, I saw
the poor fellow was most terribly scared; for nothing
ran in his head but that they were come to look for him,
and would cut him in pieces, and eat him ; and the poor
fellow trembled so, that I scarce knew what to do with
him. I comforted him as well as I could, and told him
I was in as much danger as he, and that they would eat
me as well as him. " But," says I, " Friday, we must
resolve to fight them. Can you fight, Friday? " " Me
shoot," says he ; " but there come many great number."
" No matter for that," said I again; " our guns will
fright them that we do not kill." 80 I asked him
whether, if I resolved to defend him, he would defend
me, and stand by me, and do just as I bid him. He
said, " Me die when you bid die, master." So I went
and fetched a good dram of rum, and gave him ; for I
had been so good a husband of my rum, that I had a
great deal left. When he had drank it, I made him
take the two fowling-pieces, which we always carried,
and load them with large swan-shot, as big as small
pistol-bullets. Then I took four muskets, and loaded
them with two slugs and five small bullets each ; and
my two pistols I loaded with a brace of bullets each.
I hung my great sword, as usual, naked by my side,
and gave Friday his hatchet.

When I had thus prepared myself, I took my
perspective glass, and went up to the side of the hill
to see what I could discover ; and I found quickly, by
by glass, that there were one and twenty savages, three
prisoners, and three canoes, and that their whole
business seemed to be the triumphant banquet upon
these three human bodies ; a barbarous feast indeed,
but nothing more than, as I had observed, was usual
with them.

I observed also that they were landed, not where
they had done when Friday made his escape, but
nearer to my creek, where the shore was low, and where
a thick wood came close almost dowu to the sea. This,
with the abhorrence of the inhuman errand these
wretches came about, filled me with such indignation,
that I came down again to Friday, and told him I was
resolved to go down to them, and kill them all, and
asked him if he would stand by me. He was now
gotten over his fright, and his spirits being a little
raised with the dram I had given him, he was very
cheerful, and told me, as before, he would die when I
bid die.

In this fit of fury, I took first and divided the arms
which I had charged, as before, between us. I gave
Friday one pistol to stick in his girdle, and three guns
upon his shoulder ; and I took one pistol, and the other
three myself, and in this posture we marched out. I
took a small bottle of rum in my pocket, and gave

'Friday a large bag with more powder and bullet ; and
as to orders, I charged him to keep close behind me,
and not to stir, or shoot, or do anything, till I bid him,
and in the meantime not to speak a word. In this
posture I fetched a compass to my right hand of near
a mile, as well to get over the creek as to get into the

x9
wood, so that I might come within shot of them before
I should be discovered, which I had seen, by my glass,
it was easy to do.

While I was making this march, my former thoughts
returning, I began to abate my resolution. I do not
mean that I entertained any fear of their number;
for as they were naked, unarmed wretches, 'tis certain
I was superior to them ; nay, though I had been alone.
But it occurred to my thoughts what call, what
occasion, much less what necessity, I was in to go and
dip my hands in blood, to attack people who had
neither done or intended me any wrong; that when-
ever God thought fit, He would take the cause into
His own hands, and by national vengeance, punish
them, as a people, for national crimes ; but that, in the
meantime, it was none of my business ; that, it was
true, Friday might justify it, because he was a
declared enemy, and in a state of war with those very
particular people, and it was lawful for him to attack
them; but I could not say the same with respect to
me. These things were so warmly pressed upon my
thoughts all the way as I went, that I resolved I would
only go and place myself near them, that I might
observe their barbarous feast, and that I would act then
as God should direct; but that, unless something
offered that was more a call to me than yet I knew of,
I would not meddle with them.

With this resolution I entered the wood, and with
all possible wariness and silence, Friday following close
at my heels, I marched till I came to the skirt of the
wood, on the side which was next to them; only that
one comer of the wood lay between me and them.
Here I called softly to Friday, and showing him a great
tree, which was just at the comer of the wood, I bade
him go to the tree and bring me word if he could see
there plainly what they were doing. He did so, and
came immediately back to me. and told me they might
be plainly viewed there; that they were all about
their fire, eating the flesh of one of their prisoners, and
that another lay bound upon the sand, a little from
them, which, he said, they would kill next ; and, which
fired all the very soul within me, he told me it was not
one of their nation, but one of the bearded men, whom
he had told me of, that came to their country in the
boat. I was filled with horror at the very naming the
white, bearded man ; and going to the tree, I saw
plainly, by my glass, a white man, who lay upon the
beach of the sea, with his hands and his feet tied with
flags, or things like rushes, and that he was an European
and had clothes on.

There was another tree, and a little thicket beyond
it, about fifty yards nearer to them than the place
where I was, which, by going a little way about, I saw
I might come at undiscovered, and that then I should
be within half shot of them ; so I withheld my passion,
though I was indeed enraged to the highest degree ;
and going back about twenty paces, I got behind some
. bushes, which held all the way till I came to the other
tree; and then I came to a little rising ground, which
gave me a full view of them, at the distance of about
eighty yards.

I had now not a moment to lose, for nineteen of the
dreadful wretches sat upon the ground, all close
huddled together, and had just sent the other two to
butcher the poor Christian, and bring him, perhaps
limb by limb, to their fire ; and they were stooped down
to untie the bands at his feet. I turned to Friday:
" Now, Friday," said I, " do as I bid thee." Friday
said he would. " Then, Friday," says I, " do exactly
as you see me do ; fail in nothing." So I set down one
of the muskets and the fowling-piece upon the ground,
and Friday did the like by his; and with the other
musket I took my aim at the savages, bidding him do
the like. Then asking him if he was ready, he said
" Yes," " Then fire at them," said I; and the same
moment I fired also.

Friday took his aim so much better than I, that on
the side that he shot he killed two of them, and
wounded three more; and on my side I killed one, and
wounded two. They were, you may be sure, in a
dreadful consternation ; and all of them who were not
hurt jumped up upon their feet, but did not
immediately know which way to run, or which way to
look, for they knew not from whence their destruction
came. Friday kept his eyes close upon me, that, as
I had bid him, he might observe what I did ; so as soon
as the first shot was made I threw down the piece, and
took up the fowling-piece, and Friday did the like.
He sees me cock and present ; he did the same again.
" Are you ready, Friday? " said I. " Yes," says he.
" Let fly, then," says I, " in the name of God! " and
with that I fired again among the amazed wretches,
and so did F riday; and as our pieces were now loaded
with what I called swan-shot, or small pistol-bullets,
we found only two drop, but so many were wounded,
that they ran about yelling and screaming like mad
creatures, all bloody, and miserably wounded most of
them; whereof three more fell quickly after, though
not quite dead.

" Now, Friday," says I, laying down the discharged
pieces, and taking up the musket which was yet
loaded, " follow me," says I, which he did with a great
deal of courage ; upon which I rushed out of the wood,
and showed myself, and Friday close at my foot. As
soon as I perceived they saw me, I shouted as loud as
I could, and bade Friday do so too; and running as
fast as I could, which, by the way, was not very fast,
being loaden with arms as I was, I made directly
towards the poor victim, who was, as I said, lying
upon the beach, or shore, between the place where
they sat and the sea. The two butchers, who were
just going to work with him, had left him at the surprise
of our first fire, and fled in a terrible fright to the seaside,
and had jumped into a canoe, and three more of the
rest made the same way. I turned to Friday, and bid
him step forwards and fire at them. He understood
me immediately, and running about forty yards, to
be near them, he shot at them, and I thought he had
killed them all, for I saw them all fall of a heap into
the boat ; though I saw two of them up again quickly.
However, he killed two of them, and wounded the third,
- so that he lay down in the bottom of the boat as if he
had been dead.

While my man Friday fired at them, I pulled out my
knife and cut the flags that bound the poor victim;
and loosing his hands and feet, I lifted him up, and
asked him in the Portuguese tongue what he was. He
answered in Latin, Christianus ; but was so Weak and
faint, that he could scarce stand or speak. I took my
bottle out of my pocket and gave it him, making
signs that he should drink, which he did; and I gave
him a piece of bread, which he ate. Then I asked
him what countryman he was ; and he said, Espagnole ;
and being a little recovered, let me know, by all the
signs he could possibly make, how much he was in my
debt for his deliverance. " Seignor," said I, with as
much Spanish as I could make up, " we will talk
afterwards, but we must fight now. If you have any
strength left, take this pistol and sword, and lay about
you." He took them very thankfully, and no sooner
had he the arms in his hands but, as if they had put
new vigour into him, he flew upon his murderers like
a fury, and had cut two of them in pieces in an
instant ; for the truth is, as the whole was a surprise
to them, so the poor creatures were so much frighted
with the noise of our pieces, that they fell down for
mere amazement and fear, and had no more power to
attempt their own escape, than their flesh had to resist
our shot; and that was the case of those five that
Friday shot at in the boat; for as three of them fell
with the hurt they received, so the other two fell with
the fright.

I kept my piece in my hand still without firing, being
willing to keep my charge ready, because I had given
the Spaniard my pistol and sword. So I called to
Friday, and bade him run up to the tree from whence
we first fired, and fetch the arms which lay there that
had been discharged, which he did with great swiftness ;
and then giving him my musket, I sat down myself to
load all the rest again, and bade them come to me
when they wanted. While I was loading these pieces,
there happened a fierce engagement between the
Spaniard and one of the savages, who made at him
with one of their great wooden swords, the same
weapon that was to have killed him before if I had not
prevented it. The Spaniard, who was as bold and as
brave as could be imagined, though weak, had fought
this Indian 9. good while, and had cut him two great
wounds on his head; but the savage being a stout,
lusty fellow, closing in with him, had thrown him down,
being faint, and was wringing my sword out of his
hand, when the Spaniard, though undermost, wisely
quitting the sword, drew the pistol from his girdle,
shot the savage through the body, and killed him upon
the spot, before I, who was running to help him, could
come near him.

Friday being now left to his liberty, pursued the
flying wretches with no Weapon in his hand but his
hatchet ; and with that he despatched those three who,
as I said before, Were wounded at first, and fallen, and
all the rest he could come up with; and the Spaniard
coming to me for a gun, I gave him one of the fowling-
pieces, with which he pursued two of the savages, and
wounded them both; but as he was not able to run,
they both got from him into the wood, where Friday
. pursued them, and killed one of them ; but the other
was too nimble for him, and though he was wounded,
yet had plunged himself into the sea and swam with all
his might off to those two who were left in the canoe;
which three in the canoe, with one wounded, who we
know not whether he died or no, were all that escaped
our hands of one and twenty. The account of the
rest is as follows :--

3 killed at our first shot from the tree

2 killed at the next shot.

2 killed by Friday in the boat.

2 killed by ditto, of those at first wounded.

I killed by ditto in the wood.

3 killed by the Spaniard.

4 killed, being found dropped here and there of
their wounds, or killed by Friday in his chase
of them.

4 escaped in the boat, whereof one wounded, if
not dead.

21 in all.

Those that were in the canoe worked hard to get out
of gun-shot; and though Friday made two or three
shots at them, I did not find that he hit any of them.
Friday would fain have had me take one of their
canoes, and pursue them; and, indeed, I was very
anxious about their escape, lest carrying the news home
to their people they should come back perhaps with
two or three hundred of their canoes, and devour us
by mere multitude. So I consented to pursue them
by sea, and running to one of their canoes I jumped in,
and bade Friday follow me. But when I was in the
canoe, I was surprised to find another poor creature lie
there alive, bound hand and foot, as the Spaniard was,
for the slaughter, and almost dead with fear, not
knowing what the matter was; for he had not been
able to look up over the side of the boat, he was tied
so hard, neck and heels, and had been tied so long,
that he had really but little life in him.
I immediately cut the twisted flags or rushes, which
they had bound him with, and would have helped him
up ; but he could not stand or speak, but groaned most
piteously, believing, it seems, still that he was only
unbound in order to be killed.

When Friday came to him, I bade him speak to him,
and tell him of his deliverance; and pulling out my
bottle made him give the poor wretch a dram ; which,
with the news of his being delivered, revived him, and
he sat up in the boat. But when Friday came to hear
him speak, and look in his face, it would have moved
any one to tears to have seen how Friday kissed him,
embraced him, hugged him, cried, laughed, hallooed,
jumped about, danced, sung; then cried again, wrung
his hands, beat his own face and head, and then sung
and jumped about again, like a distracted creature.
It was a good while before I could make him speak
to me, or tell me what was the matter; but when he
came a little to himself, he told me that it was his
father.

It is not easy for me to express how it moved me to
see what ecstasy and filial affection had worked in this
poor savage at the sight of his father, and of his being
delivered from death; nor, indeed, can I describehalf
the extravagancies of his affection after this; for he
_ went into the boat, and out of the boat, a great many
times. When he went in to him, he would sit down
by him, open his breast, and hold his father's head
close to his bosom, half-an-hour together, to nourish it ;
then he took his arms and ankles, which were numbed
and stiff with the binding, and chafed and rubbed them
with his hands ; and I, perceiving what the case was,

19'
gave him some rum out of my bottle to rub them with,
which did them a great deal of good.

This action put an end to our pursuit of the canoe
with the other savages, who were now gotten almost
out of sight ; and it was happy for us that we did not,
for it blew so hard within two hours after, and before
they could be gotten a quarter of their way, and con-
tinued blowing so hard all night, and that from the
north-west, which was against them, that I could
not suppose their boat could live, or that they ever
reached to their own coast.

But to return to Friday. He was so busy about his
father, that I could not find in my heart to take him
off for some time ; but after I thought he could leave
him a little, I called him to me, and he came jumping
and laughing, and pleased to the highest extreme.
Then I asked him if he had given his father any bread.
He shook his head, and said, " None; ugly dog eat
all up self." So I gave him a cake of bread out of a
little pouch I carried on purpose. I also gave him a
dram for himself, but he would not taste it, but carried
it to his father. I had in my pocket also two or three
bunches of my raisins, so I gave him a handful of them
for his father. He had no sooner given his father
these raisins, but I saw him come out of the boat and
run away, as if he had been bewitched, he ran at such
a rate ; for he was the swiftest fellow of his foot that
ever I saw. I say, he run at such a rate, that he was
out of sight, as it were, in an instant ; and though I
mlled, and hallooed too, after him, it was all one,
away he went ; and in a quarter of an hour I saw him
come back again, though not so fast as he went ; and
as he came nearer I found his pace was slacker, because
he had something in his hand.

When he came up to me, I found he had been quite
home for an earthen jug, or pot, to bring his father
some fresh water, and that he had got two more cakes
or loaves of bread. The bread he gave me, but the
water he carried to his father. However, as I was very
thirsty too, I took a little sup of it. This water revived
his father more than all the rum or spirits I had given
him, for he was just fainting with thirst.

When his father had drank, I called him to know if
there was any water left. He said "Yes;" and I
bade him give it to the poor Spaniard, who was in as
much want of it as his father; and I sent one of the
cakes, that Friday brought, to the Spaniard too, who
was indeed very weak, and was reposing himself upon
a green place under the shade of a tree; and whose
limbs were also very stiff, and very much swelled
with the rude bandage he had been tied with. When
I saw that upon Friday's coming to him with the water
he sat up and drank, and took the bread, and began
to eat, I went to him, and gave him a handful of
raisins. He looked up in my face with all the tokens
of gratitude and thankfulness that could appear in
any countenance; but was so weak, notwithstanding
_ he had so exerted himself in the fight, that he could not
stand upon his feet. He tried to do it two or three
times, but was really not able, his ankles were so
swelled and so painful to him ; so I bade him sit still
and caused Friday to rub his ankles, and bathe them
with rum, as he had done his father's.

I observed the poor affectionate creature, every two
minutes or perhaps less. all the while he was here,
turned his head about to see if his father was in the
same place and posture as he left him sitting; and at
last he found he was not to be seen ; at which he started
up, and without speaking a word, flew with that swift-
ness to him, that one could scarce perceive his feet to
touch the ground as he went. But when he came, he
only found he had laid himself down to ease his limbs ;
so Friday came back to me presently, and I then spoke
to the Spaniard to let Friday help him up, if he could,
and lead him to the boat, and then he should carry him
to our dwelling, where I would take care of him. But
Friday, a lusty strong fellow, took the Spaniard quite
up upon his back, and carried him away to the boat,
and set him down softly upon the side or gunnel of the
canoe, with his feet in the inside of it, and then lifted
him quite in, and set him close to his father; and
presently stepping out again, launched the boat off,
and paddled it along the shore faster than I could walk,
though the wind blew pretty hard too. So he brought
them both safe into our creek, and leaving them in
the boat, runs away to fetch the other canoe. As he
passed me, I spoke to him, and asked him whither he
went. He told me, " Go fetch more boat." So away
he went like the wind, for sure never man or horse ran
like him; and he had the other canoe in the creek
almost as soon as I got to it by land ; so he waited me
over, and then went to help our new guests out of the
boat, which he did ; but they were neither of them able
to walk, so that poor Friday knew not what to do.

To remedy this I went to work in my thoughts, and
calling to Friday to bid them sit down on the bank
while he came to me, I soon made a kind of hand-
barrow to lay them on, and Friday and I carried them
up both together upon it between us. But when we
got them to the outside of our wall, or fortification, we
were at a worse loss than before, for it was impossible
to get them over, and I was resolved not to break it
down. So I set to work again; and Friday and I, in
about two hours' time, made a very handsome tent,
covered with old sails, and above that with boughs of
trees, being in the space without our outward fence,
and between that and the grove of young wood which
I had planted; and here we made them two beds of
such things as I had, viz., of good ricestraw, with
blankets laid upon it to lie on, and another to cover
them, on each bed.

My island was now peopled, and I thought myself
very rich in subjects; and it was a merry reflection,
which I frequently made, how like a king I looked.
First of all, the whole country was my own mere
property, so that I had an undoubted right of dominion.
Secondly, my people were perfectly subjected, I was
absolute lord and lawgiver ; they'all owed their lives to
me, and were ready to lay down their lives, if there
had been occasion of it, for me. It was remarkable,
too, we had but three subjects, and they were of three
_ different religions. My man Friday was a Protestant,
his father was a Pagan and a cannibal, and the Spaniard
was a Papist. However, I allowed liberty of conscience
throughout my dominions. But this is by the way.

As soon as I had secured my two weak rescued
prisoners, and given them shelter and a place to rest
them upon, I began to think of making some provision
for them ; and the first thing I did, I ordered Friday
to take a yearling goat, betwixt a kid and a goat, out
of my particular flock, to be killed ; when I cut off the
hinder-quarter, and chopping it into small pieces, I set
Friday to work to boiling and stewing, and made them
a very good dish, I assure you, of flesh and broth,
having put some barley and rice also into the broth ;
and as I cooked it without doors, for I made no fire
within my inner wall, so I carried it all into the new
tent, and having set a table there for them, I sat down
and ate my own dinner also with them, and as well as
I could cheered them, and encouraged them; Friday
being my interpreter, especially to his father, and,
indeed, to the Spaniard too; for the Spaniard spoke
the language of the savages pretty well.

After we had dined, or rather supped, I ordered
Friday to take one of the canoes and go and fetch our
muskets and other firearms, which, for want of time,
we had left upon the place of battle ; and the next day
I ordered him to go and bury the dead bodies of the
savages, which lay open to the sun, and would presently
be ofiensive ; and I also ordered him to bury the
horrid remains of their barbarous feast, which I knew
were pretty much, and which I could not think of
doing myself ; nay, I could not bear to see them, if I
went that way. All which he punctually performed,
and defaced the very appearance of the savages being
there ; so that when I went again I could scarce know
where it was, otherwise than by the corner of the wood
pointing to the place.

I then began to enter into a little conversation with
my two new subjects ; and first, I set Friday to enquire
of his father what he thought of the escape of the
savages in that canoe, and whether we might expect a
return of them, with a power too great for us to resist.
His first opinion was, that the savages in the boat
never could live out the storm which blew that night
they went off, but must, of necessity, be drowned, or
driven south to those other shores, where they were as
sure to be devoured as they were to be drowned if they
were cast away. But as to what they would do if they
came safe on shore, he said he knew not ; but it was
his opinion that they were so dreadfully frighted with
the manner of their being attacked, the noise, and the
fire, that he believed they would tell their people they
were all killed by thunder and lightning, not by the
hand of man ; and that the two which appeared, viz.,
Friday and me, were two heavenly spirits, or furies,
come down to destroy them, and not men with weapons.
This, he said, he knew, because he heard them all cry
out so in their language to one another; for it was
impossible to them to conceive that a man could dart
fire, and speak thunder, and kill at a distance without
lifting up the hand, as was done now. And this old
savage was in the right ; for, as I understood since by
other hands, the savages never attempted to go over
to the island afterwards. They were so terrified with
the accounts given by those four men (for, it seems,
they did escape the sea), that they believed whoever
went to that enchanted island would be destroyed with
fire from the gods.

This, however, I knew not, and therefore was under
continual apprehensions for a good while, and kept
always upon my guard, me and all my army for as
we were now four of us, I would have ventured upon
a hundred of them, fairly in the open field, at any time

In a little time, however, no more canoes appearing,
the fear of their coming wore off, and I began to take
my former thoughts of a voyage to the main into
consideration ; being. likewise assured, by Friday's
father, that I might depend upon good usage from their
nation, on his account, if I would go.
UT my thoughts were a little suspended when
BI had a serious discourse with the Spaniard, and
when I understood that there were sixteen more
of his countrymen and Portuguese who, having been
cast away, and made their escape to that side, lived
there at peace, indeed, with the savages, but were very
sore put to it for necessaries, and indeed for life. I asked
him all the particulars of their voyage, and found they
were a Spanish ship bound from the Rio de la Plata
to the Havana, being directed to leave their loading
there, which was chiefly hides and silver, and to bring
back what European goods they could meet with there ;
that they had five Portuguese seamen on board, whom
they took out of another wreck; that five of their own
men were drowned when the first ship was lost, and
that these escaped, through infinite dangers and hazards,
and arrived, almost starved, on the cannibal coast,
where they expected to have been devoured every
moment. .
He told me they had some arms with them, but they
were perfectly useless, for that they had neither powder
' or ball, the washing of the sea having spoiled all their
powder but a little, which they used, at their first
landing, to provide themselves some food.
I asked him what he thought would become of them
there, and if they had formed no design of making any
escape P He said they had many consultations about

273
it; but that having neither vessel, or tools to build
one, or provisions of any kind, their councils always
ended in tears and despair.

I asked him how he thought they would receive a
proposal from me, which might tend towards an escape ;
and whether, if they were all here, it might not be
done? I told him with freedom, I feared mostly their
treachery and ill usage of me if I put my life in their
hands ; for that gratitude was no inherent virtue in the
nature of man, nor did men always square their dealings
by the obligations they had received, so much as they
did by the advantages they expected. I told him it
would be very hard that I should be the instrument of
their deliverance, and that they should afterwards make
me their prisoner in New Spain, where an Englishman
was certain to be made a sacrifice, what necessity or
what accident soever brought him thither; and that
I had rather be delivered up to the savages, and be
devoured alive, than fall into the merciless claws of the
priests, and be carried into the Inquisition. I added,
that otherwise I was persuaded, if they were all here,
we might, with so many hands, build a bark large
enough to carry us all away, either to the Brazils,
southward, or to the islands, or Spanish coast, north-
ward; but that if, in requital, they should, when I had
put weapons into their hands, carry me by force among
their own people, I might be ill used for my kindness to
them, and make my case worse than it was before.

He answered, with a great deal of candour and
ingenuity, that their condition was so miserable, and
they were so sensible of it, that he believed they would
abhor the thought of using any man unkindly that
should contribute to their deliverance; and that, if
I pleased, he would go to them with the old man, and
discourse with them about it, and return again, and
bring me their answer; that he would make conditions
with them upon their solemn oath that they should be
absolutely under my leading, as their commander and
captain; and that they should swear upon the holy
sacraments and the gospel to be true to me, and to go
to such Christian country as that I should agree to,
and no other, and to be directed wholly and absolutely
by my orders till they were landed safely in such
country as I intended ; and that he would bring a
contract from them, under their hands, for that purpose.

Then he told me he would first swear to me himself,
that he would never stir from me as long as he lived
till I gave him orders ; and that he would take my side
to the last drop of his blood, if there should happen
the least breach of faith among his countrymen.

He told me they were all of them very civil, honest
men, and they were under the greatest distress imagin-
able, having neither weapons or clothes, or any food,
but at the mercy and discretion of the savages; out
of all hopes of ever returning to their own country;
and that he was sure, if I would undertake their relief,
they would live and die for me.

_ Upon these assurances I resolved to venture to relieve

them. if possible, and to send the old savage and this
Spaniard over to them to treat. But when we had
gotten all things in a readiness to go, the Spaniard
himself started an objection, which had so much
prudence in it on one hand, and so much sincerity on
the other hand, that I could not but be very well
satisfied in it, and by his advice put off the deliverance
of his comrades for at least half a year. The case was
thus.

He had been with us now about a month, during
which time I had let him see in what manner I had
provided, with the assistance of Providence, for my
support ; and he saw evidently what stock of corn and
rice I had made up ; which, as it was more than sufficient
for myself, so it was not sufficient, at least without
good husbandry, for my family, now it was increased
to number four; but much less would it be sufficient
if his countrymen, who were, as he said, fourteen, still
alive, should come over; and least of all would it be
sufficient to victual our vessel, if we should build one,
for a voyage to any of the Christian colonies of America.
So he told me he thought it would be more advisable to
let him and the two others dig and cultivate some more
land, as much as I could spare seed to sow ; and that
we should wait another harvest, that we might have a
supply of corn for his countrymen when they should
come ; for want might be a temptation to them to
disagree, or not to think themselves delivered, otherwise
than out of one difficulty into another. " You know,"
says he, " the children of Israel, though they rejoiced
at first for their being delivered out of Egypt, yet
rebelled even against God Himself, that delivered them,
when they came to want bread in the wilderness."

His caution was so seasonable, and his advice so
good, that I could not but be very well pleased with
his proposal, as well as I was satisfied with his fidelity.
So we fell to digging all four of us, as well as the wooden
tools we were furnished with permitted ; and in about
a month's time, by the end of which it was seed-time,
we had gotten as much land cured and trimmed up as
we sowed twenty-two bushels of barley on, and sixteen
jars of rice ; which was, in short, all the seed we had to
spare; nor, indeed, did we leave ourselves barley
sufficient for our own food for the six months that we
had to expect our crop; that is to say, reckoning from
the time we set our seed aside for sowing; for it is not
to be supposed it is six months in the ground in that
country.

Having now society enough, and our number being
sufficient to put us out of fear of the savages, if they
had come, unless their number had been very great, we
went freely all over the island, wherever we found
occasion ; and as here we had our escape or deliverance
upon our thoughts, it was impossible, at least for me,
to have the means of it out of mine. To this purpose
I marked out several trees which I thought fit for our
work, and I set Friday and his father to cutting them
down ; and then I caused the Spaniard, to whom
I imparted my thought on that affair, to oversee and
direct their work. I showed them with what inde-
fatigable pains I had hewed a large tree into single
planks, and I caused them to do the like, till they had
made about a dozen large planks of good oak, near two
feet broad, thirty-five feet long, and from two inches to
' four inches thick. What prodigious labour it took up,
any one may imagine.

At the same time, I contrived to increase my little
flock of tame goats as much as I could; and to this
purpose I made Friday and the Spaniard go out one
day, and myself with Friday the next day, for we took
our turns, and by this means we got above twenty
young kids to breed up with the rest ; for whenever we
shot the dam, we saved the kids, and added them to
our flock. But above all, the season for curing the
grapes coming on, I caused such a prodigious quantity
to be hung up in the sun, that I believe, had we been
at Alicant, where the raisins of the sun are cured, we
could have filled sixty or eighty barrels; and these,
with our bread, was a great part of our food, and very
good living too, I assure you; for it is an exceeding
nourishing food.

It was now harvest, and our crop in good order.
It was not the most plentiful increase I had seen in the
island, but, however, it was enough to answer our
end; for from our twenty-two bushels of barley we
brought in and thrashed out above two hundred and
twenty bushels, and the like in proportion of the rice ;
which was store enough for our food to the next harvest,
though all the sixteen Spaniards had been on shore
with me; or if we had been ready for a voyage, it
would very plentifully have victualled our ship to
have carried us to any part of the world, that is to
say, of America.

When we had thus housed and secured our magazine
of corn, we fell to work to make more wicker-work, viz.,
great baskets, in which we kept it ; and the Spaniard
was very handy and dexterous at this part, and often
blamed me that I did not make some things for defence
of this kind of work ; but I saw no need of it.

And now having a full supply of food for all the
guests I expected, I gave the Spaniard leave to go
over to the main, to see what he could do with those
he had left behind him there. I gave him a strict
charge in writing not to bring any man with him who
would not first swear, in the presence of himself and
of the old savage, that he would no way injure, fight
with, or attack the person he should find in the island,
who was so kind to send for them in order to effect their
deliverance ; but that they would stand by and defend
him against all such attempts, and wherever they went
would be entirely under and subjected to his com-
mands ; and that this should be put in writing, and
signed with their hands. How we were to have this
done, when I knew they had neither pen or ink, that
indeed was a question which we never asked.

Under these instructions, the Spaniard and the old
savage, the father of Friday, went away in one of the
canoes which they might be said to have come in, or
rather were brought in, when they came as prisoners
to be devoured by the savages.

I gave each of them a musket, with a firelock on it,
and about eight charges of powder and ball, charging
them to be very good husbands of both, and not to
use either of them but upon urgent occasion.

This was a cheerful work, being the first measures
used by me, in view of my deliverance, for now twenty-
seven years and some days. I gave them provisions
of bread and of dried grapes sufficient for themselves

'for many days, and sufl'icient for all their countrymen
for about eight days' time; and wishing them a good
voyage, I see them go, agreeing with them about a
signal they should hang out at their return, by which
I should know them again, when they came back, at a
distance, before they came on shore.
They went away with a fair gale on the day that the
moon was at full, by my account in the month of
October; but as for an exact reckoning of days, after
I had once lost it, I could never recover it again ; nor
had I kept even the number of years so punctually as
to be sure that I was right, though as it proved, when
I afterwards examined my account, I found I had kept
a true reckoning of years.

It was no less than eight days I had waited for them,
when a strange and unforeseen accident intervened, of
which the like has not perhaps been heard of in history.
I was fast asleep in my hutch one morning, when my
man Friday came running in to me, and called aloud,
" Master, master, they are come, they are come! "

I jumped up, and, regardless of danger, I went out
as soon as I could get my clothes on, through my little
grove, which, by the way, was by this time grown to
be a very thick wood; I say, regardless of danger, I
went without my arms, which was not my custom to
do ; but I was surprised when, turning my eyes to the
sea, I presently saw a boat at about a league and half's
distance standing in for the shore, with a shoulder-of~
mutton sail, as they call it, and the wind blowing pretty
fair to bring them in; also I observed presently that
they did not come from that side which the shore lay
on, but from the southernmost end of the island. Upon
this I called Friday in, and bid him lie close. for these
were not the people we looked for, and that we might
not know yet whether they were friends or enemies.

In the next place, I went in to fetch my perspective
glass, to see what I could make of them; and having
taken the ladder out, I climbed up to the top of the
hill, as I used to do when I was apprehensive of any-
thing, and to take my view the plainer, without being
discovered.

I had scarce set my foot on the hill, when my eye
plainly discovered a ship lying at an anchor at about
two leagues and an half's distance from me, south-
south-east, but not above a league and an half from
the shore. By my observation, it appeared plainly to
be an English ship, and the boat appeared to be an
English longboat.

I cannot express the confusion I was in ; though the
joy of seeing a ship, and one who I had reason to believe

was manned by my own countrymen, and consequently
friends, was such as I cannot describe. But yet I had
some secret doubts hung about me, I cannot tell from
whence they came, bidding me keep upon my guard.
In the first place, it occurred to me to consider what
business an English ship could have in that part of the
world, since it was not the way to or from any part
of the world where the English had any traflic; and
I knew there had been no storms to drive them in
there as in distress; and that if they were English
really, it was most probable that they were here upon
no good design ; and that I had better continue as I
was, than fall into the hands of thieves and murderers.
I had not kept myself long in this posture, but I

' saw the boat draw near the shore, as if they looked
for a creek to thrust in at, for the convenience of
landing. However, as they did not come quite far
enough, they did not see the little inlet where I formerly
landed my rafts; but run their boat on shore upon
the beach, at about half a. mile from me, which was
very happy for me; for otherwise they would have
landed just, as I may say, at my door, and would soon
have beaten me out of my castle, and perhaps have

plundered me of all I had.

When they were on shore, I was fully satisfied that
they were Englishmen, at least most of them ; one or
two I thought were Dutch, but it did not prove so.
There were in all eleven men, whereof three of them I
found were unarmed and, as I thought, bound; and
when the first four or five of them were jumped on
shore, they took those three out of the boat, as
prisoners. One of the three I could perceive using the
most passionate gestures of entreaty, affliction, and
despair, even to a kind of extravagance ; and the other
two, I could perceive, lifted up their hands sometimes,
and appeared concerned indeed, but not to such a
degree as the first

I was perfectly confounded at the sight, and knew
not what the meaning of it should be. Friday called
out to me in English as well as he could, " 0 master 1
you see English mans eat prisoner as well as savage
mans." " Why," says I, " Friday, do you think they
are a-going to eat them then P " " Yes," says Friday,
" they will eat them." " No, no," says I, " Friday,
I am afraid they will murder them indeed, but you
may be sure they will not eat them."

All this while I had no thought of what the matter
really was, but stood trembling with the horror of the
sight, expecting every moment when the three prisoners
should be killed; nay, once I saw one of the villains
lift up his arm with a great cutlass, as the seamen call
it, or sword, to strike one of the poor men; and I
expected to see him fall every moment, at which all
the blood in my body seemed to run chill in my veins.

I wished heartily now for my Spaniard, and the
savage that was gone with him; or that I had any
way to have come undiscovered within shot of them,
that I might have rescued the three men, for I saw no
firearms they had among them ; but it fell out to my
mind another way.

After I had observed the outrageous usage of the
three men by the insolent seamen, I observed the
fellOWS run scattering about the land, as if they wanted
to see the country. I observed that the three other
men had liberty to go also where they pleased; but
they sat down all three upon the ground, very pensive,
and looked like men in despair.

This put me in mind of the first time when I came
on shore, and began to look about me; how I gave
myself over for lost; how wildly I looked round me;
what dreadful apprehensions I had ; and how I lodged
in the tree all night, for fear of being devoured by
wild beasts.

As I knew nothing that night of the supply I was to
receive by the providential driving of the ship nearer
the land by the storms and tide, by which I have since
been so long nourished and supported ; so these three
poor desolate men knew nothing how certain of
deliverance and supply they were, how near it was to
them, and how effectually and really they were in a
condition of safety, at the same time that they thought
themselves lost, and their case desperate.

It was just at the top of high-water when these
people came on shore; and while partly they stood
parleying with the prisoners they brought, and partly
while they rambled about to see what kind of a place
they Were in, they had carelessly stayed till the tide
was spent, and the water was ebbed considerably away,
leaving their boat aground.

They had left two men in the boat, who, as I found
afterwards, having drank a little too much brandy, fell
asleep. However, one of them waking sooner than the
other, and finding the boat too fast aground for him to
stir it, hallooed for the rest, who were straggling about,
upon which they all soon came to the boat ; but it was
past all their strength to launch her, the boat being
very heavy, and the shore on that side being a soft
oozy sand, almost like a quicksand.

In this condition, like true seamen, who are perhaps
the least of all mankind given to forethought, they gave
it over, and away they strolled about the country
again ; and I heard one of them say aloud to another,
calling them off from the boat, " Why, let her alone,
Jack, can't ye? she will float next tide; " by which
I was fully confirmed in the main inquiry of what
countrymen they were.

All this while I kept myself very close, not once
daring to stir out of my castle, any farther than to my
place of observation near the top of the hill; and very
glad I was to think how well it was fortified. I knew it
was no less than ten hours before the boat could be on
float again, and by that time it would be dark, and
I might be at more liberty to see their motions, and to
hear their discourse, if they had any.

In the meantime, I fitted myself up for a battle, as
before, though with more caution, knowing I had to do
with another kind of enemy than I had at first.
I ordered Friday also, whom I had made an excellent
marksman with his gun, to load himself with arms.
I took myself two fowling-pieces, and I gave him three
muskets. My figure, indeed, was very fierce. I had
my formidable goat-skin coat on, with the great cap
I have mentioned, a naked sword by my side, two
pistols in my belt, and a gun upon each shoulder.

It was my design, as I said above, not to have made
any attempt till it was dark; but about two o'clock,
being the heat of the day, I found that, in short, they
were all gone straggling into the woods, and, as
I thought, were laid down to sleep. The three poor
distressed men, too anxious for their condition to get
any sleep, were, however, set down under the shelter of
a great tree, at about a quarter of a mile from me, and,
as I thought, out of sight of any of the rest.

Upon this I resolved to discover myself to them, and
learn something of their condition. Immediately
I marched in the figure as above, my man Friday at
a good distance behind me, as formidable for his arms
as I, but not making quite so staring a spectre-like
figure as I did.

I came as near them undiscovered as I could, and
then, before any of them saw me, I called aloud to them
in Spanish, " What are ye, gentlemen ? "

' They started up at the noise, but were ten times more
confounded when they saw me, and the uncouth
figure that I made. They made no answer at all, but
I thought I perceived them just going to fly from me,
when I spoke to them in English. " Gentlemen," said
I, " do not be surprised at me ; perhaps you may have
a friend near you, when you did not expect it." " He
must be sent directly from heaven then," said one of
them very gravely to me, and pulling off his hat at the
same time to me, " for our condition is past the help
of man." " All help is from heaven, sir," said I.
" But can you put a stranger in the way how to help
you, for you seem to me to be in some great distress ?
I saw you when you landed; and when you seemed to
make applications to the brutes that came with you,
I saw one of them lift up his sword to kill you."

The poor man, with tears running down his face, and
trembling, looking like one astonished, returned, " Am
I talking to God, or man? Is it a real man, or an
angel ? " " Be in no fear about that sir," said I.
" If God had sent an angel to relieve you, he would have
come better clothed, and armed after another manner
than you see me in. Pray lay aside your fears ; I am
a man, an Englishman, and diSposed to assist you, you
see. I have one servant only ; we have arms and
ammunition ; tell us freely, can we serve you ? What
is your case P "

" Our case," said he, " sir, is too long to tell you
while our murderers are so near; but in short, sir,
I was commander of that ship ; my men have mutinied
against me, they have been hardly prevailed on not to
murder me ; and at last have set me on shore in this
desolate place, with these two men with me, one my
mate, the other a passenger, where we expected to
perish, believing the place to be uninhabited, and
know not yet what to think of it."

" Where are those brutes, your enemies ? " said I.
" Do you know where they are gone ? " " There they
lie, sir," said he, pointing to a thicket of trees. " My
heart tremble: for fear they have seen us, and heard you
speak. If they have, they will certainly murder us all."

" Have they any firearms? " said I. He answered,
they had only two pieces, and one which they left in
the boat. " Well then," said I, " leave the rest to me,
I see they are all asleep ; it is an easy thing to kill them
all; but shall we rather take them prisoners? " He
told me there were two desperate villains among them
that it was scarce safe to show any mercy to; but if
they were secured, he believed all the rest would return
to their duty. I asked him which they were. He told
me he could not at that distance describe them, but he
would obey my orders in anything I would direct.
" Well," says I, " let us retreat out of their view or
hearing, lest they awake, and we will resolve further."
So they willingly went back with me, till the woods
covered us from them.

" Look you, sir," said I, " if I venture upon your
deliverance, are you willing to make two conditions
with me? " He anticipated my proposals, by telling
me that both he and the ship, if recovered, should be
wholly directed and commanded by me in everything ;
and if the ship was not recovered, he would live and
die with me in what part of the world soever I would
send him ; and the two other men said the same.

' " Well," says I, " my conditions are but two.
I. That while you stay on this island with me, you will
not pretend to any authority here ; and if I put arms
into your hands, you will, upon all occasions, give
them up to me, and do no prejudice to me or mine
upon this island ; and in the meantime, be governed by
my orders. 2. That if the ship is, or may be, recovered,
you will carry me and my man to England, passage
free."

He gave me all the assurances that the invention and
faith of man could devise that he would comply with
these most reasonable demands; and, besides, would
owe his life to me, and acknowledge it upon all
occasions, as long as he lived.

" Well then," said I, " here are three muskets for
you, with powder and ball; tell me next what you
think is proper to be done." He showed all the testi-
mony of his gratitude that he was able, but offered to
be wholly guided by me. I told him I thought it was
hard venturing anything ; but the best method I could
think of was to fire upon them at once as they lay;
and if any was not killed at the first volley, and offered
to submit, we might save them, and so put it wholly
upon God's providence to direct the shot.

He said very modestly that he was 10th to kill them,
if he could help it ; but that those two were incorrigible
villains, and had been the authors of all the mutiny in
the ship, and if they escaped, we should be undone
still ; for they would go on board and bring the whole
ship's company, and destroy us all. " Well then,"
says I, " necessity legitirnates my advice, for it is the
only way to save our lives." However, seeing him still
cautious of shedding blood, I told him they should go
themselves, and manage as they found convenient.

In the middle of this discourse we heard some of
them awake, and soon after we saw two of them on
their feet. I asked him if either of them were of the
men who he had said were the heads of the mutiny.Knocxsb Hm Down wm-x In Stock or ms Musxnr
He said, " No." " Well then," said I, " you may let
them escape ; and Providence seems to have wakened
them on purpose to save themselves. Now," says I,
" if the rest escape you, it is your fault."

Animated with this, he took the musket I had given
him in his hand, and a pistol in his belt, and his two
comrades with him, with each man a piece in his hand.
The two men who were with him going first made some
noise, at which one of the seamen who was awake
turned about, and seeing them coming cried out to the
rest ; but it was too late then, for the moment he cried
out they fired; I mean the two men, the captain
wisely reserving his own piece. They had so well
aimed their shot at the men they knew, that one of
them was killed on the spot, and the other very much
wounded; but not being dead, he started up upon his
feet, and called eagerly for help to the other. But the
captain stepping to him, told him 'twas too late to cry
for help, he should all upon God to forgive his villainy ;
and with that word knocked him down with the stock
of his musket, so that he never spoke more. There
were three more in the company, and one of them was
also slightly wounded. By this time I was come ; and
when they saw their danger, and that it was in vain-to
resist, they begged for mercy. The captain told them
.he would spare their lives if they would give him any
assurance of their abhorrence of the treachery they had
been guilty of, and would swear to be faithful to him in
recovering the ship, and afterwards in carrying her
back to Jamaica, from whence they came. They gave
him all the protestations of their sincerity that could
be desired, and he was willing to believe them, and
spare their lives, which I was not against, only I obliged
him to keep them bound hand and foot while they Were
upon the island.

While this was doing, I sent Friday with the captain's
mate to the boat, with orders to secure her, and bring
away the oars and sail, which they did ; and by-and-by
three straggling men, that were (happily for them)
parted from the rest, came back upon hearing the guns
fired; and seeing their captain, who before was their
prisoner, now their conqueror, they submitted to be
bound also, and so our victory was complete.

It now remained that the captain and I should
inquire into one another's circumstances. I began first,
and told him my whole history, which he heard with
an attention even to amazement ; and particularly at
the wonderful manner of my being furnished with
provisions and ammunition ; and, indeed, as my story
is a whole collection of wonders, it affected him deeply.
But when he reflected from thence upon himself, and
how I seemed to have been preserved there on purpose
to save his life, the tears ran down his face, and he
could not speak a word more.

After this communication was at an end, I carried
him and his two men into my apartment, leading them
in just where I came out, viz., at the top of the house,
where I refreshed them with such provisions as I had,
and showed them all the contrivances I had made
during my long, long inhabiting that place.

All I showed them, all I said to them, was perfectly
amazing; but above all, the captain admired my
fortification, and how perfectly I had concealed my
retreat with a grove of trees, which, having been now
planted near twenty years, and the trees growing much
faster than in England, was become a little wood, and
so thick, that it was unpassable in any part of it but
at that one side where I had reserved my little winding
passage into it. I told him this was my castle and
my residence, but that I had a seat in the country, as
most princes have, whither I could retreat upon
occasion, and I would show him that too another time ;
but at present, our business was to consider how to
recover the ship. He agreed with me as to that, but
told me he was perfectly at a loss what measures to
take, for that there were still six and twenty hands on
board, who having entered into a cursed conspiracy,
by which they had all forfeited their lives to the law,
would be hardened in it now by desperation, and
would carry it on, knowing that if they were reduced,
they should be brought to the gallows as soon as they
came to England, or to any of the English colonies;
and that therefore there would be no attacking them
with so small a number as we were.

I mused for some time upon what he said, and found
it was a very rational conclusion, and that therefore
something was to be resolved on very speedily, as well
to draw the men on board into some snare for their
surprise, as to prevent their landing upon us, and
- destroying us. Upon this it presently occurred to me
that in a little while the ship's crew, wondering what
was become of their comrades, and of the boat, would
certainly come on shore in their other boat to see for
them ; and that then, perhaps, they might come armed,
and be too strong for us. This he allowed was rational.

Upon this, I told him the first thing we had to do
was to stave the boat, which lay upon the beach, so
that they might not carry her off; and taking every-
thing out of her, leave her so far useless as not to be
fit to swim. Accordingly we went on board, took the
arms which were left on board out of her, and whatever
else we found there, which was a bottle of brandy, and
another of rum, a few biscuit-cakes, a horn of powder
and a great lump of sugar in a piece of canvas--the
sugar was five or six pounds; all which was very
welcome to me, especially the brandy and sugar, of
which I had had none left for many years.

When we had carried all these things on shore (the
oars, mast, sail, and rudder of the boat were carried
away before, as above), we knocked a great hole in her
bottom, that if they had come strong enough to master
us, yet they could not carry off the boat.

Indeed, it was not much in my thoughts that we
could be able to recover the ship; but my view was,
that if they went away without the boat, I did not
much question to make her fit again to carry us away
to the Leeward Islands, and call upon our friends the
Spaniards in my way; for I had them still in my
thoughts.
HILE we were thus preparing our designs,

and had first, by main strength, heaved the

boat up upon the beach so high that the tide
would not float her off at high-water mark ; and besides,
had broke a hole in her bottom too big to be quickly
stopped, and were sat down musing what we should
do, we heard the ship fire a gun, and saw her make a
waft with her ancient as a signal for the boat to come
on board. But no boat stirred; and they fired several
times, making other signals for the boat.

At last, when all their signals and firings proved
fruitless, and they found the boat did not stir, we saw
them, by the help of my glasses, hoist another boat
out, and row towards the shore; and we found, as
they approached, that there was no less than ten men
in her, and that they had firearms with them.

As the ship lay almost two leagues from the shore,
we had a full view of them as they came, and a plain
sight of the men, even of their faces; because the tide
having set them a little to the east of the other boat,

.they rowed up under shore, to come to the same place
where the other had landed, and where the boat lay.

By this means, I say, we had a full view of them,
and the captain knew the persons and characters of all
the men in the boat, of whom he said that there were
three very honest fellows, who, he was sure, were led
into this conspiracy by the rest, being overpowered

295
and frighted; but that as for the boatswain, who, it
seems, was the chief ofiicer among them, and all the
rest, they were as outrageous as any of the ship's crew,
and were no doubt made desperate in their new enter-
prise ; and terribly apprehensive he was that they
would be too powerful for us.

I smiled at him, and told him that men in our
circumstances were past the operation of fear; that
seeing almost every condition that could be was better
than that which we were supposed to be in, We ought
to expect that the consequence, whether death or life,
would be sure to be a deliverance. I asked him what
he thought of the circumstances of my life, and
whether a deliverance were not worth venturing for?
" And where, sir," said I, " is your belief of my being
preserved here on purpose to save your life, which
elevated you a little while ago? For my part," said
I, " there seems to be but one thing amiss in all the
prospect of it." " What's that ? " says he. " Why,"
says I, " 'tis that, as you say, there are three or four
honest fellows among them, which should be spared;
had they been all of the wicked part of the crew I
should have thought God's providence had singled
them out to deliver them into your hands ; for depend
upon it, every man of them that comes ashore are our
own, and shall die or live as they behave to us."

As I spoke this with a raised voice and cheerful
countenance, I found it greatly encouraged him; so
we set vigorously to our business. We had, upon the
first appearance of the boat's coming from the ship,
considered of separating our prisoners, and had, indeed,
secured them effectually.
Two of them, of whom the captain was less assured
than ordinary, I sent with Friday and one of the three
delivered men to my cave, where they were remote
enough, and out of danger of being heard or discovered,
or of finding their way out of the woods if they could
have delivered themselves. Here they left them
bound, but gave them provisions, and promised them,
if they continued there quietly, to give them their
liberty in a day or two; but that if they attempted
their escape, they should be put to death without
mercy. They promised faithfully to bear their con-
finement with patience, and were very thankful that
they had such good usage as to have provisions and a
light left them, for Friday gave them candles (such as
we made ourselves) for their comfort ; and they did not
know but that he stood sentinel over them at the
entrance.

The other prisoners had better usage. Two of them
were kept pinioned, indeed, because the captain was
not free to trust them ; but the other two were taken
into my service, upon their captain's recommendation,
and upon their solemnly engaging to live and die with
us; so with them and the three honest men we were
seven men well armed ; and I made no doubt we should
be able to deal well enough with the ten that Were
a-coming, considering that the captain had said there
were three or four honest men among them also.

As soon as they got to the place where their other
boat lay, they ran their boat into the beach, and came
all on shore, hauling the boat up after them, which I
was glad to see; for I was afraid they would rather
have left the boat at an anchor some distance from

20'
the shore, with some hands in her to guard her, and
so we should not be able to seize the boat.

Being on shore, the first thing they did they ran all
to their other boat ; and it was easy to see that they
were under a great surprise to find her stripped, as
above, of all that was in her, and a great hole in her
bottom.

After they had mused a while upon this, they set up
two or three great shouts, hallooing with all their
might, to try if they could make their companions
hear ; but all was to no purpose. Then they came all
close in a ring, and fired a volley of their small arms,
which, indeed, we heard, and the echoes made the
woods ring. But it was all one ; those in the cave we
were sure could not hear, and those in our keeping,
though they heard it well enough, yet durst give no
answer to them.

They were so astonished at the surprise of this, that,
as they told us afterwards, they resolved to go all on
board again, to their ship, and let them know there
that the men were all murdered, and the longboat
staved. Accordingly, they immediately launched their
boat again, and got all of them on board.

The captain was terribly amazed, and even con-
founded at this, believing they would go on board the
ship again, and set sail, giving their comrades for lost,
and so he should still lose the ship, which he was in
hopes we should have recovered; but he was quickly
as much frightened the other way.

They had not been long put off with the boat but
we perceived them all coming on shore again ; but with
this new measure in their conduct, which it seems they
consulted together upon, viz., to leave three men in
the boat, and the rest to go on shore, and go up into
the country to look for their fellows.

This was a great disappointment to us, for now we
were at a loss what to do; for our seizing those seven
men on shore would be no advantage to us if we let the
boat escape, because they would then row away to
the ship, and then the rest of them would be sure to
weigh and set sail, and so our recovering the ship
Would be lost. However, we had no remedy but to
wait and see what the issue of things might present.
The seven men came on shore, and the three who
remained in the boat put her off to a good distance
from the shore, and came to an anchor to wait for them ;
so that it was impossible for us to come at them in the
boat.

Those that came on shore kept close together,
marching towards the top of the little hill under which
my habitation lay; and we could see them plainly,
though they could not perceive us. We could have
been very glad they would have come nearer to us,
so that we might have fired at them, or that they
would have gone farther off, that we might have come

abroad.
But when they were come to the brow of the-hill,

where they could see a great way into the valleys and
woods which lay towards the north-east part, and where
the island lay lowest, they shouted and hallooed till
they Were weary ; and not caring, it seems, to venture
far from the shore, nor far from one another, they sat
down together under a tree, to consider of it Had they
thought fit to have gone to sleep there, as the other
party of them had done, they had done the job for us ;
but they Were too full of apprehensions of danger to
venture to go to sleep, though they could not tell what
the danger was they had to fear neither.

The captain made a very just proposal to me upon
this consultation of theirs, viz., that perhaps they
would all fire a volley again, to endeavour to make
their fellows hear, and that we should all sally upon
them, just at the juncture when their pieces were all
discharged, and they would certainly yield, and we
should have them without bloodshed. I liked the
proposal, provided it was done while we were near
enough to come up to them before they could load their
pieces again.

But this event did not happen, and we lay still a
long time, very irresolute what course to take. At
length I told them there would be nothing to be done,
in my opinion, till night; and then, if they did not
return to the boat, perhaps we might find a way to get
between them and the shore, and so might use some
stratagem with them in the boat to get them on shore.

We waited a great while, though very impatient for
their removing ; and were very uneasy when, after long
consultations, we saw them start all up, and march
down towards the sea. It seems they had such dreadful
apprehensions upon them of the danger of the place,
that they resolved to go on board the ship again, give
their companions over for lost, and so go on with their
intended voyage with the ship.

As soon as I perceived them go towards the shore,
I imagined it to be, as it really was, that they had given
over their search, and were for going back again ; and
the captain, as soon as I told him my thoughts, was
ready to sink at the apprehensions of it ; but I presently

thought of a stratagem to fetch them back again, and
which answered my end to a tittle.

I ordered Friday and the captain's mate to go over
the little creek westward, towards the place where the
savages came on shore when Friday was rescued, and
as soon as they came to a little rising ground, at about
half a mile distance, I bade them halloo as loud as they
could, and wait till they found the seamen heard
them; that as soon as ever they heard the seamen
answer them, they should return it again; and then
keeping out of sight, take a round, always answering
when the other hallooed, to draw them as far into the
island, and among the woods, as possible, and then
wheel about again to me by such ways as I directed
them.

They were just going into the boat when Friday and
the mate hallooed ; and they presently heard them, and
answering, run along the shore westward, towards the
voice they heard, when they were presently stopped by
the creek, where the water being up, they could not
get over, and called for the boat to come up and set
them over, as, indeed, I expected.

When they had set themselves over, I observed that
the boat being gone up a good way into the creek, and,
as it were, in a harbour within the land, they took one
of the three men out of her to go along with them, and
left only two in the boat, having fastened her to the
stump of a little tree on the shore.

That was what I wished for ; and immediately
leaving Friday and the captain's mate to their business,
I took the rest with me, and crossing the creek out of
their sight, we surprised the two men before they were
aware ; one of them lying on shore, and the other being
in the boat. The fellow on shore was between sleeping
and waking, and going to start up. The captain, who
was foremost, ran in upon him, and knocked him down,
and then called out to him in the boat to yield, or he
was a dead man.

There needed very few arguments to persuade a
single man to yield when he saw five men upon him, and
his comrade knocked down ; besides, this was, it seems,
one of the three who were not so hearty in the mutiny
as the rest of the crew, and therefore was easily
persuaded not only to yield, but afterwards to join
very sincerely with us.

In the meantime, Friday and the captain's mate so
well managed their business with the rest, that they
drew them, by hallooing and answering, from one hill
to another, and from one wood to another, till they
not only heartily tired them, but left them where they
were very sure they could not reach back to the boat
before it was dark; and, indeed, they were heartily
tired themselves also by the time they came back
to us.

We had nothing now to do but to watch for them in
the dark, and to fall upon them, so as to make sure
work with them.

It was several hours after Friday came back to me
before they came back to their boat; and we could
hear the foremost of them, long before they came
quite up, calling to those behind to come along, and
could also hear them answer and complain how lame
and tired they were, and not able to come any faster ;
which was very welcome news to us.

At length they came up to the boat ; but 'tis impossible
to express their confusion when they found the boat
fast aground in the creek, the tide ebbed out, and their
two men gone. We could hear them call to one another
in a most lamentable manner, telling one another they
were gotten into an enchanted island ; that either there
were inhabitants in it, and they should all be murdered,
or else there were devils and spirits in it, and they
should all be carried away and devoured.

They hallooed again, and called their two comrades
by their names a great many times; but no answer.
After some time we could see them, by the little light
there was, run about, wringing their hands like men in
despair, and that sometimes they would go and sit
down in the boat to rest themselves, then come ashore
again, and walk about again, and so the same thing
over again.

My men would fain have me give them leave to fall
upon them at once in the dark; but I was willing to
take them at some advantage, so to spare them, and
kill as few of them as I could; and especially I was
unwilling to hazard the killing any of our own men,
knowing the other were very well armed. I resolved to
wait, to see if they did not separate; and, therefore, to
make sure of them, I drew my ambuscade nearer, and
ordered Friday and the captain to creep upon their
hands and feet, as close to the ground as they could,
that they might not be discovered, and get as near
them as they could possibly, before they offered
to fire.
They had not been long in that posture but that the
boatswain, who was the principal ringleader of the
mutiny, and had now shown himself the most dejected
and dispirited of all the rest, came walking towards
them, with two more of their crew. The captain was
so eager, as having this principal rogue so much in his
power, that he could hardly have patience to let him
come so near as to be sure of him, for they only heard
his tongue before; but when they came nearer, the
captain and Friday, starting up on their feet, let fly
at them.

The boatswain was killed upon the spot; the next
man was shot into the body, and fell just by him,
though he did not die till an hour or two after; and
the third ran for it.

At the noise of the fire I immediately advanced with
my whole army, which was now eight men, viz., myself,
generalissimo ; Friday, my lieutenant-general; the
captain and his two men, and the three prisoners of
war, whom we had trusted with arms.

We came upon them, indeed, in the dark, so that
they could not see our number; and I made the man
we had left in the boat, who was now one of us, call to
them by name, to try if I could bring them to a parley,
and so might perhaps reduce them to terms, which fell
out just as we desired ; for indeed it was easy to think,
as their condition then was, they would be very willing
to capitulate. So he calls out as loud as he could to
one of them, " Tom Smith 1 Tom Smith I " Tom
Smith answered immediately, " Who's that? Robin-
son? " For it seems he knew his voice. The other
answered, " Ay, ay ; for God's sake, Tom Smith, throw
down your arms and yield, or you are all dead men
this moment."

" Who must we yield to? Where are they? " says
Smith again. " Here they are," says he; " here's our
captain, and fifty men with him, have been hunting
you this two hours; the boatswain is killed, Will Frye
is wounded, and I am a prisoner; and if you do not
yield, you are all 105 ."

" Will they give us quarter then," says Tom Smith,
" and we will yield? " " I'll go and ask, if you
promise to yield," says Robinson. So he asked the
captain, and the captain then calls himself out, " You,
Smith, you know my voice, if you lay down your arms
immediately, and submit, you shall have your lives, all
but Will Atkins."

Upon this Will Atkins cried out, " For God's sake,
captain, give me quarter; what have I done? They
have been all as bad as I " ; which, by the way, was
not true neither; for, it seems, this Will Atkins was
the first man that laid hold of the captain when they
first mutinied, and used him barbarously, in tying his
hands, and giving him injurious language. However,
the captain told him he must lay down his arms at
discretion, and trust to the govemor's mercy; by
which he meant me, for they all called me governor.

In a word, they all laid down their arms, and begged

_ their lives ; and I sent the man that had parleyed with
them and two more, who bound them all; and then
my great army of fifty men, which, particularly with
those three, were all but eight, came up and seized
upon them all, and upon their boat ; only that I kept
myself and one more out of sight for reasons of state.
Our next work was to repair the boat, and think of
seizing the ship; and as for the captain, now he had
leisure to parley with them, he expostulated with them
upon the villainy of their practices with him, and at
length upon the farther wickedness of their design, and
how certainly it must bring them to misery and distress
in the end, and perhaps to the gallows.

They all appeared very penitent, and begged hard
for their lives. As for that, he told them they were
none of his prisoners, but the commander of the island ;
that they thought they had set him on shore in a.
barren, uninhabited island ; but it had pleased God so
to direct them that the island was inhabited, and that
the governor was an Englishman ; that he might hang
them all there, if be pleased ; but as he had given them
all quarter, he supposed he would send them to England
to be dealt with there as justice required, except
Atkins, whom he was commanded by the governor to
advise to prepare for death, for that he would be
hanged in the morning.

Though this was all a fiction of his own, yet it had
its desired effect. Atkins fell upon his knees, to beg
the captain to intercede with the governor for his life ;
and all the rest begged of him, for God's sake, that
they might not be sent to England.

It now occurred to me that the time of our deliverance
was come, and that it would be a most easy thing to
bring these fellows in to be hearty in getting possession
of the ship; so I retired in the dark from them, that
they might not see what kind of a governor they had,
and called the captain to me. When I called, as at a
good distance, one of the men was ordered to speak
again, and say to the captain, " Captain, the com-
mander calls for you." And presently the captain
replied, " Tell his excellency I am just a-corning."
This more perfectly amused them, and they all believed
that the commander was just by with his fifty men.

Upon the captain's coming to me, I told him my
project for seizing the ship, which he liked of wonderfully
well, and resolved to put it in execution the next
morning. But in order to execute it with more art,
and secure of success, I told him we must divide the
prisoners, and that he should go and take Atkins and
two more of the worst of them, and send them pinioned
to the cave where the others lay. This was committed
to Friday and the two men who came on shore with the
captain.

They conveyed them to the cave, as to a prison.
And it was, indeed, a dismal place, especially to men
in their condition. The others I ordered to my bower,
as I called it, of which I have given a full description ;
and as it was fenced in, and they pinioned, the place
was secure enough, considering they were upon their
behaviour.

To these in the morning I sent the captain, who was
to enter into a parley with them ; in a word, to try
them, and tell me whether he thought they might -be
trusted or no to go on board and Surprise the ship.
.He talked to them of the injury done him, of the
condition they were brought to ; and that though the
governor had given them quarter for their lives as to
the present action, yet that if they were sent to England
they would all be hanged in chains, to be sure; but
that if they would join in so just an attempt as to
recover the ship, he would have the governor's engage-
ment for their pardon.

Any one may guess how readily such a proposal
would be accepted by men in their condition. They fell
down on their knees to the captain, and promised,
with the deepest imprecations, that they would be
faithful to him to the last drop, and that they should
OWe their lives to him, and would go with him all over
the world; that they would own him for a father to
them as long as they lived.

" Well," says the captain, " I must go and tell the
governor what you say, and see what I can do to bring
him to consent to it." So he brought me an account of
the temper he found them in, and that he verily
believed they would be faithful.

However, that we might be very secure, I told him he
should go back again and choose out five of them, and
tell them they might see that he did not want men,
that he would take out those five to be his assistants,
and that the governor would keep the other two and
the three that were sent prisoners to the castle, my
cave, as hostages for' the fidelity of those five ; and that
if they proved unfaithful in the execution, the five
hostages should be hanged in chains alive upon the
shore.

This looked severe, and convinced them that the
governor was in earnest. However, they had no way
left them but to accept it ; and it was now the business
of the prisoners, as much as of the captain, to persuade
the other five to do their duty.

Our strength was now thus ordered for the expedition.
I. The captain, his mate, and passenger. 2. Then
the two prisoners of the first gang, to whom, having
their characters from the captain, I had given their
liberty, and trusted them with arms. 3. The other two
whom I had kept till now in my bower, pinioned, but
upon the captain's motion had now released. 4. These
five released at last ; so that they were twelve in all,
besides five we kept prisoners in the cave for hostages

I asked the captain if he was willing to venture with
these hands on board the ship ; for as for me and my
man Friday, I did not think it was proper for us to stir,
having seven men left behind, and it was employment
enough for us to keep them asunder and supply them
with victuals. As to the five in the cave, I resolved to
keep them fast ; but Friday went in twice a day to them,
to supply them with necessaries ; and I made the other
two carry provisions to a certain distance, where
Friday was to take it.

When I showed myself to the two hostages, it was
with the captain, who told them I was the person the
governor had ordered to look after them, and that it
was the governor's pleasure they should not stir
anywhere but by my direction ; that if they did, they
should be fetched into the castle, and be laid in irons;
so that as we never suffered them to see me as governor,
so I now appeared as another person, and spoke of the
governor, the garrison, the castle, and the like, upon
all occasions.

The captain now had no difiiculty before him but to
furnish his two boats, stop the breach of one, and man
them. He made his passenger captain of one, with
four other men; and himself, and his mate, and five
more went in the other; and they contrived their
business very well, for they came up to the ship about
midnight. As soon as they came within call of the
ship, he made Robinson hail them, and tell them they
brought off the men and the boat, but that it was a
long time before they had found them, and the like,
holding them in a chat till they came to the ship's
side; when the captain and the mate entering first,
with their arms, immediately knocked down the second
mate and carpenter with the butt-end of their muskets,
being very faithfully seconded by their men. They
secured all the rest that were upon the main and
quarter decks, and began to fasten the hatches to keep
them down who were below ; when the other boat and
their men entering at the fore-chains, secured the fore-
castle of the ship, and the scuttle which went down
into the cook-room, making three men they found
there prisoners.

When this was done, and all safe upon deck, the
captain ordered the mate, with three men, to break
into the round-house, where the new rebel captain lay,
and having taken the alarm was gotten up, and with
two men and a boy had gotten firearms in their hands ;
and when the mate with a crow split open the door,
the new captain and his men fired boldly among them,
and wounded the mate with a musket-ball, which
broke his arm, and wounded two more of the men, but
killed nobody.

The mate calling for help, rushed however into the
round--house wounded as he was, and with his pistol
shot the new captain through the head, the bullet
entering at his mouth and came out again behind one
of his ears, so that he never spoke a word ; upon which
the rest yielded, and the ship was taken effectuall ,
without any more lives lost. -

As soon as the ship was thus secured, the captain
ordered seven guns to be fired, which was the signal
agreed upon with me to give me notice of his success,
which you may be sure I was very glad to hear, having
sat watching upon the shore for it till near two of the
clock in the morning.

Having thus heard the signal plainly, I laid me
down ; and it having been a day of great fatigue to me,
I slept very sound, till I was something surprised with
the noise of a gun ; and presently starting up, I heard
a man call me by the name of " Governor," " Gover-
nor," and presently I knew the captain's voice ; when
climbing up to the top of the hill, there he stood, and
pointing to the ship, he embraced me in his arms.
" My dear friend and deliverer," says he, " there's your
ship, for she is all yours, and so are we, and all that
belong to her." I cast my eyes to the ship, and there
she rode within little more than half a mile of the
shore; for they had weighed her anchor as soon as
they were masters of her, and the weather being fair,
had brought her to an anchor just against the mouth
of the little creek, and the tide being up, the captain
had brought the pinnace in near the place where
I at first landed my rafts, and so landed just at
my door.

I was at first ready to sink down with the surprise;
for I saw my deliverance, indeed, visibly put into my
hands, all things easy, and a large ship just ready to
carry me away whither I pleased to go. At first, for
some time, I was not able to answer him one word;
but as he had taken me in his arms, I held fast by him,
or I should have fallen to the ground.

He perceived the surprise, and immediately pulls a
bottle out of his pocket, and gave me a dram of cordial,
which he had brought on purpose for me. After I had
drank it, I sat down upon the ground ; and though it
brought me to myself, yet it was a good while before
I could speak a word to him.

All this while the poor man was in as great an ecstasy
as I, only not under any surprise, as I was ; and he said
a thousand kind tender things to me, to compose me
and bring me to myself. But such was the flood of joy
in my breast, that it put all my spirits into confusion.
At last it broke out into tears, and in a little while
after I recovered my speech.

Then I took my turn, and embraced him as my
deliverer, and we rejoiced together. I told him I looked
upon him as a man sent from heaven to deliver me, and
that the whole transaction seemed to be a chain of
wonders ; that such things as these were the testimonies
we had of a secret hand of Providence governing the
world, and an evidence that the eyes of an infinite
Power could search into the remotest corner of the
world, and send help to the miserable whenever He
pleased.

I forgot not to lift up my heart in thankfulness to
heaven; and what heart could forbear to bless Him,
who had not only in a miraculous manner provided for
one in such a wilderness, and in such a desolate
condition, but from whom every deliverance must
always be acknowledged to proceed?

When we had talked a while, the captain told me he
had brought me some little refreshment, such as the
ship afforded, and such as the wretches that had been
so long his masters had not plundered him of. Upon
this he called aloud to the boat, and bid his men bring
the things ashore that were for the governor; and,
indeed, it was a present as if I had been one, not that
was to be carried away along with them, but as if I had
been to dwell upon the island still, and they were to go
without me.

First, he had brought me a case of bottles full of
excellent cordial waters, six large bottles of Madeira
wine (the bottles held two quarts apiece), two pounds
of excellent good tobacco, twelve good pieces of the
ship's beef, and six pieces of pork, with a. bag of peas,
and about a hundredweight of biscuit.

He brought me also a box of sugar, a box of flour,
a bag full of lemons, and two bottles of lime-juice, and
abundanCe of other things ; but besides these, and
what was a thousand times more useful to me, he
brought me six clean new shirts, six very good neck-
cloths, two pair of gloves, one pair of shoes, a hat, and
one pair of stockings, and a very good suit of clothes of
his own, which had been worn but very little; in a
word, he clothed me from head to foot.

It was a very kind and agreeable present, as any one
may imagine, to one in my circumstances ; but never
Was anything in the world of that kind so unpleasant,
awkward, and uneasy, as it was to me to wear such
clothes at their first putting on.

After these ceremonies passed, and after all his good
things were brought into my little apartment, we began
to consult what was to be done with the prisoners we
had; for it was worth considering whether we might
venture to take them away with us or no, especially
two of them, whom we knew to be incorrigible and
refractory to the last degree ; and the captain said he
knew they were such rogues, that there was no obliging
them; and if he did carry them away, it must be in
irons, as malefactors, to be delivered over to justice
at the first English colony he could come at; and
I found that the captain himself was very anxious
about it.

Upon this I told him that, if he desired it, I durst
undertake to bring the two men he spoke of to make it
their own request that he should leave them upon the
island. " I should be very glad of that," says the
captain, " with all my heart."

" Well," says I, " I will send for them up, and talk
with them for you." So I caused Friday and the two
hostages, for they were now discharged, their comrades
having performed their promise ; I say, I caused them
to go to the cave and bring up the five men, pinioned
as they were, to the bower, and keep them there till
I came.

After some time I came thither, dressed in my new
habit; and now I was called governor again. Being
all met, and the captain with me, I caused the men
to be brought before me, and I told them I had had
a full account of their villainous behaviour to the
captain, and how they had nm away with the ship,
and were preparing to commit further robberies, but
that Providence had ensnared them in their own ways,
and that they were fallen into the pit which they had
digged for others.
I let them know that by my direction the ship had
been seized, that she lay now in the road, and they
might see, by and by, that their new captain had
received the reward of his villainy, for that they might
see him hanging at the yard-arm ; that as to them, I
wanted to know what they had to say why I should
not execute them as pirates, taken in the fact, as by

my commission they could not doubt I had authority
to do.

One of them answered in the name of the rest that
they had nothing to say but this, that when they were
taken the captain promised them their lives, and they
humbly implored my mercy. But I told them I knew
not what mercy to show them; for as for myself, I
had resolved to quit the island with all my men, and
had taken passage with the captain to go for England.
And as for the captain, he could not carry them to
England other than as prisoners in irons, to be tried
for mutiny, and nmning away with the ship; the
consequence of which, they must needs know, would
be the gallows ; so that I could not tell which was best
for them, unless they had a mind to take their fate in
the island. If they desired that, I did not care, as I
had liberty to leave it. I had some inclination to give
them their lives, if they thought they could shift on
shore.

They seemed very thankful for it, said they would
much rather venture to stay there than to be carried
to England to be hanged; so I left it on that issue.

However, the captain seemed to make some difficulty
of it, as if he durst not leave them there. Upon this
I seemed a little angry with the captain, and told him
that they were my prisoners, not his ; and that seeing
I had offered them so much favour, I would be as good
as my word ; and that if he did not think fit to consent
to it, I would set them at liberty, as I found them;
and if he did not like it, he might take them again if
he could catch them.

Upon this they appeared very thankful, and I
accordingly set them at liberty, and bade them retire
into the woods to the place whence they came, and I
would leave them some firearms, some ammunition,
and some directions how they should live very well, if
they thought fit.

Upon this I prepared to go on board the ship, but
told the captain that I would stay that night to prepare
my things, and desired him to go on board in the
meantime, and keep all right in the ship, and send the
boat on shore the next day for me ; ordering him, in
the meantime, to cause the new captain, who was
killed, to be hanged at the yard-arm, that these men
might see him.

When the captain was gone, I sent for the men up
to me to my apartment, and entered seriously into
discourse with them of their circumstances. I told
them I thought they had made a right choice ; that if
the captain carried them away, they would certainly
be hanged. I showed them the new captain hanging
at the yard-arm of the ship, and told them they had
nothing less to expect.

When they all declared their willingness to stay, I
then told them I would let them into the story of my
living there, and put them into the way of making it
easy to them. Accordingly I gave them the whole
history of the place, and of my coming to it, showing
them my fortifications, the way I made my bread,
planted my corn, cured my grapes; and in a word, all
that was necessary to make them easy. I told them
the story also of the sixteen Spaniards that were to be
expected, for whom I left a letter, and made them
promise to treat them in common with themselves.

I left them my firearms, viz., five muskets, three
fowling-pieces, and three swords. I had above a barrel
and half of powder left ; for after the first year or two
I used but little, and wasted none. I gave them a
description of the way I managed the goats, and
directions to milk and fatten them, and to make both
butter and cheese.

In a word, I gave them every part of my own story,
and I told them I would prevail with the captain to
leave them two barrels of gunpowder more, and some
garden seeds, which I told them I would have been
very glad of. Also I gave them the bag of peas which
the captain had brought me to eat, and bade them be
sure to sow and increase them.

Having done all this, I left them the next day, and
went on board the ship. We prepared immediately to
sail, but did not weigh that night. The next morning
early two of the five men came swimming to the ship's
side, and making a most lamentable complaint of the
other three, begged to be taken into the ship for God's
sake, for they should be murdered, and begged the
captain to take them on board, though he hanged them
immediately.

Upon this the captain pretended to have no power
without me; but after some difliculty, and after their
solemn promises of amendment, they were taken on
board, and were some time after soundly whipped
and pickled, after which they proved very honest and
quiet fellows.

Some time after this the boat was ordered on shore,
the tide being up, with the things promised to the men,
to which the captain, at my intercession, caused their
chests and clothes to be added, which they took, and
were very thankful for. I also encouraged them by
telling them that if it lay in my way to send any
vessel to take them in, I would not forget them.

When I took leave of this island, I carried on board,
for relies, the great goatskin cap I had made, my
umbrella, and my parrot ; also I forgot not to take the
money I formerly mentioned, which had lain by me so
long useless that it was grown rusty or tarnished, and
could hardly pass for silver till it had been a little
rubbed and handled ; as also the money I found in the
wreck of the Spanish ship.
~ And thus I left the island, the 19th of December
as I found by the ship's account, in the year 1686,
after I had been upon it eight and twenty years, two
months, and nineteen days, being delivered from this
second captivity the same day of the month that I first
made my escape in the baron-longo, from among the
Moors of Sallee.

In this vessel, after a long voyage, I arrived in
England, the nth of June, in the year 1687, having
been thirty and five years absent.

TEEENDMADE AND PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN
BY HAZELL. WATSON AND VINE? LTD.,
LONDON AND AYLBSBURY